May 20, 2020||Chennai||How the lockdown has marked the return of our motta maadis||In the hustle and bustle of everyday life — pre-coronavirus, we mean — most of us would often go by a standard schedule: work, go out, sleep, repeat. In the post-coronavirus time, however, the rules of recreation get a facelift. And this is where the humble terrace comes in. Chennaiites tell us the different ways in which they have rediscovered their motta maadis in the past few weeks. Bird-watching and chillFor many, the terrace has always been a hotspot for birdwatching, says seasoned Chennai birder, Christy Bharath. “Since not everyone gets to be the monk with a Ferrari to sell, I hope the terrace zone continues to inspire birdwatchers, even after the lockdown,” he says. AM Aravind, who began a video series to help out new birders, adds, “People in my apartment complex, who I meet on my terrace, were surprised I have spotted over 30 species from my terrace in an urban residential area. I am glad people are noticing the birds now, but I would love more people to do this.” High-teas to cosy dinnersWith weekend eat-out sessions out the window, most people are turning their terrace spaces into makeshift eateries. Throw in a picnic sheet, a few mugs of coffee and some snacks, and you have yourself a special evening, says Gauri, a homemaker in the city. “I used to do this with my parents all the time in my childhood. After all these years, I am happy this trend is coming back now. Youngsters these days are finally learning the value of open spaces,” she says, adding that her weekly dinner soiree has brought her closer to her family. Terrace workout, the new fadThe next closest thing to capturing the adrenaline of early morning runs are terrace workouts. Actor Arun Vijay says, “I am used to working out indoors since I travel a lot for shoot. But this time, I headed to my terrace to do workouts. I’ve rarely used this space during normal times, but now, it’s different.” Srikkanth M, a software professional, who works out with his wife every day on the terrace, says, “Working out in a tiny terrace seemed like an impossible task as we were used to exercising on YMCA grounds! So, we opted for HIIT (High Intensity Interval Training) that was apt for small spaces. The duration of the workout is shorter, but it is said to give better results and burn more calories than the usual functional training that we do.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-the-lockdown-has-marked-the-return-of-our-motta-maadis/articleshow/75833626.cms||Sharanya CR
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru cops use Kannada film posters to raise awareness on safety||In yet another quirky and creative move, Bengaluru City Police is raising awareness about Covid-19 and the ways to stay safe by using Kannda film posters on social media. Through these reworked banners, they hope to spread the message to maintain physical distancing, wear masks and more. DCP Isha Pant says, “We thought of tweaking famous lines of movie characters and put the posters up on social media. This helps to strike a chord with the common masses, which also translates into a bigger possibility of these messages being spread among more and more people. PAILWAAN 75834823In the fight against the deadly Coronavirus, even wrestler Sudeep is wearing a mask. BUDDHIVANTHAUpendra is urging people not to forward unverified messages and cause unnecessary panic among the public MALGUDI DAYS 75834848In ‘Mask edi days’, mask-wearing Vijay Raghavendra says there should be no compromise when it comes to safety AVANE SRIMANNARAYANA 75834859Keli Kadhiruva Bandhavare, the popular track from this Rakshit Shetty-starrer, is tweaked appealing people to stay at home PREMADA KANIKE 75834868Rajkumar is seen here explaining a child that there is no medicine for the Covid-19 disease yet, so we all should stay indoors AIRAVATHA 75834878Mask-wearing Darshan is telling people that it is compulsory to wear masks now. KAVACHA 75834889Shivarajkmar is reminding people to wear the mask whenever they step out of the house||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-cops-use-kannada-film-posters-to-raise-awareness-on-safety/articleshow/75834769.cms||Vinay Lokesh
May 20, 2020||Ludhiana||No permission needed for holding marriage functions: Ludhiana DC||LUDHIANA: District magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Tuesday said according to the directions of the Punjab government, there is no need to take any special permission for organising wedding functions and other social events. He said maintaining social distancing during wedding or other such functions is a must, and not more than 50 persons can gather at the function. He said marriage palaces, banquet halls, janj ghar's etc cannot be used for organising wedding functions, besides such functions cannot be organised during the curfew timings i.e. from 7pm to 7am. Similarly, not more than 20 persons can gather for holding cremation, rasam pagri, kirya, antim ardas, bhog, etc. He said from May 20, 2020 onwards, 12 trains carrying around 1,200 migrants each, will depart for different states daily. He said at present, passengers are informed about their travel by sending them text messages, but sometimes they are unable to check or read those messages. From now on, lists of all the passengers leaving the next day along with the unique numbers will now be uploaded on the district administration's website, www.ludhiana.nic.in. He said 10 trains departed for Sitamarhi, Akbarpur, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Hardoi, Basti, Unnao, Faizabad, Rai Bareilly and Jaunpur from the city railway station on Tuesday. According to the report of the health department issued on Tuesday, the deputy commissioner said till date, a total of 5,078 samples have been taken, of which, report of 4,724 has been received and report of 4,471 samples is negative. Report of 354 samples is pending. He said the total number of patients from Ludhiana is 176, while 77 patients are from other districts and states. He said 125 patients have been cured till date, 7 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-permission-needed-for-holding-marriage-functions-ludhiana-dc/articleshow/75835535.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 20, 2020||Raipur||Covid-19 spurts in rural areas of Chhattisgarh as migrants return home||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh’s focus of prevention of spread of coronavirus is shifting more from urban to rural areas with nearly two dozen people testing positive after migrant workers began returning to their native villages. So far, 100 positive Covid cases has been reported in the state including 41 active cases till Tuesday. The Bhupesh Baghel government had managed to contain the virus to a few clusters and the number of active Covid patients was down to single digit, when the migrants started streaming back and the count soared. The state is bracing for a major challenge as more than two lakh migrant workers are likely to return from many states in the next few days. As of Tuesday, there are 41 active cases out of total 100 that tested positive. Barricades may now go up in villages and outskirts of cities as new areas turned into containment zone- identified in few patches of districts including Koriya, Balod, Balodabazar, Sarguja, Rajim, Raigarh and Janjgir. While the initial spread of virus contained to a great extent in urban areas, a new challenge is emerging in rural areas. A sudden spike in corona cases were seen since Sunday night when 25 new patients were detected in different parts of state. As per state health officials, the latest five Covid-19 patients from Rajandgaon and Korba had been admitted for treatment in medical colleges of Rajnandgaon and Bilaspur respectively. The remaining 36 active cases are admitted at different hospitals including 20 patients in AIIMS Raipur, six patients at Covid hospital at Mana Raipur, five patients at Covid dedicated hospital at Bilaspur, three patients at Medical College hospital in Ambikapur and two patients at medical college in Raigarh. These 41 patients majorly includes migrant labourers returned from Maharashtra and three have ravel history from Kota and Delhi. They all were in quarantine when their samples were collected and later confirmed Covid positive. On seeing the spurt in Covid-19 cases, Chhattisgarh Health Minister TS Singh Deo on Monday directed health department to speed up mass testing. Medical colleges of Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur and Ambikapur have been told to upgrade its medical lab to get certification for virology testing from AIIMS Raipur AIIMS. As per state control and command centre for Covid-19, on Tuesday 2437 migrant labourers have returned to Chhattisgarh . These migrants were screened through thermal temperature at railway stations and then sent to respective quarantine centres. For Migrant labourers, there are separate 17,907 quarantine centres, which has capacity to accommodate 6,44,724 suspects and presently there are 1,31,814 such labourers are quarantined in these centres. The Chhattisgarh government has extended restrictions imposed in all districts of the state under CrPC Section 144 for next three months in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus, an official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/covid-19-spurts-in-rural-areas-of-chhattisgarh-as-migrants-return-home/articleshow/75835776.cms||Cherrupreet Kaur
May 20, 2020||India||Bombay HC tells state to file report on jail hygiene, number of Covid-19 infected inmates in prisons||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the state to file a comprehensive response setting out facilities in and status of jail hygiene and number of Covid-19 infected inmates in prisons across Maharashtra. “The report ought to indicate the names and particulars of under trial prisoners/convicts who have been tested and found to be Covid-19 +ve,'' said the HC in its order. Meanwhile, one more constable in the Arthur Road jail was found Covid-19 positive on Monday night, taking the total number of infected Covid jail officials at 27. The constable has been sent for treatment. Besides this, out of 26 Arthur Road jail police personnel who had been tested positive two weeks ago, 10 have been cured and discharged. They have been sent home after their report came negative. Two weeks ago, 154 prisoners and 26 jail staff had been found positive for coronavirus. While the jail officials were moved to other places, the inmates have been kept in isolation cells. The doctors are now trying for contact tracing of the constable who was found positive last night. After several inmates and jail staff tested positive for Covid-19 a human rights NGO People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) moved HC last week seeking various reliefs to the prisoners across jails in Maharashtra including directions to the state government to provide information about health and Covid-19 status of all inmates to the family members and their lawyers and to ensure the inmates have free access to protective gears including N95 masks, hand sanitizers, soap and other cleaning supplies and regular access to doctors. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde heard the NGO's counsel Mihir Desai through video-conferencing and sought the state's reply by next Monday while adjourning the matter along with two connected PILs filed by Geeta Jain and Archana Rupwate seeking similar reliefs for prison inmates, to Next Tuesday. The Court also heard together PILs filed by Geeta Bharat Jain and Archana Rupwate seeking reliefs for prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bombay-hc-tells-state-to-file-report-on-jail-hygiene-number-of-covid-19-infected-inmates-in-prisons/articleshow/75835668.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Day after being Corona free, Bhubaneswar records two fresh cases||BHUBANESWAR: A day after the state capital was relieved of active Covid cases with discharge of three from the hospital, two positive cases here were reported on Tuesday taking the total here to 52. The new cases have surfaced after 12 days as last time the city reported any case was on May 7, when three persons of three different localities had tested Covid positive. While the latest cases came on the second day of fourth phase lockdown, the previous three cases had been reported just three days into the third phase lockdown. “We have two positive cases, one a police constable, reported from two different localities of the city. Contact tracing is being done to ascertain the source of infection,” said Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury. He said Bhubaneswar continues to be the red zone. “The new cases are isolated ones in two localities. We will not create containment zone around the area as had been done earlier in three localities because multiple cases had surfaced from several families scattered over a locality. In this case, we don’t cluster containment,” added the commissioner. The BMC officials said instead of containment zone, it will go for home quarantine for at least 40 families living in the vicinity of affected person. “During home quarantine, active surveillance will keep on going. The surveillance squad will record health update of the quarantined people and samples will also be collected for Covid test,” said a BMC officer. Despite two new cases being reported, the BMC, which brought out the guidelines for the city to be implemented during the lockdown, didn’t introduce more restrictions. It rather has allowed operation of auto rickshaws, eateries for packing of food, opening of markets- vegetable, fish, meat- at the allotted places and barber shops and salon, which was restricted during lockdown 3.0. BMC officials said there may be a few changes to norms brought out on Tuesday after complete contact tracing of the two positive persons. Two Air India flights carrying stranded people from Dubai and Kuala Lumpur will arrive here at Biju Patnaik International Airport on Wednesday night. The first international flight carrying stranded Odias from Dubai had landed here on May 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/day-after-being-corona-free-bhubaneswar-records-two-fresh-cases/articleshow/75835858.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa CM tells depts to be on guard as monsoon looms||PANAJI: Even as Goa tackles a spike in Covid-19 cases, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday directed all government departments to prepare for the fast-approaching monsoon, which is expected to arrive in the state on June 10. He said the government has decided to purchase two boats to assist in rescue operations in the event of a flood-like situation. Pumps have also been procured to remove water from low-lying areas. Last August, North Goa witnessed one of its worst floods in over two decades after surplus water was released from the nearby Tillari dam in Maharashtra that had reached its maximum capacity due a spell of heavy rain. It led to the evacuation of people from parts of the Bicholim and Ponda talukas and even from Mala in the state capital, Panaji. The floods also inundated fields and destroyed large swathes of crops. Sawant, who chaired a meeting with the state disaster management authority at Povorim on Tuesday, told reporters that he reviewed work done by all the departments concerned and directed them to complete tasks within the stipulated time. He also said all departments are alert as the State Executive Committee (SEC) convenes meetings everyday to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. “Since there is a day-to-day review, I don’t think much work remains to be completed. Certain tasks, such as measures to avoid flooding at Mala, are under way through the WRD,” he said. To avoid a re-run of last year, the chief minister said state officials would constantly communicate with authorities at the Tillari dam. He also said that the office of the state disaster management authority would function 24x7 after the monsoon and that the directorate of mines and geology would instruct mining companies to maintain water pits within their respective mining leases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-cm-tells-depts-to-be-on-guard-as-monsoon-looms/articleshow/75835994.cms||Murari Shetye
May 20, 2020||Chandigarh||PEC bot delivers contactless medicine, food to Covid-19 patients in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: A robot designed in the cybersecurity research center of Punjab Engineering College will take food and medicine to Covid-19 patients in hospitals and save ward attendants from contracting coronavirus. The robot traces a marked line to the patient's bed inside the ward. Twin navigation modes allow it to follow a programed or adjusted path. Research centre head Divya Bansal said: "The robot's trial is on in Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32." The small tin can on wheels is given a nurse's uniform and duty along with a mannequin's head decorated with sticker eyes and lips. This machine named Swayam Sevika can carry 5 kilograms but the safe limit is 4kg. Its weight sensor commands the robot to turn back five seconds after the patient has lifted the plate. Bilingual, it speaks in Hindi and English. Bansal hopes to reduce the design cost of Rs 8,000. She said: "Curfew kept the team from getting the multiple-sensor robot's full component set but the supply will get easier once the lockdown opens." PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said: "Campus trials are on and the purpose is to support to the health system in this crucial time (of pandemic)." The students on the project team are Ansh Chawla (BTech-1, electronics), Shreshth Aggarwal (BTech-4, electronics) Ritesh Goyal (BTech-4, computer science). The design was ready a month ago and but for the delayed supply of electronic components, the team could have come out with the prototype for real-time testing much earlier. For want of similar robots, many hospitals place food and medicines in a common hall for patients to pick up from there. But this contaminates another area, besides the ward. Delivering food and medicine by hand puts frontline health workers at a huge risk and spread the infection. The deployment of bots in hospitals can minimise this risk. Their battery time of two hours is enough to last more than three days of carrying three meals a day. Cyber security research centre assistant professor Manvjeet Kaur said: "After delivery, the robot detects the load on the tray and takes appropriate action. It can also detect obstacles and halts. The user can take control if anything goes wrong." Research centre head Divya Bansal said GMCH neurologists Dr Nishit Sawal and Dr Hargunbir had given their expert inputs to the development team on the challenges for healthcare workers in Covid-19 wards. Watch PEC bot delivers contactless medicine, food for Chandigarh's Covid-19 patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pec-bot-delivers-contactless-medicine-food-to-covid-19-patients-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75835997.cms||Aarti Kapur
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||With handicapped daughter hanging in plastic, man walks 600 kms from Delhi to Hamirpur||BHOPAL: As Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and Yogi Adiyatnath led BJP government locked horn over the issue of former’s offer to ply 1,000 buses to for migrants, a labourer marched silently, suffering the pain of grueling journey of over 600 kms for the past 17 days, as he walked towards Hamirpur on a bicycle carrying his one and half month old handicapped daughter in a plastic bag. Needless to say the man and his family have experienced the searing hot weather conditions when Madhya Pradesh government also claims to make available buses for the migrant labourers to cross the state. Most of the time Puja lay inside the plastic bag hanging on one side of the bicycle.  The man along with two more children and other family members crossed Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh bordering UP’s Banda while on his way to Bharuba Sumerpur in Hamirpur district. Ramlal Yadav, the poor labourer started his journey from Delhi on May 2 on a bicycle. He is accompanied by his wife Sulekha, sons Akash (7) and Sonu (5). Puja, the 18-month-old daughter is handicapped. The poor man and his family have already travelled a grueling journey of more than 600 kms by road. They are yet to cover almost 150 kms to reach their village in Hamirpur. For the past two days they are crossing MP’s region of Bundelkhand in Chattarur district as they headed home. Most of the time Puja lay inside the plastic bag hanging on one side of the bicycle. The cycle carried some of his household items - two jerry cans used to carry water on the carrier, a tin canister and some more plastic bags filled with utensils. Ramlal has a story similar to what has been narrated by countless other migrants criss -crossing the country to reach home - joblessness after closure of a construction site where he had worked and betrayal by the contractor who refused to pay the remaining wages. He said that he covered some distance by a truck . “The driver was kind enough allow us to transport our bicycle also inside it along with the family”, he said. On Tuesday afternoon, Ramlal had reached Deyori village of Nowgaon tehesil of Chattrpur . He has to cover almost 150 kms to reach home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-handicapped-daughter-hanging-in-plastic-man-walks-600-kms-from-delhi-to-hamirpur/articleshow/75835947.cms||Desh Deep
May 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Property tax deadline extended due to Covid in Punjab: Brahm Mohindra||CHANDIGARH: In wake of the Covid crisis, Punjab government has decided to extend the deadline to pay the outstanding house tax or property tax without any penalty till 30 June, 2020. Likewise, the time limit of One Time Settlement (OTS) policy for recovery of arrears of water and sewerage charges in the urban local bodies of the State has also been extended up to 30 June 2020, said local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra. He said that as per the new policy, the persons, who failed to deposit the house tax or the property tax as the case may be, levied under the Act, may now deposit the principal amount in lump sum with rebate of ten percent of the amount by June 30, 2020.  Persons who fail to deposit the house tax or property tax, as the case may be, by 30 June 2020, may deposit the principal amount along with penalty at the rate of ten percent thereafter, within the period of the next three months. Those who still fail to deposit the due amount as above, within the period and the manner specified above, shall be liable to pay a penalty at the rate of twenty percent on the amount due alongwith interest at the rate of eighteen percent from the date it became due till the date of its realization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/property-tax-deadline-extended-due-to-covid-in-punjab-brahm-mohindra/articleshow/75836042.cms||Vibhor Mohan
May 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra sends memorandum to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Congress President Pardeep Chhabra on Tuesday sent a Memorandum to UT administrator, VP Singh Badnore with suggestions for combating the hardships faced by residents due to prolonged lockdown and to boost the local economy after the lockdown. Chhabra said that everyone is aware that in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, India is facing massive economic burden and the citizens of India are also under immense financial strain because of the prolonged lockdown. As a solution to this issue, Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee presented its recommendations to the Chandigarh Administration to combat the hardships being faced by the residents of Chandigarh and to boost the local economy along with different viable solutions to the issues raised. The suggestion is that no school fees should be charged upon the students for the Lockdown Period of 2 months, April and May. Chhabra pointed that the State Governments of Punjab and Rajasthan have already ordered the complete fee waiver during the lockdown period, and so we demand that similar directives should be adopted in Chandigarh too, in order to relieve a considerable proportion of economic burden on parents in this phase of hardship. But, at the same time, the administration must also ensure that the schools duly pay the salaries to the staff. “besides the schools, it must also be ensured that in order to mitigate the loss suffered by both the employer and employees during the lockdown, the financial burden should be shared equally amongst the employer, the employee and the government. The government should waive off the electricity charges, water bills of the business enterprises for this time period of the lockdown”, Chhabra said. Another suggestion Congress gave that Congress is for the Tenants (Residential or Commercial), who have to pay monthly rent for their shops or business premises or residential accommodation and are also facing excessive losses because of the lockdown. In this case, Congress recommended that the burden of loss must not be borne by any one individual and on humanitarian grounds, the burden should be shared equally by the tenant and the owner of that particular property. Chhabra said that they have requested the Chandigarh administrator to ponder upon these recommendations thoroughly and deliberate on them, because, if implemented properly, these recommendations will not just ease the burden on various segments of residents in Chandigarh, but, they shall also prove highly effective in combating the economic slowdown by boosting the local economy of Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lockdown-chandigarh-congress-president-pardeep-chhabra-sends-memorandum-to-ut-administrator-vp-singh-badnore/articleshow/75836084.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 20, 2020||Raipur||Ambikapur bags 5-star rating for being 'garbage-free' city||RAIPUR: Ambikapur in North Chhattisgarh bagged five-star rating and was adjudged a 'garbage free' city by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry in its rankings of cities released on Tuesday. A year ago, Surguja town had bagged the second position in Swachh Survekshan for having no open dumping yards and was later famously known as zero waste city.  As per Chhattisgarh government official, the union ministry of housing and urban affairs while according five-star rating to Ambikapur in the list of garbage free cities has rated nine urban areas of the state have been rated with three star and five regions with one star.  In the list of garbage free cities, the cities of the state that have received 'three stars' include Barsur, Bhilai Nagar, Bilaspur, Jashpur Nagar, Narharpur, Patan, Raigarh, Rajnandgaon and Sargwan.  At the same time, Barmakela, Berla, Chikhalakasa, Katghora, Pakhanjur have got 'one star' rating. Ambikapur, a town of less than two lakh population in Chhattisgarh, is leading the way in modern garbage collection and disposal. Its solid waste management has emerged as a model for other states and was featured in discussions in the Parliament in December 2019. It has the country's first digital garbage management system, has freed itself of dustbins. The city recently launched a Garbage Cafe, where you get a full meal in exchange for 1kg of plastic waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/ambikapur-bags-5-star-rating-for-being-garbage-free-city/articleshow/75836094.cms||Cherrupreet Kaur
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||Board games become popular in the city during lockdown||The lockdown has lead to a record rise in the sale of board games, so much so that they’re out of stock at several stores. Big Bazaar, Snapdeal and Paytm Mall recorded the highest-ever sales of board games once the government allowed sale of non-essential items in some markets. According to The Economic Times, Big Bazaar sold out its stock of board games after selling over 20,000 units of ludo and another 3,000 units of carrom boards. BOARD GAMES KEEP FAMILIES ENTERTAINED, HELP KILL TIMERight now, people are turning to board games to spend time with their family. Stand-up comedian Amit Tandon tells us, “We are at home, and to kill time, my wife, two teenage kids and I are playing board games.” For homemaker Seema Jain, it’s a throwback to her childhood days. She says, “Playing together at home is quite addictive – it feels like we are back to the summer vacations of our childhood. My 19-year-old son told me he spent two days watching videos to understand the key strategies of these games. In fact, since I always win, he was complaining that I didn’t share my game-winning strategies with him! Whatever board games we had were birthday gifts, but now, I’ve bought some more.” (BCCL)‘DIDN'T WANT MY KIDS PLAYING GAMES ON MOBILE’“I didn’t approve of my kids playing games on the mobile, so I pulled out an old multi-board game which had been lying in my house and encouraged them to play with that. So now the whole family sits together and plays these board games,” shares Vibhuti Srivastava,a homemaker in Aliganj. HUGE DEMAND FOR BOARD GAMES Rakesh Goel, owner of a general merchant store in Aliganj says, “The demand for board games has increased in these past two months. People have also asked me to do a home-delivery of these games.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/board-games-become-popular-in-the-city-during-lockdown/articleshow/75833007.cms||Akash Wadhwa
May 20, 2020||India||Operated more than 1,600 'Shramik Special' trains, ferried over 21.5 lakh migrants home: Indian Railways||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways has run more than 1,600 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1 and ferried over 21.5 lakh migrants back home, the national transporter said on Tuesday. More than 900 trains were bound to Uttar Pradesh, while Bihar permitted 428 and Madhya Pradesh over 100, it said. "Within the next 2 days Indian Railways will double the number of Shramik Special Trains to 400 per day. All migrants are requested to stay where they are, Indian Railways will get them back home over the next few days,â€? said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in a tweet. The operation of these trains has, however, led to a political mud-slinging, with the opposition accusing the Centre of charging fares from migrants and the central government accusing some states having non-BJP governments of not providing permission for the special trains to run. To increase the number of Shramik Specials, the Railways on Tuesday said it no longer needed the consent of the destination states to operate such trains. The central government has issued a standard operating procedure which said that for running such trains, permission will be given by the Ministry of Railways in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Railway spokesperson Rajesh Dutt Bajpai said, "Consent of terminating state not necessary to run Shramik Special trains". "After the new SoP, the implication is that no consent of the receiving state is mandatory," he added. Over the last few weeks, the Centre has alleged that some states like West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, which have a significant migrant population in other states, were not giving permission for the special trains, resulting in lakhs of migrant workers walking towards their homes. While the states have denied the allegations, data has shown otherwise. Till Monday evening, some other migrant heavy states had agreed to receive very few trains -- Chhattisgarh approved only 19 trains, Rajasthan only 33 trains and Jharkhand only 72 trains, according to official data. The new rule of bypassing the destination state will significantly ease the movement of migrants, officials said, with railways needing approval only from the originating states. The national transporter hopes to run up to 200 such trains daily and carry the remaining migrants home over the next week, officials said. On Tuesday, the Railways also said that it would operate 200 non-air conditioned second class sleeper trains from June 1 to help migrants reach their homes. In a statement, it urged the migrants not to panic, and said efforts are being made to ensure that all of them are able to travel to their home states at the earliest. "Efforts will be made such that they will be able to board trains from railway station head on mainline which is close to their existing location," it said. "Railways has asked the state governments to identify and locate these migrants who are walking on roads to go to their home states and transport them to the nearest main line railway station after doing their registration at the nearest district headquarters and give a list of these travellers to railway authorities so that arrangements can be made for their further travel through Shramik specials," it said. According to officials, while the railways has the capacity to run around 300 trains per day, it is operating half of that number because destination states are not sending an adequate number of approvals. A 'Shramik Special' train carries around 1,700 passengers, instead of the earlier 1,200, to ferry as many workers home as possible. Initially, these trains had no scheduled stoppages during the journey, but the Railways now allows up to three stoppages in the destination states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/operated-more-than-1600-shramik-special-trains-ferried-over-21-5-lakh-migrants-home-indian-railways/articleshow/75836548.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||15-year-old boy commits suicide in Karnataka||MYSURU: A 15-year-old boy committed suicide in Kajur in Somwarpet taluk of Kodagu district on Tuesday. According to Shanivarasan the police, the boy, a student at a local private high school, committed suicide by hanging at his residence. His parents told police that he was tensed after the SSLC examination dates were announced. He was watching TV and when the news flashed that the exam dates were announced, he reportedly told his parents that he did not want to take the exam. He was alone at home at the time of the incident, said police. SP Suman D Pennekar said that as per the preliminary investigation, it has been found that the boy was stressed and was not keen to take the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/15-year-old-boy-commits-suicide-in-karnataka/articleshow/75836750.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi shops reopened but very few people turned up||NEW DELHI: Delhi tiptoed into a semblance of normalcy on Monday with many shops opening for the first time in many days and public transport returning with its carrying capacity greatly reduced. The usual hustle-bustle was, however, missing with only a few customers turning up at the shops and a handful of commuters at bus stops posing no great challenge to maintaining of social distancing. A TOI team which travelled across the city found only 25-35% outlets open at shopping hubs like Connaught Place, Khan Market, South Extension, Sarojini Nagar, Karol Bagh and Laxmi Nagar. There was stocktaking and sanitising of the premises but business remained sluggish. No one was expecting footfalls to pick up in the first two weeks. The odd-even plan for opening shops proved to be a dampener with many traders saying it would cause inconvenience to customers. The DTC and cluster buses — carrying only 20 passengers at a time — encountered no crowding with a majority of Delhiites staying home. The marshals who were supposed to enforce order were missing but were not missed because of the limited number of passengers. Even for those few commuters, trips got delayed because of the curb on the number of passengers. The app-based cabs scored over autos with the latter finding few commuters willing to travel alone. Two passengers are allowed in the cabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-shops-reopened-but-very-few-people-turned-up/articleshow/75836905.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 20, 2020||India||Border row with India worsens, Nepal to release new map||NEW DELHI: India and Nepal seemed headed for a diplomatic showdown with Nepalese PM K P Oli declaring in Parliament on Tuesday the Kalapani area under India’s administrative control in Pithoragarh district belonged “indisputably” to Nepal and his government was going to wrest control of it with political and diplomatic initiatives. This followed Oli’s cabinet’s endorsement of a new political map of Nepal which showed Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh as Nepal’s territory. He said the map would be released as early as Wednesday and that there would be celebrations across Nepal once it was endorsed by Parliament. While a formal response was awaited from the MEA, official sources here said India’s own political map released last year depicted its sovereign territory accurately and it had not revised the boundary with Nepal. India had earlier assured Nepal that, as desired by the latter, the foreign secretaries will meet to take forward the border delineation exercise under the existing mechanism, once the threat from Covid-19 dissipates. Nepal says the Kalapani boundary issue has been on the bilateral agenda for decades. It's only in the recent past though that it has emerged as a thorny issue with potential to imperil bilateral relations, with Kathmandu repeatedly protesting India's new map which, it says, shows the disputed areas as Indian territory. "These are our territories. We will retrieve our land. It is after India occupied these territories without any grounds that they were made to look like disputed territories," Oli said, adding that Nepal was in control of these areas until 1962 when the Indian Army was deployed there. According to Nepal, the disputed areas are located on the eastern side of Kali river which, according to the 1816 Sugauli Treaty, acts as Nepal's western boundary with India with its source, as claimed by Kathmandu, at Limpiyadhura. India disputes this as it believes the source of the river is much to the south of where Nepal claims it exists and that its road to the Lipulekh Pass, the latest flashpoint, is located to the west of the river which is India's territory. According to Oli, the decision to include the territories in Nepal's map was made after India inaugurated a road link through "Nepali territory". Indian officials again refuted this and said the road to the strategic Lipulekh Pass was built on Indian territory and followed a pre-existing route used by Kailash Mansarovar pilgrims. While India has been taken aback by the intensity of Nepal's protests, with Indian Army chief General M M Naravane even hinting that Kathmandu was probably acting at China's behest, Nepal says the issue was always on the bilateral agenda. Kathmandu has cited a 1997 India-Nepal joint statement which had called for the two sides to examine relevant facts related to the demarcation of the boundary alignment in the western sector, including in the Kalapani area. "To say that Nepal didn't raise the issue earlier isn't true," a diplomatic source said. Oli was also quoted as saying by the local media that his government would soon introduce a constitution amendment proposal in Parliament to change the map of Nepal as mentioned in Schedule 3 of the constitution. "We can discuss amendments on other issues as well in the future. But this one is of immediate importance. This will be introduced in Parliament soon," the Nepalese PM said. Leader of Nepal's Communist Party, Oli is considered close to China. Watch Border row with India worsens, Nepal to release new map||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/border-row-with-india-worsens-nepal-to-release-new-map/articleshow/75837113.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 20, 2020||India||‘Vocal for local’: Firms quizzed by govt-run stores||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Taking PM Narendra Modi’s 'vocal for local’ as a call to action, government-run stores such as the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) and the Central Police Canteen (CPC) have asked their suppliers, who manufacture fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), durables, luggage and other lifestyle products to furnish details of their manufacturing location as also the place of origin of their raw materials. TOI contacted several companies, many of whom confirmed having received such queries. When contacted, the chairman of the board of administration at CSD, Alok Raj confirmed that CSD has written to all its suppliers and some have already replied. A Hindustan Unilever spokesperson said, “Yes, we have received a query from Central Police Canteen (CPC) Dept. We are submitting the details. It is an opportunity to reiterate that we are manufacturing our products in India and contributing to Make in India.” Nestle, which makes products under brand names, such as Maggi, Kit Kat and Nescafe, said it has submitted the details to such queries. 'Vocal for local' has prompted homegrown companies like Dabur, ITC, Parle Products, among others, to promote their 'desi’ roots. On the other hand, multinationals which have been present in India for decades -- some being market leaders in their respective categories -- worry about the unnecesary “scrutiny” on this front even as they have been investing behind setting up new manufacturing units in the country. Nestle India CMD Suresh Narayanan said, while the PM meant 'Make-in-India', the context unfortunately has been misinterpreted in some quarters. “We have been here for 108 years and 99.7% of Nestle India employees are Indians. We hope there will be clarifications on the matter soon,” he said. However, the move by CPC and CSD is not restricted to multinational companies. A Patanjali Ayurved spokesperson confirmed having received the letters, adding that the firm has responded as well. “All our products are made in India. We even source our raw materials locally,” said the spokesperson. Industry sources pointed out that while bulk of consumer products are made in India, certain key raw materials which go into making, for instance, soaps, such as palm oil derivatives, or cocoa in chocolates, or for that matter, electronic parts and durables, are largely imported. CPC, which came into existence in 2006 as a measure of welfare for the serving and retired Central Armed Police Forces, has around 119 master canteens which act as distribution centres and over 1,700 subsidiary canteens which sell products to its troops and families, according to its website. Among other consumer products, CPC has also registered two-wheelers and four-wheelers which are sold at a discount to market rates. CSD, which currently has 34 depots and 3,700 outlets, reaches out to the armed forces even in the most difficult terrains. Goods like watches, luggage, cars, liquor, consumer products and durables are sold at cheaper prices at these outlets. Some FMCG companies draw nearly 5-7% of their sales from CSD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vocal-for-local-firms-quizzed-by-govt-run-stores/articleshow/75837260.cms||John Sarkar
May 20, 2020||India||Covid-19: Migrants to be tracked, focus on keeping toll low, Centre says||NEW DELHI: It will need around two weeks of monitoring and testing of migrants reaching their homes in the hinterland to assess to what extent their largescale movement has accelerated or widened the spread of Covid-19 which might require the Centre to revisit its strategy to control the pandemic. Tracking and assessing new cases in view of the migrant exodus and the restart of economic activities under a more relaxed lockdown regime is the focus of government's efforts. "It will take around two weeks to get a clear picture of how much the case numbers have gone up and what is the trend or projection," an official source said. Lockdown 4.0: Latest updatesOfficials said as cases are expected to rise, the effort will be to ensure better curing and reducing fatalities by gearing up the hospital and laboratory network. The government has stepped up surveillance and testing with over one lakh samples tested for Covid-19 on a single day on Monday, in an effort to keep a check on wider spread of the infection as workplaces, markets and other activities open up in cities and migrants start reaching their villages. “Now, it cannot be said that we are not testing enough. We have achieved the target of over one lakh tests per day and have plans to ramp it up further. The capacity has been rapidly increased to over 385 government laboratories and 158 private ones for testing,” a senior official said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Another official, involved with Covid-19 management at the top level in the government, said the future strategy will be aimed at hospital preparedness, targeted testing and taking care of the elderly and people with co-morbidities. “People will have to accept behavioural change and learn to be disciplined and they need to cooperate to ensure that transmission is not on a large scale. Policy decisions have to align to reduce deaths by efficient clinical management,” he said. While India has seen relatively lesser fatalities per million population as compared to other countries and the world average, with easing of restrictions and movement of migrant workers, it might be a challenge to cater to the demand for testing, contact tracing and hospitalisation. So far, utilisation of dedicated Covid-19 facilities has been low with few severe cases reported from across the country. Currently, only around 2,000-2,500 of the over 1.30 lakh hospital beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients have been utilised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-to-be-tracked-focus-on-keeping-toll-low-centre/articleshow/75837356.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 20, 2020||World||Australian watchdog calls for news boycott of Google, Facebook||SYDNEY: Australia’s competition watchdog suggested on Tuesday that local media could organise a “collective boycott” of Google and Facebook to force the tech giants to pay for news they put on their platforms. The radical idea was among a series of possible bargaining tools put forward by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) as it considers a mandatory code of conduct for the tech firms. Other mechanisms laid out in a 33-page “Concepts Paper” included bilateral negotiations between Australian media organisations and the two tech giants and collective bargaining involving all the country’s news companies. But acknowledging the global reach and immense power of Google and Facebook, it said an “alternative bargaining framework” could be needed if direct negotiations fail. “A collective boycott, or the threat of a collective boycott, may encourage each of Google and Facebook to offer news media businesses more appropriate remuneration for the use of their content,” it said. In a process being closely watched across the world, Australia last month announced plans to force major internet firms to share advertising revenues earned from news content featured in their services. While the initial targets of the anti-trust move involved a range of tech firms, including Twitter and Verizon Media, the ACCC said on Tuesday it was narrowing its focus to Google and Facebook. “Facebook and Google were the digital platforms currently benefitting from a significant imbalance in bargaining power in their commercial negotiations with Australian news media businesses,” it said. The ACCC is tasked with drawing up a “code of conduct” for payments and addressing other competition concerns with the tech titans. Google and Facebook vehemently oppose any mandatory fees and insist they have invested millions of dollars in initiatives helping Australia’s struggling news industry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/australian-watchdog-calls-for-news-boycott-of-google-facebook/articleshow/75837445.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Patna||Blocked Bailey Road opens, finally||PATNA: The portion of Bailey Road from Ashiana Mor to Jagdeopath was reopened to traffic after nearly 20 days on Tuesday. The stretch was closed after a private hotel in the locality was transformed into a Covid care centre. A district administration official said the hotel has no Covid-19 patient now. Patna DM Kumar Ravi and other senior officers reached Ashiana Mor around 11.45am for inspection and threw open the road for traffic. The DM told media persons that Khajpura, Machhli Gali, Durga Sthan and the area near BPSC office will continue to remain containment zones even though traffic is allowed on the main road. “Only general stores, medicine shops and banks will be allowed to function on the stretch between Durma Chowki and Jagdeopath,” the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/blocked-bailey-road-opens-finally/articleshow/75834202.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 20, 2020||Patna||Valmiki reserve loses its lone rhino||BETTIAH/ BAGAHA: The lone female rhinoceros inhabiting West Champaran’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) was found dead in a sugarcane field under Valmikinagar forest range on Tuesday. The animal had made VTR its home after being swept downstream from Nepal's Chitwan park during the 2017 floods. State forests department suspects anthrax, a lethal bacterial disease in animals, to be the reason of the rhino’s death but detailed investigations were underway. “There are no external injuries on the body, nor any evidence suggesting poaching attempt. She probably died while chewing sugarcane in the agricultural fields and locals spotted her body in the morning. If anthrax is ascertained as the final cause of death then post-mortem may not be conducted,” principal secretary of state forests department, Dipak Kumar Singh, told this newspaper on Tuesday. “Villagers discovered the carcass with froth and blood in a sugarcane field near Bheriari and its horn was intact,” VTR deputy director Gaurav Ojha, the DFO in charge of the area, said. In 2017, eleven rhinos came down during the floods. “While 10 of them were repatriated, one female had ventured deep and had made our reserve her home,” Ojha recalled. “The carcass discovered today is hers,” he added. Later, a team of three veterinary doctors conducted the autopsy in the presence of VTR field Director Hem Kant Rai and other officials. The carcass was cremated. “Two sets of samples have been collected. We are sending one to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly as per protocol. Another set is being sent to Patna’s Veterinary College,” Ojha said, adding, “She did not have any external injuries either.” VTR, Bihar’s only tiger reserve, which has scripted success by tripling its big cat count in 10 years, is contiguous to Nepal’s Chitwan National Park. The latter, established in 1973, a year before India launched Project Tiger, with over 600 rhinos, is the second most populous sanctuary of the Indian one-horned rhinoceros after the Kaziranga National Park. Home once also to the rhino, VTR has over the past decade been a destination for the rhinos from Chitwan during the monsoon. Though known to be good swimmers, rhinos have been swept into VTR from the upper Terai floods in the Chitwan park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/valmiki-reserve-loses-its-lone-rhino/articleshow/75834754.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
May 20, 2020||Business||Wearables, AI help monitor temperatures during Covid||Chennai: It is no longer enough to use just a thermometer to measure temperature. As living with Covid becomes the norm, newer, tech-based ways emerging to measure temperature are emerging. Wearable startup GOQii has introduced wristbands that can measure body temperature, heart rate and blood pressure to monitor Covid 19 symptoms with a thermal sensor. With the data collected from devices, GOQii in partnership with German healthtech firm Thryve, is working on early detection of infections. Currently, the wearables tech firm has Mumbai police as its customers. “Governments, hospitals, schools, BPOs, insurance and banking companies, etc are in talks with us to use the GOQii Vital 3.0. Combined usage of the detection algorithm and the GOQii Vital 3.0 Smart Band can help significantly in isolating potential Covid-19 patients and preventing further spread,”said Vishal Gondal, founder & CEO, GOQii.With data recording facilities linked to the cloud, deep tech startups Niramai and Staqu have thermal cameras to detect temperature. The advantage they spell out is mass testing with minimum human intervention.In addition, Niramai’s solution is aimed towards enabling automated screening of population by checking not only for fever but also for respiratory abnormalities using its Thermalytix solution by running an AI algorithm on the thermal images. It monitors the temperature of all people walking into a facility remotely using infrared cameras. On this thermal stream, the company’s algorithm identifies the faces of people to detect suspected fever. “We have also integrated the fever test technology in mitra robots from Invento Robotics. They can be deployed at the entrance of a hospital for screening patients and visitors. Currently, in India, thermal screening is done using infrared forehead thermometers. This method of measuring the temperature is prone to manual errors, has the risk of cross-contamination and does not scale for a large population,” said Geetha Manjunath, co-founder and CEO, Niramai. The solution is currently pilot tested in Fortis, Bengaluru, and recently installed at the Bengaluru DCP office. Besides measuring temperature, the companies are also leveraging the data to detect masks, ensure social distancing and contact tracing. Staqu’s video analytics platform Jarvis has installed thermal sensors in the CCTV cameras in the office premises and is capturing data. “Merely measuring temperature does not suffice. Along with mass temperature measurement, our system also helps corporates comply with the new workplace guidelines issued by the government. It ensures prevention by ensuring wearing masks and social distancing too,” said Atul Rai, founder, Staqu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wearables-ai-help-monitor-temperatures-during-covid/articleshow/75835490.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||20% of Bhopal’s Covid casualties had no comorbidity: Death audit||Bhopal: One in five people who died in Bhopal due to Covid-19, had ‘no comorbidity’ or co-existing medical conditions, according to a recent death audit and analysis ordered by health department.The audit results indicate that for those with no comorbidities, average admission to death time was 37 hours of admission in a hospital. Those with existing medical conditions died much later or average of 63 hours of hospitalisation. Twenty three per cent deaths were reported within three hours of hospitalisation, raising a key issue of surveillance and case detection in the communities.“This audit indicates that people who have no comorbidities also need to be quite alert to symptoms of Covid-19,” said Dr Rajiv Singh. Death audit points out that patients with no comorbidities, were hospitalised on fifth day after onset of Covid-19. In case of others, it was the third day. Glucocorticoids - powerful medicines that fight inflammation and work with immune system to treat a wide range of health problems - were given to nearly half of the patients, as per audit. Almost 80 per cent were given mechanical ventilator support. Duration of hospital stay (admission to death) is a major factor that the analysis looks into. Nearly 76 per cent people (two-third) died within 48 hours of hospitalisation, 55 per cent died within 24 hours of hospitalisation. Audit of Covid-19 patients, is a wakeup call to those with notion that this infection is life-threatening for only those with existing medical conditions or comorbidity alongside a primary disorder, say medical experts, requesting anonymity.Audit has ranked diabetes as the most common medical condition in those who died after testing positive. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and hypertension were found in 20 per cent cases analysed. Audit indicates that 17 deaths were reported between May 4 and May 10. It accounts for half of the deaths analysed. Total deaths analysed were 34 from April to mid-May.GFX Covid casualty analysisTwo patients had Asthma12 of the 34 audited had hypertensionThree had oncological conditionsTwo had age-related issuesSeven had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) One person had tuberculosisOne had neurological issuesThree cases had cardiac problems||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/20-of-bhopals-covid-casualties-had-no-comorbidity-death-audit/articleshow/75835415.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 20, 2020||Patna||Over 65,000 people reach Bihar by 53 special trains||PATNA: Altogether 53 Shramik special trains carrying nearly 65,000 migrant workers, students and others stranded in 11 states reached different places in Bihar on Tuesday. This was the highest number of Shramik special trains coming to Bihar in a day since May 2. Railways is also running Shramik special trains daily from Karamnasa in Uttar Pradesh to Katihar, Danapur and Madhubani to ferry migrant workers stuck on the UP-Bihar border. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways has decided to run another Shramik special train between Durg in Chhatisgarh to Darbhanga on Wednesday. Meanwhile, three Shramik special trains from Bengaluru carrying 3800 migrants and students reached Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur and Katihar while four such trains from Delhi reached Bhagalpur and Muzaffarpur with 5100 passengers. Two more special trains from Ghatkesar in Telangana reached Barauni and Hajipur. Similarly, Shramik special trains from Kalburgi in Karnataka, Karaikal in Puducherry, Nagercoli in Tamil Nadu and Nellore in Andhra Pradesh ferried 5000 migrants to Saharsa, Purnea, Hajipur and Bettiah. Four trains from Firozpur, Jalandhar and Ludhiana in Punjab reached Kishanganj, Purnea, Araria and Gaya. Three Shramik special trains from Pune and one each from Kolhapur, Thane, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Mumbai, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Mumbai and Panvel in Maharashtra carrying about 10,000 migrants and students reached Bettiah, Motihari, Jasidih, Darhanga, Chhapra and Bhagalpur. Likewise, another special train carrying over a thousand migrant labourers arrived at Nawada railway station from Tripura on Monday night. Nawada DM, SP, station master, RPF and GRP personnel received them with food packets and bottled RO water. The migrants were screened before being despatched by sanitized buses to the respective quarantine centres in the district. (With inputs from Shashi Bhushan Sinha in Nawada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-65000-people-reach-state-by-53-special-trains/articleshow/75833523.cms||Kumod Verma
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Debate over household workers rages on||NEW DELHI: The debate over whether domestic workers and service providers like plumbers, electricians and carpenters can rejoin work still rages on during lockdown 4.0. Unlike the earlier phase of restrictions, Delhi government this time said that residents’ welfare associations (RWA) cannot pose as barriers between employers and helpers and will have to grant the latter entry to housing societies. This, however, has irked RWAs and they have expressed displeasure over the government subverting and challenging their role in last-mile governance. The disgruntled RWAs have also written to the government regarding this issue. However, many residents have argued that RWAs are unnecessarily creating confusion by trying to impose unauthorised norms. Their act is inconveniencing people, especially senior citizens. Atul Goyal, president of United RWAs Joint Action, said, “RWAs are working towards protecting residents from further spread of the coronavirus by screening entrants to societies. While bus and auto drivers or shopkeepers can be entrusted with this responsibility, an elected body representing a residential area is being seen with doubt.” Nakul Sharan, president of Green Park Extension RWA added that it was painful to see how they were being targeted and shown in a negative light. In a flip side to the restrictions, many household workers whom TOI spoke to said they were turned away by their employers. “I thought my employers would be happy to see me and ask me join work instantly. However, they told me to check with them when the lockdown ended,” said Shagun, a 21-year-old girl employed as a household staff in Pitampura. There were others like Rishi, a plumber in Janakpuri, who heaved a sigh of relief after receiving calls from regular customers. “I had been going to my shop for the past one week, but no one had called me for work. Earlier, many RWA presidents didn’t allow anyone to enter the housing societies. I can finally earn some money to feed my family,” he added. Rameshwar Singh, an electrician in Vasant Kunj, and his wife who works as a household staff in the same locality, were elated at getting calls from their employers. “The last two months were very difficult. We were falling short of money to take care of our children. We now need to work harder to make up for our lost income,” said Singh. A few RWAs argued that they never issued any order restricting entry of outsiders. Saurabh Gandhi of Rana Pratap Bagh RWA, said, “Doing thermal scanning and disinfection of outsiders is not restriction. The Covid-19 situation can deteriorate if timely action is not taken.” Bhavreen Kandhari, an environment activist and resident of Defence Colony, said sometimes RWAs overreact to the situation, which is unacceptable in a society where everyone is educated and knows the pros and cons of taking the wrong decision. “Restricting movement of outsiders is fine, but completely banning entry of sanitation and domestic workers is not good. RWAs should come up with interesting ideas for the benefit of senior citizens, working people as well as domestic staff,” added Kandhari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/debate-over-household-workers-rages-on/articleshow/75837588.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 20, 2020||Business||H-1B denials for market analysts trigger class action lawsuit||MUMBAI: A nationwide class action lawsuit was recently filed before a US federal court, challenging the arbitrary denial of H-1B applications filed for market research analysts. Two US companies — MadKudu and Quick Fitting — filed this lawsuit on behalf of themselves and all US employers who are similarly placed. The H-1B visa allows US employers to file visa applications for foreign professionals to work in ‘speciality occupations’ that require at least a bachelors’ degree or its equivalent in a specific role. TOI has in several articles covered the arbitrary denials of H-1B cap applications by the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on the ground that the job positions were not ‘speciality occupations’, and hence not eligible for an H-1B visa. Charles H Kuck, managing partner at the immigration law firm of Kuck Baxter, one of the counsels in the case, told TOI, “USCIS does not like being sued. The class action lawsuit actually resulted in USCIS re-opening and approving the plaintiff’s H-1B applications for market research analysts. We would love for more employers and employees to join our suit — there is no cost in doing so.” The primary object of the class action lawsuit is to convince the court to issue a judgment and stop USCIS from issuing blanket denials for market research analyst positions and start following the plain language of the statute and the regulations, added Kuck. The class action law suit has sought to rein in the unlawful adjudicating practice that USCIS adopted, including its misinterpretation of the Labour department’s ‘Occupational Outlook Handbook’, which profiles hundreds of occupations in the US job market. “In the last four years, USCIS has shifted its interpretation of various immigration laws, including those governing H-1B visa petitions. This has resulted in a material rise in costs and harm to US employers seeking to temporarily employ talented foreign nationals. The unrelenting unlawful practice of USCIS necessitates class-wide relief,” said Jesse Bless, director of federal litigation at the American Immigration Lawyers Association, which is also representing the plaintiffs in the lawsuit. They are also represented by The American Immigration Council and several other law firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/h-1b-denials-for-mkt-analysts-trigger-class-action-lawsuit/articleshow/75835786.cms||Lubna Kably
May 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Business of private hospitals hit in lockdown||PATNA: Travel curbs leading to fall in the number of patients and additional expenses on protective gears owing to Covid-19 adversely affected the income of private hospitals and diagnostic centres in the state capital during the lockdown since March 25. Indian Medical Association (Bihar) general secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said several private hospitals and clinics have sustained up to 80% revenue losses. “Leading private hospitals still receive few patients, but the situation is bad for the remaining health facilities. Besides, purchase of medical and protective equipment to ensure safety in the hospital led to loss in businesses,” he said. Dr Rajesh Singh, ICU incharge at a private hospital in Alamganj area, said the running cost has increased while the revenue collection dropped by 90%. “We are not getting any government aid to purchase protective gears. Now, we are giving PPE kit to all our employees,” he said. Dr Sudhir Kumar, who owns a private hospital on Bypass road, said most of their patients are from middle or lower income group. “Some are not coming to hospital out of fear and some due to financial problem,” he said. The small, standalone nursing homes and hospitals are finding it difficult to run the institutions due to burden of rent and other expenses. Dr Ghanshyam, who runs a private clinic at Kankarbagh, said, “I have to pay the rent, electricity bill and other miscellaneous charges. Besides, there are other expenses like staff salary, purchase of medical equipment and protective gears. How will we manage all these things?” Dr BB Bharti, director of a private hospital in Khemnichak area, said most of the patients come from the neighbouring districts. “Due to lockdown, only few patients are coming. If such a situation continues, it would be difficult to run the hospital with so many employees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/business-of-private-hospitals-hit-in-lockdown/articleshow/75834185.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 20, 2020||Patna||Migrants quarantined in ‘palm leaf shelter’||PATNA: At least seven migrant workers, who have returned from Chhattisgarh, are having to stay outside their village in ‘temporary homes’ made of palm leaves as they couldn’t be accommodated at the nearest quarantine centre under Madanpur block in Maoist-hit Aurangabad district. Kapil Singh, 25, Raj Kumar Bhokta, 45, Vinod Singh Bhokta, 32, Arvind Kumar, 21, Santosh Kumar, 22, Sandip Kumar, 20, and Mithilesh Kumar, 24, all residents of Pipargari village under Dakshin Umanga panchayat, returned on Saturday. Kapil, who worked as a daily wager in a rice mill in Chhattisgarh, said, “We were advised to stay in home quarantine and maintain social distancing. So we returned to our native village but were stopped by some local residents. The families also agreed with them and denied our entry in homes.” Sandip Kumar, however, claimed that though none of the group of seven have shown symptoms of Covid19, they have not undergone any test. “At present we don’t have health issues. But in case we are tested positive for the deadly virus at a later date, then at least none of the villagers will be infected because of us,” he said. Several of them admitted that they live in one-room houses with their families and there is no way they can keep themselves in isolation. “In fact, home is too crowded for safe quarantine,” said another migrant worker Mithilesh Kumar. When contacted, BDO of Madanpur Kanishka Kumar Singh said, “We have not received any such information either from the local authority or from any representative of the area. Since the area in considered a hotbed of Maoists, we will first inform the district control room and then action will be taken accordingly.” He, however, claimed that three out of five quarantine centres were operational under Madanpur block. Over 400 migrant workers reached the block headquarters from different states on Tuesday and they were subsequently quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-quarantined-in-palm-leaf-shelter/articleshow/75833647.cms||Ramashankar
May 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lockdown curbs take a toll on mental health of the elderly||PATNA: Two months into the Covid-19 lockdown, elderly people have started missing their old routine of morning walks, meeting friends and regular visits to temples. Many claim that the curbs imposed on them are taking a toll on their mental health. Sexagenarian Vimal Kishor, a retired professor, kept himself busy by participating in different activities before the lockdown. “My friends and I would go to the Eco Park every morning and do yoga. However, I have not stepped out of my house for the last two months. It was bearable in the beginning, but now, I feel depressed,” he told this newspaper. Like Kishor, Saguna Mor resident Manorma Devi, who is a diabetic, used to go out for a walk every day. After the lockdown was imposed, the 61-year-old “accepted the new normal”. “Now, my friends and I meet on the terrace every evening, but make sure that we maintain proper distance. Those, with fever, cold or cough, are not allowed to be part of our meetings,” she said. City doctors have urged senior citizens to be careful to avoid severe infections. Patna Medical College and Hospital general physician Pratyush Kumar said, “The number of elderly people getting infected by coronavirus may be less in the state, but on a global level, they are the worst sufferers. This is because of the underlying diseases and low immune system. They should, therefore, take precautions and stay indoors as much as possible. They should also consume juices along with a balanced and nutritious diet.” He added, “Senior citizens should take care of their mental health too and stay connected with their relatives, friends and neighbours. Videoconferencing is a good way to avoid loneliness.” Families with elderly members are making extra efforts to keep them safe. “My grandmother, who is 79 years old, suffers from diseases like asthma and arthritis. Since my father has started going to office, he makes sure that he does not come in contact with her,” said Abhishek Kumar, a resident of Kurji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-curbs-take-a-toll-on-mental-health-of-the-elderly/articleshow/75834166.cms||Archi Rani
May 20, 2020||Business||E-sales get boost from non-essentials||Digbijay Mishra | TNN Bengaluru: With the government allowing online sale of non-essentials in red zones, consumers flocked to e-commerce platforms, resulting in a spike in sales coming from pent-up demand. E-tailers like Amazon and Flipkart have seen a “significant” spike in sales in categories like work-from-home (WFH) equipment, smartphones along with kitchen and home appliances. Vertical online platform furniture retailer Pepperfry has also seen demand double over the last couple of weeks as it starts delivering study chairs and desks. This comes after e-commerce players were barred from selling non-essentials anywhere in the first two phases of the lockdown, which started on March 25. Over the last two weeks, e-tailers were given a nod to sell all goods only in orange and green zones. Starting Monday, the Centre allowed e-tailers to sell all goods in all three zones, including red zones with major metros, which account for a majority of the demand. Only containment zones or hotspots within red zones are restricted to just essentials, which are grocery and pharma goods. “This is similar to the global markets. We will see a higher demand for the next two weeks as consumers, especially in metros, would order necessary products and stock up in some cases,” said Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst at Forrester, a market research firm. He added the demand may go down next month, depending on further guidelines if there is a another spike in cases or containment zones. TOI had reported that the online retail industry is likely to see zero growth in 2020 due to the lockdown and slowdown in consumption demand. The jump in sales is also due to the fact that most large cities and sellers are based in areas marked as red zones. TOI had reported how consumer searches were growing for non-essentials in the second half of the lockdown. The precise data of sales growth is yet to be available, but broad patterns are an indication of consumer activity picking up online after several weeks. In the case of Pepperfry, for instance, its main warehouse in Mumbai has opened, through which it can deliver to other major cities. This, despite the fact that deliveries in the financial capital will start outside containment zones from May 22. The platform had kept taking orders through the lockdown, though it told customers that these will be delivered once restrictions are lifted. “For the last three weeks, sales have been doubling every week. But numbers are nowhere near the pre-lockdown levels. The main issue right now is attendance levels with labour — it is still 40-50%,” said CEO Ambareesh Murty. He expects 60-70% of the demand to come back by mid-June. But 30-40% of its sales were driven through its nearly 70 offline stores. A Delhi-based merchant who sells mobile accessories like earphones, chargers and phone covers online, said his first-day sales almost resembled that of the pre-lockdown period. “I did not expect this kind of sales on first day. This is some good news for now, even though we are not sure how long this demand will last,” he said. “Sellers on Amazon.in have seen orders for consumer electronics, kitchen & home appliances, smart devices, laptops, phone accessories, apparel and more. Customers are also looking for large appliances, especially summer essentials like coolers & ACs, clothing, grocery, health & personal care products, beauty and sports,” a company spokesperson added. As of Tuesday evening, Amazon India, Flipkart, Paytm Mall as well as Snapdeal had resumed full operations across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-sales-get-boost-from-non-essentials/articleshow/75835852.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 20, 2020||Business||India’s lockdown restrictions hit global e-commerce sales, says Walmart||Bengaluru: Walmart’s international e-commerce sales were hit due to the lockdown curbs that its business in India — Flipkart — faced, even as it saw sales surge in other markets like China, Canada, the UK and Mexico. However, despite the overall drop in business, Walmart said the international unit’s gross profit rate increased by 10 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point), primarily due to Flipkart as well. “Limited operations of the company’s Flipkart business in India for a portion of the quarter negatively affected growth,” said Walmart in its earnings presentation on Tuesday for the first quarter (February to April) of 2021. The government had restricted sales by online retail companies to just essential goods — which included groceries and healthcare products — which accounted for a fraction of Flipkart’s total sales before the lockdown. The shutdown started on March 25 and sales restrictions have been lifted earlier this week. While Flipkart has started grocery delivery across the country, and even tied up with Uber, the overall sales of the online retail industry are expected to take a hit in 2020. The development comes even as Amazon said last month that it saw the “biggest impact” of the virus outbreak in India among its international markets owing to the lockdown even as its global sales led by the US hit a record high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-lockdown-restrictions-hit-global-e-commerce-sales-says-walmart/articleshow/75835835.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Trichy||DMK MLA booked for ‘threatening’ Karur dist collector||Trichy: Aravakurichi MLA Senthil Balaji was booked under six different sections for allegedly threatening Karur district collector K Anbalagan last week. DMK in-charge for Karur district, Balaji had addressed the media on May 14 after meeting the collector and accused him of functioning in favour of the ruling party. He had told media that the collector responded in an irresponsible manner when he asked about why elected representatives from the opposition parties were not invited for Covid-19 revival meeting held at the collector’s office. “But the collector said that he was not aware of such a meeting. If the collector continues to function in the favour of ruling party, then he will not be able to move freely in the district,” Balaji had said. Collector T Angalagan lodged a complaint at the Thanthonimalai police station against Balaji for threatening him through the media after meeting him in person. Based on a complaint, Thanthonimalai police station registered a case under sections 143, 270, 153, 294(b), 353 and 506 (ii)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-mla-booked-for-threatening-karur-dist-collector/articleshow/75837075.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Police headquarters heaves a sigh of relief as many cops test negative||PATNA: The state police headquarters heaved a sigh of relief after samples of several police personnel living on the BMP campus at Khajpura here and their contacts came negative for Covid-19. The detection of 48 Covid-19 positive cases on BMP campus within a fortnight had sent alarm bells ringing in the state police headquarters. On Sunday, 21 BMP personnel were tested positive for coronavirus, the maximum in day. A retired BMP constable was the first from the campus to test positive on May 7. The campus houses headquarters of BMP’s fifth, tenth and fourteenth battalions. Altogether 46 serving, a retired havildar from BMP-14 and a woman constable from BMP-1 had been tested positive. Following this, all policemen deployed in various offices, including the state police headquarters, and companies of three battalions were withdrawn from field duty and asked to go into isolation. Around 213 women constables of Swabhiman battalion, country’s first such battalion for tribal girls, were also withdrawn from field duty. They were asked to remain inside the campus as a precautionary measure. State police ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said more than 400 samples were collected for testing after cases from BMP campus started surfacing. Kumar said altogether 65 serving and a retired police personnel have so far been tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. “Of them, nine have recovered,” he added. The ADG said two personnel from police lines in Bhojpur had also been tested positive on Monday. “Apart from Bhojpur, five cases each are from Nawada and Kaimur, two each from Araria and Patna rail police district and one each from Madhubani and Nalanda,” he said, adding infected one from Nalanda is a trainee DSP. Kumar said 12,000 personnel in police lines and BMP barracks across the state had been screened till now. “The screening process is still continuing in some districts,” he said. The ADG said only those personnel and companies who were stationed on the BMP campus in the state capital were separated from duty and asked to remain in isolation till further order. Meanwhile, Patna DM Kumar Ravi, SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma and other officers inspected BMP campus and BMP-5 Government Higher Secondary School on Tuesday. The DM asked the officials concerned to arrange beds and other required facilities at the school for the isolation of Covid-19 positive BMP personnel. Ravi also ordered appointment of a nodal officer and establishment of a control room at the isolation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-hq-heaves-a-sigh-of-relief-as-many-cops-test-negative/articleshow/75834139.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 20, 2020||Patna||Two more containment zones in Bihar's Khagaria district||KHAGARIA: With the rise in Covid positive cases over the past few days, the Khagaria administration has increased the number of containment zones from two to four in the district. Altogether 56 cases and one death were reported in the district till Monday. The new containment zones are NAC Road and Murgiyachak in Khagaria town. Several other localities in the town, including main road, Thana road, Station road, Mill road, besides few other lanes and bylanes have been sealed and declared buffer zones. Earlier, Telihar and Srinagar villages under Beldaur block of the district were declared containment zones. The district administration officials and health workers are conducting door-to-door screening in containment zones and nearby villages. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said a rapid response team (RRT) headed by ADM Shatrunjay Mishra has been constituted to ensure strict vigil. The DM said all shops and other business establishments in containment zones will remain shut. Meanwhile, official sources said a number of economic and e-commerce activities will start again. Sources said wedding ceremony would be allowed with certain restrictions while utensils shops and sports complexes will be reopened with social distancing and other restrictions. Buses and autorickshaws, shopping malls, hotels, swimming pools, gyms, religious centres, saloons and parlours are not allowed to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-more-containment-zones-in-khagaria-dist/articleshow/75833684.cms||N P Thakur
May 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Officials ask migrants to go home & villagers ban entry||PATNA: Ten migrant workers are quarantined under a tree as the villagers prevented them from entering their houses fearing that they might be carrying the deadly coronavirus! The family members also denied them entry under the pressure of their co-villagers of Gardiha Paharpur under Bisanpura Hira Rampur panchayat in Vaishali district. Ravi Kumar, one of the migrants, said they visited the Vaishali High School quarantine centre at Mahua block headquarters, but the officials there asked them to go home after thermal screening. “Though we requested the officials on duty to allow us to stay there in 14-day quarantine, they turned down our requests forcing us to return to our native village,” he said. “Finally, we decided to stay in ‘quarantine’ under the tree on the outskirts of the village. Cots, beds and mosquito nets were provided by the family members,” said one of the migrant workers, Vicky Kumar. The migrants, in the age group of 18 to 40 years, returned from Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Delhi by buses, trucks and covered some distance even on foot. While Dani Sahni, Mahesh Sahni and Manoj Sahni returned from Nagpur in Maharashtra after their textile factories were shut, Vicky and Subodh Kumar came back from Delhi and Raman Kumar, Ganesh Sahni, Mantosh Kumar, Lalan Kumar and Ravi from Jaipur in Rajasthan. Majority of them were being supplied cooked meal by their respective families. “We maintain social distancing while accepting meal from our family members. At times we feel very sad for staying away from our families, but console ourselves,” said Raman. Bisanpura Hira panchayat mukhiya Sanjiv Kumar said he visited the migrant workers and inquired about their health. “They didn’t have any problem in staying under the tree. Many of them said they don’t have separate rooms in their houses. Under such circumstances, it will be difficult to maintain social distancing at home,” he said. Mahua circle officer (CO) Arun Kumar Sinha, however, feigned ignorance about any such incident. “I have no idea about any such incident. I will certainly verify it,” he said over phone on Tuesday. The CO said altogether 925 migrant workers were staying in 14 quarantine centres operational under Mahua block. “Though we have set up 20 quarantine centres, only 14 are having inmates. The remaining six have no inmates as of now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/officials-ask-migrants-to-go-home-villagers-ban-entry/articleshow/75833631.cms||Ramashankar
May 20, 2020||Patna||Union minister takes feedback on makhana cultivation in Bihar||PATNA: Makhana (fox nuts) has emerged as a viable item for export from Bihar as both the Centre and the state are on course to tap its potential. The state government appears to have shown active interest after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 15 announced her third tranche of the package to boost the economy hit by corona and lockdown. She said Rs10,000 crore would be spent on the promotion of food processing units, including related to makhana. Incidentally, Bihar has been the biggest producer of makhana in the country. A day after CM Nitish Kumar held discussion with the officials concerned on the Centre’s package with a bearing on the state’s agricultural sector, like with regard to makhana cultivation, Union minster of state for finance Anurag Thakur on Tuesday contacted the state’s biggest producer and only exporter of makhana, Satyajit Singh, on the impact of the announcement of the package on the state, the industry related package and also regarding makhana cluster formation. “The Centre should hand over the fund to the state for the planning, development and execution of cluster due to its local expertise on crop and eco system,” Singh said over phone after his discussion with Anurag. “The state government should form a task force to plan, develop and execute the cluster approach as per local requirement of makhana cluster,” he added. Singh said he raised the fears that “this scheme may the same consequence as happened in the past”. Earlier, Singh had gone on record saying that in 2006, as much as Rs54 crore had to be returned to the Centre as the cluster system could not be evolved. He has also urged the state government to adopt “market approach” in planning and development of makhana. Incidentally, having traditionally started from Darbhanga and Madhubani districts in the past, the makhana cultivation has also become popular in Purnea, Katihar, Araria, Saharsa and Supaul districts, especially after banana plants grown in Katihar and Purnea were hit by a strange ‘rotting’ disease a few years ago. However, the CM on Monday insisted that the makhana trade should be conducted from the state itself, as it would add to the gross state domestic product (GSDP) value of Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/union-minister-takes-feedback-on-makhana-cultivation-in-bihar/articleshow/75834223.cms||Abhay Singh
May 20, 2020||Patna||Gaya monasteries not to be used as quarantine centres||GAYA: Monasteries will not be used as quarantine centres to house Bihar natives stranded in other countries and being evacuated under the Vande Bharat Mission, said Bhikku Pragyadeep, general secretary of Bodh Gaya-based International Buddhist Council (IBC) representing foreign monasteries, quoting deputy development commissioner (DDC) Kishori Chaudhary. Gaya has been notified as the disembarkation point for stranded Biharis being rescued from different countries. Earlier, Pragyadeep had written a letter to CM Nitish Kumar questioning the decision to convert monasteries into quarantine centres, which would violate the sanctity of the spiritual institutions meant for meditation and other such purposes. The IBC had also threatened ‘peaceful agitation’ near the Mahabodhi Mahavihara in the town. Expressing satisfaction over the official stand, Pragyadeep said the issue stands resolved and now there was no need to protest. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh also said there was no need to use monasteries as quarantine centres. “There is enough space in hotels and guesthouses to quarantine the foreign returnees,” he said. Meanwhile, resistance of the monasteries has baffled Bodh Gaya watchers. Being spiritual centres, the monasteries should have taken it as an opportunity to serve humanity in this hour of crisis, said Rai Madan Kishore, a retired bureaucrat and former secretary of the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee. Meanwhile, businessmen in Gaya await fresh orders from district administration regarding the permissible and prohibitive activities under Lockdown 4.0 owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce president Sanjay Bharadwaj said in the absence of a fresh notification, only previously permitted business activities are being conducted. Ban on the plying of all kinds of motorized vehicles, including e-rickshaws, continues. Earlier in the day, the DM authorized Sadar SDO to issue permits for home delivery of cooked meal from restaurants. Permit would be issued on the basis of report submitted by the food inspector in respect of applicants seeking permission for home delivery of cooked food, said an official press statement. 99 stranded Vietnamese evacuated: Altogether 99 Vietnamese stranded at different places in Bihar and West Bengal were evacuated from Gaya International Airport on Tuesday. A special IndiGo flight carried them to Delhi from where they would be taken to their country. According to Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar, the special flight (6E 9102) took off with 99 passengers and 2885kg of luggage at 11.49am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-monasteries-not-to-be-used-as-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75833565.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 20, 2020||Vadodara||Banyan City teeming with life again||Vadodara: From roads to queues outside paan parlours, farsan shops to salons, life on Tuesday was definitely back in track. However, amid the hustle and bustle, cautious Barodians were seen with face masks and observing distancing — a new normal for the Banyan City. While offices and shops started opening by 9 am, most of them were being cleaned up after almost two months of lockdown. But that didn’t deter eager customers who lined up for their purchases, albeit in an orderly manner in accordance to state government guidelines for shopkeepers. Several salons in Raopura, Sayajigunj and RC Dutt Road witnessed the barbers wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and sanitizing their customers too. “Now we know what doctors and policemen go through in PPE kits. But we will continue wearing them for our protection,” said a salon owner Rajan Limbachiya. While electronic appliances showroom and automobile garages made brisk business along with tobacco and mobile phone shops, other shops selling garments, hardware, and household items witnessed negligible footfall. “Electricians in city too had a field day with regular customers’ calls for repairing fans and other cooling appliances. Most of the restaurant and eateries except for multinational fast-food chains remain closed. Some eateries selling Barodians’ staple sev usal will start home delivery from Wednesday. Mobile app-based food delivery services remained inactive. A few auto rickshaws also started plying on the roads, while the city did not miss a few road accidents too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/banyan-city-teeming-with-life-again/articleshow/75833545.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Patna||BJP to dust off poll machinery with PM’s broadcast on May 31||PATNA: The Bihar BJP is all set to begin preparations for the formal launch of its assembly election campaign by making its four-tier organisational machinery in the state tune in to PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast scheduled for May 31. The state polls are due to be held in the October-November period. “We are in the process of scaling up the micro-management of the party’s organizational units. It will be for the first time that the formal election meetings with all festive look, fanfare, heat and dust as befit elections might not be possible due to the shadow of coronavirus pandemic and social distancing,” state BJP president and the party’s West Champaran MP Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said. The four-tier formal bodies of the state BJP consist of the party’s fully constituted state, district, Mandal and booth level units along with four other supporting bodies formed recently. The four supporting bodies comprise an in-charge and his core team appointed for each of the 243 seats, a Shaktikendra for each of the 8,463 panchayats, a seven-member newly conceived body called ‘Saptarishi’ at the booth level, and an IT cell headed by a ‘pramukh’ attached to it. “Except for the Saptarishi and IT cell at the booth level, all other units have been duly constituted. Even the Saptarishis and their respective IT cells will be constituted before May 31, day of the PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast,” Dr Jaiswal said. He added, “Our aim is to convert the PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast into a big event for the state. The focus is on activating the Saptarishi units. All its seven members will sit at the house of the booth-level party president to listen to the PM’s broadcast.” “For us, this event in itself is not the formal launch of the party’s election campaign. Instead, the basic aim is to gear up the party’s entire organizational structure, both formal and the ones recently created. The event has been christened as ‘PM’s Mann Ki Baat, Saptarishi Ke Saath’. It is completely new concept,” he further said. He himself would be present at the party’s state headquarters at Patna. On the day, the booth-level IT cells would take pictures of the Saptarishi members listening to PM’s broadcast and send them to their respective Mandal presidents, who, in turn, would send them to the district headquarters, and from there, they will go to the state headquarters. “By 4 pm, I will be able to see all photographs from as many booths as possible stored in the basket of the state IT cell,” Dr Jaiswal said, adding, “It will give us an idea of the strength of our Saptarishi units.” The party’s chief spokesman and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel said the Saptarishi members – a total of 4.69 lakh people for over 67,000 polling booths at the rate of seven for each booth — would be the key persons at the grassroots level. They would be given the task of taking the PM’s message, information on achievements of the central and state governments, as well as the handling of the corona pandemic both in the country and the state, to the people in the months ahead, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-to-dust-off-poll-machinery-with-pms-broadcast-on-may-31/articleshow/75833703.cms||Abhay Singh
May 20, 2020||Patna||Kushwaha meets Manjhi, Sahni, triggers speculation||PATNA: Amid lockdown, RSLP chief Upendra Kushwaha and HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi had a closed-door meeting with Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni at the latter’s office on Tuesday, triggering speculation about some political moves separate from the RJD and Congress, the two other major partners of the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. Kushwaha, however, tried to play it safe. “There was no political discussion as speculated in the media. We discussed the situation arising out of coronavirus pandemic and the state government’s failure to tackle the inflow of migrant workers from outside the state,” he said. Kushwaha said the Mahagathbandhan would raise the migrant workers’ issue in the days to come. “In fact, we were more concerned about how to help the migrant workers during crisis,” he said. Manjhi also said the meeting mainly focused on the situation in Bihar in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. “It was also necessary meet as most of the people remained indoors for more than 50 days,” he said. Sahni said there was nothing special to share with the media. “We will let you know at appropriate time if anything significant happens. I think every thing is fine in Mahagathbandhan. It has rather become stronger,” he added. Echoing similar views, RJD spokesperson Vijay Prakash said it was not a meeting of Mahagathbandhan. Congress MLC Prem Chand Mishra also avoided to make any statement on the meeting. The meeting assumed significance in the wake of leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s instruction to party workers to concentrate on setting up booth level committees and help the migrant workers returning home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-meets-manjhi-sahni-triggers-speculation/articleshow/75833871.cms||Ramashankar
May 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar government order on arrears irks university teachers||PATNA: Academics in the state are surprised at a notification issued by education department, directing the universities not to pay the arrears of pay in revised scale from January 2016 to March 2019 to the teachers until the same is approved by the government’s pay verification cell (PVC). State higher education director Rekha Kumari told this newspaper that the arrears of revised pay would be paid to the teachers only when the PVC issues pay entitlement slip of individual teachers in the seventh pay scale after verifying the pay fixation done by the universities. The universities have been paying revised seventh pay commission’s scales to the teachers since October last year and some have also reportedly paid arrears of pay difference to the beneficiaries. According to sources, the education department had already released necessary funds to all the universities on March 25 for payment of arrears of revised pay for 39 months (from January 2016 to March 2019). Earlier, the department had released funds for payment of arrears of revised pay for six months (from April to September 2019) and the universities made the payment accordingly as per their revised pay fixed by the pay fixation cell of the respective universities and approved by the officials of the education department. Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUTAB) working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha said the teachers’ arrears have already been re-verified by PVC. Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh said Patna high court had already ordered on January 15, 2015 that PVC has got only auditing powers and that it cannot overrule the decisions of the statutory pay fixation committee of the universities. According to the notification issued by department’s special secretary Satish Chandra Jha on Monday evening, the decision to refer the matter of payment of arrears to the PVC has been taken in view of the request of vice-chancellors of some universities for issuing guidelines for making the payment to the teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-order-on-arrears-irks-university-teachers/articleshow/75834246.cms||B K Mishra
May 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: Now, virtual internship offer for students||PATNA: In view of the Covid-19 lockdown, which is in its fourth phase, private firms have started offering virtual summer internships to engineering and management students. Academics consider this “a good sign” for those waiting eagerly for pre-placement offers (PPO). Many students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Patna (IIT-P) and the National Institute of Technology (NIT-P) have already started their internships. According to Jose V Parambil, in charge of the training and placement cell at the IIT-P, three BTech students have grabbed summer internships at Google after taking part in a technical coding competition. “Despite the lockdown, two other BTech students have received summer internship offers from the Imperial College (London) and Greyc Research Centre of the University of Caen Normandy (France),” Parambil said. The in charge of NIT-P’s placement cell, Samrat Mukherjee, told this newspaper on Tuesday that more than 30 companies had given internship offers to the students of the institute. “The virtual internship programme has been going on since May 1,” he added. Apart from private firms, Development Management Institute (DMI) has started an in-house internship programme for the students of postgraduate diploma in management. DMI dean Niraj Kumar said, “We have asked some reputed organizations giving internship offers to allow our students to work from home. To ensure that they get the desired results, one of our faculty members is guiding them. Besides, we are offering in-house internships so that our students work on various projects of the DMI.” Amity University pro-vice-chancellor (VC) Vivekanand Pandey said, “Altogether 219 students of different programmes like MBA (48), BBA (125), BA-English (14) and BCom (32) have been selected for summer internship programmes. We are also conducting online workshops on artificial intelligence and cloud computing for them.” Educational institutes claimed that companies had not withdrawn any placement offers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. IIT-P training and placement officer Kripa Shanker said, “Despite the challenges, we have not witnessed any downside in placement offers yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-virtual-internship-offer-for-students/articleshow/75834112.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 20, 2020||Business||TikTok ratings fall as netizens call for ban||BENGALURU: What started as an argument between two influencers earlier this month on video application YouTube and TikTok has now snowballed into a controversy. Internet users across India called for the ban of TikTok, bringing down its rating on Google’s Play Store from 4.6 stars to 2. The Chinese short video application is owned by ByteDance, which — at $100 billion — is the world’s most valued private technology company. TikTok Lite, a version that works on lower-end smartphones, has seen ratings crash to 1.1 stars. India is the fastest-growing and the largest market for TikTok, where it has close to 200 million monthly active users. While TikTok saw 107 million downloads in April 2020 globally, a 2.5x increase from the previous year, nearly 22% of those came from India. The controversy started after a video by YouTube celebrity Carry Minati roasting a TikTok star, which got over 70 million views, was taken down on Friday after reports of cyberbullying. This caused his fans to start tweeting about banning TikTok. Meanwhile, a TikTok influencer Faizal Siddiqui, who has over 12 million followers, was accused of propagating violence against women in one of his videos. Siddiqui contested that it is a month-old video and has been edited to mislead viewers. The National Commission of Women has also said it will write to the government to ban TikTok. Several other videos on the platform, including those showing cruelty towards animals, have shown up. TikTok said Siddiqui’s account has been suspended, and other objectionable videos on the platform have also been taken down. “According to policy, we do not allow content that risks safety of others, promotes physical harm or glorifies violence against women. The behaviour in question violates our guidelines and we have taken down the content, suspended the account, and are working with law enforcement agencies as appropriate,” a spokesperson said. TikTok has faced controversies in the past in India as well, as it was banned by the Madras high court for three months in April 2019 after being accused of promoting pornographic content and exposing children to predators.  However, the popularity of the app continued to grow, with Indians clocking 5.5 billion hours on TikTok in 2019 — an increase of over five times from the 900 million hours spent in 2018, according to data from analytics firm App Annie. TikTok had managed to outstrip the growth of Facebook in the key market for global user domination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tiktok-ratings-slide-as-netizens-call-for-ban/articleshow/75835757.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Business||States with red zones account for 60% of GDP||Mumbai: There are eight states, with high concentration of red zones, which account for 60% of the country’s GDP and 58% of the workforce at the end of the third phase of the lockdown. This could prove to be a major challenge for reviving economic activity. Three states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat — are most dependent on output from industry and services, and more vulnerable to losses as they face restrictions, according to a Crisil report. Another three states — Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — are fiscally more vulnerable because of their higher debt ratios. Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu have a high share of informal workers, which increases the risks of unemployment. “India has entered the fourth phase of lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. At the all-India level, the virus spread and lockdowns, and restrictions have pummelled economic activity. While all states were near-uniformly hit during the first and second lockdown phases, the third and fourth would impact them differently,” said Crisil in a research report. The eight states account for 66% of manufacturing, 60% of construction output and 53% of total services in India. Of the 58% of Indian workforce these states employ, 24% are salaried, 26% are casual labour and 50% are classified as self-employed. Gujarat and Rajasthan will see their revenue hit too because they are highly dependent on petroleum tax. Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have taken a hit because of dependence on liquor. Besides this, stamp duty — a main revenue source for Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh — has dried up because of the absence of property transactions during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/states-with-red-zones-account-for-60-of-gdp/articleshow/75835799.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Patna||Probe into cultural show organized at quarantine centre||PATNA: Samastipur district authorities on Tuesday ordered a probe into the ‘cultural show’ organised at a quarantine centre under Bibhutipur block of the district on Monday evening. The controversial show, also attended by some outsiders, came to the fore when a video went viral on social media on Tuesday. Bibhutipur block development officer Uday Kant Mishra said show-cause notice has been issued to the headmaster-cum-incharge of the quarantine centre at Upgraded Middle School, Karrakh, Raj Kishore, for allowing the cultural show in violation of the lockdown norms. “Action will be taken on the basis of his reply,” Mishra said, adding that he has already apprised the senior officers of the matter. When contacted, Raj said he had no information about any cultural show organised there and sought an impartial probe into the episode. Sources said the show was organised at the behest of one Lalan Paswan, stated to be the husband of local mukhiya assigned to look after the quarantine centre under Raj Desri panchayat. One Naresh Sada, a member of ‘Ram Leela’ party, was among the 82 migrant workers staying at the centre. Sada, approached by some young inmates, agreed to organize a ‘gala party’ inside the centre. Sources said some local residents also enjoyed the ‘Bhojpuri’ numbers till late in the night. Sada, however, said no outsider was allowed inside the centre. “It was organised by the inmates for themselves only,” he told this newspaper over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-into-cultural-show-organized-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75833665.cms||Ramashankar
May 20, 2020||Business||Affordable homebuyers to see EMIs come down||MUMBAI: Housing finance companies (HFCs) have started passing on the advantage of lower refinance received from the National Housing Bank (NHB) to buyers of affordable homes. The reduction in interest rate, which is up to one percentage point, will reduce the interest burden for this category of borrowers and help alleviate stress. “We are writing to the eligible borrowers, those with income below Rs 6 lakh and have purchased homes in the affordable category, and informing them that because of the refinance provided by NHB, their interest rates have come down,” said LIC Housing Finance MD & CEO Siddhartha Mohanty. The amount of funds disbursed to HFCs has been computed based on each institution’s lending to this category. “There is a misconception that interest rate reduction has not been passed on to borrowers. This is not correct. We are passing on the lower rates to existing borrowers who are eligible,” Mohanty added. As part of its Covid-19 relief liquidity package, last month the Reserve Bank of India had announced a Rs 10,000-crore funding to NHB to provide refinance to HFCs. Last week, the ministry of housing also communicated to SBI, Hudco and NHB its decision to extend the credit-linked subsidy scheme for the middle-income group by one year from April 2020 to March 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/affordable-homebuyers-to-see-emis-come-down/articleshow/75835817.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Surat||Shops in majority of Surat city areas open after 60 days||Surat: Residents heaved a sigh of relief after they got an opportunity to move out freely in the city after remaining confined to their homes for 60 days on Tuesday. Vehicular traffic and movement of people saw gradual increase as the day progressed. Barring 30% of city, which is still under containment, other areas witnessed brisk activity with shops and showrooms picking up the threads of business after two months of closure due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, majority of the shops were devoid of customers. Shop owners were seen dusting and cleaning their premises.In Udhana and Athwalines, many retailers shut the shops in the afternoon for want of customers. Raju Patel, a ready-made garment shop owner in Athwalines, said, “I opened the shop for cleaning purpose. I felt relaxed as all my goods were intact. I will restart the business as per government guidelines from Wednesday.”The only shops that had serpentine queues were paan kiosks. In posh areas such as City Light, Vesu and Athwalines, people were seen standing in queues to purchase tobacco products without maintaining social distance.Majority of retail shops on Rajmarg from Chowk Bazaar to Bhagal resumed operations. Vehicular traffic was heavy on Rajmarg, but the shops were forced to shut by police teams as the area falls under containment zone.Haroon Chamadia, a mobile shop owner at Bhagatalav, said, “My shop is on main road and I didn’t know it was in containment zone. I opened the shop but was asked to shut by police.”Kavi Chauhan, owner of a car mela near sub-jail, said, “Shops opposite the road were open but we were asked to shut ours as the area comes under containment zone. I had no option but to comply with the orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/shops-in-majority-of-surat-city-areas-open-after-60-days/articleshow/75834300.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Panaji mkt vendors unhappy with limited timings||Panaji: It’s been over three weeks since the vendors from the Panaji municipal market complex have been selling fruits, vegetables and coconuts outside the building along the street adjoining the Inox theatres. They have been allotted timings between 7am to 5.30pm to start and shut shop every day owing to lockdown restrictions. However, the sweltering heat and poor footfalls during these hours has left the vendors seeking better solutions from the civic body. “Since we have been temporarily accommodated on the road, and social distancing is a must, most of the first hour in the morning goes by in merely figuring out the arrangement of our goods. Then on, we must idly wait at least until 9am for shoppers to show up,” a vendor said. Post 9am, the summer heat starts to get to them, and while most of them manage by covering their heads with a stole, they find wearing a mask while heavily perspiring to be a cumbersome task. “We’re not permitted to sell our goods without wearing a mask. We have no choice but to move out of our stalls at 12pm and rest in some shade for a few hours,” another vendor said. It is not until about 3 to 4pm that the ones who take a break from the direct sunlight return to their stalls. Vendors said that then onwards is the peak period of business for them since office-goers heading home and residents from the vicinity step out to purchase fresh greens. “There is a very tiny window for us to complete the day’s sale. It is not possible to do business for such hours. The local municipality must therefore revise the timings from 6 to 11am and from 3 to 8.30pm,” vendors said. The Corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) has said that the vegetable, fruit and coconut vendors will continue to sell their produce from outside the building complex till the lockdown ends. They are expected to be shifted before onset monsoon season in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mkt-vendors-unhappy-with-limited-timings/articleshow/75837094.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mangaluru||KSRTC operates 90 buses in DK||Mangaluru: KSRTCMangaluru and Puttur divisions started bus services to Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hubballi, Madikeri and various destinations within Dakshina Kannada district on Tuesday. Mangaluru and Puttur divisions of the corporation operated 40 and 50 buses, respectively, on Tuesday, for the first time since the lockdown was clamped. There were no changes in the fare, officials said. KSRTC Mangaluru divisional controller S N Aruna said buses were operated based on demand. He said that all the necessary measures have been taken to ensure social distancing in buses, which operated by transporting only 50% of their capacity. Social distancing is maintained in all stages, including at ticket counters, he said, adding that all the buses were sanitised before the trip. KSRTC has been ensuring that the buses reach their destinations before 7pm. Hence, no long-distance buses left Mangaluru depot after 11am. “At the entrance of the depot, each passenger is made to undergo thermal scanning to check their body temperature before boarding the bus. Similarly, passengers are also asked to use hand sanitisers before boarding the bus. Officials have been collecting phone numbers, names and addresses of each passenger, before the journey. At present, pregnant women, children below 10 and senior citizens are not allowed to travel in buses. KSRTC Puttur Divisional Controller Nagendra said they operated 50 buses from its five depots at Puttur, Madikeri, Sullia, B C Road and Dharmasthala. The buses operated on the Sullia, Belthangady, Kadaba, Uppinangady, Madikeri, Mysuru, and Bengaluru routes. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada district minister Kota Shrinavas Poojari directed KSRTC officials to commence city service too. At an official meeting, the minister directed officials to commence 42 buses on important routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ksrtc-operates-90-buses-in-dk/articleshow/75834303.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Woman discharged from King Koti hospital goes missing||HYDERABAD: A 40-year-old mentally unsound woman from Bihar, who was referred to King Koti hospital from Erragadda Mental Health Institute on April 14 with symptoms of Covid-19, went missing after she was discharged on April 27. The issue came to light when Erragadda hospital officials wrote to King Koti hospital authorities enquiring about their patient, Maneesha, on May 16. The King Koti hospital staff checked their records and realised that she was transferred to their isolation facility from the Mental Health Institute in Erragadda on April 14 with symptoms of Covid-19, including fever, cough and cold. Maneesha’s coronavirus test result came negative on May 16 but as per the then guidelines, she was kept in 14 days isolation at the hospital till April 27 and then discharged, Narayanguda SI D Karnakar Reddy said. At around 11.30 am on April 27, hospital attender brought Maneesha out of isolation centre and asked her to sit at the waiting area for ambulance, which would take her to Erragadda hospital. “The attender, Dayamma, went into the facility for some work and when she returned after a while, Maneesha was not there. Another person waiting there told the attender that Maneesha left in an ambulance and the hospital staff did not bother to cross verify,” the SI said. After receiving a letter from the Mental Health Institute enquiring about the patient, the King Koti hospital staff verified the records and Maneesha’s name was not found in 108 ambulance records. At 7 pm on Monday, RMO-2 of King Koti hospital, Mallikharjun, lodged a complaint with Narayanguda police and a missing case was registered. Police checked the CCTV footage of the camera at hospital main gate and realised that the back-up was available only for 14 days. Police have sought 108 ambulance records pertaining to their operations from King Koti hospital on April 27. Neighbouring police stations also have been alerted about the missing woman. “The woman was sent to Mental Health Institute from Sakshi Centre of women and child welfare department on April 11. She was found wandering on the streets. Her hospital records indicate that she speaks only Hindi. She had a travel history of Bihar and Kolkata. No contact numbers or names were mentioned,” the SI said. People with information about the missing patient can contact police at: 040-27852579, 9490616314 and 8333900096.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-discharged-from-king-koti-hosp-goes-missing/articleshow/75835447.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 20, 2020||Bareilly||Fire breaks out at paper mill, no injuries reported||Rampur: A fire broke out in Chadha Paper Mill near Nanital highway at Bilaspur tehsil, close to the Uttrakhand border, on Monday evening. Fortunately, no one was trapped or injured in the incident. Four fire brigades from Rampur and the neighbouring Udham Singh Nagar district were deployed to extinguish the fire at the factory, which has been closed due to lockdown. Aman Sethi, director of Chaddha Paper Mill, told TOI, “During a preliminary inquiry, it was found that due to a short circuit the fire broke out. The incident has caused a loss of an estimated Rs 4 crore to the company. Fire service department officials took several hours to extinguish the fire.” Sethi said the mill had employed 150 people. Bilaspur circle officer Jai Ram said, “There were a few staff members but they were unable to douse the flames.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fire-breaks-out-at-paper-mill-no-injuries-reported/articleshow/75834324.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Mill workers wait in vain for free train||Hyderabad: Over 40 migrant workers from Suryalatha Spinning Mill in Kalwakurthy of Nagarkurnool district on Tuesday hit the road to walk to their native places in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha after their futile wait for free train facility. They alleged the spinning mill management failed to pay them their wages and security guards behaved rudely with them. “There are around 650 migrants working at Suryalatha mills from several States. All of them registered for the free train facility,” Urkonda sub-inspector S Krishanaih told TOI. “They have been asking us for the past week when will the free train facility be provided. As per the norms, they get a message on their mobile phone. As they didn’t get any SMS we told them if they can arrange their own vehicles, we will get them passes,” he added. Twenty-four workers from Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha came forward. “We arranged a health check and issued certificates from the MRO and given them vehicle passes. Around 35 of them said they couldn’t afford for a vehicle. We suggested them to take TSRTC bus till the state border. However, they didn’t listen to us and started heading home on foot. Most of them were from Odisha, while some were from Bihar and MP,” he said. “We were not paid wages, and there is no guarantee when the work will resume. We want to go to our native places. When we asked the management, the security guard caned us ,” a worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mill-workers-wait-in-vain-for-free-train/articleshow/75835454.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 20, 2020||Trichy||TNHB puts off tender on tree cuts after row||TRICHY: The Trichy unit of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) indefinitely postponed the tender process for removing trees on its land in Mullur village of Pudukkottai district. The decision has come after allegations were raised that TNHB officials were trying to underestimate the tender value. Mullur village has about 100 acres of land owned by TNHB where a development scheme is planned for building 1584 houses. Around 3700 trees on the land needs to be axed for implementing the scheme and TNHB had called for tenders for removing them. According to Poochi S Murugan, general secretary, Labour Progressive Front (LPF), TNHB, there has been attempts to underestimate the tender value to benefit ruling party contractors and bring losses to TNHB. In a letter to the General Manager, TNHB, Murugan said that there were close to 5000 trees in the land as opposed to 3700 quoted by the officials. Further its value is over Rs 2 crore as these are several decades old trees. The value quoted by the officials was only 16 lakh, he said. Murugan said that the tender value is estimated with the price fixed for 2019-20 instead of 2020-21. Further the call for tender was not advertised through newspapers, so as to ensure less number of bidders for the tender process, he alleged. Murugan has also sought detailed investigation into the tender process and action against officials who have indulged in irregularities. Speaking to TOI, executive engineer of the Trichy housing unit, R Manoharan, said that they have postponed the tender process for administrative reasons. While he didn’t rule out a possible revision of tender rate, he refused to comment on allegations of deliberate attempts to underestimate the value of trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tnhb-puts-off-tender-on-tree-cuts-after-row/articleshow/75837090.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Surat||Migrant’s death: Mumbai HC lawyer approaches NHRC seeking probe||Surat: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has been approached by a Bombay high court lawyer demanding actions against the cops of Surat’s Amroli police station for allegedly beating a 36-year-old textile weaving unit worker who later died on May 14. The application has been admitted by NHRC, informed the applicant, Srikant Padhi.President of Rashtriya Oriya Yuvak Pratishthan (ROYP), Padhi, has written to Justice H L Dattu, chairperson of NHRC and requested that cops be booked and probed for murder. In his letter Padhi alleged that when the deceased Satyawan Swain alias Satya was sitting on ground floor of place of his work, police came and chased him to his room.“Police later thrashed the deceased and due to police beating he died. Role of all the cops involved in this incident should be probed. It is a clear case of murder and police should be booked for that,” stated Padhi in his letter.In his application Padhi has stated that Swain is survived by widow mother, wife and a five-year-old mentally challenged son. “I was provided the details of killing by family members of Swain. The truth should come out. The family should be given Rs 50 lakh compensation at least,” said Padhi.Earlier Swain's elder brother Santosh had lodged a police complaint against Amroli police station officials in Bhanjanagar police station of Ganjam in Odisha. The compliant has been transferred to city police for further investigation. “Surat police is already investigating the case. Odisha police have transferred the case to us. But there is no need for separate case to be registered,” said city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt. Earlier, employee of a textile weaving unit in Anjani Industrial Estate had alleged that Swain was beaten up by cops following a ruckus by Odiya migrant workers for train ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-death-mumbai-hc-lawyer-approaches-nhrc-seeking-probe/articleshow/75834345.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre charging for 18 seats taken off trains: Vinod||Hyderabad: A day after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao termed the Centre’s stimulus as 100% bogus and an empty shell, Telangana planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar has said the Centre was behaving irresponsibly and inhumanely in sending migrant workers to their respective states. “The Centre announced 85% ticket fare would be borne by it. But it is far from truth. The Telangana government had paid Rs 6 crore to the South Central Railway towards fare for migrant workers,” Vinod Kumar said in a press release. Citing an example, he said the railways charged the normal train fare of Rs 675 per passenger from Ghatkesar (in Telangana) to Jasidih junction in Jharkhand during these testing times, which was paid by the state government. “So far, the Telangana government had arranged 63 Shramik Special trains to states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Chattisgarh and West Bengal and sent 85,273 migrant workers to their states,” the former MP said. In a normal 72-seat coach, only 54 persons were allowed for maintaining social distancing norm in special trains. The Centre, however, charged for even the balance, 18, seats. “Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Nirmala Sitharaman and Kishan Reddy made tall claims on the concessions given for special trains, which is totally false and I condemn their attitude,” he said. In a separate press conference, TRS spokesperson and MLC Karne Prabhakar alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was behaving like a money lender during the time of crisis in the country. He said CM KCR spoke the truth, which BJP leaders and Union minister Kishan Reddy could not digest. “Everybody is laughing at the Centre on the Rs 20 lakh crore package, which is nothing but an empty shell. Forget about the lay man, even BJP leaders are not able to understand the package. Of the Rs 20 lakh crore package, the Centre merely spent about Rs 2.5 lakh crore,” Prabhakar said. He said the TRS government would continue to fight against the feudalistic attitude of the Centre. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had on Monday minced no words while expressing his displeasure with the way the Centre had dealt with the migrant crisis. He went as far as to call the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre as “bogus” and claimed it was nothing but a shell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-charging-for-18-seats-taken-off-trains-vinod/articleshow/75835472.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘Clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine on in city too’||On the occasion of World Clinical Trial Day, TOI spoke to Vijaya Bhakte, director and founder of Canvass Clinical Research Services Pvt Ltd in Nagpur. She said researchers attached to many companies were conducting clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine and some of them were in Nagpur too. However, creating a vaccine and making it available for public was a time-taking process. Q: How important are clinical trials for creating Covid-19 vaccine? A: Vaccine is the only final remedy for Covid-19. In case of pandemic or viral infections, vaccines are best. Research for vaccine is a time-taking process. Phases of clinical trials are the most important parts of vaccine invention process. Researchers across the globe are conducting such clinical trials and they are also Covid warriors. Q: Any clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine going on in Nagpur? A: Yes. In India, many hospitals – both government and some private— have collaborated with pharma companies and researchers for clinical trials. Some of them are going on in Nagpur too. Largely, pre-clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccines are going on in India. We can’t reveal the details as of now. But, there are several phases of trials and we are into second or third phase. Q: Can you elaborate about these phases? A: In first phase, we ensure safety of the vaccine. Second phase is vaccine efficacy. We interpret effectiveness of vaccine in reduction in disease. Third is proportion or arms of vaccine. In this phase, we decide how much milligram dose of the vaccine will work. Fourth phase is post-marketing surveillance. Most researches in the world are in second or third phase right now. Q: In USA, a pharma company has claimed to be successful in clinical trials? A: It is third phase of the trial and they have to submit their research for approval. Bringing vaccine is a time taking process. There are ethics committees, approving authorities, mass production ethics, pricing and many other factors to deal with. In India, we have to take Drugs Controller General’s approval. Q: When can we expect the vaccine for Covid-19? A: It is a continuous process. Sometimes it takes years. But as entire world needs Covid-19 vaccine on an urgent basis, all are completing clinical research on fast track. If everything goes well, vaccine will still take a year or two to reach markets. Till then, we have no option but to follow Covid distancing and improve immunity. Q: You mean lockdown should continue? A: No. After six weeks of lockdown, the clinical behaviour of coronavirus in Indian conditions is quite clear. Our mortality rate is very low and those having comorbidities are becoming victims of the virus. By taking due care, we can now get away with lockdown situation. Healthy youths should start working in a new normal situation. Q: Do you think vaccine can come from India? A: India has all potential to bring out a vaccine for Covid-19. Our population is our strength in clinical trials. Global clinical trials market size was estimated at USD 60 billion in 2019 and is anticipated to expand at CAGR (compound annual growth rate) of 12% from 2020 to 2025. We need young researchers to join this field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clinical-trials-for-covid-19-vaccine-on-in-city-too/articleshow/75836406.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||Exam uncertainty worries students||Bhopal: Ongoing Covid lockdown and postponement of re-examination for those who failed in one or more subjects has created a lot of confusion among student fraternity. Youngsters, who could not clear a few subjects are clueless whether they should attend online lectures for class 9 or for class 10 as their results are still pending. Chandrashekhar Gaur, an educational activist from Neemuch, told TOI that he had received complaints from several students who could not clear one or two papers and their re-examination was postponed. "According to CBSE guidelines, schools have to give another chance to students who could not clear one or more subjects in class 9 and 11. Now the students are in a fix as they don't know technically which class they are in and whether they should attend the online classes for their previous class or next class," Gaur said and added, “In such a situation, even if a student clears the re-exam, he would still have missed many online classes for the board class, that again will cause problems later.” "Schools have started the new academic session online and are focusing on board classes to ensure that students get enough time to prepare. But for those, whose re-examination will be held in June and results will be declared even later, it's already too late to start preparing for board exams," he said. Rajesh Sharma, principal Bal Bhawan School, said, "Students who could not pass in a few subjects in class 9 or 11 cannot be considered promoted unless they clear their back exams. So, they should focus on those subjects first before worrying about the next class. They have so much time on their hands; they must utilise it to work hard and clear their compartment." Pankaj Sharma, principal of Sagar Public School, added, "If the students who could not clear a subject, clear their compartment exam, we will definitely help them make up for lost time. The board may also take a decision in this regard later. But students’ focus should be on clearing the re-examination first."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/exam-uncertainty-worries-students/articleshow/75835511.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bareilly||SP leader and son shot dead in UP, witnesses film incident||BAREILLY: In a shocking case of double murder, a former MLA candidate of the Samajwadi Party (SP), who is also the husband of the current village pradhan, and his son were shot dead in Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh by a father-son duo with their licenced rifles on Tuesday morning. The murders were apparently a fallout of a dispute over laying a road under MGNREGS. The Dalit victims were shot by the licensed gun of the accused, who are from the upper caste and also their political rivals. Scores of people were present when Jitendra Sharma and his son Shamendra shot dead Chhote Lal Diwakar, 44, and his son Sunil, 20. The murders took place in Fatehpur Shamshoi village under the jurisdiction of Behjoi police station in Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh. The entire incident was video recorded by people present at the spot. Police have lodged an FIR against six named and two unidentified people. The two accused were arrested late on Tuesday. Superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said, “We have arrested the two accused. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem.” Prasad said an FIR under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 504 (intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and under the SC/ST Act has been lodged in the matter. The other accused who have been identified are Jitendra’s brother Ramendra and the latter’s two sons -- Upendra and Gyanendra -- and their associate Gajendra Singh. Diwakar’s youngest son, Sachin, in his police complaint stated that his mother, Kamlesh Devi, is the incumbent village head and his father and elder brother used to look after the development works carried out in the village. “Former village headman Ramendra Sharma and his family nurtured a political rivalry with our family for the past many years. They have been creating obstacles every time any developmental work is carried out in the village. Today (Tuesday), they reached the place to stop a road work being carried out under MGNREGS. On getting information, around 7:30 am, my father and brother reached the spot where Ramendra and his two sons, his brother and nephew had gathered. They were carrying their licenced weapons,” Sachin said in the complaint. “On seeing my father and brother, the accused started abusing them and threatened to kill them,” he added. In the video that has gone viral, two assailants carrying rifles are seen walking away after a heated argument. And when Diwakar challenged them to shoot him, the assailants turned back and pumped bullets into him and his son, killing them on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-sp-leader-son-shot-dead-by-political-rivals-in-ups-sambhal/articleshow/75834338.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 20, 2020||Bareilly||Covid positive migrant workers get hygiene kits in Kheri||Bareilly: With the support of local residents, CMO, Kheri, Dr Manoj Agarwal on Tuesday, distributed person hygiene kits to all migrant workers who were tested Covid-19 positive in Kheri district.There are 30 active patients in Kheri and 29 of them are from poor background.Since maintaining personal hygiene was a real challenge for them, the CMO sought support from the district magistrate and contacted people who voluntarily wanted to make contribution.The cost of each kit is nearly Rs 800 and it contains a bucket, mug, sanitizer, inner-wear, soap, towel etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-positive-migrant-workers-get-hygiene-kits-in-kheri/articleshow/75834354.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven people injured over petty quarrel||Hyderabad: Quarrel over a petty issue led to seven people suffering minor injuries in Langer Houz on Monday nigh. According to police, a customer from Bapunagar purchased a few items from a kirana shop in his colony three days ago. “The person, later, complained that the items he took from the shop were of a low quality and it resulted in an argument between the two,” said Langer Houz inspector K Srinivas. The issue flared up with families of the customer and shop owner getting involved in it. Both parties attacked each other after a heated argument. Seven members, three and four from each side, received minor injuries in the incident and were shifted to hospital. Both groups filed cases against each other under section 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-people-injured-over-petty-quarrel/articleshow/75835536.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bareilly||13 new cases take Rampur’s tally to 61||Rampur: More labourers, who were quarantined immediately after they reached Rampur from Gujarat, Punjab and other states on shramik special trains on May 11, have started testing Covid-19 positive, rapidly raising the district’s count. On Tuesday, tests of 13 migrant labourers returned positive, taking the district tally to 61. Speaking with TOI, Rampur DM Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “All 61 who have tested Covid-19 positive in the district are migrant labourers who were transported on shramik special trains and other means to Rampur on May 11, and have been quarantined. We have also sent home 1,544 migrant labourers from Bihar, who were trapped by the lockdown in Rampur and Bijnor districts, on these trains.” According to officials, 731 labourers from Rampur and 813 from Bijnor were brought to Rampur railway station by buses to be deported to Bihar. The DM said, “Administrative officials and madrasa management from Tanda tehsil have also sent 128 madrasa students to their homes in Assam and West Bengal on buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/13-new-cases-take-rampurs-tally-to-61/articleshow/75834368.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 20, 2020||Meerut||Hundreds of migrant labourers swarm Ganga bridge to enter UP’s Amroha, 2 fell down, 1 dead||Bijnor: Owing to bedlam on a bridge over Ganga at Amroha-Hapur border, two migrant labourers fell from it leading to one death and the other being seriously injured. There were hundreds of labourers on the bridge as police had barricaded the road preventing their entry into Amroha’s Gajraula.The deceased was identified as Sanjeev Kumar from Mohaddinpur village of Shahjahanpur while his companion – Pyarelaal from Samaspur village of Bareilly – sustained serious injuries and is admitted to a hospital in Meerut.Both the migrant labourers worked in Delhi and were returning to their native places along with their family members in a shared taxi. When they reached Brijghat, the Ganga bridge was swarmed by migrant labourers, both on foot and in vehicles, which led to a jam.According to police, both Sanjeev and Pyarelal had got down to take the stock of the situation when they fell into a gap between two parallel bridges.Police took them to the local hospital for treatment. The labourers sustained severe injuries and later referred to Meerut where Sanjeev from Shahjahanpur succumbed to injuries.Meanwhile, police denied reports of a stampede-like situation on the bridge sparked allegedly by police action against migrant labourers.Amroha superintendent of police Vipin Tada said, “There was no stampede on the bridge. During investigation, we found that they were trying to jump from one bridge to other and fell down. Their family members did not know of the accident. They had reached their destination when we contacted them. The victim’s body was handed over to his relatives after postmortem.”A few days ago, thousands of migrant labourers created ruckus here at Brijghat when police stopped their entry into Amroha district.Cops deployed on Ganga banks to deter migrants from taking river routeHarveer Dabas | TNNBijnor: After many incidents where migrant labourers tried to enter Uttar Pradesh by crossing the Ganga, its tributaries and canals, the police administration of the border district of Bijnor has deployed policemen on its banks.According to local authorities, registration of the incoming migrant labourers is mandatory as also their screening and subsequent quarantine.A large number of migrant labourers have been entering UP from Uttarakhand and Haryana to reach their native places in eastern UP and Bihar.Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey has instructed police to keep a close watch on those trying to sneak into the district. “Migrant labourers enrolled in our records will be facilitated and provided transportation to reach their destination,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hundreds-of-migrant-labourers-swarm-ganga-bridge-to-enter-ups-amroha-2-fell-down-1-dead/articleshow/75835485.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Malnourished migrant mothers struggle to breastfeed babies||HYDERABAD: There are 15 children packed in a small room at an under construction building at Osmanagar between 6 months to two years. Their parents, construction workers, say they have no milk to feed the little ones during the pandemic. “Some of the women here do not have enough to feed themselves, so they are unable to feed their babies,” says Hethram Sahu, the de-facto group pleader who has been contacting volunteers asking for Lactogen or milk. Romila Gillella, a teacher and activist, working with migrants during the lockdown says she has come across a few cases where mothers are not able to feed their children because of the lack of nutrition themselves. “Not just nutrition, some of these young women have little gap between pregnancies which make breastfeeding difficult,’ she said. Citing an example in the Amberpet area, she said a house help lost her job and had been left by her husband. “Unable to feed herself, she could not provide milk for her three-month-old baby.” Doctors recommend breastfeeing till a child is six months, but is becoming a challenge under the current circumstances. City-based Kalpana Ramesh, who has also been helping out migrants during the lockdown, has distributed 2860 litres of milk for children located in the Serlingampally area. “We have focused on Masjid Banda, Gopinagar slum and Nallagandla ensuring we help meet the daily requirements of children here,” she said. The activist says that many women feel hesitant about speaking of breastfeeding and therefore do not ask for help. “It is not just during the lockdown, even before these women struggled to meet the nutritional needs of their large families. Some just dilute the packet of milk offered with water and feed four kids.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/malnourished-migrant-mums-struggle-to-breastfeed-babies/articleshow/75835516.cms||Uttara Varma
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||City, Ytl out of red zone from Fri, Akola, Amt to continue||Nagpur: Taking into consideration the fewer deaths, positive and active cases of Covid-19 as well as the central government’s new guidelines, the Maharashtra government has left out Nagpur and Yavatmal from the red zone. Out of the 11 districts in Vidarbha, only Akola and Amravati now remain in the danger zone.The notification issued on Tuesday by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta comes into effect on May 22 and will continue till the lockdown period ends on May 31. Being in non-red zone brings a lot of relaxations for Vidarbha’s nine districts.As per the relaxed rules, various types of non-essential shops like saloons, spas, private offices, government offices with 100% attendance, RTO registration, inter-district bus service with 50% capacity etc can resume work. Wine shops, which were now giving home delivery, are also likely to open.Sources in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI that commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is likely to ask the government to retain city in red zone till May 31.The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday asked Mundhe to make a statement regarding the revised guidelines. “After a prolonged hearing, when the court was about to dictate order, it was informed that the government has issued revised guidelines on Tuesday, removing Nagpur from the red zone. It’s obvious that appropriate authority including the NMC commissioner shall have to issue revised guidelines in the light of latest developments,” justice Rohit Deo said.Like some other states in the country, Maharashtra too has reset the guidelines of categories. Earlier, there were three — red, orange and green. In the order issued by Mehta, the state will have only red and non-red zones.Until Tuesday, Nagpur, Yavatmal, Akola and Amravati were in the red zone and the remaining seven districts of Vidarbha in orange zone.As per the list released by the state, all municipal corporation areas from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region fall in the red zone apart from municipal corporations of Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon. Earlier Satara too was part of the red zone and it has now moved to the non-red zone. Senior officials said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray did not approve of the idea to allow activities to resume in the red zones.After the Centre issued new guidelines, in which six parameters had to be considered, on May 17, the state too revised its categories.Nagpur got into the non-red category as the city has 374 positive cases of which only 77 are active. Also, in the last 59 days, there have been only seven deaths in district. Similarly, Yavatmal too escaped from the red zone. As on Monday, Akola had 261 cases including 16 deaths and Amravati 112 cases including 13 deaths. Hence, the two districts remain in the red zone.The Centre’s Rapid Response Team (RRT) had credited the NMC’s aggressive containment zone model, various measures for fewer deaths and cases. ICMR’s new guidelines for discharging positive patients saw number of discharged persons swell to 290 with 150 walking free in the last four days. Apart from mortality, total and active cases are also taken into consideration for categorization.Another silver lining for the district is that over 86% of total cases are from Mominpura and Satranjipura. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and collector Ravindra Thakre are expected to issue guidelines for city and Nagpur rural, respectively, on May 21, after considering the new rules.NMC officials and experts say that there are chances that cases may rise now. The Centre and state had given a projection of 75,801 cases in Vidarbha including 18,902 in Nagpur district between May 15 and 31. The administration was gearing up for this huge number by preparing places which had the capacity to hold a large number of people.Mundhe told TOI that innovative measures had kept the mortality and cases at a low number. “However, there is a need to apprise the government about the prevailing situation in the city which recorded three deaths over consecutive days. Hotspots are still active here,” he said.Mehta’s notification has mentioned that no one can revise the guidelines without his permission.In a release, Mundhe said, “City is still in red zone as of now as the new guidelines are to be implemented only from May 22. It will be done only after considering the prevailing situation.”There are 17 containment zones in the city. The new relaxations will not come into effect in these zones and if any new one comes up.BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari said that the government seems to have revised the category “in a hurry”. “It should have considered the existing condition and projected figures,” he said.NMC sources told TOI that Mundhe has chalked a plan to bring city from red zone to green. “He will send a letter with a detailed analysis to chief secretary on Wednesday seeking that Nagpur remains in red zone till May 31,” they said.While hearing petitions filed by Darpan Sales Corporation, Sai Collection and others through counsel Shyam Dewani, the judge Rohit Deo directed NMC counsel Sudhir Puranik to clarify by May 22 on the civic body’s stand on opening shops of non-essential products.Earlier, the judge censured NMC for allowing hosiery and mobile repairing shops to function but prohibiting garments and mobile selling establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-ytl-out-of-red-zone-from-fri-akola-amt-to-continue/articleshow/75836424.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Four killed, 28 injured as bus carrying migrants rams tipper||Yavatmal: Four persons, including three migrant labourers from Jharkhand, were killed on the spot when an MSRTC bus carrying them rammed a stationary tipper parked by the roadside near Kolvan village on Arni-Mahur road, 3km from Arni town of Yavatmal district, at around 4.30am on Tuesday. Twenty-eight others sustained injuries. Condition of six is stated to be critical.Solapur district administration had arranged the bus (MH14/RT-4651) for transporting 30 migrants to Nagpur from where they were to board a Shramik Special train to go to their home state Jharkhand.On the way, the driver lost control over the vehicle and it rammed the tipper (TS 07/UA-2608), belonging to Madhya Pradesh-based Dilip Buildcon engaged in construction work of Nagpur-Bori-Tuljapur National Highway. Due to the impact of the collision, the bus was nearly crushed to half.The deceased include bus driver Sunil Shinde, 55, from Solapur, Anuj Manji (30), a resident of Jharkhand, Sunita Shahu (35) and Shashilatha Yadav (35), both from Chhattisgarh.The injured were rushed to rural hospital in Arni in four ambulances. Six critical persons, including additional driver, a pregnant woman and a two-year-old boy were shifted to Yavatmal GMCH. Owing to the impact of the accident, fetus of the woman died in the womb. The two-year-old boy has multiple fractures.Additional SP Noorul Hassan, SDO Aniruddha Bakshi, Darwha SDPO Udaysingh Chandel, tehsildar Dheeraj Sthul and PSO Yeshwant Baviskar visited the spot and supervised rescue operation.After visiting the injured in GMCH, district collector MD Singh said bodies of the deceased would be sent to their respective native places by ambulances. The injured would be treated in Yavatmal. The administration would take care of the medical expenses as well as return of the migrants to their home state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-killed-28-injured-as-bus-carrying-migrants-rams-tipper/articleshow/75836438.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mangaluru||21k+ migrant workers have departed from DK in Shramik trains||Mangaluru: Since the lockdown was clamped, 21,888 migrant labourers have returned to their respective cities and states from Dakshina Kannada. The district administration, in coordination with the state governments that these migrant workers were heading to, sent them back in 16 Shramik Special express trains. Out of these trains, 5 each left for Bihar, Jharkhand, and Uttar Pradesh, while one train went to Rajasthan. The trains, on an average, ferried 1,400 passengers, and have departed for their respective destinations from Mangaluru Junction and Kabaka Puttur railway stations under the jurisdiction of Palakkad division of Southern Railway and Mysuru division of South Western Railway. The process of sending back labourers started on May 9, and the district administration ferried them from their respective camps to the railway station in KSRTC buses. Each of these buses was placed under the supervision of a district level official, as a nodal officer, who was aided by a staff member from revenue department and two policemen. Most of the labourers were from Surathkal, Baikampady, Panambur, Jokatte, Panjimogaru, Ullal, Kankanady, Bunder and other places. The above team went to their respective camps and brought them to the railway station under escort, and facilitated their return home. Authorities ensured end-to-end verification of details of every single passenger who boarded the Shramik Special train. The details, once collated, were dispatched to the deputy commissioner’s office for ratification, and details of every labourer leaving the district, was also sent to the state government. The receiving state governments too made suitable arrangements to receive their people, based on the chart of passengers sent to them by the Karnataka government. The nodal officers ensured that each passenger was seated in the bogie allotted to them and their family. The labourers were provided with free food packets and water bottles, with the IRCTC making arrangements at pre-designated stations, where the train would halt. Presently, only migrant labourers from Odisha and West Bengal remain in the district, and Shramik Special trains are being arranged to take them home, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/21k-migrant-workers-have-departed-from-dk-in-shramik-trains/articleshow/75834375.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Aurangabad||2 constables among 53 new +ve cases, district tally 1,075||Aurangabad: As many as 53 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 1,075. Most of the cases were reported from Baijipura followed by Kiradpura, Sadat Nagar and Adarsh Colony in Aurangabad city. Government Medical College and Hospital’s (GMCH) nodal officer for media interaction Arvind Gaikwad said that a 65-year-old man, a resident of Himayat Nagar, and a 63-year-old resident of Jatwada Road died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 on Tuesday. This takes the death toll due to Covid-19 in the district to 36. Two police constables were among the 53 new Covid-19 cases identified on Tuesday, taking the tally of policemen infected by the viral infection to nine in the city. One policeman has recovered completely and also been discharged. One of the constables posted at the city police headquarters was on duty with the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). He lives in an apartment situated in the premises of Aurangabad commissioner of police’s office. There are 11 towers and some bungalows in the aforementioned premises where senior police officers stay. A portion of the constable’s apartment has been sealed. The man’s son is a constable serving with the cybercrime branch of the city police. An officer said that the entire squad, with whom the constable was posted at the civic administration, has been quarantined and that the exercise of contact tracing was underway. The other constable is posted with the Cidco division of the traffic branch. The constable’s duty chart is being analysed and the process of tracing the people with whom he came in contact is underway. Some of the constables with whom the man was in touch have been recommended undergoing swab testing and quarantine. “As part of the process, all the family members of the Covid-19 patients will undergo swab tests. If they too test positive, their colleagues will be quarantined and tested,” said a senior police officer. Meanwhile, 67 of the 73 SRPF jawans, who were posted for bandobast duty in Malegaon and tested positive for Covid-19 after they returned to the city on May 8, have recovered. They were discharged from Shreyas Engineering College building on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-constables-among-53-new-ve-cases-district-tally-1075/articleshow/75834382.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 20, 2020||Meerut||Over 25 test positive in UP jails, government begins random sampling of inmates||Meerut: Over 25 inmates of UP jails -- both temporary and permanent-- have been tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last few days prompting the government to start random sampling of the prisoners lodged in jails across state. According to Anand Kumar, director general (DG) of prison administration and reform services, “Three samples from district jail Agra, 10 samples from central jail Agra and 12 samples from three temporary jails have been tested positive in the state.” “Almost 2000 samples have been taken. Though the sampling is random, it is based on certain factors like inmates with low immunity level, age and physical infirmity. We have test results of 800 samples and fortunately all have tested negative,” the DG said.As per prison officials, temporary jails have also come up in districts which have crossed threshold of 20 Covid-19 positive cases. Apart from foreign and domestic Jamaat followers, suspect arrested in fresh cases are also initially kept at these temporary jails. “Inmates at temporary jails are shifted to permanent ones only after they test negative and complete their quarantine period of 14 days,” he said.“As of now, six inmates in Moradabad, three in Kanpur and two in Meerut temporary jails have tested positive," DG (Jail) Kumar said. Meanwhile, three more prisoners of Agra district jail were confirmed Covid-19 positive on Tuesday.Agra district jail’s superintendent Shashikant Mishra said, “As a precaution, 22 inmates who had come in contact with the infected prisoners have been isolated in a separate block. Health department and Agra municipal corporation team have done sanitization in the jail premises. We are closely monitoring health of all the prisoners.” On Friday, the samples of a 90-year-old prisoner, who died during treatment at SN Medical College (SNMC) with Covid-19 symptoms on May 13, was tested positive. On May 9, a 60-year-old Covid-19 infected prisoner of Agra Central jail had died at SNMC. On May 13, 10 prisoners of the central jail were tested positive. Meanwhile, seven new Covid-19 cases surfaced in Agra, taking the district tally to 823. Out of these, 635 have been declared cured of infection and discharged from hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-25-test-positive-in-up-jails-government-begins-random-sampling-of-inmates/articleshow/75835550.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board advises cleaning up of sumps, overhead tanks||Hyderabad: Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) advised the managements of shops and business establishments in the Greater Hyderabad limits to let water out of sumps and overhead tanks to prevent sickness. The HMWS&SB released an advisory regarding stagnated water in the water sumps and overhead tanks on Tuesday. “Due to lockdown, all the shops and business establishments have been shut for the past two months and thus, there is no water consumption either from water sumps or overhead tanks. Stagnated water is not fit either for use nor for consumption. Moreover, it is harmful to human beings, too. Clean the water sumps and preserve them with fresh water,” says the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-advises-cleaning-up-of-sumps-overhead-tanks/articleshow/75835552.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19: How Nagpur shifted to non-red zone despite having so many positive cases||NAGPUR: It was a pleasant surprise for many and a shock for some when state government included Nagpur in Covid-19 non-red zone regions on Tuesday while declaring some relaxations in Lockdown 4. Nagpur is having total 374 confirmed positive cases including 7 deaths, and at least two Covid-19 hotspots in city itself. Moreover, at least 13 localities in city are under contamination. Still, Nagpur managed to exit from the red zone tag because city fits in five out of the six parameters necessary for the multi-factorial analysis of Covid-19 scenario. Most popular parameter that everyone knows is total number of active Covid-19 cases in city. This means, total positive patients taking treatment in hospitals. Ideally, this number is expected to be zero or no new case should be reported in last 21 days. Nagpur fails on this parameter. The city has total 374 cases, out of which 290 have recovered and discharged and seven deaths. This means total 77 patients are taking treatment in Nagpur. However, there are five other parameters too, and Nagpur fits in those. Second one is Active cases per lakh population which should be less than 15. Nagpur’s active positive cases compared to population are 2.56 cases per lakh if we consider city’s population as 30 lakh. Third criteria is doubling rate which is expected to be more than 28 days. In Nagpur, it’s 37 days as per NMC. Fourth parameter is case fatality rate which means death rate as compared to total cases. This is expected to be less than 1%. Nagpur, at 1.87% is quite near to this mark. Fifth is testing ratio and Nagpur has done explanatory job in this parameter. Ideally, a city must test 200-plus citizens per lakh population. With 8,248 samples tested till date, Nagpur has checked 275 persons per lakh population. Sixth and last parameter is sample positivity rate. Out of the total samples tested, only 374 tested positive in city which is 4.53%. Akola and Amravati — both municipal corporation regions have failed in most of the six parameters. Akola’s population is approximately 10 lakh and the number of cases there is already 279. Despite of availability of lab at Akola itself, the total number of samples tested from here is only 2,826. Amravati’s population is around 28 lakh and the samples they have tested is 2,838 which means nearly 101 people per lakh population. Amravati also has its own lab facility now. The credit of Nagpur’s success must be given to the aggressive contamination drive by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation. The NMC took proactive steps and ensured proper tracing, identification and quarantine of the close contacts of positive patients. Apart from this, door-do-door survey done during earlier three weeks reported many cases and avoided further expansion of chains in areas like Khamla and Jaripatka. Even today, NMC Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is not ready to take any chances. According to him, Nagpur’s technical inclusion in non-red region is not enough but the entire curve needs to be flattened. “We have reported 3 deaths in last three days and several cases from new areas. Further relaxation from lockdown may encourage spread of virus which will be major jolt to our sincere efforts. So, I am planning to issue independent guidelines for city by May 22,” he said in a video statement issued by NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/how-nagpur-shifted-to-non-red-zone-despite-having-so-many-positive-cases/articleshow/75836449.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 20, 2020||Madurai||HC orders MMC to return certificates to doc||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday directed the dean of Madurai Medical College (MMC) to hand over original certificates to a doctor to enable him to pursue further studies after he executed a Rs 20lakh bond and undertook to serve the state on completion of the course. Petitioner K Gautham who completed MBBS in March 2013, was selected for diploma in Ophthalmology at MMC under all India quota in May 2017. Though he executed a bond to serve the state for two years, he did not join duty on being posted as assistant surgeon after completing his course in 2019. Instead, he applied for further studies in DNB (post diploma) conducted by National Board of Examinations, New Delhi in January this year and qualified with an all India merit position in Ophthalmology. Subsequently, he submitted a representation on May 1 to the dean to return his original certificates stating he will complete the compulsory service after higher studies. Since there was no response, he moved the high court Madurai bench. Hearing the plea, Justice P D Audikesavalu observed that pursuant to an earlier direction of the court, the petitioner had deposited a bond amount of Rs 20lakh in favour of registrar (judicial) of the court. The judge observed that the deposit is an adequate safeguard to ensure that if the petitioner fails to join duty after the course he now intends to undergo, the authorities can seek to encash it in satisfaction of the bond condition. Hence the judge directed the dean to forthwith return the certificates to the petitioner under written acknowledgment for the limited purpose of pursing higher studies after receiving necessary proof of selection. An undertaking should also be obtained from him that after completing the said course, he would join duty and re-submit those documents, the judge said. The case was adjourned to May 28 for the state government to file a counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-mmc-to-return-certificates-to-doc/articleshow/75836443.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP breaks day’s count with 292 +ve cases, max in Basti||Lucknow: As many as 292 fresh novel corona cases (excluding 31 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar recorded on Monday) were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. This was the highest single day count for UP. The new cases took state tally to 4,941 on Tuesday. UP recorded 135 recoveries, taking the total number of discharges to 2,918 besides five deaths. The state’s covid toll is now 123. The migrants’ surge of covid-19 became starker with cases pouring in. About 40% of the total cases belonged to the migrant category. Basti took the lead with 44 new cases recorded on Tuesday. DM Ashutosh Niranjan confirmed that all the cases were migrant workers quarantined at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya after their return from Maharashtra. Neighbouring districts of Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Sant Kabir Nagar and Deoria also recorded 14 migrant cases. In Varanasi, seven of the 14 new cases were migrant labourers. “Six had returned from Mumbai while one came back from Pune,” DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said. All the cases in Ghazipur (7), Mirzapur (5), Chandauli (5), Mau (1), Ballia (1) were migrants. Health officials said not just east UP, migrant cases were also being reported from western part of the state as well. In Bijnor and Hapur – where 12 and 8 new cases surfaced – all the patients were migrants. In Bulandshahr, 12 out of 14 cases were migrants. Health officials said one death each was recorded in Meerut, Firozabad, Varanasi, Basti and Jalaun. Principal, LLRM Medical College, Dr SK Garg said: “A 73-year-old private doctor – with history of cardiac ailment and diabetes – was brought to our centre on Monday evening. Based upon his condition, he was taken on ventilator but he did not survive the complications of the stroke he suffered a week ago. He also contracted covid-19 infection after stroke.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-breaks-days-count-with-292-ve-cases-max-in-basti/articleshow/75837111.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 20, 2020||Trichy||HC acquits two RTO officials convicted of accepting bribe||Madurai: The Madras high court has acquitted two regional transport office (RTO) officials in Sivaganga, who were convicted by a lower court for taking bribe to release a seized auto. Setting aside the order, justice G R Swaminathan cited that the prosecution had failed to establish that there was a demand for gratification as the complainant turned hostile. The judge further directed the trial court to initiate proceedings against the complainant and directed the registry to monitor the follow up action taken.Mani, regional transport officer at Sivaganga and Veerasamy, a temporary junior assistant were arrested by the DVAC in 2008 for demanding and accepting Rs 800 bribe, after setting a trap based on a complaint given by Abbas for releasing his auto.The special court for Prevention of Corruption Act cases in 2014, convicted Mani and Veerasamy for various offences and imposed one year and two years rigorous imprisonment respectively and also imposed Rs 1,000 fine. The court had acquitted another public servant from the case. Challenging the order, Mani and Veerasamy had filed an appeal before the high court Madurai bench. Hearing the plea, the judge observed, “Mere recovery by itself would not prove the charge. The proof of demand is an indispensable essentiality.”The judge said the complainant (Abbas) turned hostile and even went to the extent of disowning a substantial part of the complaint. While the testimony of the complainant does not implicate the accused in the case, a shadow witness had testified that Veerasamy demanded the bribe and got Rs 800 and gave Rs 500 to Mani, the judge added. “When the star witness has stabbed the prosecution in the back, the cameo performance by the shadow witness will not resurrect the prosecution case,” said the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hc-acquits-two-rto-officials-convicted-of-accepting-bribe/articleshow/75836432.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Woman journalist attacked during argument over parking||HYDERABAD: A 27-year-old woman journalist from an English news channel was allegedly attacked by a woman on a two-wheeler in Punjagutta after a heated argument on Tuesday. The victim, along with her team had gone to cover news at Punjagutta. In her complaint, the journalist alleged that a woman on TVS Jupiter scooter stopped her vehicle in front of theirs and started arguing about parking around 1.30pm near Khazana Jewellery. Following which the woman verbally abused the journalist, hit her face, pulled her hair and hit her with a slipper. “She then deflated my vehicle and also damaged the van’s front mirror and driver’s mobile,” she said in her complaint. The offender is as an employee of a private firm residing in Punjagutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-journalist-attacked-during-argument-over-parking/articleshow/75835546.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Q-stamped man collapses on road, dies after none comes to help||Yavatmal: A 52-year-old man, stamped Home Quarantined, died on road in front of a private clinic in Laxmi Nagar area of Pusad without any medical help on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Gautam Kamble, a resident of Hudi village in Pusad tehsil.Gautam and his wife were returning from sub-district hospital after medical examination when he collapsed. He was lying on road for over three hours as nobody was ready to go near him fearing contracting novel coronavirus.According to sources, Gautam and his wife had returned from Ahmednagar two weeks ago. Before leaving Ahmednagar, both of them were stamped ‘Home Quarantined’.When they reached Hudi, police patil allegedly prevented them from entering the village. Both the husband-wife duo had taken shelter at the farm of his father-in-law in Yehla village, 7km from Pusad.On Tuesday, the police patil had instructed the duo to go to health department and undergo a fresh medical check-up and obtain Covid-free certificate.In the absence of transport facility, the couple walked on foot from their place of stay to the sub-district hospital and were on their return journey. Gautam was having cough, fever and difficulty in breathing and he collapsed in front of a private hospital. His wife Chitrasheela appealed to passers-by for help. However, as the man had Home Quarantined stamp, no one came forward. Gautam breathed his last without any medical attention.On being informed, SDO Dr Vyankat Rathod reached the spot and summoned an ambulance. The ambulance reached there without any doctor or health worker. The SDO being a medical professional himself examined Gautam and found him dead. Later, the body was shifted to Pusad hospital. Swab samples of the deceased will now be tested for Covid.It is also learnt that as there was acute shortage of PPE kit in the municipal council and hence no civic medical staff was ready to visit the spot.A life lostCouple had returned from Ahmednagar two weeks agoBoth were stamped Home Quarantined before leavingPolice patil allegedly prevented them from entering villageHusband-wife stayed in a farm; went to Pusad hosp for check-upMan had cough, fever and difficulty in breathingCollapsed on road, none came forward to help||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/q-stamped-man-collapses-on-road-dies-after-none-comes-to-help/articleshow/75836465.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown heroes: Rajiv Gandhi International Airport cargo staff work 48-hour stretches for medicines delivery||HYDERABAD: At a time when majority of the city’s workforce is attending to their duties from the comfort of their homes, there are some who are braving the pandemic every day. Their only objective: facilitating timely deliver of medicines and essential commodities to people across the globe. These are men and women at the cargo terminal of the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) who are tirelessly working beyond their usual duty hours — some times up to 48 hours at a stretch — so that emergency supplies, particularly pharmaceutical products, reach their destination on time. The fear of contracting novel coronavirus, given their daily exposure to tonnes of parcels being transported in and out of the city to countries around the world, doesn’t seem to bother them. “If it wasn’t Coronavirus, there would be some other challenge for us to tackle. So, shirking responsibility in such times of emergency is not what I wanted to do or teach my 12-year-old boy at home. I wanted him to learn that, no matter what the situation or difficulty, if you are given a job, you have to get it done,” said 40-year-old Mala Pramod, who is responsible for physically screening every single piece of cargo landing at the facility from across the globe. Ever since the lockdown, she has volunteered to work even when sick. “I would have stayed home, if I wasn’t dealing with emergency services...But people’s lives depend on what we do,” the cargo screener said, explaining how the shipments include vital medicines that could spell the difference between life and death. That is something even Ravi Chandra T understands completely. And perhaps that explains why he hasn’t taken a day off ever since the Covid-19 outbreak disrupted normal life. Though, on paper, the load of work is lesser considering Ravi only handles up to three flights a day now, as opposed to 150 to 180 during usual times, the process is much more cumbersome. “Round the clock we have to coordinate with airlines to ensure the cargo is loaded and unloaded properly — every operator has different rules — and released on time. This means working two shifts, of 12 hours each, back-to-back,” the duty manager (operations) said. Do his parents fear for his safety? “Yes, they do. But then, they also know I wouldn’t stop doing this,” Ravi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rgia-cargo-staff-work-48-hr-stretches-for-meds-delivery/articleshow/75835560.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Prevent migrants from undertaking hazardous journeys: HC||Nagpur: Expressing concern over migrants’ still travelling on top of trucks/trailers to their native places and risking their lives, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed commissioner of police (CP) to explore deploying additional staff at the accumulation points on highways.“Ultimately, if the migrants board trucks/trailers and bare minimum social distancing norms aren’t observed, they would suffer. While the HC appreciates that the police machinery is heavily burdened, the CP is requested to explore positioning of additional staff to prevent them from undertaking such hazardous journey,” Justice Rohit Deo said.The directives came while hearing a suo motu plea where amicus curiae Deven Chauhan submitted photographs of his visit to various accumulation points showing chaotic rush of migrants. He contended that notwithstanding the availability of MSRTC buses, workers were risking their lives by boarding trucks and trailers in their anxiety to depart for their native place as soon as possible. Jemini Kasat pleaded for NMC, Nitin Lambat appeared for railways while Anil Kumar represented the intervenor.While adjourning the hearing till May 26, the judge directed government and MSRTC to expeditiously consider amicus suggestion of exploring possibility of transporting migrants to respective destinations so that they don’t have to walk. Government pleader Sumant Deopujari and MSRTC counsel SC Mehadia informed this decision would involve the concurrence of respective states and resolution of certain issues like the relevant permits and clarity on additional expenditure.On Chauhan’s another suggestion of setting up of shelter homes at accumulation points on the city’s outskirts for migrants, Deopujari and Mehadia assured the HC it would be considered.Further asking all Maharashtra districts to ensure migrants were taken care of as per its earlier directives, the HC complimented the commendable job by Nagpur administration. “The migrants from the neighbouring districts are making a beeline in Nagpur encouraged by the good work by its administration that gives rise to a peculiar problem. It is the insecurity which impels them to rush here. It is imperative that the intra-region migration be prevented and this can be done only if the every district machinery ensures the migrants are taken care of,” the judge said.Directing the collector to utilize the State Disasters Response Fund (SDRF) for providing food to migrants, Justice Deo clarified that it has no hesitation in holding that food would include not only cooked, but also dry ration, uncooked food and grocery items like cooking oil. “One of our directives was to provide food to the migrants. Chauhan submitted that while funds are available with the district authority under SDRF, those aren’t utilized to provide dry ration or uncooked food to the migrants on the assumption that the government’s circulars/guidelines mandate the fund be used only to provide cooked food. March 16 circular permitted utilization of SDRF to provide food,” he said.What HC said:* CP to explore deploying additional staff at accumulation points on highways* If migrants failed to observe bare minimum distancing norms, they will suffer* Insecurity impels them to rush to Nagpur, intra-region migration should be prevented* All districts to ensure migrants are taken care of as per earlier directives* Collector to utilize State Disasters Response Fund for providing food to migrants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prevent-migrants-from-undertaking-hazardous-journeys-hc/articleshow/75836452.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 20, 2020||Vadodara||Man found infected after quarantine ends in Naswadi||Vadodara: A 28-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday taking the total number of cases in the district to 22. The case is the first one in Naswadi taluka.District administration officials said that the 28-year-old man Piyush Patel did not have travel history in last 15 days. However, he had come to his home in Naswadi taluka from Vadodara city on May 2. “He had come from Vadodara saying that his wife is pregnant, and he had to be with her,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra.After Patel arrived in Naswadi, the health department of district panchayat had put him under two-week home quarantine along with five other members of his family. On May 16 his home quarantine period had ended and his samples were collected for tests. On Tuesday his test results arrived positive.Officials said that Patel is asymptomatic but he will admitted in the special isolation ward for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-found-infected-after-quarantine-ends-in-naswadi/articleshow/75833618.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bareilly||50% teachers skip evaluation of UP board copies, officials to take action||BAREILLY: The evaluation of answer copies of UP board resumed on Tuesday in Bareilly, but nearly 50% teachers remained absent from duty. Even one of the teachers’ associations had called for a boycott of evaluation work, citing risk of contracting coronavirus. According to a data compiled by the secondary education department, 1,100 teachers were deployed for evaluation duty at five centres in Bareilly district. Of these, 568 were present on duty on Tuesday. Naresh Singh, district president of one of the teachers’ associations, said, “As scores of teachers from different parts of the district will gather at an evaluation centre, there is a risk of contracting Covid-19. Bareilly is in the red zone and the evaluation of copies poses a risk to teachers and their family members.” Reacting to the situation, district inspector of schools (DIOS) Amar Kant Singh said, “We have maintained social distancing at all five centres. We have reduced the total number of evaluators from 1,400 to 1,100 to ensure that a distance of at least two-metre is maintained between two evaluators in a classroom. Besides, all the centres were properly sanitized before the evaluation centre. Thermal screening of teachers is being done here.” He added, “A few teachers claimed to boycott work to gain publicity. We will take action against teachers who will not turn up for duty on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/50-teachers-skip-evaluation-of-up-board-copies-officials-to-take-action/articleshow/75834395.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Gondia, Washim, Wardha: Ccases coming from all parts of Vid now||Nagpur: As expected, returnees from Covid-19 hotspot zones are turning out to be coronavirus positive. On Tuesday, 33 cases were reported from Vidarbha and 10 of them were of the travellers. Apart from the red zoned Akola (18) and Amravati (4), cases were reported from Washim (5), Wardha (1) and Gadchiroli (1). Gondia, which has been Covid-free for the last 37 days, reported two new cases on Tuesday — both from rural areas of Amgaon and Arjuni Morgaon tehsils. A 45-year-old man, who returned from Mumbai, tested positive in Nagpur, which was the only new case in the city reported on Tuesday. Yavatmal reported one positive case late on Tuesday night. Akola, worst-hit in Vidarbha, recorded two deaths on Tuesday. A 68-year old man, a resident of Akola’s Ramdaspeth who had died of respiratory infection on May 16 tested positive on Tuesday. Second death was of a 62-year-old man admitted to GMCH Akola since May 15. He had tested positive on May 17. A patient of hypertension and diabetes, he died during treatment on Tuesday evening. With this, Akola now accounts for 20 deaths out of total 43 Covid-19 casualties across Vidarbha. Including one of the two deceased persons, 18 new suspects tested positive on Tuesday in Akola, while 23 were discharged after recovery.Neighbouring Washim district was almost Covid-free as two of the three patients there have recovered and one died. But on Tuesday, five new confirmed positive cases were reported from Washim. A six-member family which had returned from Mumbai on May 16 was in institutional quarantine there. Out of the six members, five tested positive on Tuesday. Result of one family member is pending. Authorities told TOI that the family was instantly quarantined as soon as they entered Washim, eliminating the chances of they coming in contact with others. Gadchiroli also reported one case, that of a migrant labour returning from Mumbai. In Wardha, 52-year-old migrant worker tested Covid-19 positive. The migrant labour, who was travelling in a truck for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, had fallen ill on May 17 near Sarwadi in Karanja tahsil. He was admitted to general hospital, Wardha. His report came positive on Tuesday. He is undergoing treatment at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi.In Yavatmal, a middle-aged woman from Hudi village in Pusad tehsil tested positive. She is among the close contacts of one of the positive patients reported on May 18. This indicates local spread of Covid-19 in rural Vidarbha.In Amravati, Masanganj continued to be a real Covid-19 hotspot in the region while Ratanganj emerged as a new locality to get infected by novel coronavirus which gave four positive cases on Tuesday taking district’s Covid count to 115. While two of the four cases have come from Masanganj in the form of males aged 45 and 50, Ratanganj too reported its first case when a 38-year-old male tested positive today. Tajnagar, which had reported 13 cases with two deaths and 10 recovered persons till yesterday, posted its 14th case on Tuesday after a hiatus of four days in the form of a 60-year-old female.A total of 568 Bihar-bound stranded labourers in Amravati division left for Barauni via a Shramik Special train that rolled out of Amravati railway station on Tuesday afternoon. The 24-coach train also picked up around 700 labourers from Nagpur.Good news came for Chandrapur as one of the two patients is on the road to recovery. The patient completed 14-days of isolation on Tuesday. His 14th-day swab samples tested negative. He is likely to get discharged on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gondia-washim-wardha-ccases-coming-from-all-parts-of-vid-now/articleshow/75836475.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 20, 2020||Surat||Surat police begin ticket registration camp for migrants||Surat: Police in Pandesara on Tuesday started a camp to register migrant workers for Shramik Special trains going to Uttar Pradesh to ensure that the workers get ticket without problems. Over 15,000 workers registered themselves for train tickets at the camp that will continue for next few days.From Tuesday the workers are being offered free ticket following UP government's decision to pay train fare of the workers. Anticipating heavy rush, police started the mass registration camp to avoid hassles. Till now, train ticket registrations was done by workers of political parties and private persons. At number of places allegations have been made that middlemen were fleecing the poor workers.It has also been alleged by workers that those who paid premium on the ticket price were given priority in ticket distribution. “Since free tickets are being offered, heavy rush was expected. The camp is to facilitate the workers and ease the distribution process,” said D K Patel, police inspector, Pandesara police station.Apart from enforcing lockdown, city police also helped in providing food to thousands of migrant workers in different parts of the city. They have been helping in feeding over 6 lakh migrant workers with support of welfare groups.“Taking into consideration, multiple issues of migrants, this camp was planned. We have also received support from private business groups in this initiative,” said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, F division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-police-begin-ticket-registration-camp-for-migrants/articleshow/75834408.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Meerut||Man posing as scribe arrested in Muzaffarnagar||Muzaffarnagar: A man allegedly posing as a journalist with a fake press card and authority letter was arrested here on Tuesday. So far, four fake journalists have been arrested in the district. All the accused were found using a fake press card to move about freely in the district without any restrictions due to the lockdown.The man, Monish, 26, was arrested in Chappar area on Tuesday evening. Police said Monish allegedly approached Chhapar police station regarding some matter and claimed to be a journalist with a Hindi daily. However, Pawan Sharma, SHO of Chhapar police station, smelt a rat and called up the editor of the daily to check his credentials. He found his claim of being a journalist to be false. He was arrested and a case under IPC section 420 (cheating) was registered against him. Police have seized a fake press identity card and an authority latter from him.SHO Sharma said, "He was sent to jail and further investigation is on." On Wednesday, another youth was nabbed at the collectorate. He said he managed to get a fake press card for Rs 3,000. Abhishek Yadav, SSP, Muzaffarnagar, said,"We are getting complaints against such fake journalistshanging about the city. We have detained and arrested several such so-called scribes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-posing-as-scribe-arrested-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/75835564.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||CCI setting up 10 procurement centres||Wardha: The cotton corporation of India (CCI) has expressed its readiness to expedite the cotton procurement process in the district by expanding procurement centres and providing graders. On Tuesday, CCI also published an advertisement for the tender process for opening new centres at Hinganghat and Samudrapur. The decision was taken at a meeting convened on late Monday evening by guardian minister Sunil Kedar, MLA Ranjeet Kamble and CCI general manager Ajay Kumar. Gin owners, graders and representatives of agriculture produce marketing committees (APMC) were also present. Cotton needs to be procured before the onset of monsoon. Kedar told officers and gin owners that the issue of procurement would not be resolved unless everyone works together. New centres are needed at Rohna, Arvi, Kharangana, Karanja, Selu, Samudrapur, Hinganghat (2) and Wardha (2). Apart from the existing 8 centres, CCI officials also expressed readiness to start the process of setting up these 10 new centres immediately. Private gin owners would also participate in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cci-setting-up-10-procurement-centres/articleshow/75852312.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||German shoe brand walks out of China, sets foot in Agra||Lucknow: The state government’s efforts to attract foreign investments, especially that which is looking for an alternative to China in the aftermath of Covid-19, bore fruit with a Germany-based footwear brand shifting its entire production to Agra. Von Wellx, owned by Casa Everz Gmbh, has announced the shifting of its entire shoe production business in China, with a capacity of over three million pairs annually, to India with an initial investment of Rs 110 crore. An official said that a new manufacturing unit of a similar capacity will be set up in Agra under a collaboration between Von Wellx and Iatric Industries Pvt Ltd. The Von Wellx brand was made available in India in 2019. Iatric Industries already has a production capacity of 5 lakh pairs for Casa Everz Gmbh. Sources in the government said the company was expecting to reach full production capacity in two years and was expecting to invest Rs 110 crore in the first phase. In phase-II, the official said, the company had proposed setting up ancillary industries for production of raw materials like outsoles, special fabrics and chemicals which are not manufactured in India right now. “UP is offering an excellent investment environment with availability of labour, raw material, infrastructure. Agra is already a well-established leather hub and will provide a strong base for anyone looking to set up a footwear business,” said the official. UP government has set up a task force to promote the state as a lucrative investment hub, especially as several foreign investors are moving out of China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/german-shoe-brand-walks-out-of-china-sets-foot-in-agra/articleshow/75837129.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||ICMR validates 13 firms to supply rapid antibody kits||Nagpur: Paving the way for the use of rapid antibody blood tests in India after a controversy over Chinese kits, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said that it recognized 13 companies and validated them for manufacturing. Of them, 10 are Indian companies who are indigenously manufacturing them while the rest are overseas.On Tuesday, the assistant solicitor general of India (ASGI) informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that he received an ICMR communication validating 13 companies with manufacturing batch/lot numbers. He added that the information would be shared with the state governments, who will be free to procure the kits directly from the companies since the kits are validated batch/lot-wise. The ASGI pointed out that details of the companies manufacturing the kits have already been forwarded to government pleader Sumant Deopujari’s office.“In essence, the statement made is that the state need not depend on ICMR for procurement of rapid antibody test kits and are free to directly procure them from the products validated batch-wise,” justice Rohit Deo said.The judge added that the government’s effort is expected to be result-centric. “It’s now beyond doubt that the rapid antibody test kits are needed at least for surveillance and preliminary screening. It’s availability thereof would assist the administration to combat the epidemic effectively. The government can always pay and recover, if the ICMR is responsible to bear the expenditure,” Deo said.Quoting the revised ICMR’s policy, Deo said the government is expected to procure the kits from companies whose products are validated by ICMR. “It’s expected that those would be procured without being fettered by either red tapism or the standard operating procedure/protocol of inviting quotations/tenders.”The directives came while hearing a petition by Shivaray Kulkarni through counsel Pankaj Navlani, pointing out towards non-compliance of ICMR guidelines by the Amravati Municipal Corporation (AMC). He contended that the district witnessed manifold rise in positive cases with the highest mortality rate and that the pattern is unique. He contended that AMC had demanded over 10,000 kits from the government, but they are yet to be delivered. Earlier, Deopujari demanded that the revised or modified policy decision of the ICMR be placed on record through an affidavit. He contended that the earlier policy was that the kits should be sourced by the states through ICMR. “Neither the ASGI nor the GP is presently in a position to make a statement as to who bears the cost of the rapid antibody test kits,” justice Deo said, before adjourning the hearing till May 26.WHAT HC SAID* State needn’t depend on ICMR for procurement of rapid antibody test kits* It’s free to directly procure them as the products are validated batch-wise* These kits are needed at least for surveillance & preliminary screening* It’s availability would assist administration to combat epidemic effectively* Govt can always pay & recover, if ICMR responsible to bear expenditure* Those would be procured without being fettered by red tapism* Also without standard operating procedure/protocol of inviting quotations/tenders||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/icmr-validates-13-firms-to-supply-rapid-antibody-kits/articleshow/75836479.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Ex-AIADMK MLA, son among 14 arrested in communal clash case||Madurai: Fourteen people, including a former AIADMK MLA and his son, were arrested on Monday in connection with a clash between two sub-sects of scheduled caste. While two separate cases were registered by the M Chatrapatti police in Madurai district based on complaints from each side, a search is on for others involved. The former MLA, P Ponnambalam, 72, from Karuvanur village, was elected on the AIADMK ticket from Samayanallur constituency in 2001. According to police, Ponnambalam’s son P Thiruchitrambalam was consuming liquor along with his friends at a waterbody on Monday, when one of them, R Sarath told him that someone had stolen his Rs 10, 000 cash and a mobile phone. He suspected that a person from another community might have stolen them. When Thiruchitrambalam questioned them, a dispute broke out. It soon snowballed into a clash between two communities. They attacked each other using iron rods, stones and wooden logs. The clash left one person from each side – C Ravi and K Puviarasan - injured. Based on a complaint from Thiruchitrambalam, a case was registered against 22 people of which 11 of them were arrested. A counter complaint was filed by Puviarasan, following which a case was registered against 15 people including the former MLA and his son. Three people including the father and son were arrested. The cases were registered under various IPC sections including 307- attempt to murder and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ex-aiadmk-mla-son-among-14-arrested-in-communal-clash-case/articleshow/75836480.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple commits suicide, bodies seen near tracks||Hyderabad: A couple from Malkajgiri committed suicide, presumably by jumping in front of a running train, in Medak district on Tuesday evening. M Santhoshi (29) of Prashanth Nagar in Malkajgiri married Motluri Shankar a decade ago and they have three sons. Three years ago, Santhoshi met Ravi Kumar, a resident of Mirjalguda in Malkajgiri, with whom she had worked in a shopping mall before her marriage. “They were meeting frequently and maintained a relationship. Her husband suspected his wife’s fidelity and questioned her about it, which led to a tiff between the couple,” said a Malkajgiri police officer. On Tuesday morning, after another tiff, she left the house following which Santoshi’s husband registered a missing complaint in Malkajgiri police station. She left a suicide note stating that no one was responsible for her death. In the evening, Santoshi and Ravi were found dead on the railway tracks under Chegunta police station limits in Medak district. “Ravi’s MedPlus employee ID card was found near the body while Santoshi’s husband identified her body. Their bike was found parked near the tracks,” police said. Railway cops and Chegunta police are investigating the case of the couple’s suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-commits-suicide-bodies-seen-near-tracks/articleshow/75835566.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||Marriage hall owners rue new health dept guidelines||Mysuru: The health department’s new advisory of only 50 guests and restrictions on using air-conditioned function and marriage halls could hit the wedding industry hard. Proprietors of marriage halls are worried as the directive will leave thousands of individuals in the lurch. Cooks, flower decorators, hoteliers, cab operators and salon and cosmetic industry workers could lose their daily bread. The department’s guidelines say the venues must be well ventilated. Owners of marriage halls are peeved as several marriages scheduled from April to June have been put off. Harish Kumar Hegde, proprietar, Shubhodini Convention Hall, said: “We have invested crores of rupees to create facilities. Now, we’re worried about how to repay the loans. Those who booked the hall for marriages have cancelled them and are demanding we return the advance amount that we have used to pay staff salaries and power bills. We asked them to hold marriages at a future date. If this is the plight of owners, thousands others including cooks, flower decorators and workers in the bottled water industry as well as beauty and cosmetic sector are suffering.” Hegde said: “People spend a part of their savings on wedding, apart from building homes. Imposing restrictions on marriage will have long-term repercussion on various industries which depend on weddings.” Srinivas Rao, president, Cooks Welfare Association, “Thousands of cooks in the region are without work since the lockdown started. For the first time in our lives, we’ve been without work during this peak season. These fresh guidelines will leave us without work”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/marriage-hall-owners-rue-new-health-dept-guidelines/articleshow/75834422.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||Ruskin Bond celebrates a quiet birthday indoors, reveals cover of new book||Mussoorie: Renowned children's author Ruskin Bond, who celebrated his 86th birthday on Tuesday, said that it was a nice change to have a quiet birthday at home. The year 2020 being the 70th year of his writing career (his first story was published in in 1951), Bond released the cover of his newest book “A Song of India: The Year I went Away”, the fourth book in his popular memoir series. “No celebrations this year, it makes a nice change for me! A quiet day at home, a little reading, a little writing and lots of sleeping,” said the author in a telephonic conversation with TOI. Speaking about how he has been spending his time during the lockdown, Bond remarked that while the restrictions may be making younger people restless, it didn’t bother him much. “I have been doing quite a bit of writing. I always write from home anyway, so it’s not actually a great deal of difference, except that one feels like going out occasionally. I am lucky in that way, although younger people must be finding it difficult and would be getting restless at home,” Bond told TOI. The octagenarian writer also expressed concern about the impact of the lockdown on the economy of his hometown, Mussoorie which is heavily dependent on tourists. "Let’s hope things get better soon,” he said. Speaking about his upcoming book, the veteran writer said that it is about his boyhood days in Dehradun. “This particular story is a memoir of my boyhood and is set in Dehradun in the year 1951, the year I finished school and it tells a bit about Dehradun at that period.” In the book, Bond explains how as a 16-year-old, he was struggling to start his career in writing, the joys of receiving his first money order, of publishing his stories and finding new friends. The author also thanked his readers for their constant support over the years. “I thank three generations of readers, some who have grown old with me and some who are still in school, so it's good to cover all ages. They have kept me going this long."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ruskin-bond-celebrates-a-quiet-birthday-indoors-reveals-cover-of-new-book/articleshow/75833194.cms||Anmol Jain
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Rs 100 fine for stepping out sans masks in Madurai||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has decided to start levying Rs 100 fine on those who venture out without masks. While most people in the city wear masks, some are yet to comply with the rule. Officials from the health department said they have been instructed by the commissioner S Visakan to start collecting fine from corporation employees as a first step. They also have been received instruction to fine public when they come out without mask. All shopkeepers have been instructed to ensure social distancing and customers are wearing masks. A health official said that almost 90% of people are wearing masks when they come out to purchase or for work. However, the remaining 10%, mostly women and elderly do not adhere to the rule. “Good quality mask is available for about Rs 10, which is enough. Masks are meant to prevent others from getting infected if a person is infected with Covid-19. We often see people remove their masks to sneeze and then wear them promptly. Sensitisation is also to be intensified,” said an official. However, another health worker said that it will only increase the burden on them as they have a large number of works to be taken care of like cleaning, disinfecting, distribution of kabasura kudineer and vitamin supplement tablets. People have to realise their responsibility and help the corporation in preventing the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-100-fine-for-stepping-out-sans-masks-in-madurai/articleshow/75836474.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Four murder cases in south districts||Madurai: Four people were murdered in as many incidents in the southern districts on Monday night. This included two in Virudhunagar district in which they were murdered by persons under the influence of alcohol. M Jayakumar, 38, panchayat member for ward 6 of Srivenkateswarapuram panchayat in Tuticorin district, was hacked to death by a gang of eight when he was standing near his shop on Monday night. The police said that the gang came on four bikes and hacked him, leaving him dead on the spot. Ponnupandi, 60, a daily wage labourer of Nathathupatti village near Sattur taluk was murdered by his son Perumal, 40, in a drunken state. There was a property dispute between them. A 60-year-old man was murdered while his son who was targeted by the assaulters escaped with cut injuries and is hospitalised. It is learnt that Sethuraj, 25, of Periyakollapatti village in Sattur taluk, Virudhunagar, was in love with Mariswari. Although Veerapandi, 25, married Veerapandi, she used to frequently visit Sethuraj. M Naveendran, 23, from Kamarajarpuram in Batlagundu was stabbed to death by I Sheik Mohammed, 21, of the same area. According to the police, there was a previous dispute between Sheik and Naveendran’s friend Prabu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-murder-cases-in-south-districts/articleshow/75836486.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Released over Rs2cr for safety gear for corona warriors: Collector||Nagpur: The district administration has released over Rs2 crore for purchasing consumables necessary in the fight against novel coronavirus (Covid). In an affidavit submitted before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Monday, collector Ravindra Thakare said that his office has disbursed Rs164.40 lakh from District Planning Committee (DPC) funds and Rs50 lakh from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) for procurement of these consumables. The affidavit was filed in response to HC’s poser on providing protective gear to front-line workers. Those included, N-95 and triple-layered masks, sodium hypochlorite sanitizers, hand gloves and PPE kits as per requisition by the offices of civil surgeon, district health officer, zilla parishad and IGGMC. Thakare also informed that all these hospitals have already started distributing these products to its workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/released-over-rs2cr-for-safety-gear-for-corona-warriors-collector/articleshow/75852328.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Four dead, 42 new Covid-19 cases in T||Hyderabad: Four more persons in Hyderabad succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday as Telangana reported 42 new positive cases in a single day. The state allowed shops and offices to resume business on Tuesday. Following the deaths, health minister Eatala Rajender directed officials to conduct Covid-19 tests on all foreign returnees. He also directed them to conduct tests on police personnel, medical and healthcare workers showing symptoms without delay. “No one should neglect fever and flu-like symptoms. All hospitals should have enough oxygen beds,” he said. While the death toll reached 38, the state’s coronavirus caseload touched the 1,634 mark. Greater Hyderabad continued to report high number of cases with 34 persons testing positive for coronavirus. A 75-year-old patient with hypertension, a 38-year-old woman with pneumonia, a 68-year-old woman and a 70-year old male with pneumonia were among the dead. In Hyderabad’s Mata ki Khidki area of Yakutpura, the tests of 14 Covid-19 suspects came out positive. “Mata Ki Khidki area also had many cases earlier in April and was also part of containment zone. Rest of the cases were also from the containment zones,” an official said. Apart from 38 cases from GHMC, eight migrants from Sircilla, Yadadri and Karimnagar also tested positive. The number of recovered people reached 1,011, with nine more people getting discharged. A Covid-19 patient, who was admitted to King Koti Hospital on Tuesday, confessed to seeing a registered medical practitioner (RMP), who collected blood samples of the patient. The doctor was treating many people, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-dead-42-new-covid-19-cases-in-t/articleshow/75835589.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||CCTVs to monitor industrial units dumping effluents||Hyderabad: After a flood of complaints of foul smell in industrial areas as well as industries minister KT Rama Rao’s recent tweet about industrial effluents, Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) member secretary on Tuesday directed industrial units to install CCTV cameras on their premises and outside. She also directed them to install equipment to reduce air and water pollution. Speaking after holding a review meeting with enivronmental officers, PCB member secretary Neetu Prasad said there has been an increase in the number of complaints received from the public, especially regarding odour in residential areas of Kukatpally, Miyapur, Tellapur and Nacharam. She added that complaints had been received about dumping of effluents in nalas in Jeedimetla and Mallapur industrial areas. Her response followed KTR taking a serious note of the matter and directing stringent action be taken against non-complying industries. Asking officials to carry out checks, the IAS officer directed all zonal and regional officials to intensify monitoring of areas where industries were located both during the day and night. She also said it must be ensured that industries use equipment to reduce air and water pollution. She also directed regional officers to attend to all complaints, redress them at the earliest and furnish daily status reports. The PCB member secretary directed all pharma, chemical, water polluting industries put in place CCTV cameras in front of the main gate and along the boundary of the compound walls of their premises to check for illegal discharge of effluents and added that this would be regularly monitored by PCB officials. She warned of stringent action against industries resorting to illegal discharge of effluents or hazardous wastes and those causing air pollution. Joint chief environmental engineers of zonal office Hyderabad, zonal office, RC Puram and regional officers of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal, RC Puram and Sangareddy attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cctvs-to-monitor-industrial-units-dumping-effluents/articleshow/75835582.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Meerut||Villagers attack police team conducting raid; 3 cops injured, police van vandalised||Meerut: Three policemen were injured and their PRV van was vanadalised, after a group of locals attacked them when they were conducting a raid.The incident happened in Tatina village under Partapur police station here late on Monday night. As per police, the team had raided the village in search of some miscreants when a scuffle broke out between the police and locals. Soon, a crowd gathered and the team was attacked. The police were on the lookout for Sabiluddin, husband of village Pradhan, and Fakruddin, both wanted in several cases registered at Partapur police station.Two separate FIRs have been registered against village pradhan's husband Saibuddin and 40-50 other unidentified people under relevant sections of the IPC at Partapur police station. Police have now begun to trace all the accused involved in the attack. According to senior police officers, five suspects have already been arrested and the hunt is on to trace others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/villagers-attack-police-team-conducting-raid-3-cops-injured-police-van-vandalised/articleshow/75835577.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||Govt to check farmer payment before dairies get paid, milk powder piles up||Nashik/Kolhapur: More than a month after the state government announced that it would pay dairies to convert excess milk into powder and butter, the implementation remains slow.After a huge drop in demand due to the lockdown, the Maharashtra government set aside around Rs 128 crore to pay the dairies through the state-run Mahanand Dairy. The government made it mandatory for diaries to pay farmers at least Rs 25 per litre of milk. Many dairies fear their business will be hit if the government does not pay them soon. There are about 25 dairies in Maharashtra that are converting their excess milk stock into milk powder. Dashrath Mane, chairman of Sonai Dairy in Pune, one of the largest producers of milk powder, said that for the past two months, they have been making about 150 tonne of milk powder per day, almost double the quantity they usually make. Gokul co-operative dairy, the largest dairy in the south Maharashtra region, is paying farmers Rs 27 per litre for the milk supplied. In the past 38 days, they have converted about 1.25 lakh litre of excess milk to milk powder and butter every day. Gokul dairy's chairman Ravindra Apte said, “We are hoping the conversion charges are paid as soon as possible. We already have large amounts of milk powder lying with us. A total bill of Rs 1.07 crore has been issued.” Sharad Avhad, the owner of Healthy Food, a dairy product producer in Nashik, said they were paying Rs 32 per litre to the farmers in March, but can now pay between Rs 20 and Rs 26 per litre. S N Sharma, general manager of S R Thorat Milk Products (Gagangiri dairy products) in Sangamner, said though they are making 5 tonne of milk powder per day, there is no demand. Sources in the dairy industry said 1 kg of milk powder is sold for Rs 250. “Accumulation of milk powder may burden the dairies, who are reluctant to buy more milk from the farmers,” he said. Ranjit Deshmukh, chairman of Mahanand Dairy, said about 1.80 crore litre of excess milk has been procured so far. Around 1,500 tonne of milk powder and 800 tonne of butter have been prepared. The state government has limited the procurement of excess milk to 4 crore litre, for which, Rs 127 crore has been set aside to pay the farmers. The scheme has a deadline of May 31. “The cooperative and some private dairies have been asked to submit data of the farmers who have received Rs 25 per litre from them. Based on the data, the disbursement to the dairies will start,” he said. Vijay Waghole, general manager, Warana Milk and Milk Products, Sinnar, said they were making 60% more milk powder every day. “Milk powder can be stocked for a year. We hope to get buyers once the lockdown is lifted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-to-check-farmer-payment-before-dairies-get-paid-milk-powder-piles-up/articleshow/75834440.cms||pragya jain
May 20, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 claims one more life, 29 people test positive||Surat: About 29 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat city amid relaxation in rules for lockdown 4.0 on Tuesday. The highest number seven Covid-19 cases were reported from Limbayat zone. Of the total positive cases of 1,119 in the city, about 421 cases have been reported from Limbayat zone alone. Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said total number of discharged people has gone up to 747 in the city with hospitals allowing 23 Covid-19 patients to go home on Tuesday. Krishna Bisnoi, 27, a resident of Varachha (A) zone, succumbed to the virus. He was admitted to New Civil Hospital on May 11. The toll due to coronavirus in the city was now 53. Meanwhile, one Covid-19 case was reported from Rajvad village of Mandvi taluka of Surat district. This has taken the number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 84. "We have come up with a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the city and it will be available on SMC website soon. No activity will be allowed in containment zones. People of 43 cluster containment zones will not be allowed to go out for work,” Pani said. No autorickshaws will be allowed but cabs and auto aggregators can ply on roads with driver plus two passengers. Restaurants will be open to provide takeaway service only. "Diamond trading markets in Mahidharpura and Sardarnagar will remain closed. Shops will be allowed to open but social distancing norms will have to be followed strictly. Everyone will have to wear masks and use hand sanitizers,'' Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-claims-one-more-life-29-people-test-positive/articleshow/75834470.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Meerut||UP fails to reduce sugar production due to lockdown||Bijnor: State government's plan to reduce sugar production this year has failed to take off due to the imposition of the lockdown.As against 27.94 lakh hectares under cane cultivation in 2018, this season, cane was sown across 26.63 lakh hectares in 2019.This crushing season has also seen increased production of ethanol from B heavy molasses. Yet, sugar production has increased by over 5% as of now and the crushing season is still going on.One of the primary reasons for high sugar production is the closure of jaggery units due to the lockdown. Around 10% of cane is consumed by these units and all of it was diverted to the mills.Additional cane Commissioner VK Shukla said, "This year, operation of kolhus and crushers was badly hit by unseasonal rain and the lockdown. The sugarcane which they used to crush was diverted to mills." Both domestic and commercial consumption of cane juice has down since the lockdown was announced.On their part, mills also extended crushing season this year.Last year, 96 out of the 119 mills were closed on May 18 while this time, only 72 mills have stopped their operations. Similarly, last year two mills manufactured B heavy molasses from sugarcane while this time round, 26 mills are producing it. The B molasses is used to manufacture ethanol. Bijnor sugar mill's administrative officer AK Singh said, "Sugarcane yield has increased as weather was condusive to the crop. The juice extraction was higher as temperature was lower than normal due to unseasonal rainfall. This has boosted sugar production."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-fails-to-reduce-sugar-production-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75835593.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Wet run of Akkaram pumps conducted||Wet run of Akkaram pumps: Irrigation department conducted wet run of open pump house at Akkaram in Kondapochammasagar in Gajwel on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wet-run-of-akkaram-pumps-conducted/articleshow/75835614.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger kills woman in Tadoba||Chandrapur: A tiger killed a woman who ventured into the core zone of the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) on Tuesday morning. Lilabai Jivtode (63) was from village Kolara. She had gone to collect tendu leaves with other villagers. Tadoba officials said villagers had entered the Satara protected forest. A lurking tiger attacked Lilabai and killed her. On hearing her cries for help, fellow villagers rushed to rescue Lilabai, but it was too little too late. Lilabai had succumbed to her injuries. After seeing the aggressive villagers, the killer beast went back to the forest. Sources claimed that there was tension in the area for some time over compensation to the kin of the deceased as the incident took place inside the prohibited core zone of TATR. The issue was eventually resolved mutually after intervention of the Chimur police. Time and again TATR officials have been warning villagers against venturing into the core zone which is dense with tigers and other predators. This is the year’s third incident of tiger attack on a human in this area around village Kolara. A total of 18 people have been killed in predator attacks in Vidarbha this year. In Chandrapur alone, Lilabai was the 12th predator kill (11 by tigers and one by a leopard).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-kills-woman-in-tadoba/articleshow/75852378.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Stray dogs given homeo med for skin infection||Madurai: In a novel initiative, officials from the animal husbandry department in Madurai district with the help of volunteers, have started treating skin problem among stray dogs by feeding them homeopathic medicine. The initiative will save stray dogs from people, who tend to mistake dogs with skin infection as rabid infected ones and kill them. Officials have taken up the initiative with the help of a veterinary doctor Dr A V Joseph Ayyadurai, who has been practising homeopathic treatment for animals for 15 years now. Sulfur combination medication is being provided for 10 days. However, visible changes in the infection start showing within five days, say officials. Joint director of Animal Husbandry, Madurai district Dr D Joseph Christopher said that they continuously monitor the dogs under medication with the help of volunteers, who have come forward to feed stray dogs. They not only get cured of the skin infection, but also turn healthier despite the food shortage they face due to lockdown. “The idea stuck when district collector T G Vinay asked us to take care of stray dogs soon after the lockdown was imposed. With the help of district administration, we are also supplying rice to a group of volunteers, who regularly feed them. In total 1,200 dogs are covered in a day on an average,” he said. He said that the major reason for skin infection among stray dogs is lack of immunity due to shortage of nutritious food. Also, the infection spreads easily to other dogs. Joseph Ayyadurai said that unlike allopathic medicine, homeopathic medicine is colourless, odourless and tasteless hence dogs cannot differentiate medicine mixed food. While the medicine has to be sprayed on food, we have to be cautious that dogs don’t see the mixing procedure. Otherwise, they might not eat, he said. The treatment can be expanded to dogs in rural areas as well. When homeopathic medicine is used for skin treatment, it is a cure for lifetime. Compared to allopathic treatment, homeopathic medication costs only a fraction, Joseph added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stray-dogs-given-homeo-med-for-skin-infection/articleshow/75836491.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 5 lakh dependent on water tankers in M’wada||Aurangabad: The number of people in Marathwada dependent on tankers for getting drinking water has increased three-fold — from 1.67 lakh to over 5 lakh — in around three weeks. With few more weeks for the arrival of monsoon, the number of tankers for supplying water is likely to go up, authorities concerned said on Tuesday. While only Aurangabad, Beed and Osmanabad districts were receiving water via tankers till April 25, Jalna, Nanded and Latur districts are now witnessing alternate arrangement of water supply taking the total number of tankers in these six districts to 272. People in Parbhani and Hingoli districts are still not dependant on tanker. Authorities reiterated that all local self-governing bodies have been asked to ensure that physical distancing norm is being followed religiously. As per official data, Aurangabad district is receiving the maximum (118) tankers, followed by Beed (99), Jalna (35), Osmanabad (11), Nanded (7) and Latur (2). As per official data, a total of 725 wells and bore-wells across eight districts of Marathwada have been acquired by the respective district administrations for refilling water tankers. “The state water supply department on April 23 has already issued a special communication to all district collectors and CEOs of zilla parishads to ensure that social distancing norm is followed when water is being supplied,” Aurangabad deputy divisional commissioner (revenue) Parag Soman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-5-lakh-dependent-on-water-tankers-in-mwada/articleshow/75834454.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Unable to see her Covid-19 kids suffering, woman defies protocol||BAREILLY: Defying Covid-19 protocol, a 30-year-old woman stayed back at a hospital in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri to feed her 10-month-old son who is Covid-19 positive. The father of the two children, a ten-month-old son and a three-year-old daughter, had returned from Mumbai a week ago and the three members of the family tested positive on May 17. They were admitted to the hospital but the situation became serious when the boy refused to eat. Unable to see her children suffer, the woman, armed with masks, gloves and a sanitizer, stayed back when all efforts by the administration failed. Nodal officer of the hospital Dr Balbeer Singh said that the woman accompanied the children and refused to leave the hospital room. “I finally had to allow her to stay,” he said. Kheri chief medical officer Dr Manoj Agarwal added, “We provided milk powder, diapers and every possible item but still the child kept crying. Even if it is against protocol, we had no option but to allow the woman to stay with her children and feed them. We couldn’t have let the boy die of hunger.” Dr Agarwal added that the family has now been shifted to a higher centre in Lucknow. “SGPGI Lucknow has a specialised children’s ward and they will be taken care of there. We were also monitoring the woman and her samples had tested negative on Monday.” The father of the children returned to his native Barkheria Jat village a week ago from Mumbai. The health department then brought him to a quarantine centre and sent his samples for testing which showed it to be Covid positive. The children also tested positive soon after but the woman was negative. Meanwhile, district magistrate Shailendra Singh assured that the children were being shifted to SGPGI Lucknow for better treatment and their mother has also accompanied them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unable-to-see-her-covid-kids-suffering-woman-defies-protocol-stays-in-isolation-with-10-month-old-son-and-3-year-old-daughter/articleshow/75834465.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Revenue staff: Overseeing migrant travel not our job||AHMEDABAD: The work of registering migrant workers and getting them to board trains to their home states is clearly not an enviable job in Gujarat. Revenue department staff are up in arms, saying they are being made to do the duties of the railways and units such as the labour and employment department and civic bodies. The death of a deputy mamlatdar due to Covid-19 on Sunday, triggered an angry response from revenue department staff, who announced that they will not do any work related to the return of migrant workers to their home states. Revenue minister Kaushik Patel said that in an extraordinary situation as this, everybody, irrespective of department, should work to keep things functioning smoothly. “We are speaking to them and convincing them to do this work as well. All department employees are not boycotting migrant worker-related work,” he said. “We (revenue department employees) are not corona-proof. Medical professionals who are coming in contact with Covid-19 patients have safety gear from head to toe. Even policemen posted on the roads do not check peoples’ identification cards physically, they verify it from a distance. In the case of our department, none of us have been provided any protective gear, said Viram Desai, president, Mehsuli Karmachari Mahamandal. Another collectorate staffer said that revenue department staff have to even arrange for tickets for migrant workers who are returning. “Surely, issuing tickets to people returning to their states is the job of the railways, which has taken no responsibility whatsoever. He added that all institutions that have been allotted for health check-ups or other work related to migrant workers , are being manned by revenue department staff. “The task of registering and sending back migrant workers should be done by the labour commissioner’s office and the department of labour and employment. In cities, municipal corporations ought to be doing this work. Revenue department employees have nothing to do with registering migrant workers, collecting train fares and accompanying them to rail stations,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/revenue-staff-overseeing-migrant-travel-not-our-job/articleshow/75814477.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Clarify stance on water projects, KRMB tells T||Hyderabad: Though Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has denied any rift between the Telangana and AP governments, the complaint lodged by the AP government with the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against projects proposed and executed by the Telangana government has prompted the KRMB to seek clarification from Telangana. The board wrote a letter to principal secretary of irrigation department on Tuesday seeking views from Telangana on the five new projects proposed on Krishna and Godavari rivers including Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi Lift Irrigation Scheme, Bhakta Ramadas Lift Irrigation Scheme and Water Grid Project taken up under Mission Bhagiratha and Thummilla Lift Irrigation Scheme. It also sought the Telangana government’s reply on the enhancement of project capacity or scope of Kalwakurthi Lift Irrigation Scheme, Nettempadu Lift Irrigation Scheme and Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC). The AP government alleged, in its letter to KRMB, that the Telangana government was executing the new projects without appraisal of the project reports by KRMB, Central Water Commission and approval of the Apex Council. AP submitted to the KRMB that the projects proposed against the AP Reorganization Act, 2014 adversely affect the projects already existing and ongoing to meet the drinking water requirements in Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts of AP. KRMB member Harikesh Meena asked the Telangana government to submit its views on the AP government’s letter as well as detailed project reports on the irrigation schemes to the board on priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clarify-stance-on-water-projects-krmb-tells-t/articleshow/75835624.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR acting like dictator on FRBM issue: Kishan||Hyderabad: Calling Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao a ‘dictator’ MoS (home) G Kishan Reddy said there was nothing wrong in the Centre stand’s on the FRBM borrowing limit for states. Reddy said when the Centre was not objecting to reforms, KCR says he is bringing in agriculture reforms and questioned why he was objecting to Centre’s reforms. “For 70 years we have not developed much. Why are so many people still migrant workers? Now different states will have to adapt to reforms. KCR is ruling with the mindset of a dictator,” he said. KCR on Monday called the Centre’s Rs 21 lakh crore economic stimulus package “100% bogus” and against the spirit of cooperative federalism. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-acting-like-dictator-on-frbm-issue-kishan/articleshow/75835633.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: How are the districts classified in zones?||BHOPAL: Forty-five districts of Madhya Pradesh are corona-hit and ten of them are in the red zone. It is said that even top health officials are not aware of the exact formula applied to categories districts into red and green zones. But, there is indeed a formula which takes into consideration several factors like — total number of active cases, the recent spurt in fresh cases, the mortality rate and ratio of recovered Covid-19 patients as against those still undergoing treatment. It may surprise people that Indore with 2,656 cases, 1,345 active cases and 101 deaths as on May 18 is bracketed in the same category as Neemuch which has a total 50 cases and only one death. But when seen in the context that 40 out of 50 cases are active cases and number of infected persons in the district went up by 10 times in 10 days, it appears to be the right decision. The total number of corona-infected persons in Neemuch on May 7 was just 5, which had risen to 50 by May 18. Khandwa, with 65 positive cases on May 18, is also among the 10 red zone districts. In any case, all the districts with more than 100 coronavirus cases have been bracketed in the red zone. Mandsaur, with nine deaths among 60 coronavirus positive cases, appears to have found a place in the list of red zone districts because of the high mortality rate. In Ujjain, too, the concern has been more deaths of corona-infected persons than the number of persons infected. If the analysis is cumulative rather than individual, i.e. taking data of all the districts together and analyzing them, one would find that 90% of the total Covid-19 patients are in 10 districts of the state, which are in the red zone. Out of 2,549 active coronavirus cases in 45 districts of the state, 2,359 are from 10 red zone districts. Seven out of 52 districts never had coronavirus infection among its people. In the remaining 35 districts, which had coronavirus-infected persons at one point of time or another, there are only 190 active patients, and 8 of them now have zero coronavirus-infected people. Among the six districts which have coronavirus patients in double digits are Gwalior, Morena, Khargone, Sagar, Vidisha and Rewa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/how-are-the-districts-classified-in-zones/articleshow/75835635.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 7,000 swab results pending, Kolhapur stares at sudden spike||Kolhapur: With more than 7,000 throat swab samples pending tests in labs, Kolhapur is facing the possibility of a sudden rise in the number of coronavirus patients. Almost all the new positive patients have some kind of travel history to Covid-affected areas like Mumbai, Pune and Solapur. With swab sample results getting delayed, there is also a chance of the contagion spread, especially by the asymptomatic carriers. District health officer (DHO) Yogesh Sale said that the exodus from the affected regions has put the existing system under tremendous pressure. He added that they are expecting more than 300 positive cases from the pending swab samples. “Despite having three Covid testing labs, we had to send a large number of swab samples to the Miraj Government Medical College and Pune’s B J Medical College to ease the burden off Kolhapur labs,” he said, adding that until all these swab result are received, the suspects have been put under institutional quarantine or at Covid care centres across the district. Sale told TOI that since the number of swab samples is so high, they have decided to test only the symptomatic patients. He added that the current Covid care centres have filled to capacity and villages across the district need to step up and make room for quarantining the people coming in. On May 3, there were only 14 positive cases in Kolhapur. By May 19 evening, the number had increased to 122. The DHO said that people coming in from Mumbai, Pune and other affected regions have contributed to the growth in the positive cases. Most have been successfully intercepted at the 22 checkpoints across the district. 35-year-old deceased man’s report come positive Meanwhile, a 35-year-old man, who had come from Mumbai on Monday, passed away at the city-based D Y Patil Medical College early on Tuesday morning. His throat swab sample confirmed that he had Covid-19 infection. Other nine of his family members have been put under institutional quarantine and their swab samples have been collected. GFX DISTRICT NOW HAS 112 COVID PATIENTS 55 new cases were reported in Kolhapur district in 24 ending Tuesday evening. This was the district’s highest single-day spike in positive cases Till Monday evening, the district had 67 positive Covid-19 cases IN NUMBERS * 16,808 people came in from affected cities after May 3 * 13,483 swabs taken * 61,882 tests done * 14,664 in institutional quarantined * 2,144 quarantined at home * Dedicated covid care hospital capacity: 1,080 (to be extended to 2,684) * Covid care centres: 41 * Beds ready: 3,142 (to be extended to 7,253 soon) * To increase the immunity of the citizens aged 50 years or more, immunity boosters are being administered (* figures as on May 18)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-7000-swab-results-pending-kolhapur-stares-at-sudden-spike/articleshow/75834497.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 20, 2020||Surat||Black days for textile, diamond sectors||Surat: Even as the state government has relaxed Covid-19 norms for the commencement of industrial activity across the state, the two most important sectors — textile and diamond — are still languishing in the dark. Reason: Both the sectors are impacted by rules meant for ‘red zones’.In a meeting with the trade associations and leaders of the textile and diamond sectors on Tuesday, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani clarified that no business activity will be allowed in the containment zones. This will impact about 55,000 textile shops in about 140 textile markets located in the city’s red zones. However, diamond and textile units operating in non-containment or green zones will be allowed to function with 50% workforce and strict adherence to standard operating procedure (SOP) guidelines to contain spread of coronavirus.On the other hand, the worst-hit under the restrictions is the diamond industry with most of its cutting and polishing units being located in the red zones of Varachha, Katargam and Central zone including the Mahidharpura and Varachha diamond markets. Not only that its lifeline, the Mumbai market, too is still under lockdown. Regional chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Dinesh Navadiya said, “It is a confusing situation for the diamantaires whether to resume operation or not as not only are our own diamond markets besides many diamond units in the containment zones, the other bigger problem is that the Mumbai market is yet to reopen. Again, a majority of the diamond workers too have moved out of the city.”Talking with TOI, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said, “The textile and diamond stakeholders were given detailed information on the containment zones. Textile markets located in containment zones will not be allowed to open. There are 42 containment zones covering 16 lakh population in 24 sq km area. However, we have permitted textile markets in non-containment zones to open on odd-even formula.”Pani further said that the industries will have to follow SOP guidelines. If positive cases get spiked in industrial areas, the units will be sealed once again. Guidelines issued to contain spread of coronavirus including sanitisation, compulsory wearing of face mask, social distancing among others will have to be followed strictly, he added.Manoj Agarwal, president of Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) said, “About 90% of the textile markets are in the red zone and they are not allowed to commence operation. Textile markets are the key component of the textile chain and that it will impact the normal functioning of the textile sector in the coming days.”Jitu Vakharia, president of South Gujarat Textile Processors’ Association (SGTPA) said, “Baring 15 textile mills, majority are in the non-containment zones. Our members have started preparations to re-start the mills in the next couple of days. Since the textile markets will remain shut, we will directly source fabric from the powerloom units.”Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers association said, “About 40% of the weaving units in the city will start operation from Wednesday. Disinfecting activities are going on in the industrial areas in the non-containment zones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/black-days-for-textile-diamond-sectors/articleshow/75834505.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Govt focused on Tasmac, not bringing back stranded: Kani||Tuticorin: Repatriating Tamils stranded in other countries and states should be given importance by the state government similar to the focus given to ensure proper functioning of Tasmac outlets, Tuticorin MP and DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi has said.  Claiming that only one or two direct flights to Tamil Nadu were operated, she said flights landing in other states, carry fewer passengers from Tamil Nadu. Alleging that the state government had refused to permit Tamils to return from other states, Kanimozhi said they could be properly screened before being brought home. Responding to a question on the government increasing the timings for sale of liquor till 7pm and number of tokens to 750 from 500 per outlet, she said the state is keen on attracting more customers to Tasmac and pose a threat to Covid-19 spread.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-focused-on-tasmac-not-bringing-back-stranded-kani/articleshow/75836523.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Meerut||Meerut’s doubling rate of active Covid-19 cases at 10.3 days is higher than national average||MEERUT: Nearly two months into the lockdown, at 342 (including one admitted in Kanpur) cases on Monday, Meerut accounts for the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Agra tops with the highest number of cases. According to an analysis of the number of cases by TOI – on the basis of the data available till Monday -- it was found that the doubling rate of active cases in Meerut is 10.3 days, which is faster than the national doubling rate of 23 days. The doubling rate was calculated on the basis of the average growth rate of active cases over the last five days. According to the data, out of the total 342 Covid-19 patients, as many as 146 have been discharged and 20 people have died here. At present, the total number of active cases is 176 here. The active cases in Meerut are increasing at a rate of 7% - every five days- in contrast with the country’s rate of 3%. The average growth rate is calculated on the basis of growth rate every five days. While the growth rate in the last five days of active cases is 7% in Meerut, the growth rate in the last five days of total cases is 4% and the doubling rate of total cases is 15.6 days. With 20 deaths in Meerut until Monday, the fatalities here account for 5.8% of the total cases – which is higher than Agra’s death percentage of 3.31%. This is when Agra occupies the top spot in the state with maximum number of cases and deaths. It should be noted that the doubling rate of active cases was 16.1 days as on April 30. Thereafter, the rate started dipping in May. Doubling rate refers to the rate at which the cases will double if the growth continues to be at the same rate. The lesser the doubling rate means that the time taken to double the cases will be less, and higher the doubling rate means the time required to double the cases will be more. TOI had earlier reported how the number of cases rose in the month of May after vegetable vendors and other people linked with essential supplies started testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meeruts-doubling-rate-of-active-cases-at-10-3-days-is-higher-than-natl-avg/articleshow/75835628.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 20, 2020||Kolhapur||8 test positive in Satara, tally at 146 in district||Kolhapur: Eight more people, mostly with travel history and close contacts of earlier patients, tested postive for Covid-19 in Satara on Tuesday, taking the tally to 146 in the district. According to health department officials, three patients have been admitted to the Satara district hospital while five to the Karad-based Krishna Medical College. Of the eight new patients, one has travel history of Mumbai and two of Akola while the rest are from Karad and are close contacts of an earlier positive patient. Meanwhile, two more inmates of the Satara district jail recovered on Tuesday, taking the total number of inmates to four. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh, in a new directive on Tuesday, said that teachers aged 55 and above should not be assigned any coronavirus-related work. He said that if any such orders have been issued in the past, they must be considered void and that alternative work should be assigned to these teachers with immediate effect. Singh said that younger teachers too should not be given any work related to Covid-19 for more than 15 days. “Teachers aged below 55, who have co-morbid conditions, should also be exempted.” Man tests positive in Sangli A 42-year-old man from the Antari khurd village of Sangli district’s Shirala taluka tested positive for the contagion on Tuesday. He had a travel history to Mumbai, district administration officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/8-test-positive-in-satara-tally-at-146-in-district/articleshow/75834517.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||SC asks LG Polymers to move NGT on probes||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked LG Polymers India to approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to raise the issue regarding setting up of multiple committees to probe the May 7 styrene leakage from its plant in Visakhapatnam. The company also questioned the NGT's jurisdiction in initiating proceedings on its own (suo motu) in the matter when the Andhra Pradesh High Court was already seized of the matter. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit was hearing through video-conferencing a plea filed by LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd against the May 8 order of the NGT which had taken up the matter suo-motu (on its own) on the basis of media reports about the styrene leakage and set up a five-member committee to probe the incident. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the firm, told the bench that as per the NGT's direction they have deposited the amount of Rs 50 crore. “I am not trying to stall any proceeding,” Rohatgi told the bench. He raised the issues regarding NGT's jurisdiction in initiating the suo motu proceedings in the case and also on setting up of multiple committees to probe into the incident. Rohatgi, while arguing that the state high court had gone into the matter in great detail, said that committees have been constituted by various forums including the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and there have been inquiries by pollution control board and the environment ministry as well. “This is an environmental issue,” the bench said. The apex court, which said it would keep the matter pending, asked the firm to approach the NGT and apprise the tribunal about the developments in the case. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on June 8, granted liberty to the firm to move the NGT. The leakage of hazardous gas, Styrene, happened early morning of May 7 from the company's plant at R R Venkatpuram village in Visakhapatnam resulting in the death of at least 11 people and impacting thousands more. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-asks-lg-polymers-to-move-ngt-on-probes/articleshow/75835646.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Madurai||RWAs told to distribute meds to boost immunity of residents||Madurai: Office-bearers of resident welfare associations (RWA) should take responsibility to protect their members from Covid-19 by distributing preventive medicines such as vitamin c and zinc tablets, arsenicum album 30 and kabasura kudineer or nilavembu decoction, commissioner of Madurai Ccrporation S Visakan has said.Visakan distributed the preventive medicines at four RWAs in separate events held on Tuesday. Medicines were distributed to around 8,000 people from 1,888 families in Darmasastha Vihar, Agrini, Ramnagar and Shanti Sathan residential associations.Addressing the residents, Visakan said that since there is no vaccine or treatment available for Covid-19, people should improve their immunity. “When immunity power is higher, one may not suffer any health problem even if the person gets infected. They will get automatically cured from the virus,” he said. “There are close to four lakh houses in Madurai city and it would be impossible to distribute preventive medicines to every household. Resident welfare associations should take up the responsibility of making sure their members consume them and keep their immunity power high,” he said.Corporation is in the process of distributing the preventive medicines free of cost to around one lakh families. There are 142 notified slum areas and 189 settlements in the city. Around one lakh families residing in slum areas are considered vulnerable and they will be distributed with preventive medicines, Visakan said.He also said that the corporation has installed public address systems at 20 places to continuously remind people of various safety measures like social distancing, wearing of masks and consumption of medicines. He said that arsenicum album 30, a homeopathic medicine has to be consumed on empty stomach in the morning for three continuous days. Vitamin C and zinc tablets should be consumed for 10 days in mornings and at nights. Either kabasura kudineer or nilavembu decoction need to be consumed for three to four continuous days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rwas-told-to-distribute-meds-to-boost-immunity-of-residents/articleshow/75836529.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Meerut||Spike in Covid cases: Bulandhahr reports 14, Meerut 5 and Bijnor 3||Meerut: Five new cases were reported in Meerut, 14 in Bulandshahr, eight in Hapur and three in Bijnor on Tuesday. With this, the tally in Meerut reached 347, Bulandhshahr recorded 95, Hapur reported 88 and Bijnor recorded 49 cases.Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “As many as five new cases were reported in Meerut on Tuesday. One of them is a trader from Kesarganj and the other is a private doctor from Transport Nagar. Other locations are being ascertained.”Talking about of Bijnor cases, Vijay Kumar, chief medical officer, said, “Three cases tested positive for coronavirus. These include a resident of Kamaruddin, Kiratpur and Mandawar. Two of these had arrived from Maharashtra and the other had come in contact with a Covid positive person.”Meanwhile, Bulandshahr chief medical officer Bhawtosh Shankhdhar said, “Out of the total 14 cases, 12 are migrant labourers, including six from Maharashtra, five from Gujarat and one from Delhi. Apart from these, two others include residents of Khurja who tested positive after coming in contact with previously positive tested cases.”Aditi Singh, district magistrate, Hapur, said, “As many as five people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, including three who had returned from Ahmedabad and one from Mumbai. All of them have been shifted from quarantine centres to a hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/spike-in-covid-cases-bulandhahr-reports-14-meerut-5-and-bijnor-3/articleshow/75835643.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 20, 2020||Vadodara||City lad’s safe helmet can maintain social distance||Vadodara: A city lad has developed a smart helmet that can help in maintaining social distance. “The idea to implement what I had studied came when I heard my father discussing social distance at workplace with his colleague,” said 15-year-old Vaibhav Shekar, a Class XI student of Delhi Public School, Harni.Utilising the time that he got at home due to nationwide lockdown, Shekar developed the helmet based on the concept of ultrasound. “The headgear contains all products that are readily available in the market. I have drilled and installed four reverse car parking sensors on the helmet that is used by workers in factories. The sensors are connected to a buzzer through a printed circuit board (PCB). The power supply to this is given by a 9-volt battery. The sensors are placed at an angle slightly towards ground so that it can sense people who are even shorter than me,” he explained to TOI on Tuesday.The ultrasonic sensors installed in the helmet keep emitting ultrasonic waves. “When someone gets closer than one metre, the sensor detects the person and sends a signal to the PCB. The PCB reads the signal and sends current to the buzzer to alert the individual,” said Shekar, who developed the model on his house terrace.Shekar and his father have started approaching various industries and factories with the model helmet while the kid is promoting it on Youtube.“I am also making efforts to further improvise it. For instance, if we can use radio frequency identification (RFID) that detects only helmets with RFID tags and no other objects,” he said, adding that all the wiring can be simplified to accommdate the whole unit in a band that will be easy to fix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-lads-safe-helmet-can-maintain-social-distance/articleshow/75833889.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 20, 2020||Surat||Bharuch district records four cases||Surat: Four fresh Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in Bharuch town and Ankleshwar’s Piraman area, taking their total in Bharuch district to 36 on Tuesday. Health officials said three out of four Covid-19 positive patients have come to the district from Maharashtra and the other one from Ahmedabad. Vajnath Jha, 33, Iram Chaudhary, 13, and Sahida Chaudhary, 40, had come from Mumbai a few days ago. They tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Rajesh Rajput, 46, had come from Ahmedabad. He too tested positive for the virus. Dr Nilesh Patel, epidemic officer, Bharuch said, “People coming from interstate and intrastate in Bharuch have tested positive. All those coming to the district are being medically screened and tested for Covid-19 if they have any symptom of the virus. ” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-district-records-four-cases/articleshow/75834521.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||56-yr-old GP becomes first doc to be put on ventilator||Pune: A 56-year-old general practitioner in Ghorpadigaon, currently on ventilator support, has become the first doctor from the city whose condition has turned severely critical after being diagnosed with Covid-19. The doctor is also the only patient in the Pune region who is being administered Tocilizumab (TCZ), a monoclonal antibody, which has emerged as an alternative drug for Covid‐19 patients who are at risk of developing a life-threatening immune response called the cytokine storm.“His condition worsened fast following onset of illness on May 11. He is undergoing aggressive treatment and has been on ventilator support since May 17. His condition continues to be critical, but stable. He doesn’t have pre-existing illnesses,” said a doctor from Sassoon General, where the treatment is currently on. Tocilizumab has shown encouraging clinical results, including quick temperature reversals to normal and improvements in respiratory function in Covid-19 patients. It is an immunosuppressive drug that’s mainly used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. "He is perhaps the only patient in Pune region, who is being given Tocilizumab, which is an effective but expensive treatment protocal for severely ill Covid-19 patients. It’s given to calm the inflammatory storm and reduce risk of mortality,” another doctor said.The Pune doctor’s case also points at the risks faced by healthcare workers. Nearly 450 private medical practitioners have tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far.“Recently, family members of a Solapur-based doctor tested positive. The doctor’s mother, who is now critically ill, has been moved to the Ruby Hall clinic in Pune,” Avinash Bhondwe, the state president of the Indian Medical Association, said.Fortunately, so far, there have been no Covid-related deaths among practising doctors in the state. “Two doctors died in Mumbai recently while dispensing duty. But the cause was not Covid-19,” Bhondwe said.Earlier, doctors involved in the care of infected patients were asked to stay quarantined for 14 days after serving in hospitals for 14 days. Later, they were asked to stay quarantined for seven days after seven days of work. Now, they are being asked to stay quarantined for two days after five days of work.“The rules keep changing. But what are the factors that led to these changes? We don’t know,” Bhondwe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/56-yr-old-gp-becomes-first-doc-to-be-put-on-ventilator/articleshow/75836543.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Two Delhi corporations limit property tax payments to online mode||NEW DELHI: Launching their new websites for property tax collection, two of the city’s municipal corporations, south and north, on Tuesday said they won’t be accepting any cash or cheques anymore. The tax will now have to be paid only through online modes, including debit and credit cards. The deadline for submitting tax, June 30, has not yet been extended. East Delhi Municipal Corporation, meanwhile, has decided to continue with the old system saying they haven’t been able to generate UPIC IDs of their taxpayers. The civic body’s spokesperson, Arun Kumar, said, “We want to feed the data in the new system and add more features before launching the portal. For the time being, residents can pay tax online and via cheques, but no cash will be accepted.” According to the new system, property owners will have to register their mobile number and submit details like email address, date of birth, etc afresh. A one-time password will be required to log in. Property details registered in municipal records can then be accessed after entering the UPIC number or reference ID generated earlier. While civic officials argued that the system was necessary for transparency and convenience, residents had mixed opinions. Senior citizens said the new system was implemented in a hurry. RWAs have written to the commissioners questioning the urgency of introducing the new system during the lockdown. PK Paul of East Bengal Displaced Persons Association (EBDPA) said, “There are 400-500 senior citizens living in this area who pay their taxes via cheque or at camps. Most elderly don’t know how to use a smartphone of computer properly. It will be impractical to expect them to make online payments all of a sudden. Because of the fear of catching the Covid-19 infection, they can’t even take anyone’s help outside. We strongly oppose the launch of the new system.” EBDPA members had reportedly written to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) commissioner on April 30 for putting off the launch till the end of the lockdown period. “Also, there’s no clarity on adjustment of excess commercial tax charged last year,” said Paul. Pankaj Agarwal of Safdarjung RWA said people are habitual of paying tax at camps held by SDMC. “Moreover, the website is on a trial run. If the system is made mandatory without resolving grievances and queries of residents, tax collection will be impacted.” However, a senior SDMC official said the new portal — mcdonline.nic.in — is user-friendly and aimed at catering to more people so they won’t need to step out during the lockdown. SDMC joint assessor and collector Radha Krishan said, “The new portal has the facility of getting a UPIC number, if not allotted earlier. It will accept tax for previous years and also help in adding names of more taxpayers for the same property or details of additional construction done in the past.” Krishan added that issues related to the website are being sorted out and camps have been planned from next Monday for the convenience of property owners. A north corporation official said they have launched helpline numbers, videos and standard operating procedures to educate senior citizens about the new system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-corpns-limit-property-tax-payments-to-online-mode/articleshow/75836541.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||Over 180 people booked in U’khand for violating home quarantine in 15 days||Dehradun: Uttarakhand police have registered 141 FIRs and booked 182 persons on charges of violating home quarantine orders in the past 15 days. The maximum of 59 people have been booked in Haridwar district, followed by Champawat (45), Bageshwar (32), Tehri (17), Uttarkashi (15), Naintial (5), Udham Singh Nagar (4) and Dehradun (1). To contain the spread of the virus, the state authorities have directed all those who have returned to the state to follow home quarantine norms. The officials had earlier warned that all those who flout norms will be booked. Ashok Kumar, Director General (DG) Law and Order, told TOI, “We have registered cases against 182 people for violating home quarantine orders. Basically, they all were roaming outside while they were supposed to stay inside their homes for 14 days.” In majority of violation cases, the complaints were either made by neighbours of the offenders or gram pradhans of their respective villages. All the cases have been registered under section 188 (not obeying government orders) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-180-people-booked-in-ukhand-for-violating-home-quarantine-in-15-days/articleshow/75834544.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Solapur registers 2 death, 21 new cases||KOLHAPUR: Solapur has registered one Covid-19 death and as many as 21 new cases on Tuesday, taking the total of positive patients in the district to 456. The dealth toll of the district stands at 30. Of these 21 new cases, 11 are close contacts of earlier positive patients while nine are associated with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), among others. The deceased was a 65-year-old man from the Budhwar Peth area of the city. He was admitted to the civil hospital on May 15 and was undergoing treatment for SARI. He passed away on May 18 at 9.15 pm. from the contagion, stated a health report from the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-registers-2-death-21-new-cases/articleshow/75834530.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Patients’ kin, says civil hosp about people sleeping on floor||Aurangabad: The district civil hospital came under scanner on Tuesday after several videos and pictures showing people sleeping on mattresses on the floor of the hospital started making rounds in social media. The district civil hospital has been functioning as a dedicated Covid care centre with a 150-bed capacity from March 30. Apart from people sleeping on the floor, the videos also showed a bathroom overflowing with water and a non-functional basin. The video also showed a Covid-19 patient alleging that he was being constantly shifted from one place to another and that he was sleeping on the floor. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that those sleeping on the floor were not Covid-19 patients but relatives of children and people with learning difficulties. “They opened our operation theatre, laid the mattresses there and were found sleeping when the video was taken.” Currently, there are 134 Covid-19 patients taking treatment at the hospital, which is fast approaching its capacity. Kulkarni said the hospital could accommodate upto 170 patients. After that, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) would have to stop sending patients. “We started taking patients from March 6. The AMC had close to seven weeks to arrange for another dedicated Covid care centre. Notably, municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey had stated that MGM hospital would be developed into a Covid care facility with 500-bed capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/patients-kin-says-civil-hosp-about-people-sleeping-on-floor/articleshow/75834549.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 500 test positive for Covid-19 in a single day||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Covid-19 count rose to 10,554 on Tuesday with 500 more people testing positive for the disease. This is the highest single-day increase in new cases, officials said. Earlier, on May 14, the national capital had reported maximum 472 new cases in a single day. Delhi also reported six more deaths due to novel coronavirus, taking its toll to 166. Meanwhile, state health department officials said that total 4,750 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease. “We now have 5,638 active cases in the state. Of this, 2,261 (40%) are under home quarantine while 781 (14%) are under isolation at various Covid-19 health centres and Covid-19 care centres. Only 32% patients are admitted in hospitals because they have mild to moderate symptoms, which necessitates regular monitoring,” said an official. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news He added that 158 Covid-19 positive patients are requiring ICU support and 16 patients are on ventilator support. Recently, the central government revised its advisory on discharge policy for Covid-19 positive cases. It said that patients can be discharged without testing ten days after onset of symptoms and if they are not running a fever for at least three days. This is because, officials said, a person who may test positive for the disease on follow-up after few days cannot transmit the disease to others if he or she is not symptomatic. As per the revised guidelines, after discharge, patients need to follow home isolation for seven days. The government has also tweaked the policy for quarantining healthcare workers. New guidelines said that -risk exposure is considered only when healthcare workers providing care to a Covid-19 case or lab worker handling respiratory specimen without recommended PPE or with possible breach of PPE. It also includes healthcare worker who may have performed aerosol generating procedure without PPE and those working without mask, face shield or goggles and having face to face contact with a positive case within one metre for more than 15 minutes and those having accidental exposure to body fluids. The rest are considered low risk exposure cases, as per the new guidelines. The Resident Doctor’s Association of Maulana Azad Medical College and associated hospitals has written to the Union health minister seeking withdrawal of the new guidelines for quarantining of healthcare workers, which has been notified in Delhi too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/500-test-positive-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75836559.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Rajkot||Man accused of raping six-year-old girl nabbed in Rajkot||RAJKOT: The migrant labourer who had allegedly raped a six-year-old homeless girl after abducting her from the footpath where she was asleep with her parents on early Monday morning in Jetpur of Rajkot district was nabbed on Tuesday. Police said the accused, identified as Sonu Chauhan (22), had allegedly picked up the girl and had taken her to a dark corner on the footpath where he had committed the crime. When the girl started screaming, three passers-by rushed to the spot, following which Chauhan relinquished the survivor and vanished into the cover of darkness. “However before the accused could flee from the spot, his image had been captured in the CCTV camera installed at the place. While trying to ascertain the identity of the accused, the officials of Rajkot rural local crime branch received a tip-off that the culprit was one Sonu Chauhan,” Balram Meena, Rajkot rural superintendent of police, told a press conference in Rajkot on Tuesday. “It was found during the investigation that Chauhan lived in a rented room beside Shrinath Process in Gadhani Rang of Navagadh locality in Jetpur. Acting on this information, we raided his house and nabbed him,” added Meena. Police said that Chauhan had been in Jetpur for the past 10 years hopping jobs as a labourer. He led the life of a vagabond and had not visited his native in Basai village of Nichlaul taluka in Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh. There are more than five lakh migrant labourers in Rajkot district, of them only 50,000 have been sent to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, so far since the beginning of the lockdown period to fight the spread of Covid-19, according to the district administration of Rajkot. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-accused-of-raping-six-year-old-girl-nabbed/articleshow/75834578.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19: 477 recover in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Of the total 1,447 Covid-19 patients from Marathwada, 477 have been cured so far. The region, as a whole, has registered a recovery rate of around 34%. The cured patients include 67 SRPF personnel from the Aurangabad battalion. They were declared cured on Tuesday. Marathwada, comprising eight districts, has also witnessed 44 Covid-related deaths. Aurangabad district, which has a relatively greater spread of the pandemic, has the highest number of cured patients (318) as well as causalities (36). The district, which has reported 1,080 cases so far, has a recovery rate of over 29%. In Hingoli, among 99 cases, 85 have been cured. In Nanded, of the 98 patients, 30 are now infection-free. Nanded had five deaths. Of 61 cases in Latur, 30 have recovered and two have died. In Jalna, of 36 cases, eight have been cured. Beed district has 12 cases. One patient has recovered and one has succumbed. Osmanabad has reported 10 such cases with four recoveries, while Parbhani has seven cases and one recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/477-recover-in-marathwada/articleshow/75834568.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 20, 2020||Delhi||No early hearing in JNU violence matter||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has refused to allow early hearing of a plea seeking registration of an FIR in relation to the attack on students and teachers at Jawaharlal Nehru University on January 5, saying courts have to hear only urgent cases owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The court noted that investigation pertaining to the violence on JNU campus was in progress and dismissed the plea. The case pertained to a plea filed by professor Sucharita Sen, who suffered head injuries during the attack allegedly by masked people inside the JNU campus on the date of incident and sought registration of an FIR. The duty judge observed that Sen’s plea seeking registration of FIR was pending hearing on June 18. Referring to a status report filed by police on May 18, it was noted that Sen’s medical test was carried out besides her statement, too, was recorded. The court also found no plausible reasons for preponement of the plea seeking lodging of an FIR. “The courts are to take up only urgent matters. It is beyond the comprehension of the court as to what prejudice will be caused to the complainant if already pending plea is not preponed,” it added. Sen’s counsel had urged the court to direct the police to lodge a separate FIR on Sen’s allegations while relying on several judgment of the Supreme Court. “It is worth reiterating that the investigation of the FIR already registered against the mob violence at JNU is in progress and high court has directed to the investigating agency to expedite the matter,” the court stated. It did not make any observation on a separate FIR argument as it could affect the final disposal of the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-early-hearing-in-jnu-violence-matter/articleshow/75856685.cms||Aamir Khan
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||Minor commits suicide, probe underway||Mussoorie: A minor girl committed suicide late on Tuesday evening by hanging self in her house. The parents of the deceased rushed her to the hospital in 108 ambulance service. However, she was declared brought dead. The deceased (14-year-old) was a resident of Chandal Garhi in Mussoorie. Police officials told that the reasons for the suicide has not been ascertained as yet and the death is being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-commits-suicide-probe-underway/articleshow/75834582.cms||Anmol Jain
May 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Just one home delivery order for liquor in district||PUNE: The liquor home delivery bubble seems to have burst with just one doorstep drop made in the entire district on Monday and no demand on Tuesday, in sharp contrast to the excitement in its anticipation. The state excise department data for the entire Pune division revealed surprising figures, hinting at tipplers stocking up before the home delivery system was launched following the long dry spell in the state because of the Covid-19 lockdown. The mandatory liquor permit for home delivery and several norms for liquor shops to start the facility could have also played spoilsport, a source said. In contrast, the liquor home delivery is a big hit in districts like Thane, Nagpur, Latur, Aurangabad and Jalna. Data showed Thane executed approximately 9,962 home deliveries on Monday. In Latur, the figure was over 7,037 and it was 6,140 in Nagpur. As many as 3,422 home deliveries were made in Jalna on Monday. As many as 62,916 liquor home delivery orders were executed in the state till Monday. According to the excise department data, around 616 liquor and beer shops are currently functioning in Pune district. Of them, only 14 registered with the excise department for home delivery for Monday. A top liquor retailer in the city said not even 1% liquor and beer shops in the city had opted for the home delivery option. “There are hardly one or two customers at a liquor shop at any given time these days. Liquor sales have dropped by approximately 25% because a lot of people purchased alcohol in bulk when the sales started. The alcohol shops in Pune aren’t keen on home delivery as there are issues like security of delivery personnel. Also, how viable is it to offer free home delivery when a customer places an order for a quarter of liquor?” Another liquor shop retailer said, “We are working with 40% staff strength and cannot spare even one person to make deliveries. There are other factors like registering delivery boy with the excise department, medical check-up and getting the ID card. There are security issues to. So, we cannot take a chance.” An excise department official said the rush at liquor shops in the city had dipped by 80% in comparison to the time when the shops had resumed business. “ The number of home deliveries is less in Pune as counter sales are allowed here,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/just-one-home-delivery-order-for-liquor-in-dist/articleshow/75836547.cms||Neha Madaan
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown eased but people still caged in gated societies?||Ahmedabad: Foram Shah (name changed), a professional from Prahladnagar, was told to resume work on Tuesday, as the lockdown was eased in the city. More than looking forward to resuming work, she dreaded the household chores. “With the lockdown finally eased, I was hoping for some respite but the housing society I live in, has continued its ban the entry of visitors, handymen, domestic help and cooks. It is ridiculous how societies can impose their own rules on people. Work pressure will go up now and I wonder how I will manage on both fronts,” said Shah.Though the government has eased the lockdown rules, allowing movement of people from 7am to 7pm and allowing shops and offices to resume business with social distancing norms, a number of societies in various parts of Ahmedabad, have continued their restrictions on visitors.“At our society, the restrictions on not allowing outsiders have continued as some residents are apprehensive. However, we will take a decision to allow domestic help and other visitors over the next two to three days. The onus will now be on individuals to exercise cautions and maintain hygiene as they get on with normal life,” said Alpesh Shah, who represents a residential society in the Makarba area of the city.Some societies allowed the movements of visitors and domestic help, soon after the government decision was announced. “Imposing restrictions within societies will only invite a backlash from residents. The debate over safety in the time of Covid-19 will be never-ending. We immediately allowed movement of domestic workers, cleaners and other staff after the government decision. Besides, the government has allowed opening up so that daily wagers get work, so not allowing them is no option,” said Hemant Pandya, chairman of a residential societies association.Residents who have been cooped up at home for almost two months are now losing patience and believe that with due precautions, movement of persons must be allowed. “It will always be a double-edged sword. Measures such as maintaining registers, temperature checks and sanitizing hands may be put in place while moving towards normalcy,” said Arvind Paniker, a South Bopal resident.“If a society resident moves out, there’s no guarantee that one will not get infected. We’ll have to get on with normal life with precautions and thus restrictions by residential buildings and societies don’t make sense. With precautions, things must head towards normalcy.” Gauri Wagenaar, Bodakdev resident“During two months of lockdown, we have understood the meaning of social distancing. Why would we not follow it if it is in our own interest. If the government has allowed movement of people, decisions by societies to restrict movement of visitors and domestic help are illogical.” Rupal Shah, Vastrapur resident||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-eased-but-people-still-caged-in-gated-societies/articleshow/75836566.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Surat||Surat group’s folk dance to showcase India at global event||Surat: “Festival of India’, a pre-recorded folk dance video by city-based Taal Group, has been selected for the first ‘Fest Folk em Rede’ — an online event by International Council of Organizations of Folklore Festivals and Folk Arts (CIOFF-Brazil), an official Partner of UNESCO. The first-ever online ‘International Folklore Fest folk Mundiin Research’ will be held between May 20 and 25 and will be broadcast online through its social media handles. CIOFF was created in 1970 with the aim of safeguarding, promotion and diffusion of traditional culture and folklore. Founder of the group, Krutika Shah, an architect and a classical dancer told TOI, “We are extremely happy that our folk dance has been selected to be played at a global cultural forum. This is the first online folklore festival where cultural groups from 20 countries will send pre-recorded folk dances amid the lockdown.” Taal’s folk dance will represent India and will be played on May 20 online on the global platform, said Shah, an accomplished Bharatnatyam dancer. She established Taal Group in 2005, which is only women's group and performs folk dance at various national and international festivals. “We have organized Gujarat’s first international folklore dance festival in Surat in January 2020 where participants from various countries including Poland, Slovakia, Indonesia, Romania and India had performed,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-groups-folk-dance-to-showcase-india-at-global-event/articleshow/75834630.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Tent dealers and decorators assn plea to govt||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Tent Dealers and Decorators Welfare Association has urged the government to ensure that house owners do not collect rent for three months from their workers, who are surviving without any work. The association said that about five lakh workers covered by it, are finding it difficult to save their families and provide food for the last 40 days. Government’s dole of cash and groceries should be extended for another three months. The educational expenses of the workers’ children should be borne by the government and banks should be urged to waiver interests on loans obtained by them for the next three months, the association said. Government should also lay down rules and regulations to conduct marriages like in the past, which would be the only way in which the workers livelihood could be revived and income ensured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tent-dealers-and-decorators-assn-plea-to-govt/articleshow/75836556.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Duo fleeces migrants for tickets to UP, held||SURAT: Pandesara police detained two persons on Monday for allegedly selling tickets for the Shramik special trains for migrant workers at much higher rates. Cops’ action follows after a video of the accused went viral on social media. The miscreant duo was taking advantage of the migrants’ desperation to reach their native states. Cops registered an offence against Dinanth Maurya and Vinay Maurya for selling each ticket to Uttar Pradesh for more than Rs 2,000. “The accused are not authorised persons for selling tickets and were demanding almost four times the actual price of the ticket. Police have detained the two accused and investigation is continue to find out if more people are involved in the racket,” said a police officer at Pandesara police station. In the video a number of migrant workers are seen standing in queue since Sunday evening and at around 2 am on Monday night in Gujarat Housing Board in Pandesara. The migrant workers, who claim in the video that they paid Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,800 for tickets but did not get any, fought with the accused demanding tickets to be given to them immediately since the accused continued to collect money. A complaint was lodged by Ajay Maurya, one of the persons who was charged Rs 5,600 for two tickets to Sultanpur in UP. The accused allegedly collected Rs 16,800 for six tickets to UP from another worker Vishal Saroj. The accused have been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including for cheating, criminal breach of trust, provocation that can breach public peace and negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous. The accused were booked under sections of Epidemic Diseases Act as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/duo-fleeces-migrants-for-tickets-to-up-held/articleshow/75814561.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Schools brainstorm on safe operations amid pandemic||Madurai: Many private schools across the district, have started making plans to provide a safe space for their students when they reopen perhaps in July or September. According to sources in private schools, though the schools are yet to make any final plans, they have their task cut out for them.“We have to start planning now since it is clear that covid-19 is not going to be eliminated in the next few months at least. Students need to be able to return to school and holding merely online classes is not practical in the long run particularly for younger children,” said the principal of a private matriculation school in Madurai.The schools however as a first step will have to start with online classes but even that has not been a great success in some schools in the district. “The problem is that when we tried for higher classes like Class IX, it didn’t prove to be as good a success as we thought. Many private matriculation schools cater to middle-class population who still are not very used to online classes. Watching YouTube videos or reading e-books for learning is one thing but making students sit through online classes and ensure they learn is far more challenging,” said a Class X science teacher.“For some schools with smaller campuses, social distancing is difficult to achieve. There can be guidelines but there cannot be one plan for all schools even in a district. Further, the practicality of actually making students follow social distancing with each other remains a fear for us,” said the principal. However, hand washing and use of sanitisers by students could be managed.Some schools are suggesting shift-based timings or classes on alternate days for students to ensure students would get more space even in smaller campuses. However, teachers are apprehensive about how well it would go down with parents. “It would be tough for parents to manage timings, especially when both are working and if they have two children. Further, students need to be engaged, likely by online classes on days or time they are not in school which again does not seem very feasible if they are without parental supervision too,” added the principal. Schools are further looking at how transportation to and from schools would be and how they can manage crowds when schools open for the day and end for the day. School buses also require proper maintenance and sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-brainstorm-on-safe-operations-amid-pandemic/articleshow/75836564.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University to resume administrative work||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has recently issued a circular directing all affiliated colleges to resume administrative work on the campuses with limited staff members. The varsity has converted a part of its campus infrastructure at Vishwakarma Government Engineering College near Ahmedabad into a dedicated Covid-19 centre. All the colleges and schools have been shut down for past two months due to Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed across the country to contain its spread. The state government has however, allowed universities and colleges to resume administrative work with limited staff members. GTU, which is one of the biggest varsities in the state with more than 500 colleges affiliated to it, has issued the circular to resume work from this week, said sources in the university. It has also decided to conduct mock test for students of BE, B Pharm and diploma engineering courses. Another varsity, about 15 kilometres away from GTU, the Gujarat University (GU) is however uncertain about resuming work for administrative staff members, said sources. The authorities of GU had last month issued a circular to its affiliated colleges to start administrative work. However, the campus of GU at Ahmedabad fell in containment zone due to Covid-19 cases, and the work could not be started, said sources in GU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-to-resume-administrative-work/articleshow/75814576.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||Quarantined youth, 23, refuses to eat food cooked by Dalit woman in Nainital, booked||Nainital: A 23-year-old youth, serving quarantine in a Nainital village, has been booked for allegedly refusing to eat food or drink water touched by a Dalit woman cook. The case was registered against Dinesh Chandra Milkani on the basis of a complaint filed by pradhan of Nainital’s Bhumka village. Milkani, his 12-year-old nephew and three others are serving quarantine in a government primary school in the village since May 15. Bhawani Devi, who belongs to Dalit community, has been tasked with preparing meals for the inmates. Speaking to TOI, Devi said that on May 15, she had prepared the food for all the quarantined people. “While the rest ate it, Dinesh said his food will come from his home. I thought it was normal, so I did not say anything. However later he also refused to drink water touched by me,” she alleged. As the word spread, village head Mukesh Chandra Baudhh confronted Milkani. The village head said, “Milkani said that his food will be delivered by his family. But, when we asked him to drink water touched by Devi, he refused again. It was a clear case of caste discrimination so I lodged a complaint with officials.” On his part, Milkani denied the allegation arguing that he was not well and needed the home-cooked food. When TOI asked him about his illness, he said, “‘Mere upar devta aate hain’ (I get possessed by deity)”. “The allegation that I refused to eat food because the woman belongs to a lower caste is false. I always eat home-cooked food and therefore I refused the food. There is no case of caste discrimination. And I do not eat food prepared by others because sometimes I get possessed by the deity,” he said. But the village head said that even drinking water for Milkani is delivered by his family. “They have refused to let anyone touch the food delivered by their family. The food is left at the gate. They even drink water delivered by their family,” Buadhh said. According to revenue officials, Milkani has now been booked under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), section 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as under relevant sections of the SC/ST Act. Meanwhile, Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal said that he has ordered an inquiry. “I was told about the incident after which I asked for an inquiry report. Appropriate action will be taken in the case if the charges are found to be true,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/quarantined-youth-23-refuses-to-eat-food-cooked-by-dalit-woman-in-nainital-booked/articleshow/75834636.cms||Prashant Jha
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Sunder Nursery buzzes with activity||NEW DELHI: While Sunder Nursery remains shut during the lockdown, it is still buzzing with activity, thanks to over five lakh bees thriving in the heritage park. While under normal circumstances, World Bee Day on Wednesday would have seen a flurry of activity at the nursery, including a workshop for visitors on how to handle bees and their importance in the ecosystem, experts feel that the lockdown has only helped the insects flourish, all thanks to no human disturbance. The Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC) collaborated with the Columbia Global Center, Mumbai and the Golden Hive Foundation to create a healthy bee ecosystem inside the nursery premises. Ratish Nanda, CEO of AKTC, said the conservation project started last year, with five workshops conducted till now to educate visitors. The focus of all three organisations has been on creating ‘bee hotels’ — safe places where bees can grow in numbers and live. Around 18 artificial hives have been created in the park, which Nanda says are capable of holding up to 60,000 bees each at a time. However, he points out that 90% of all bee species are solitary in nature and 50% make their nests below the ground. The organisations involved are also trying to clear up misconceptions around bees. “Bees sting only when they or the hive seems to be in danger and die upon stinging humans or other mammals. Instead of being afraid, one just needs to stay still and let them buzz and the insects will not harm you,” said Nanda. Local youth from the Nizamuddin basti have also received training for the project. Nanda says even during the lockdown, volunteers continued to take care of the hives, supplementing sugar syrup whenever required. Rakesh Gupta from the Golden Hive Foundation says the idea was to create an appropriate environment for diverse bee species, a number of which are found naturally at Sunder Nursery. “There are solitary bees here as well, not just the ones that make honey. Our common aim is to share knowledge of the flora desired by the bees. Flora on which they thrive on has been planted at Sunder nursery and other green places will also be targeted, so that we can ensure continuous sustenance for the flying insects throughout the year,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sunder-nursery-buzzes-with-activity/articleshow/75856711.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘Employers didn’t even provide foodgrains, leave alone salaries’||Nagpur: “Our employers did not even provide us foodgrains to survive during the lockdown, leave aside giving salaries They asked us to go back to our homes,” cried out a worker. He was among the 55 textile workers going to Odisha from Surat in a bus. They got funds transferred online from their kin back at home and pooled in Rs2 lakh to reach Odisha, they said. The textile industry of Surat depends on workers from Odisha who have been living in the city in Gujarat since generations. TOI caught up with the bus on the Nagpur-Amravati highway which has become the road for thousands of workers fleeing cities in the western parts of the country like Mumbai, Pune and Surat. The workers were from 3-4 sari-making units near Surat. Most of them did not even know the names of their employers. Each unit employed 30 to 40 workers, they said. However, there were no benefits like provident fund (PF) or cover from the employees state insurance corporation (ESIC), said the workers as they alighted one by one to narrate their stories. “All of us had gone to meet the owner to request him to provide us foodgrains so that we could stay in the unit, but he flatly refused,” said a worker from one of the units. “They just gave 5kg rice to each man. Do you think that can last for 2 months? On the salaries, the owner simply refused. He told us to go back to our villages,” added another. The salaries range from Rs15,000 to Rs20,000, depending on the work. “Each man works for 12 hours. The moving spindles can also injure your legs. If you get injured, they just give a small amount and we have to keep quite. There are no holidays or weekly offs. You have to go without pay for even a single day’s leave,” said one of them in his thirties. “Of course there is a four-day vacation in the Diwali season, but then, pay is cut even for absence during festival time,” said one of them in the group. “It was getting tougher by the day. There was no money left to pay rent and going back was the only way out,” they said. Lockdown may leave this man in the wilderness, forever Since the last three days, there’s a curious new face at the toll gate near Kondhali on the Nagpur-Amravati highway, from where countless workers have passed. The dusty mask around his neck is like that which is seen with most of the migrant workers. A mentally deranged person, the staffers at the toll gate say he alighted from one of the trucks passing by, and did not get back. “The vehicles usually make a brief stop a little ahead. I saw this man getting down and someone handed over his luggage too. It was a bag and an umbrella. Then, I realized that the truck had left by leaving him behind. We offered him food which he did not take,” said a staffer. The man, apparently in his thirties, says that he’s from Bihar as he roams around talking to himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/employers-didnt-even-provide-foodgrains-leave-alone-salaries/articleshow/75837245.cms||Shishir Arya
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to distribute house sites to beneficiaries on July 8||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday released the calendar of economic activities. He held a video conference with collectors and joint collectors at the camp office in Tadepalli. The chief minister has set the annual target for officials to identify the beneficiaries and include new beneficiaries in the list before every scheme is launched. The list of beneficiaries must be put up for display in every village secretariat for the scrutiny of the people. Referring to the house sites distribution on July 8, Jaganmohan Reddy told officials that it would benefit 27 lakh women and directed them to identify plots of land to be given away. If government land is unavailable, he wants them to buy land from private persons and complete the process by May 31. He also ordered them to keep the titles ready before the scheme is launched. In addition to these schemes, the second instalment of Rythu Bharosa will be given to farmers in October where each farmer would be get Rs 4,000. In the same month, the government will extend Rs 10,000 interest-free loans to hawkers and vendors and it will benefit 10 lakh persons. The second instalment under Vidya Deevena and payment to the AgriGold victims would be taken up in November and December respectively. The third and second instalment of Rythu Bharosa and Amma Vodi, respectively, will be paid in January 2021, followed by Vidya Deevena in February and interest-free loans to women in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-jagan-to-distribute-house-sites-to-beneficiaries-on-july-8/articleshow/75834615.cms||Gopi Dara
May 20, 2020||Amaravati||Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to distribute house sites to beneficiaries on July 8||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday released the calendar of economic activities. He held a video conference with collectors and joint collectors at the camp office in Tadepalli. The chief minister has set the annual target for officials to identify the beneficiaries and include new beneficiaries in the list before every scheme is launched. The list of beneficiaries must be put up for display in every village secretariat for the scrutiny of the people. Referring to the house sites distribution on July 8, Jaganmohan Reddy told officials that it would benefit 27 lakh women and directed them to identify plots of land to be given away. If government land is unavailable, he wants them to buy land from private persons and complete the process by May 31. He also ordered them to keep the titles ready before the scheme is launched. In addition to these schemes, the second instalment of Rythu Bharosa will be given to farmers in October where each farmer would be get Rs 4,000. In the same month, the government will extend Rs 10,000 interest-free loans to hawkers and vendors and it will benefit 10 lakh persons. The second instalment under Vidya Deevena and payment to the AgriGold victims would be taken up in November and December respectively. The third and second instalment of Rythu Bharosa and Amma Vodi, respectively, will be paid in January 2021, followed by Vidya Deevena in February and interest-free loans to women in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-jagan-to-distribute-house-sites-to-beneficiaries-on-july-8/articleshow/75837926.cms||Gopi Dara
May 20, 2020||India||Covid-19: India reports 0.2 deaths per lakh, global average is 4.1||NEW DELHI: Even as Covid-19 cases in India exceeded one lakh, deaths from the infection are much lower than the global average if population density is taken into account. India has about 0.2 deaths per lakh population compared to around 4.1 deaths per lakh population for the world, the health ministry said, underlining that timely identification and clinical management of cases had helped reduce deaths in the country. In the US, the country now hardest hit by the pandemic, the case mortality per lakh population stood at 26.6. For China, where the virus first began spreading, the figure is 0.3, the ministry said citing World Health Organisation’s situation report on Covid-19. In absolute numbers, India registered 3,163 deaths out of 101,139 confirmed cases. In the last 24 hours, the death toll increased by 134 but the ministry highlighted that 2,350 patients had been cured in a single day, taking the recovery rate to 38.73%. A total of 39,174 patients have been cured of Covid-19 so far, whereas 58,802 cases are still active. Of the active cases, only about 2.9% were in the ICU, health ministry data showed. Analysts said India had done well in keeping transmission as well as deaths low as compared to other nations, even after accounting for the low number of tests per million people. “India’s numbers remain much lower than what many experts had predicted at the beginning of the outbreak,” Oommen C Kurian, senior fellow of health initiative at Observer Research Foundation, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-reports-0-2-deaths-per-lakh-global-average-is-4-1/articleshow/75837654.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 20, 2020||Pune||Bajaj Finance allots Rs 900cr for Covid-19 impact||Pune: Bajaj Finance, India’s largest consumer durables financier, said it has set aside Rs900 crore to weather the impact of Covid-19. After doing so, the company posted a consolidated net profit of Rs948 crore in the quarter ended March 2020 (down from Rs1,176 crore, a year ago). The company said that it lost 10 days and about 1 million potential loans as a result of the Covid-19 lockdown. The company, which typically adds about 20-25% new loans every quarter, could manage only a 3% increase in the January-March quarter. The quarter saw the company lose about 15 days business across the consumer durables segment, which it relies heavily on to push several products. The last few years has seen an exponential rise in debt-fuelled purchase of consumer durable products, from smart TVs to smartphones. For the full year, the company said that its net profit grew by 32% to Rs5,264 crore and the assets under management grew by 27% to Rs1,47,153 crore. It said that it has a liquidity surplus of Rs15,275 crore at the end of March 2020, which it said grew to Rs20,900 crore by mid-May and that it continues to remain well capitalized among non-bank financial companies. It also said that in all it has set aside Rs1,954 crore in the quarter against Rs409 crore a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bajaj-finance-allots-rs-900cr-for-covid-19-impact/articleshow/75835742.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 20, 2020||Rajkot||Woman killed for resisting rape attempt in Rajkot||Rajkot: A 27-year-old woman was murdered after she fought back a rape attempt by a man in Charel village of Rajkot’s Jamkandorna taluka on Tuesday. The accused, Yuvrajsinh Darbar, also made an unsuccessful attempt to commit suicide, fearing arrest.Darbar had waylaid the woman Sangeeta Boricha who was walking home from the field where she was working as farm labourer. He tried to rape her but Boricha resisted his advances. In a fit of rage, Darbar picked up a big stone and smashed it on her head. Boricha died on spot, police said.Darbar then tried to end his own life“Overcome with anxiety about the impending police action, Darbar tired to end his life by consuming pesticides. He has been admitted to Jamkandorana Civil Hospital, where his condition is said to be out of danger,” said an official from Jamkandorana police station. “He will be arresting him after testing him for Covid-19,” the official said.Police investigation revealed that Sangeeta was molested many times by Darbar earlier too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-killed-for-resisting-rape-attempt-in-rajkot/articleshow/75834664.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||10 more die of nCoV, 193 test positive in Pune||Pune: Ten more patients succumbed to Covid-19 complications in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), while 193 people tested positive for the contagion on Tuesday, taking the case and casualty counts to 4,370 and 221, respectively, in the region. Of the fresh cases, 154 were recorded in the Pune municipal areas, five in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 34 in the rural and cantonment areas. Of the 10 deaths, eight were reported in the PMC limits, while two in the PCMC areas. Nine of the deceased were aged 50 and above and had co-morbidities. The deceased included a 65-year-old woman of Yerawada, a 64-year-old woman from the Parnakuti area, a 50-year-old woman from Mangalwar Peth, a 79-year-old man from Ganj Peth, a 67-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 70-year-old man from Kondhwa and a 72-year-old man from Saibabanagar. A 50-year-old woman died at Naidu hospital. Two Covid-19 patients from Pimpri Chinchwad died on Tuesday, Pavan Salve, additional medical officer of health, PCMC, said. Two areas in Bhosari and Wadmukhwadi were sealed on Tuesday night. The deceased included a 40-year-old woman and a 78-year-old man from Bhosari. A total of 84 patients are admitted in PCMC hospitals, while 132 patients have been discharged till now. Over 150 patients are in critical condition, of which 43 are on ventilator support, district health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-more-die-of-ncov-193-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75836590.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 20, 2020||Chennai||23 of 178 on Dubai flight to Chennai test +ve; 688 new cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: People returning home are fast adding to Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count with 23 passengers of just one flight from Dubai testing positive on Tuesday. Of the 688 fresh cases, 87 had arrived from abroad or other states. Meanwhile, three deaths took the state’s toll to 84, while the total number of cases is now 12,488. The flight had landed in Chennai on Monday with 178 passengers. Chennai remained the hotspot with 552 fresh cases. Neighbouring Chengalpet recorded 22 cases, Tiruvallur eight and Kancheepuram five. Trichy, which hasn’t seen a positive since May 12, recorded a case on Tuesday. Tiruvarur in central TN completed 14 days without any fresh case. “At least 60% of the state cases are from Chennai. The clusters in Chennai are mainly among three zones. And even in these zones there are certain hotspots. For instance, in Royapuram one division contributes 85% of cases, said Greater Chennai Corporation nodal officer J Radhakrishnan. “We have rolled out micro-plans for containment in these zones. The aim is to ensure compliance,” he said. On Tuesday, a total of 37 air passengers — 23 from the Dubai flight, 13 who came from Dubai, Kuwait and Malaysia last week, and one passenger from Maldives — tested positive. They had tested negative on arrival, but tested positive after the second test, officials said. They were in quarantined at hotels or government facility centres since they landed. “The 154 other passengers of the Dubai flight who tested negative (one sample under process) have been asked to remain in quarantine at paid or government facilities for a week,” officials said. In addition, 49 people who came by road from Maharashtra and one person from Kerala also tested positive on Tuesday, according to the bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health. They included 20 who reached district check posts at Tirunelveli, 10 who reached Kallakurichi, six who reached Karur, and five in Thoothukudi. In Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Karur and Cuddalore, fresh cases were reported from other state returnees. Tirupur, Coimbatore, Erode and Namakkal districts in western Tamil Nadu, which have no active cases, continued to maintain the status quo. Sivaganga and Salem, which started reporting fresh cases after a long break, had no new cases on Tuesday. The total number of persons tested dropped to 9,844 from 11,760 on Monday and the state health officials maintained that they were not cutting down on tests. “Fewer people are tested today because only they require it,” said a senior health official. A total of 489 patients were discharged following treatment on Tuesday. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan in Coimbatore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/23-of-178-on-dubai-flight-to-city-test-ve-688-new-cases-in-tn/articleshow/75836586.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Medical College junior doctors to hold black-badge protest today||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following a conflict between the junior doctors’ association of Andhra Medical College (AMC-JUDA) and the college administration, the junior doctors will go on a black-badge protest on Wednesday and are planning to stop their services from Thursday if the situation does not improve. The junior doctors have also submitted their grievances to the joint collector. Speaking about the issues, AP JUDA president Dr N Deepchand said, “Recently, a junior doctor had tested positive for coronavirus while attending duties. However, the principal remarked before the media that it was due to negligence of the PG medico himself, which is an insensitive statement.” Added to it, the medicos said they were sent to the outskirts to attend to LG Polymers vapour leak victims even though PHCs and CHCs are present in the villages surrounding the plant. “We are under the directorate of medical education (DME), while PHCs/CHCs are under the health directorate. The principal is not allocating duties to PGs evenly and some are being made to do all the work,” said a junior doctor. APJUDA’s president was also served a memo by AMC principal Dr P V Sudhakar for raising funds in March for PPEs and masks. The donation money, worth around Rs 18 lakh, was deposited in his personal bank accounts and the principal had asked for details of the accounts. Clarifying about the complaints, Dr PV Sudhakar said, “I issued a memo to APJUDA because their president was raising cash donations through social media that amounts to violating the discipline of the institute. They could have asked for donation in kind like N95 masks and PPEs. And we sent AMC PGs to survey LG Polymers victims to supplement the daily survey efforts. Medical staff and doctors from PHCs and CHCs in those affected villages are not sufficient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/amc-junior-doctors-to-hold-black-badge-protest-today/articleshow/75842930.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara prepares for spike||Vadodara: With the easing of lockdown, the possibility of number of Covid-19 cases increasing has become imminent. Therefore, the health department and the administration have also prepared themselves to meet the challenges ahead. Not wanting to take any chances, the number of beds available in the city to treat Covid-19 patients in the city has been more than tripled since May 11 itself. From 1,840 beds, the capacity has now been increased to 6,700 beds in the city. These include the capacity of Covid Care Centres, Dedicated Covid Health Centres and Dedicated Covid Hospitals. While till now the existing capacity had been surplus even till May 10. With the new guidelines for home-based Covid care, officials are also hoping to keep patients at their home as far as possible. “We should expect an escalation of transmission as not all patients will be symptomatic and not necessarily having complications. There could be proportionate increase also,” said officer on special duty, Dr Vinod Rao. Rao added that the purpose of the lockdown is to delay the process and stagger in certain areas of the city. The preparedness for Covid-19 has been divided into three phases by officials. The second phase for the preparedness will end on May 31. The most difficult phase when officials expect a deluge of cases will be the third one for which preparedness will be in place by June 1. Depending on the situation that emerges by June 1, further decisions will be made. The administration plans to have 12,000 beds for Covid-19 treatment by June 1. When asked about the possible number of cases that the city could witness in the coming days, Rao said that he would not put a figure to it. Rao, however, added that the preparedness was an indication of an eventuality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-prepares-for-spike/articleshow/75833980.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Confusion over containment zone data||Gandhinagar: Containment zone data released by the state health and family welfare department on Tuesday for municipal corporations and districts had several discrepancies, leading to confusion among both authorities and citizens. The department revised the list of containment zones later in the evening, which led to further confusion among people. The first list released earlier in the day, said that around eight lakh citizens were in containment zones. The revised list issued later in the evening, said 31 lakh persons were living in containment zones. Sources in the state government said, “We have received feedback from various sources that areas in the eastern parts of Ahmedabad are not in containment zones, but are still considered to be under lockdown. The government might issue a clarification in the matter soon.” Three districts are now notified as red zone, 17 districts in orange zone and 13 districts are categorised in green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/confusion-over-containment-zone-data/articleshow/75836579.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Medical College junior doctors to hold black-badge protest today||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following a conflict between the junior doctors’ association of Andhra Medical College (AMC-JUDA) and the college administration, the junior doctors will go on a black-badge protest on Wednesday and are planning to stop their services from Thursday if the situation does not improve. The junior doctors have also submitted their grievances to the joint collector. Speaking about the issues, AP JUDA president Dr N Deepchand said, “Recently, a junior doctor had tested positive for coronavirus while attending duties. However, the principal remarked before the media that it was due to negligence of the PG medico himself, which is an insensitive statement.” Added to it, the medicos said they were sent to the outskirts to attend to LG Polymers vapour leak victims even though PHCs and CHCs are present in the villages surrounding the plant. “We are under the directorate of medical education (DME), while PHCs/CHCs are under the health directorate. The principal is not allocating duties to PGs evenly and some are being made to do all the work,” said a junior doctor. APJUDA’s president was also served a memo by AMC principal Dr P V Sudhakar for raising funds in March for PPEs and masks. The donation money, worth around Rs 18 lakh, was deposited in his personal bank accounts and the principal had asked for details of the accounts. Clarifying about the complaints, Dr PV Sudhakar said, “I issued a memo to APJUDA because their president was raising cash donations through social media that amounts to violating the discipline of the institute. They could have asked for donation in kind like N95 masks and PPEs. And we sent AMC PGs to survey LG Polymers victims to supplement the daily survey efforts. Medical staff and doctors from PHCs and CHCs in those affected villages are not sufficient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amc-junior-doctors-to-hold-black-badge-protest-today/articleshow/75834637.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||Weary staff doffs PPE to beat heat||Bhopal: Unable to bear the scorching 42 degrees heat, health workers — clad in heavy personal protective equipment (PPE) suits — are resorting to shocking measure to ‘cool-off’. Some of them were spotted removing their personal protective equipment (PPE) suits in front of an air-cooler, and thus adding to the possibility of virus spread. Aerosol particles of COVID-19 travel over 8 to 30m distance, according to studies. The incident took place on Tuesday when the health workers were on duty at Habibganj station to check passengers for symptoms of COVID-19, before they could board a train. These team of doctors gave a health check to more than 2,000 people bound for Bihar. At a time when donning and doffing of PPE suit is regarded as the point of transmission, where health workers are most likely to get infected with COVID-19, these health workers partially removed their PPE suits and bent towards the air cooler. Aerosol particles of COVID-1,9 with added wind velocity of the cooler, could impact hundreds if anyone of them catches the infection. “We arrived at the Habibganj station at 9 am. The air cooler has no water and we have not been served food either,” said Dr Manoj Solanki. The temperature on Tuesday was above 42 degrees Celsius. According to sources, the doctors who were not actively screening patients, partially removed their PPE suits to get some air. When asked if they were aware of the risk their action might cause, the health workers dubbed their action as the only way to continue with their assigned tasks. Going by the World Health Organisation (WHO), a cough or sneeze may help virus particles travel up to 8 metres. However, in front of air-cooler, the length of the aerosol particles of COVID-19 spreading could be much further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/weary-staff-doffs-ppe-to-beat-heat/articleshow/75835747.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Madurai||Teachers, parents slam edu dept for decision on Class X exams||Madurai: Teachers and parents have criticised the decision by the state education department to postpone Class X state board exams, as a mere eyewash. They also slammed the education department for making such hurried announcements without proper clarity and creating undue stress for students. “The move is welcome as it gives additional time to make arrangements for schools and students. However, it is still shocking that the education department is announcing these dates when there is still no clarity on how the Covid-19 pandemic situation will be next month,” said the principal of a private matriculation school in Madurai. Teachers said that mere postponement of dates is not going to ensure the safety of students amid a pandemic situation. “Even the CBSE is holding exams only in July. It would be better if the Class X exams are held after the CBSE exams. By then, we will also get an idea of how to conduct the examinations for such large number of students,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Government school teachers said the exams should not be held unless schools are allowed to reopen to hold special classes for Class X students at least for two weeks before the exams begin. It would be unfair for many students, especially from rural backgrounds who will have a hard time as they may not have been able to study properly from home during the lockdown. Parents also slammed the education department for lack of clarity in announcements. “This is not the first time the education department is doing this. It happened in case of board exams for Classes V and VIII as well by first announcing and then cancelling them. Such announcements creates so much undue stress for students and parents,” said Hema V, a parent of a Class X student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teachers-parents-slam-edu-dept-for-decision-on-class-x-exams/articleshow/75836574.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Property registration dept manages to mop up only Rs250cr since April||Pune: The outbreak of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown have dealt a severe blow to the property registration department that has earned barely Rs250 crore since April as against its average monthly income of Rs2,200-2,300 crore. After two months of non-operation, the government has allowed resumption of 475 of the 516 property registration offices across the state to replenish its depleting exchequer. The government has kept closed 41 registration offices in the containment zones in the key revenue generation centres such as Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur. On Monday, 38 of the 57 registration offices in Pune district were functional. The registration offices in the non-containment zones of Mumbai also reopened. However, both the cities did not record any registration on the first day. In April, the department had generated only Rs180 crore through share certificate transfer registrations and some minor property registrations in the rural areas. “We will not call it a loss of revenue. It’s a situation that has triggered a delay in revenue generation. The situation will change in coming days,” state Inspector General of Revenue and Controller of Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said. For the last financial year, the state government had set Rs28,000 crore as the target for the property registration department. By the end of March, the department had mopped up Rs28,280crore. The department usually earns Rs27,000-28,000 through property registration every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-registration-dept-manages-to-mop-up-only-rs250cr-since-april/articleshow/75836603.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Reshuffle at the top: 16 bureaucrats transferred in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh government transferred has 16 bureaucrats on Tuesday. A GO was issued by the chief secretary in this regard. Special chief secretary (YAT & C department) was posted as special chief secretary (BC Welfare department). B. Rama Rao, director, BC Welfare, was placed in full additional charge of the post of managing director, Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP). K Ram Gopal, principal secretary to the government, was posted as principal secretary to the government (sports and youth welfare), YAT and C department. Rajat Bhargava, special chief secretary (excise and CT) revenue department, was given full additional charge of special chief secretary (tourism, culture, archaeology and museums). Kantilal Dande was made secretary to government, tribal welfare department. Siddharth Jain, commissioner and IG of registrations and stamps, was given additional charge of director, survey, settlements and land records. Kanna Babu, special commissioner of disaster management and ex-officio additional secretary to government revenue , was given additional charge of commissioner and fisheries. Joint secretary to governor P Arjuna Rao was transferred as special commissioner of Endowments departments. Other IAS officers like G Srinivasulu, A Siri, S Dhilli Rao were placed in the social welfare department, joint collector of Anantapur and director of civil supplies respectively. M Madhusudhan Reddy, MD, APMDC, was made MD AP State Fibernet Limited. VG Venkata Reddy, director, mines was as in charge to the post of managing director, APMDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/reshuffle-at-the-top-16-bureaucrats-transferred/articleshow/75834659.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Amaravati||Reshuffle at the top: 16 bureaucrats transferred in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh government transferred has 16 bureaucrats on Tuesday. A GO was issued by the chief secretary in this regard. Special chief secretary (YAT & C department) was posted as special chief secretary (BC Welfare department). B. Rama Rao, director, BC Welfare, was placed in full additional charge of the post of managing director, Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP). K Ram Gopal, principal secretary to the government, was posted as principal secretary to the government (sports and youth welfare), YAT and C department. Rajat Bhargava, special chief secretary (excise and CT) revenue department, was given full additional charge of special chief secretary (tourism, culture, archaeology and museums). Kantilal Dande was made secretary to government, tribal welfare department. Siddharth Jain, commissioner and IG of registrations and stamps, was given additional charge of director, survey, settlements and land records. Kanna Babu, special commissioner of disaster management and ex-officio additional secretary to government revenue , was given additional charge of commissioner and fisheries. Joint secretary to governor P Arjuna Rao was transferred as special commissioner of Endowments departments. Other IAS officers like G Srinivasulu, A Siri, S Dhilli Rao were placed in the social welfare department, joint collector of Anantapur and director of civil supplies respectively. M Madhusudhan Reddy, MD, APMDC, was made MD AP State Fibernet Limited. VG Venkata Reddy, director, mines was as in charge to the post of managing director, APMDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/reshuffle-at-the-top-16-bureaucrats-transferred/articleshow/75837963.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Madurai||GRH probes bribe charge against nurse||MADURAI: Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) dean Dr J Sangumani has said that an inquiry was held into the allegations of bribery against one of the staff nurses posted in the labour ward on Sunday night based on a written complaint received on Tuesday. “A three-member panel including the resident medical officer (RMO) inquired with the couple who were forced to give the bribe. As of now we only know that the suspect is a nurse dressed in white sari who was posted in the labour ward. Hence, based on their detailed report, strict action will be taken against the person responsible,” said Dr Sangumani. The complaint was given by S Jaganesan, the state organizing secretary of ‘Makkal Satta Urimai Iyakkam’, on behalf of a couple. The woman had given birth to a baby girl by natural delivery on Sunday night at the labour ward around 7pm. A little later, they were asked to shell out a bribe of Rs 700 by one of the nurses there to see the newborn. The couple had negotiated and paid Rs 400 to the nurse. The incident came to light on Monday when the activist gave an oral complaint to the GRH dean. Meanwhile, Jaganesan said he was contacted by a woman over phone on Monday night begging not to file the complaint. “A woman claiming to be from GRH said she did not mean to take the bribe and apologized. She even offered to return the Rs 400 if I don’t file the complaint. I have the audio recording of the conversation where she repeatedly seeks pity saying she is in distress,” he said. Also, according to the written complaint by Jaganesan, the couple claimed that they had also paid bribes totalling Rs 750 to as many as six other people (names unknown) at GRH to facilitate various services they availed there since admission to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-probes-bribe-charge-against-nurse/articleshow/75836596.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Tenants can’t stay indefinitely without paying rent’||NEW DELHI: The lockdown has paved way for a new type of litigation in Delhi courts. Recently, a tenant, who got stuck outside the city owing to the lockdown, knocked on court doors to seek a stay fearing eviction from his rented accommodation. Though a relief was given to him by a Delhi court in terms of a 'status quo', he was asked to clear his rental arrears. Experts opine that though tenants have no legal right to stay without paying rent indefinitely, they do however have the option of moving civil courts or making use of “force majeure” or act of God. The tenancy issue before the court got agitated in a civil suit by the tenant who feared being evicted from the suit property on account of his absence and inability to pay rent due to the lockdown. "Plaintiff is held up in Bahadur Garh due to pandemic situation of Covid-19 and lockdown. His cook and one of his friends are staying in the suit property at present," his counsel argued. The tenant also assured to arrange for funds immediately after the lockdown was lifted. On the contrary, the landlord's counsel stated that the tenant hadn't paid his rent, maintenance charges, electricity and water bill since February 2020. In the opinion of senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, though the government passed orders protecting the students, workers and migrants from being evicted for non-payment of rent during the lockdown, it is not a permanent feature. “Tenants can seek extension of time for making payments of rent. However, they don’t have a legal right to continue to stay indefinitely without rent. If landlords threaten the tenants of eviction for non-payment of rent during lockdown, they can approach the civil courts for injunction and file complaints with the local police under relevant laws,” he says. Although there is no specific law that empowers a tenant to take a legal recourse, advocate Nishant Kumar Shrivastava feels that there could be a situation where the tenant fails to pay rent or the landlord stresses upon clearing the unpaid rent or takes legal recourse to evict him. He describes this as a legal relationship – between the landlord and tenant – exclusively and conclusively regulated by the terms and conditions of the lease deed/ rent agreement or, legally speaking, by the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 and the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 unless the agreement is governed by the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 (monthly rent less than Rs 3500). “If there is any such condition in the agreement wherein the tenant is given the freedom to not to pay any rent in such an eventuality like the present pandemic and lockdown (a force majeure event), then it is clear that landlord will have to act as per the consequences,” Shrivastava explains. But there’s an almost zero possibility given the standard agreement templates available in the market. By definition, force majeure is an unprecedented event or situation which is beyond human control. A force majeure clause is invariably incorporated in contractual agreements between landlords and tenants and relieves parties from performing their contractual obligations during the course of such force majeure events. But such a clause, feels advocate Arpit Bhargava, could be instrumental in allowing a tenant to use during Covid-19 pandemic in seeking a suspension of rent during force majeure conditions or revision/renewal of conditions of lease deed with mutual consent. “However, the same shall be applicable only if due notice has been given to the landlord/lessor,” he points out. Advocate Manish Makhija thinks in the current situation, payment of monthly rent should be left to be a personal negotiation between a landlord and a tenant as no general rule is tailor-made for this situation. “In case a tenant proposes only deferment of payment of rent, etc., no landlord would reject the proposal and that is what is legally and morally correct as well,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tenants-cant-stay-indefinitely-without-paying-rent/articleshow/75836656.cms||Aamir Khan
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Coronavirus safety measures trigger stormy housing complex debates in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A slew of additional “safety measures” taken up by housing societies across the city has created a debate and heated arguments among the residents, with some flat owners expressing their angst at some of the norms laid down by the associations or facility managers. A section of residents at Urbana, a posh multi tower complex near Ruby Hospital, has been vocal after the authorities asked its residents to stop walking, jogging, cycling or walking their pets inside the complex after one of the residents at Tower 6 was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 15. TimesViewIn many of these cases, there may not be any right or wrong. Housing societies, too, are having to grapple with new sets of rules every few weeks as we move from lockdown to lockdown. How we behave over the next few weeks is going to be critical in our struggle with the new disease and our response will have to evolve according to the situation.“We can see people gossiping in clusters but they are asking people not to walk or jog inside the complex. When the rest of the city is slowly opening up preparing to face the infection, it seems we are getting further inside a cocoon,” said one of the residents of the complex. Debjani Mukherjee, vice president of the residential project, said the decision was taken in the best interest of the residents. She added that they were still discussing if some restrictions could be relaxed. “The recent circular has angered a section of residents. We are still holding meetings to finalise if we can allow walking inside the complex but we are taking some precautions as the family members of the patient have not been tested till now,” said Mukherjee. At Upohar condominium, the authorities had to conduct a voting among its residents recently over the issue of allowing maids, when a whopping 85% had voted against the idea of allowing maids. But after the end of Lockdown 3, following an internal meeting, the association had allowed maids inside the complex with some restrictions. “There are still several residents who are against the motion. But we had to take a chance and from Monday, we allowed maids. Now we are just praying that none of the residents catch an infection any time soon,” said a senior official of the association. At Silver Spring complex off EM Bypass, the main issue of contention has been only “clockwise movement” during morning and evening walks, which several residents opine is difficult scientifically. “It would have made more sense, if they allowed anticlockwise movement,” said a resident. Ashok Baid, a senior member of the association, said the unidirectional movement has been thought of to make sure that people don’t cross each other. “Further we are also not allowing people to run. While running, they often pant and cough which can expose another resident to infections,” said Baid. Another premium housing complex in Tollygunge also had a heated debate last week when the association members said the domestic help cannot use elevators and the norm that one domestic help can work at only one house. “There was a heated debate over a list of 12 precautionary measures listed by our association,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-safety-measures-trigger-stormy-housing-complex-debates/articleshow/75835790.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 20, 2020||Pune||Property tax revenue drops, civic coffers bleed in time of Covid-19||Pune: The Coronavirus outbreak has adversely affected the property tax collections of the civic bodies of the city and Pimpri Chinchwad. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) could mop up only 40% of the revenue compared to the corresponding period of last year. The PMC had earned Rs380 crore from April 1 and May 18, 2019. The revenue has reduced to only Rs150 crore this year during the same period. Poor response to offline payment system has affected the collection. The revenue in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has also gone down by 79%. Against Rs57.57 crore collected between April 1 and May 19, 2019, the collections for the same period this year have been Rs11.78 crore. The citizens usually come forward in large numbers to pay the tax before May 31, as the PMC administration offers 10-20% discount on the tax. “Many citizens pay tax at the citizens facilitation centres that were closed due to the lockdown. It has affected the revenue,” said Vilas Kanade, head of the PMC’s property tax department. He said around 50% of the total revenue generated by the PMC came through the online mode. But the decline in offline collection has impacted the overall revenue. The civic administration has kept a target of Rs2,000 crore for the 2020-21 financial year. The impact of Covid-19 and the ensuing loss to business and households have resulted in a double whammy for the Pimpri Chinchwad civic body’s property tax department. To add to this, no new property transaction has been possible since April 1, 2020. Last year, the civic body had earned Rs490 crore through property tax as against Rs472 crore in the previous year ending March 2019. The civic body had also proposed a hike in property tax for old properties, as the rates of the adjacent properties in many areas remained drastically different despite the residents enjoying the same civic amenities. A PCMC official said the proposal to hike tax rates was likely to be put on the back burner now. Small industries in the township have been demanding a waiver of property tax this year because of the economic hardship in the time of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-tax-revenue-drops-civic-coffers-bleed-in-time-of-covid-19/articleshow/75836619.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||UP family visits Haridwar to find groom for daughter, get stuck at host's home for 2 months||Dehradun: Meet-the-Parents moments can often be awkward for everyone involved, but this one takes the cake. A family from Allahabad which travelled to Haridwar to meet the parents of a prospective match for their daughter has been stuck at their host’s house for two months due to the lockdown. The guests — the woman’s parents, uncle and aunt — said they had proposed shifting to a hotel, but their hosts would have none of it. “We didn’t want to impose on the family so had suggested shifting to a hotel but they told us to stay with them as it would be easier for us,” Shravan Kumar, the woman’s uncle, told TOI. The sleeping arrangements for the three-bedroom house were quickly laid out — the girl’s family got a room on the ground floor, the prospective groom and his mother shifted to another while his elder brother and wife occupied the third room. While the boy’s family has shown considerable hospitality, the match isn’t official yet. Kumar said the boy’s family would visit them in Allahabad once before finalising things. The girl’s family is now trying to arrange a pass to return home. In yet another instance of lockdown spawning an awkward situation, a man from Uttarkashi who came to Dehradun to get engaged has been living with his fiancée's family since March end after getting stranded due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/up-family-visits-haridwar-to-find-groom-for-daughter-get-stuck-at-hosts-home-for-2-months/articleshow/75834682.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||After 58-day lockdown, Telangana back in business, but buzz missing||HYDERABAD: Over 58 days after being under lock and key, the shutters finally went up on commercial establishments in Hyderabad on Tuesday, even as many continued to stay away from resuming business just yet. While automobile and AC showrooms had already restarted their engines last week — following a go-ahead from chief minister, K Chandrasekhar Rao — they were joined by textile, jewellery, footwear and other standalone shops dotting the city’s landscape. The largest crowds were spotted outside salons with residents making a dash for them, either for a long-pending hair-cut or a grooming session. Many outlets were, however, compelled to send back some clients so as to ensure social distancing within their premises. According to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) records, there are about 2.5 lakh commercial establishments within its limits. While malls and restaurants kept their doors closed for walk-ins and takeaways, online delivery portals resumed operations, albeit with restrictions on timings — between 7 am and 5.30 pm only. Most companies still working from homeCabs, auto-rickshaws, and inter-district RTC buses too hit the streets, bringing much relief to travellers dependent on public transport. Drivers said that demand was slow on Day 1, while hoping for it to pick up in the days to come. The Secunderabad Cantonment area, comprising over 6,000 shops and commercial units, continued to stay shut with authorities stating that it will reopen on Wednesday. SCB officials said that they would also implement the odd-even rule being followed by GHMC. But the norm, some said, failed to prove useful on Tuesday with the municipal authorities unable to mark almost 50% of the shops (as odd or even) on the first day of business, amid the lockdown. Some traders said that lack of clarity over the policy forced them to stay home. The footfall in offices too remained thin, despite the government allowing them to work with 100% strength. Employees that TOI spoke to said that was either because companies are still insisting on work-from-home or due to limited availability of public transport within the city. Most of the workforce, they said, use the metro or inter-city RTC buses that are still shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-58-day-lockdown-t-back-in-business-but-buzz-missing/articleshow/75837431.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Div earns Rs 70cr from liquor sales||Pune: The state has raked in Rs150 crore worth of revenue from excise duty since liquor sales resumed on May 5. Pune division, which includes Pune, Solapur, and Ahmednagar districts, earned Rs70 crore between May 5 and 18. “Maharashtra’s average monthly revenue from liquor sales was Rs1,200 crore before the lockdown. Revenue is collected at the liquor factory level, when the excise department gets duty on liquor sold to the wholesaler,” a state excise department official told TOI. Liquor industry sources said since the manufacturing units are not operating at full capacity, revenue hasn’t shown much sign of growth. “The reasons for that are many, like strict restrictions by authorities for operating the units, unavailability of labour, meagre raw material, etc,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/div-earns-rs-70cr-from-liquor-sales/articleshow/75836645.cms||Neha Madaan
May 20, 2020||Pune||Toll collection climbs up at Pune-Mum eway||Pune: The toll collection along the Pune-Mumbai expressway has increased slightly over the past eight days after recording negligible collection due to the restrictions on transportation during the lockdown. According to the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) officials, the toll collection is less than or equal to 5% of what it used to be before the lockdown. “The toll collection has been underwhelming for the past two months. However, after the slew of relaxations announced by the government in the past 6-8 days, we are collecting around 5% of our average daily collection. Our offices were closed until earlier this week and I am on Covid-19 duty so I do not have the exact figures,” an MSRDC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toll-collection-climbs-up-at-pune-mum-eway/articleshow/75836634.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 20, 2020||Chennai||Odisha man trying to cycle 740km home from Chennai found dead||CHENNAI: A guest worker from Chennai who attempted to cycle to his home at Lachipeta in Malkangiri district of Odisha was found dead at Kavarapettai near Gummidipoondi on the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border on Tuesday allegedly due to exhaustion caused by hunger. Some passers-by spotted him lying dead frothing at his nose and mouth on a sidewalk in the town. A team from the Arambakkam police station registered a case under Section 174 (unnatural death) of CrPC and sent the body to Ponneri government hospital for autopsy. According to police, the man, identified as Ram Biswas, 36, was employed as a construction worker with a private firm at Velachery in the city for the past two years. Biswas and four other fellow workers from Odisha have been pleading with the agent, who got them the job, and the construction firm owners to send them back to their native place. Quoting a security guard at the construction site, police said all the five workers left Velachery on separate bicycles on Monday night with their belongings. Kavarapettai is 60km away from Biswas’s work site. According to Lawrence, one of the agents, though many of the guest workers had left the state through trains and buses, Biswas and a few others stayed back as they didn’t have the money to pay for their travel. Food became a problem for Biswas and the group as some fellow workers who could cook had also left. After watching videos of workers cycling back to their homes across the country on social media, the five decided to pedal their way to their homes, Lawrence said. TN police are now trying to trace the other four workers and have sought the help of their counterparts in Andhra Pradesh in locating them. Tiruvallur police suspect that Biswas may have fallen behind due to hunger and thirst and may have collapsed on the roadside. His friends may have noticed him missing late and may have proceeded with their ride after failing to trace him. Biswas cycle was also missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/odisha-man-trying-to-cycle-740km-home-from-chennai-found-dead/articleshow/75836649.cms||Selvaraj A
May 20, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 40 Covid-19 cases||MADURAI: After reporting 50+ Covid-19 cases for four consecutive days, the number of positive cases declined to 40 in the southern district on Tuesday. Now, the total Covid cases in south TN is 934. However, Tirunelveli reported 20 more cases from other states taking the total imported cases to 125. All of them, including four children under 10, had returned from Maharashtra. The total Covid-19 cases in Tirunelveli are 226 and it remains the highest among the southern districts. Other state/country-related Covid-19 cases were also reported in Virudhunagar (1), Dindigul (2), Tenkasi (2), Kanyakumari (3) and Tuticorin (5). With five cases on Tuesday, Tuticorin district has 50 imported cases since May 14. In Kanyakumari, one more person who had returned from Maldives turned Covid-19 positive. Earlier, four people from Maldives tested Covid-19 positive in the district on May 15. Out of the 40 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, only seven cases were local cases. Ramanathapuram recorded two local cases; both are women with contact history. The district had last recorded a local case on May 14. Kanyakumari (2), Tuticorin (1), Theni (1), and Dindigul (1) also reported local cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-40-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75836648.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||With precautions, bustle finally back in western Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Back to life, finally. With commuters and traffic on the roads, shops reopening, cabs plying from one place to another and private offices resuming operations, Ahmedabad’s 55 days of hibernation finally ended. While businesses and retailers gear up to go back to business as usual, citizens are breathing a sigh of relief. In the eastern part of the city, most areas continued to bear a deserted look with shops and offices remaining closed. Areas such as Satellite, Prahladnagar, South Bopal, Vejalpur, CG Road, Navrangpura, Mithakhali, Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Thaltej, among others were bustling with traffic. Many stores saw a good numbers of customers, who had been waiting to make binge purchases. “We finally reopened and the first day was good business. However, with the thret of recession looming, we don’t know how our business will be in the days to come. Thankfully, we can at least resume operations and hope for the best,” said a retailer at CG Road. Those whose stores are in containment zones could not resume business. Mohammad Asif Shaikh, a trader who lives in Juhapura said, “My shop is in Danilimda and the area is a containment zone therefore I cannot resume business. I hope there is some easing after May 31.” In parts of the city, some shops did not reopen. For instance, in Juhapura, 60% of stores remained closed till the afternoon. However, paan and cigarette shops, opticians’ stores and readymade garment stores were seen open. The area was bustling by noon. The easing of the lockdown came as a big relief to small traders. Akbar Shaikh, a hardware shop owner said, “Thankfully work has started even though there are few customers. It will gain momentum sooner or later.” Several offices in the IT and ITES sector and other service sectors still encouraged the majority or all of their employees to work out of home, at least for another week or two. However, some private offices resumed operations and workers were getting accustomed to their usual routine. “With limited staff, it will take a week’s time to get operations back to normal. Work from home is not feasible for all industries and I am happy to have resumed work. Public transport is closed at present which is causing difficulties for some employees to get to office and we hope the government provides relaxations in this,” said Varis Isani, a city-based tax advocate. Bustling but not hunky dory in eastern Ahmedabad, containment zones While many areas in eastern Ahmedabad was bustling with movement, several areas continued to bear a deserted look with little or no movement. All shops, remained closed in Maninagar West, which has been notified as a containment zone. Maninagar West is containment zone, and so all shops remained closed. A few shops selling essential items were seen open in Maninagar East, Kankaria, Khokhra and Hatkeshwar areas. The situation was exactly the reverse in Bopal, which is also a containment zone, as several shops, including electronics retail stores opened. People queued up outside these to buy air conditioners and coolers. Jayshree Dabhi, a resident of Bopal village, said, “The heat is getting terrible and with more people in the house, we need a cooler. I was desperately waiting for the lockdown to be lifted so that I could buy a cooler.” Handymen services a relief for many Appliances such as water purifiers, washing machines or air conditioners malfunctioning during the lockdown put many people in a fix, only adding to their drudgery. Pankti Tushar, a Bodakdev resident said, “I am waiting for my society members to take a decision on allowing visitors so I can call the service personnel to fix my washing machine.” As soon as the lockdown was eased, calls began pouring in to service centres. Vinod Arora, an RO purifier service company owner, said, “There were 70 calls pending for RO machine repairs and for installing new machines. I will address six calls today and finish the work over the week as we can work only till 4pm.” Paan shops reopen Rationing cigarettes, one puff at a time, paan, tobacco and cigarettes users finally got relief, as paan and cigarette shops finally opened on Tuesday morning. Long queues were seen outside paan shops since early in the morning. “I had bought a carton of cigarettes which did not last me two months despite rationing smokes. It was difficult to handle and nicotine gum didn’t help much. I am relieved the stores have finally opened,” said Amit Gandhi (name changed), a Prahladnagar resident. During the lockdown, cigarettes were selling for more than double the usual price on the black market. Interestingly, several cigarette shops, as they opened ran out of cigarettes and other tobacco products, because people bought in bulk. Gupta clarifies odd-even formula for shopping complexes Shops in some of shopping complexes remained closed on Tuesday as not many shopkeepers had clarity on applying the odd-even formula. Rajiv Gupta, ACS, environment and forests, who has been specially appointed by the state government to oversee measures to handle the Covid-19 crisis in Ahmedabad, clarified. “Standalone and scattered shops which are separated can operate every day. Shops in shopping complexes will have to follow the odd-even formula, based on their shop number. Odd numbers can remain open on one day and even numbers can remain open the next,” said Gupta. He also clarified that people working in western Ahmedabad but living in non-containment zones of eastern Ahmedabad will be allowed to commute to work. However, no movement will be permitted from containment zones. Relief but concerns aplenty “I was hopeful that there would be some respite in the high prices of vegetables, with the easing of the lockdown. Sadly, there is no difference.” Nashrin Master, Juhapura resident “While it was a relief to resume work, it is a different experience right from the time I entered the building wearing a mask, got my temperature checked and sanitised my hands and saw demarcated spots to ensure social distancing. Things are sure different.” Ayyan Karmakar, professional “Businesses have finally opened but the lack of clarity on the odd-even formula caused confusion among retailers and there were hardly any customers seen. After two months of lockdown, retailers have seen no business and even now, only those customers who have pressing need are buying.” Vasant Tirodkar, vice president, CG Road Retailers’ Association||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-precautions-bustle-finally-back-in-western-ahmedabad/articleshow/75836688.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Odd-even system, higher fares may power auto return||KOLKATA: Auto, the second biggest carrier of daily passengers in the city after bus, will start plying from May 27 following the announcement of chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. The auto drivers are likely to follow odd-even method — while vehicles with odd registration numbers will ply on Day One, those with even registration numbers will ply on Day Two. However, the fare is likely to be doubled as the drivers will be allowed to ferry half the number of their usual passengers and they will have to bear the cost of hand sanitization and disinfection of their vehicles. The inter-district bus services will resume on May 21 — six days before the resumption of auto services. The STU buses will ferry passengers, but the private bus operation is unlikely as the government did not give a nod to the proposal of fare hike. On Tuesday, very few private buses were seen plying in the city. “We don’t know about who plied the private buses and who did not. As an organization, we have made it clear that we cannot ply the buses following the old fare with half of the seating capacity. We have already been worst-hit by the lockdown. If we have to run the buses with old fare, it will be suicidal,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. All auto operators will be meeting on Sunday to finalize the fare and discuss the standard operating procedure (SOP) of disinfection and the guideline to be followed. Their unions have been unanimous in not resorting to unethical practices like truncation of routes and over-charging the passengers in the present time of crisis. Majority of auto operators who have been left in the lurch owing to the lockdown have pledged to follow these directions, said the auto unions’ representatives in south and north Kolkata. “In our last discussion with the RTO, we made it clear that we have no problem in complying with the social distancing norms. Unlike bus, we can follow the norm most effectively. Already, most of the auto-operators have put a transparent screen in between the front and rear seat. We have bought hand-sanitizers, which would be used by riders before and after the journey,” said Madan Mohan Ghosh, an auto operator in Jadavpur. “As far as last mile connectivity is concerned, Kolkatans depend on autos to a large extent. Since majority of offices have opened with 50% staff strength, resumption of auto-operation can ease the woes of many commuters,” said Ajay Das, former chief of traffic and transportation planning directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/odd-even-system-higher-fares-may-power-auto-return/articleshow/75835813.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 20, 2020||Pune||Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad RTOs earn Rs43.79L from vehicle registration on Monday||Pune: The regional transport offices in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad earned a total revenue of around Rs43.79 lakh on Monday from registration of new vehicles. "On Monday, the Pune RTO registered 27 new bikes and 24 cars with BSVI engines. The total revenue earned was Rs32.44 lakh. The registration of vehicles, which started on Monday after almost two months, will continue from now on," a senior RTO official said. The RTO office in PCMC registered 18 cars on Monday and earned a total revenue of Rs11.35 lakh. "Registrations of some two-wheelers were carried out on Tuesday too," another official said. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, which resulted in extended lockdown, the average revenue collection of Pune RTO was between Rs70crore and Rs75crore per month. The same when it comes to the RTO’s Pimpri Chinchwad office was between Rs50crore and Rs55crore. Also, the average vehicle registration per day in Pune RTO was 1,300, while it was 700 in PCMC. "There are many services which we have not started. Close to 50 services are provided by the RTO and there are fees for all the services. We do hope that proper revenue collection will start once things return to normal. The RTO offices were closed since March 25, though a few BS-IV vehicles were registered till April 30," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-pimpri-chinchwad-rtos-earn-rs43-79l-from-vehicle-registration-on-monday/articleshow/75836659.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||Vindhya region in corona grip||Bhopal: With one person testing positive in Singrauli district late on Monday—all the four districts—Rewa, Satna, Sidhi and Singrauli— of the Vindhya region are now Covid-19 infected. The first case of Vindhya region was reported from Rewa district on May 4. On May 7, two persons tested positive in Satna district. This was followed by three positive cases in Sidhi district on May 12. On May 18, one person tested positive in Sidhi, bringing all the four districts under the grip of Covid infection. In a press statement issued on Tuesday, district collector of Singrauli, KVS Choudhary, said that the 19-year-old patient had come in a truck from Mumbai and had reached Rajdiha village on May 15. He was kept in home quarantine and when his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to the district hospital on May 16. His test reports, received on Monday night, confirmed him to be positive, the collector said in the statement. The patient was shifted to Rewa for treatment on Tuesday, Choudhary said. It is noteworthy that in Sidhi district too, so far, fivepeople have been tested positive and all are related to the migrant labourers who had returned from other states recently. In Rewa, it was a local patient who was first tested positive. However, a few migrant labourers also tested positive, taking the count to 14 positive patients. In Satna, a majority among the nine positive patients are migrant labourers, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vindhya-region-in-corona-grip/articleshow/75835815.cms||Amarjeet Singh
May 20, 2020||Rajkot||RMC successful in the fight against Covid-19: Civic chief||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) commissioner Udit Agrawal on Tuesday claimed that the civic body had been successful in its fight against Covid-19 so far. “After the first positive case was reported from Leua Patel-2 Sheri, we had put the area under containment zone by barricading it with tin sheets for 28 days. We provided food grains, vegetables, milk and other essential commodities to as many as 300 people in the area,” Agrawal told a press conference here on Tuesday.“In Jangleshwer area, 41,224 people were covered under containment zone. There are a total of 36,000 malls which provide home delivery of essential commodities to people at present. We have tied up more than 400 autorickshaw drivers with shop keepers,” the civic body chief claimed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-successful-in-the-fight-against-covid-19-civic-chief/articleshow/75834719.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vadodara||18 more test positive in Vadodara||Vadodara: Eighteen more Covid-19 cases were reported in Vadodara since Monday night taking the total number of cases up to 730. Those who tested positive included three members of the same family. The fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the city included a 35-year-old vegetable vendor residing in the Subhanpura area of the city. Three residents of Anmol Nagar in Subhanpura who tested positive were relatives of a woman who used to work at the Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) and had tested positive earlier. A resident of Surat who had come to the city also tested positive. A six-year-old boy staying in the Pratapnagar area of the city was also found infected by the virus. He was to undergo a minor surgery and the test ahead of the surgery revealed that he was positive. The vegetable vendor who tested positive has emerged as a major cause of concern as it has come to light that he had been to the wholesale vegetable market at Sayajipura. A detailed contact tracing exercise has been taken up by the health officials. The cases on Tuesday were reported from all the zones of the city. Six new cases were registered in the east zone, five in the west zone, four in the north zone and one in west zone. No fresh cases were reported in the rural areas of the city. The death toll due to Covid-19 in the city remained at 35 with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) not confirming any more deaths. Sources said that the actual toll may be far bigger, but was yet to be accounted for as death audit reports were either pending or were still being perused by officials. -- Woman dies after discharge A woman who was discharged on Monday after testing negative for Covid-19 passed away on Tuesday. Sources said that she collapsed suddenly and the reason for the same is not known. She may not be counted as a Covid-19 victim as she had been cured and discharged. Godhra doctor booked A doctor from Godhra Dr Irfan Ismailwala was booked by the Godhra police for hiding travel history during contact tracing. The doctor had tested positive for Covid-19. It later came to light that he had been to Vadodara, but did not disclose this. This was confirmed by the police and an offence was registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/18-more-test-positive-in-vadodara/articleshow/75834372.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||4 reach rural Pune, then test positive for nCoV||Pune: Four persons tested positive for Covid-19 after travelling to their native villages in Ambegaon and Shirur tehsils from a containment area in Mumbai on valid passes issued by the local police. Consequently, Ambegaon has recorded its first coronavirus case, whereas the case count in Shirur has gone up to eight. Superintendent of police (Pune rural) Sandeep Patil has written to senior officers of Mumbai police to look into the matter. “We have taken up the issue with district collector Naval Kishore Ram too. We could not stop the entry of these people as they had valid passes issued by the Mumbai police,” said Patil. Shirur’s block development officer (BDO) Balasaheb Patil explained, “In total, five members of a family had started from Ghatkopar in Mumbai and reached Kavathe Yemai village. One of them later proceeded to Ambegaon, where he tested positive, and the remaining four stayed back. Of the four, three persons became unwell. Their swab samples were tested and the results came positive. We have since declared an area within 3km radius of Kavathe Yemai village as a containment zone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-reach-rural-pune-then-test-positive-for-ncov/articleshow/75836681.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: With 1 person per ride, we’d rather sit at home, say autorickshaw drivers||NEW DELHI: “I don’t think I will even recover the fuel cost of the ride from home to here. It is better to sit at home than work like this,” said autorickshaw driver Ravi Kumar near New Delhi Railway Station on Tuesday morning. Delhi has allowed paratransit vehicles like autorickshaws, cabs, e-rickshaws and Grameen Sewa to resume plying, but restricted the number of people they can carry. While cabs are allowed two passengers, autos and e-rickshaws are permitted just the one. “It is difficult to find a solo passenger,” continued Kumar. “From my Kalyanpuri home till the railway station, I didn’t get any passengers. And here too, I haven’t managed a single journey. If a family is travelling, how will they hire separate autos?” Santosh Pal agreed that it would be difficult to earn with such a rule. “I don’t own the auto. I pay Rs 300 rent for an eight-hour shift, plus of course, the fuel cost,” he reckoned. “Unless I earn Rs 800-1,000 a day, it makes no sense. Yes, I did receive Rs 5,000 and rations from Delhi government, but you need more to sustain a family of four.” Some auto drivers weren’t as law-abiding and ferried up to three passengers at a time. Many others charged abnormally high fares, even for short distances. Bittu Bhatia drove his auto from his home in northeast Delhi’s Dilshad Colony to AlIMS in south Delhi but failed to pick up any passenger. “Apart from our regular costs, we now have the added expense of sanitisers and disinfectants, besides having to put up a plastic sheet to separate the passenger seat from mine,” he said. “Delhi government should allow two passengers, else they will all travel by taxis.” Other paratransit vehicles like Grameen Sewa and Eco-friendly Sewa were conspicuous by their absence on Tuesday. The road next to the Nehru Enclave metro station going to Kalkaji is normally choked by Grameen Sewa units, but was deserted on Tuesday morning. At the other Grameen Sewa hub in Seemapuri, almost a hundred of these vehicles stood unused near the bus depot. “Whether it is Grameen Sewa, Phat-Phat Sewa or Eco-Friendly Sewa, we decided not to ply our vehicles because the conditions imposed are not fair,” said Shyam Lal Gola, general secretary, STA Operators Ekta Manch. “Two passengers will pay Rs 5 each. How will we pay for fuel, maintenance, drivers plus disinfection with Rs 10? The government should pay us a fixed amount per kilometre to carry people.” E-rickshaws too weren’t out in their usual annoying numbers. “We have largely fixed routes from Delhi Metro stations to residential colonies. But with the train services closed, we don’t get passengers,” reasoned Mohammed Aslam at the Dilshad Garden metro station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-1-person-per-ride-wed-rather-sit-at-home/articleshow/75836689.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||Deer fallen in a well rescued||Mysuru: Forest department staff, along with fire personnel, rescued a deer which had fallen into an open well at Hanuru taluk in Chamarajanagar district on Tuesday. The well is located at an agriculture land in Chinchalli village in Hanuru buffer range coming under Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary. The villagers who saw the deer drowning informed the forest department. MM Hills division DCF V Yedukondalu and his team, along with fire personnel, rushed to the spot. Using a rope, they lowered themselves in the well of over 30 feet and rescued the panic-stricken animal. After a medical check-up, the foresters released the animal in the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/deer-fallen-in-a-well-rescued/articleshow/75832261.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Only 10% of people with flu-like symptoms test positive||Pune: Around 10% of the people showing flu-like symptoms in the city have tested positive for Covid-19, stated a report compiled by the civic body and the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL). Officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department said people showing symptoms such as fever, cough, cold and shortness of breath were checked. If a patient tested positive, s/he was quarantined. Some were treated at the Naidu hospital, Sassoon hospital and private hospitals across the city. The report from these hospitals, till May 15, stated that out of the 29,001 tests conducted across the city, 3,035 were positive. “The civic administration has carried out tests in containment and non-containment areas. The first, second and other contacts who showed flu-like symptoms were tested too,” a senior PMC official said. He said the PMC had been conducting the screening since March 16 with the help of 900 teams, comprising health officials, conservancy staff and teachers. They are different parts of the city and collect the database according to symptoms. The civic body has set up quarantine facilities in different parts of the city including Sanas sports complex, Kharadi sports complex and Laygude hospital. People with mild symptoms have been advised to be in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-10-of-people-with-flu-like-symptoms-test-positive/articleshow/75836692.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||Nath demands probe into Godse event||Bhopal: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Tuesday condemned the Hindu Mahasabha for observing Nathuram Godse’s—Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin—birth anniversary in Gwalior and demanded a probe into the incident. “In the tenure of Shivraj (Singh Chouhan) government, celebrating birth anniversary of Nathuram Godse, assassin of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, organising a function and lighting lamps is unfortunate,” Nath tweeted. “On the one hand, there is a lockdown with restrictions on organising events and functions. On the other, such events being openly organised, exposes the thinking, intention and failure of the Shivraj government,” said Nath in another tweet. When he was chief minister, Nath said, punitive action was taken and warned that “glorification of Bapu’s killer will not be tolerated.” “Shivraj government should clarify if it supports the principles of Bapu, or abides by the ideology of Godse,” the senior Congress leader tweeted. Nath also demanded a probe into how such an event was organised during the lockdown. “I demand that strict action be taken against the culprits and a probe to ascertain how such a function was held during the lockdown. The Congress will not be silent on such acts and will oppose it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-demands-probe-into-godse-event/articleshow/75835837.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Swachh Survey: N Mumbai gets 5 stars again, city zero||Mumbai: Mumbai has got a zero rating in the Swachh Survey 2020 announced on Tuesday. Despite failing to get even a three-star rating in the 2019 Swachh Survey, the BMC had decided to apply for five stars this year. By contrast, Navi Mumbai was awarded a “five-star garbage-free city” rating, the only city in the state to get it two years in a row. A five-star rating has tough criteria, including 100% households and premises in a city must be covered by door-to-door collection and transport of solid waste, 100% public and commercial areas should be swept once a day and once at night, residential areas too must be swept daily, waste bins should be placed at strategic locations, and user charges should be collected from all households and premises. Mumbai did not get a three-star rating last year due to non-collection of user charges. This year, BMC officials said it appears they did not meet any criteria so failed to qualify. Thirty-four cities in Maharashtra, including Chandrapur, Dhule, Jalgaon, Jalna, Thane and Mira-Bhayandar, have been given a three-star rating while 41, including Ahmednagar, Akola, Nashik, Vasai-Virar and Kalyan-Dombivili, have got one star each. Meanwhile, Navi Mumbai is one among the six cities in the country to get the coveted rating for its waste management mechanism. The other five cities are Surat and Rajkot in Gujarat, Mysore in Karnataka, Indore in Madhya Pradesh and Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh. Cities are evaluated by central teams to achieve the goal of a garbage-free nation. NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “A city is considered garbage-free if it complies with conditions prescribed and those include door-to-door collection, segregation at source, scientific disposal and processing. We owe this to our conservancy workers... We lack a system of reusing recycled water. A plant is being planned for the purpose and it will be ready by next year. Then we can seek a seven-star rating.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/swachh-survey-n-mumbai-gets-5-stars-again-city-zero/articleshow/75834757.cms||B B Nayak
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters capture tiger at agri field||Mysuru: A four-year-old tiger, which had killed over a dozen cattle in villages coming under Bandipur Tiger Reserve, was captured by foresters on Tuesday. The operation was carried out on the direction of forest minister Anand Singh, who recently visited the villages on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border. The tiger from Moolehole forest range had entered the Kundakere range, which is the territory of another tiger, and was seeking a place to settle near the border area. It had also preyed on about 15 cattle in the village. After the tiger killed a goat in Kundakere village on May 5, villagers escalated their demand for capturing the big cat before it attacked/ killed humans. Immediately, the foresters launched a massive combing operation to chase the tiger back to the forest using three elephants — Ganesh, Jayaprakash and Krishna — from Rampura elephant camp. Bu ton May 10, forest minister Anand Singh visited the villages and directed the foresters to trap the tiger before it attacks humans. Accordingly, the foresters laid cages at vantage points and also escalated the combing operation. At 11.30am on Tuesday, the foresters found the tiger prowling at an agriculture land in Vaddagere village. The images captured in camera traps and the information given by the villagers helped them locate the tiger. Gundlupet division ACF K Paramesh told TOI that the tiger was tranquilised at an agriculture land in Heggavadi near Kundakere. Wildlife veterinarians Dr Ramesh and Nagaraj conducted a medical check-up to know its health, after which they decided to shift the animal to Mysuru Zoo. BTR director T Balachandra told TOI: “The vets have found cellulitis infection in its leg. There is maggot infestation too. We have to treat the infection and injuries before releasing it in the forest. The zoo authorities have been asked to keep it under observation and treat it accordingly. The chief wildlife warden will take a call on its release back to the wild,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-capture-tiger-at-agri-field/articleshow/75832315.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Industrial units across Ahmedabad restart work||AHMEDABAD: After nearly two months of lockdown, manufacturing units at industrial estates in the city, finally resumed operations, albeit with limited staff. While only a few could start production, most have begun cleaning and maintenance of machinery and their premises to restart production and fulfil pending orders. Factories in the Vatva, Naroda, Odhav and Narol industrial estates in Ahmedabad opened on Tuesday. Industry players said that one or two days would go in cleaning and maintenance of the units. “At least 950 of the 1,200 units at the Odhav Industrial Estate resumed operations. Others are mobilizing staff members and issuing guidelines and will soon restart operations. The first couple of days will be spent cleaning the premises and production is expected to then resume,” said Prerak Patel, secretary, Odhav Industries’ Association. These units are also facing problems arising from the exodus of migrant workers. Several processing houses at these estates used to employ around 500-700 workers, but at present do not have even 50 labourers. “Getting workers is a problem. My unit was reopened today. We do not have even 20% of our usual workforce. Against the 50 workers we normally employ, only 17 are available,” said Shailesh Patwari, chairman, Naroda Enviro Projects Ltd. Another industrialist who has a factory in Narol said, “Most of our workforce is migrant workers and mobilizing them to resume operations is going to be a challenge.” “As many as 600 dyes and dyestuff units in Vatva, Odhav, Naroda and Narol industrial units have reopened today. As it is the first day, only preparatory work such as cleaning, setting work schedules and arranging labourers was done. Production will begin gradually over the week,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). Those units which were granted permission to honour their export commitments were already operating. “Now, other ancillary units have also resumed. This will boost production activity,” he added. According to industry players, the availability of workers and supply chain issues continue to worry industries. Around 25,000 to 30,000 labourers have moved away from these industrial estates. “We took good care of our workers in the Vatva industrial area. We provided them food and met the requirements of their families. As a result, the number who have left from the area is not more than 10,000-15,000. With industrial units reopening, the number of those planning to leave the city may reduce,” he said. The association intends to make a representation to the state government to allow transportation by road and rail to these industrial estates. Workers from Mehmdavad, Nadiad, Kheda and even Vadodara come to these estates for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industrial-units-across-city-restart-work/articleshow/75836709.cms||Kalpesh Damor
May 20, 2020||Agra||Firozabad Lekhpal association meets DM after police misbehaviour||Agra: Two days after local cops allegedly misbehaved with a Lekhpal in Firozabad, the association members of Lekhpal association met district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh on Tuesday to lodge their protest.Vinay Yadav, the district president of Lekhpal association, said, “On Sunday, a group of policemen misbehaved and hurled verbal abuse on our colleague at a shelter home in Shikohabad tehsil during government duty. Such an act is unacceptable. After listening to our complaint, the DM has assured that this will not repeat again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/firozabad-lekhpal-association-meets-dm-after-police-misbehaviour/articleshow/75834778.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Agra||Cong accuses Yogi of playing politics overmigrants by delaying entry of buses in UP||Agra: High political drama was witnessed at the UP-Rajasthan border on Tuesday as scores of Congress leaders were detained after they staged a protest against the state government’s “refusal” to permit the buses arranged by party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi to enter the state for ferrying stranded migrant labourers to their destinations. The protesting leaders accused the Yogi Adiyanath government of playing politics while claiming that 500 buses parked along the Rajasthan border near Fatehpur Sikri were not being allowed to enter UP. “The government is purposely delaying the vehicles due to its vested interests,” alleged UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, who also went to the border. Lallu, along with former CLP leader Pradeep Mathur, AICC secretary Vivek Bansal and party leader Mukesh Dhangar, was detained by Agra police after they staged a protest at the border and raised slogans against the government. Accusing the BJP government of betraying the poor people of the state, Mathur termed the government “anti-poor and anti-migrant”. “This government doesn’t want to help the poor and is only pretending to be doing so. We have been trying to take buses to UP since morning, but top government officials are busy issuing insignificant letters to delay the buses’ entry,” Mathur told TOI. Meanwhile, Priyanka Gandhi shot another letter to the UP government on Tuesday, stating, “I want to appeal to the UP government once again that this is the time to display sensitivity. Please grant us permission so that we can proceed.” “UP’s migrant labourers are worried. We can together overcome this challenge. We request you to grant permission so that our buses can reach Noida and Ghaziabad via Agra,” she further stated. A massive political blame game erupted over Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s proposal to send 1,000 special buses to UP for ferrying stranded migrants. Earlier, reacting to the Congress’ proposal, the Yogi government asked the Congress to send 500 buses each to Noida and Ghaziabad and sought the details of buses. Later, the government claimed that the details of vehicles provided by the opposition party also included two-wheelers and cars, fuelling a war of words between BJP and Congress leaders. When contacted, Agra SSP Babloo Kumar refused to comment on the issue, but confirmed the detention of some Congress leaders. Agra SSP said that an FIR has been registered against Ajay Kumar Lallu and Vivek Bansal under section 188 and 269 of IPC at Fatehpur Sikri police station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cong-accuses-yogi-of-playing-politics-overmigrants-by-delaying-entry-of-buses-in-up/articleshow/75834804.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation issues office safety guidelines||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation which has decided to begin office work had made it mandatory for the Class I and II staff to daily attend office, while only 50% of Class III and IV staff will attend office on any particular day. Class III and IV workers will go to the office on alternate days so social distancing can be maintained. The AMC officials said those living in containment zones or areas with high numbers of cases will be exempt from attending office till May 31. The AMC has said that the head office at Danapith, the North East and South Zone offices, ward offices and civic centres in the eastern part of the city will have to operate with minimum staff. Other staff will have to work from home and will have to be available on mobile and email. The guidelines also make it mandatory for the office to be sanitized before staff reports for duty. Lifts should not have more than four persons in them. The AMC also mandates that not more than five persons should gather at one place in the office or corridors. The common areas and entrances should have arrangements to wash hands and sanitize them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-issues-office-safety-guidelines/articleshow/75836707.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Ready to start operations: Delhi Metro to high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro has told Delhi high court that it was ready to start operations. In its affidavit, DMRC said it has been currently operating two trips daily on each line to keep the system healthy. Responding to a court notice, Delhi Metro through its counsel Pushkar Sood submitted that it has prepared the standard operating procedure laid down by the Centre to maintain social distancing, sanitation, thermal screening, use of masks, among other things. To maintain social distancing, DMRC said it was likely to allow passengers to sit on alternate seats only and increase the train stoppage window at each station to give more time to commuters to board or deboard. The court is expected to consider DMRC’s stand this week when it takes up a plea seeking resumption of public transport services in Delhi. Earlier, a bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal had said the Centre’s May 1 notification allowing private offices to run with 33% strength discriminated against those without personal vehicle. The notification now stands withdrawn since the Centre came up with the new regulations. In one of the video conferencing hearings earlier, Delhi government and Delhi Transport Corporation had said they could resume operations with precautions to prevent the further spread of Covid-19, while the Centre said restrictions on public transport had to be in place only in the “red zones'” and “that some responsibility would have to be taken by the civil society”. The petition contended that while the Centre and Delhi government allowed government and private establishments to function and permitted use of cars and two-wheelers, they forgot that a large number of people in the city relied on public transport to commute and sought resumption of transport services “in strict compliance with the social distancing and disinfection or sanitation norms”. This would ensure that the section of the population who does not have private vehicles was not adversely affected, the plea argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ready-to-start-operations-delhi-metro-to-hc/articleshow/75836705.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||5 New Cases In District, Focus Shifts To Hotspots||Vijayawada: Krishna district registered five new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, including that of a journalist at a vernacular television channel. The district administration has now turned its focus on containing the spread of the virus in Krishna Lanka, one of the hotspots in Vijayawada city. District administration officials also confirmed the death of a contract employee working in the urban community development wing of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC). The district administration and the VMC is also looking to denotify some containment zones in the city. Altogether, 20 areas were marked as containment zones, a majority of which have not reported any new cases in the past 20 days. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz on Tuesday said the administration has started the exercise of delisting some containment zones. “Many areas in Vijayawada have not registered new Covid-19 cases recently. We have started the exercise on relaxing restrictions in these areas. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh and city planner are carrying out the exercise on the zones, based on the last positive Covid-19 case registered in these areas. All types of business activities will be allowed to function in the city in non-containment areas. Shops in shopping complexes will be allowed to open on an alternating basis,” the collector said. However, shopping malls and marketplaces will remain closed until further orders from the government, the collector said. Temples, churches, mosques and other places of worship will remain closed and the ban on public gatherings continues. The collector added that several containment zones at Machilipatnam will soon be denotified and business establishments in the area are expected to soon resume activities. City police, meanwhile, have deployed forces at marketplaces to ensure social distancing is maintained amid the relaxations allowed in lockdown 4.0.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/5-new-cases-in-district-focus-shifts-to-hotspots/articleshow/75834814.cms||Venu Lanka
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||City could cut Covid-19 cases 56% by keeping red light areas shut||Nagpur: A national-level study done by academicians from Yale School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School has highlighted that Nagpur can delay peak of Covid-19 cases by up to 30 days if the authorities kept the red light area (RLA) in city closed even post lockdown. It says Covid-19 cases could be reduced up to 56% this way. A study ‘Modelling the Effect of Continued Closure of Red Light Areas on Covid-19 Transmission in India’ was completed recently. It highlights impact of red light areas in five cities – Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Kolkata — which are currently in the red zone and account for some of the largest red light areas in the country with large numbers of sex workers. As per the study, if red light areas are kept closed even after lockdown ends, there can be a delay in the peak of Covid-19 cases by up to 12 days in Mumbai, 17 days in New Delhi, 29 days in Pune, 30 days in Nagpur, and 36 days in Kolkata. Delay in the peak will provide the government more time and opportunities to plan and execute measures to protect public health and economy, as India moves in Lockdown 4.0. The study also states that there could be a 63% reduction in the number of deaths in the first 60 days after the lockdown ends, if red light areas are kept closed. Co-author of the report, Dr Sudhakar Nuti from the Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, said any effort in delaying peak reduces amount of stress on medical system. “The continued closure of red light areas would build on the successes achieved by the government in lockdown. India gained around 40 days of delay in the peak through lockdown and can gain another 17 days delay by keeping these places closed,” he said. Commenting on the limitations of the study, co-author, Dr Jefferey Townsend, said the actual scenario will depend on behaviour of individuals and the study model does not predict how individuals will behave. “The purpose of our modelling exercises in not to predict what will happen, but to understand the effect of the intervention on the future. Our study findings show there is a strong effect of the red light area closures, especially immediately following the lockdown,” he said. What the study is all about * Done in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Kolkata * 6,37,500 sex workers in India * Over 5 lakh customers visit the red-light areas daily * If red-light areas start operating, disease will spread extremely quickly * High transmission rate is because social distancing is not possible during the sex act * Infected customers could spread disease to lakhs of others * To protect citizens against this, the study recommends keeping red light areas closed indefinitely, during the Covid-19 pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-could-cut-covid-19-cases-56-by-keeping-red-light-areas-shut/articleshow/75837265.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CBI books two ex-major generals in 18-year-old exam fraud case||HYDERABAD: The CBI has registered a case against two retired major generals and two others, 18 years after they allegedly tampered with the limited departmental competitive examination marks. According to the CBI, this allegedly paved the way for wrongful promotion of 44 candidates, while denying a chance to deserving candidates. The exam was conducted in October 2002 for promoting group ‘D’ employees serving in the Survey of India (SoI), Hyderabad, to group ‘C’ category. In the FIR, CBI Delhi named major general (retired) MV Bhat and major general (retired) KRMK Balaji Rao along with J K Rath and R Rama Singh. Bhat, who was then a brigadier, served as director of Survey Training Institute (STI), Hyderabad, while Balaji Rao was also a brigadier and worked as deputy surveyor general at the institute. Rath was deputy director and Rama Singh officiated as establishment and accounts officer at the institute. The four were booked for cheating, criminal conspiracy, falsification of documents and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. CBI launched an inquiry after the employees alleged malpractices in the compilation of marks and the vigilance unit of the Union ministry of science and technology forwarded their complaint in October 2018. As many as 384 candidates had applied for the exam and 284 took the exam for 74 vacancies to get promotion in topographical trades technical posts in group C. The exam was conducted in 10 centres across the country, while the verification of the papers and compilation of marks was taken up in Hyderabad by the four accused. The FIR states that STI constituted an examination board of four officers in August 2002 with Bhat as chairman, Balaji Rao as member-secretary, Rath and Rama Singh as members. ‘Mark sheets manipulated’According to the CBI inquiry, the four did not note down the actual marks secured by the candidates and allegedly manipulated the mark sheets to select the 44 candidates. “Based on the inquiry findings, the FIR states that there was wrongful selection of 44 candidates based on the manipulated mark sheets,” CBI said in the FIR. It also said responsibility to set the papers was of brigadier Bhat, while evaluation of answer sheets was to be done by him or the board members. “The compilation of marks was done in the director’s handwriting. It was signed by him and other members,” the FIR added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-2-ex-maj-gens-in-18-year-old-exam-fraud-case/articleshow/75837448.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||A year after, dark skies, rough sea again in Puri||As dark clouds dominated the skyline and the sea turned rough on Tuesday, the residents of the coastal areas of Puri district had reason to feel distinctly unsettled. A little over a year ago, the skies had turned equally ominous and the sea equally turbulent to presage the arrival of Cyclone Fani. Puri can expect to be spared the worst of Cyclone Amphan, which will make landfall between West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon, but for the traumatised residents, who are even now gathering their lives back together, any news of an impending cylcone is upsetting. Continuous rain and winds with speed of nearly 40 kmph worried many in the pilgrim town on Tuesday evening. “The wind this (Tuesday) evening is scary. It brings back traumatic memories of last year, when we incurred massive damage. We pray to Lord Jagannath for everyone’s well-being,” said Srimanta Dash, a hotelier. Seaside hoteliers like Dash, whose establishments bore the brunt of Cyclone Fani, are hoping for now fresh damage. The beach too has been emptied of people. “As the lockdown is in place, we don’t have tourists. The hotels are also closed. Locals who would often stroll on the beach have been persuaded to stay away. Police have been using the public address system to warn people against visiting the beach,” Raj Kishore Patra, secretary of the Hotel Association of Puri, said. Villagers of Brahmagiri and Satapada, areas that bore the brunt of Fani last year, made last-ditch efforts on Tuesday to protect their houses from getting damaged. “We placed wooden logs and concrete slabs on our asbestos and thatched roofs to prevent them from being blown away. My house fully damaged during Fani,” said Kaliprasad Behera, a resident of Brahmagiri. The state government has asked the Puri administration to leave nothing to chance, although Amphan is expected to affect north Odisha more. “We are ready with our evacuation, rescue and restoration plan. Marine fishermen have been asked not to venture into the sea. People residing close to the coast have been advised to stay safe,” Puri collector Balwant Singh said. In some places, the district administration faced the usual difficulty of convincing people to move to safer areas. “We requested people staying in thatched houses to go to cyclone shelters, but they refused to leave for fear of catching the coronavirus infection. Since it is difficult to maintain social distancing during such evacuation drives, people are fearful of crowded shelter units,”” another district official said. Meanwhile unfazed by inclement weather, carpenters went ahead with the construction of the chariots for the Rath Yatra. “We will immediately suspend work if the weather worsens on Wednesday,” said Bijay Mahapatra, chief carpenter of Lord Jagannath’s chariot Nandighosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/a-year-after-dark-skies-rough-sea-again-in-puri/articleshow/75834834.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Passes not needed for inter-district movement: Nitin Patel||Gandhinagar: Clearing the confusion over whether people will require to get a clearance from authorities to travel from one district to another, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said that henceforth, there will not be any need for people to get passes from authorities to travel between districts of Gujarat. Following announcement of several relaxations during lockdown 4.0 on Monday, the government had not specified whether people will be required to apply online for passes to travel between districts or not.Nitin Patel said, “Now onwards, citizens will not be required to take travel passes for travelling between districts of the state.’’ He added that people who stay in containment zones will however not be allowed to travel except for emergencies “In containment zones, supply of essential items like milk, grocery, vegetables and fruits, along with medicines will be ensured and these shops will remain open according to the prescribed time,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/passes-not-needed-for-inter-district-movement-nitin-patel/articleshow/75836714.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation allows domestic helps to resume work with riders||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday issued revised lockdown norms, declaring 65 micro-containment zones in the city and extending several new relaxations in the non-containment areas. The number of containment areas may seem to have reduced to 65 from the 69 listed on May 3 primarily because of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) removing 27 areas listed in the earlier order and adding 23 new areas. Some of the newly added areas are near the deleted pockets. “Housing societies or standalone buildings in non-containment areas can be sealed in case of detection of Covid-19 cases and added to containment areas in follow-up reviews,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said. Essential service vehicles, including ambulances, will be allowed to move without any pass in the containment areas. Resumption of domestic help services with certain riders, opening up of IT and ITeS company offices with 50% strength, central and state government offices with 33% strength, data and call centres with minimum staff requirement, distribution of newspapers from 7am to 10am and permission to authorised roadside vendors to operate at certain locations barring key market roads are among the new relaxations announced in the non-containment areas, constituting 97% of the PMC limits. The PMC’s revised norms came hours after chief secretary Ajoy Mehta released the government’s revised guidelines for Lockdown 4.0. No longer the entire districts are marked as red zones. They have been limited to municipal corporation limits of cities from where cases are being reported. All corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Nashik, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Amravati, Solapur, Amravati and Akola are red zones. A significant omission from this list is Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). PCMC commissioner Sharavan Hardikar told TOI, “We shall be in non-red zone from May 22, but not in orange zone (relatively safe). It means, the restrictions will remain though some easing is expected.” Pimpri Chinchwad additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said, “We are not releasing any revised norms for the PCMC as the state’s new rules will come into force from May 22 and we have time till then to work out details.” PMC commissioner Gaikwad referred to the new relaxations and said, “Domestic helps can go to work provided house owners give consent. These services are not allowed in containment zones. Even if a domestic help lives in a containment zone, s/he will not be allowed to go to non-containment zones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-domestic-helps-to-resume-work-with-riders/articleshow/75836727.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor reports first Covid death||Tirupati: Chittoor district reported its first Covid-19 death late on Monday night after a 59-year-old man from Srikalahasti succumbed to the virus at Sri Padmavathi Covid hospital in Tirupati. District medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr M Penchalaiah said the deceased was also suffering from other comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. “The 59-year-old from Srikalahasti tested positive for Covid-19 on May 13 and was admitted to the isolation ward at the state Covid hospital in Tirupati. As the patient was suffering from multiple ailments, he was shifted to the intensive care unit and administered treatment. However, he succumbed to the infection around 9 pm on Monday,” the DMHO said. Meanwhile, five Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 197. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-reports-first-covid-death/articleshow/75834838.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 20, 2020||Pune||Decorator of pandals falls to death from fourth floor||Pune: A 55-year-old pandal decorator died after falling from the fourth floor of a multi-storied residential building at A D Camp locality in Nana Peth around 3.30pm on Monday. The cause of his fall is yet to be ascertained by the police. The Samarth police identified the deceased as Vijay Sasane who stayed in a flat on the fourth floor of the building. His wife and two children, who were in another room during the incident, told the police that they had no clue about the same till some neighbours came to their flat raising an alarm that Sasane had fallen.Sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure said, “We are examining all angles, including the possibility of the victim having fallen accidentally or having jumped,” Kapure said. “We will also record the statements of his family members,” he added.Preliminary investigation revealed that Sasane incurred heavy financial losses due to a complete lack of projects during the wedding season in the past two months, due to the lockdown, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decorator-of-pandals-falls-to-death-from-fourth-floor/articleshow/75836735.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Kolkata gets ready to face nature’s wrath||KOLKATA: At the first hint of overcast skies, police on Tuesday hit the streets and urged people to stay at home on Wednesday when cyclone Amphan is likely to blow over the city and trigger heavy downpour. With their resources stretched battling Covid-19, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police on Tuesday held several meetings to tackle the impending crisis. As per decisions taken in the meeting, police stations have stocked up potato and pulses for distribution among people, if needed.  “We have kept ambulances ready at certain police stations and minibuses are being pressed into service and placed at strategic locations so that everyone can be evacuated in a short notice,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. Several vacant KMC schools and community centres have been earmarked for relocation of people in case of emergencies. KMC has posted three demolition squads in boroughs that have maximum number of unsafe buildings in case they need to rescue people from collapsed buildings. Special KMC teams are at work to remove billboards hanging ominously from flyovers or tall buildings. A civic team from parks and squares department will be stationed at several strategic locations to remove logs from major thoroughfares in case large tress get uprooted. On Wednesday, civic flood management teams will be doing the rounds of city’s low-lying areas where large-scale inundation is feared in case of a downpour. KMC may open relief camps in the low-lying areas of EM Bypass, which may get flooded in absence of an underground drainage system. According to a civic official, KMC was about to undertake a major desilting project for large areas of north and central Kolkata but the work got stalled due to the pandemic. Some of the major thoroughfares that are expected to get affected due to non-completion of a desilting work include Chittaranjan Avenue, Mahatma Gandhi Road, AJC Bose Road, Asutosh Mukherjee Road (Bhowanipore), Sarat Bose Road, New Alipore, Alipore, Ballygunge, Anwar Shah Road, Lake Gardens, Dhakuria, NSC Bose Road (Tollygunge), Kidderpore, Ekbalpore and Behala. The condition of pumps at city’s drainage pumping stations could add to waterlogging woes as the civic body engineers have little time left for overhauling the pumping stations that drain out stormwater from large areas of the city. On Tuesday, Tarak Singh, a member in the KMC board of administrators, visited major pumping stations at Palmerbazar, Ballygunge and Dhapa, among others, to take stock of the situation. Apart from city’s major thoroughfares, large areas located off EM Bypass and Diamond Harbour Road are likely to add civic body’s worries as a drainage development work under KEIIP is yet to get completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-gets-ready-to-face-natures-wrath/articleshow/75835912.cms||Saikat Ray
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Salons undergo changes, adjust to new normal||Kolkata: Those who have been fretting over their wild manes and forcefully grown beards can finally breathe easy as most of the salons across the city have geared up to open on Thursday. However, a slew of changes has been brought in and most of the salon owners said they would rehearse throughout Wednesday before receiving clients from Thursday. The salon owners have been flooded with phone calls ever since the news of relaxation reached their clients. Each appointment list has many clients in the waiting as walking in salons like normal days will no longer be possible in the present times. While men vie with women in getting appointments of their hairdressers, the latter have been told to keep their vanities on hold for the time being since most beauty therapies, which need close contacts, will not be available temporarily. So, hair styling, pedicure-manicure and waxing are among the few services that clients will have to remain satisfied with at present. Most salons have procured PPE gears, complete with medical personnel- like overalls, for their staffers to wear while attending to their clients. Apart from the routine temperature scanning of staffers and sanitization of the salon twice a day, all equipment will be sanitized in front of the client before the service. Most salons have also given up the use of cotton towels and traditional hair sheets or bedsheets that have been replaced by disposable towels and sheets. This will raise the charges to be paid by the clients, but many of them welcome the changes. All the five high street salons of Eye Catchers have procured PPE gears, N-95 masks for its staff, who will wear the gear and practise on Wednesday, said the proprietor Vinay Rungta. “It will definitely feel funny, but we cannot take any risk now,” said Dorothy Chang, hairdresser at the salon. Similar changes are being brought in the salon chains like Head Turners, A N John, Tony and Guy and Glamour Boutique. “We will bring in single use cartridges for waxing,” said Sudipto Mitra of Glamour Boutique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salons-undergo-changes-adjust-to-new-normal/articleshow/75835922.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 20, 2020||Pune||Conditions key to sealing societies||PMC on Tuesday said that a decision on sealing a building or housing society after detection of Covid-19 cases will be taken based on building structure, neighbourhood and density of population. Mumbai’s civic body on Monday said an entire housing society or high-rise need not be sealed if one resident tests positive. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/conditions-key-to-sealing-societies/articleshow/75836731.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man dies after tussle between ambulance mafia, driver||TIRUPATI: A 75-year-old man died inside an ambulance on the premises of SVRR Government General Hospital in Tirupati on Tuesday after a tussle broke out between the driver of the vehicle and local ambulance drivers. SVRR medical superintendent Dr T Bharati said the 75-year-old K Venkatappa from Kallavaripalle under Rompicherla mandal was admitted to the hospital late on Monday night following a brain stroke. After his condition deteriorated on Tuesday morning, doctor’s advised the patient’s son K Venkataramana to get his father discharged and let him spend his final days with his family. When Venkataramana approached local ambulances, he was told it would cost Rs 8,500. Upon looking up cheaper options online, he booked an ambulance that would charge him Rs 3,500 to cover the same distance between Tirupati and Rompicherla. Trouble broke out, however, when the vehicle Venkataramana had booked reached the hospital and the patient was put inside the ambulance. Local ambulance drivers entered into an argument with the driver of the other ambulance, snatched away his keys and allegedly beat him up. Nor was the patient’s family spared, with the local drivers allegedly verbally abusing them. As the commotion continued, Venkatappa deprived of oxygen inside the stationary ambulance, suffocated to death after half-an-hour. An inconsolable Venkataramana lodged a complaint with Dr T Bharati. In his complaint, he alleged his father was killed by the local ambulance ‘mafia’ and demanded police book those responsible for Venkatappa’s death. “My father has died because of them. They should be punished otherwise such people will continue to fleece the poor,” Venkataramana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-dies-after-tussle-between-ambulance-mafia-driver/articleshow/75834855.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 20, 2020||Pune||On a 1,500km cycle journey to a place called home in Odisha||Pune: Stuck in Pune with no work and depleting cash, six construction workers from Mantriguda village in Odisha began a long 1,500km journey to reach home on cycles on Monday. Five of the six youths, between 18 and 22 years of age, came to Pune seven months ago. Sudarshan Patragudiya (22) was the first to migrate to Pune four years ago. He found work in the construction industry at Ghotawade Phata near Pirangut in Mulshi. He helped his friends Sushil (20), Minu Ketan (18) and Sadanand Mazi (19) and two others come to Pune and find jobs. Each earned around Rs 700-Rs 800 per day and they lived together in a rented room. They lost their jobs when the lockdown was imposed. They decided to return to their villages when the special trains were started for migrant workers. Sudarshan said, “Initially, we thought of boarding the special trains. But we would be part of a huge crowd from the railway station in Pune to bogies and at the station in Odisha where we would be alighting. We can catch Covid-19 infection at any stage in the journey, and hence we dropped the idea.” The six friends then sat together and after some brainstorming, they realised that they can reduce the risk by riding all the way on bicycles. They walked into a bicycle shop in Pirangut and purchased six bicycles at the price of Rs 5,500 each. Sudarshan said, “After remaining safe for two months, I would not like to face any risk now. I have to take care of myself because I have to support my parents, wife and two young children, aged three years and one year.” Sushil got engaged just before he came to Pune. “I want to be in good health when I meet my fiancee again,” he said. Minu Ketan said he has to support his parents and three younger sisters and cannot risk ending up with the virus. Sudarshan said it will take them a week to cycle to their village. “We could have reached home faster had we chosen to travel by hitching rides in trucks. That may have also saved us some money as some truck drivers were willing to take us to Odisha for Rs 4,000 per person. However, one has to be cautious in such circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/on-a-1500km-cycle-journey-to-a-place-called-home-in-odisha/articleshow/75836741.cms||Shyam Sonar
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Retail staff to wear masks, temp check for customers||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has directed hyper retail stores in the city to contact AMC health teams if they find any customer with Covid-19 symptoms. The new set of guidelines make it mandatory for the staff to check the temperature of all customers entering an establishment. Also, customers’ hands have to be sanitized. The guidelines further state that each staff member should wear a mask and gloves. The management should not allow in more than five customers at a time. Moreover, the management will also be responsible for ensuring that customers waiting outside maintain social distancing. The AMC has also said that the stores will have to lay emphasis on home delivery. The AMC officials said that teams will book offenders under the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retail-staff-to-wear-masks-temp-check-for-customers/articleshow/75836742.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospitals take guard against cyclone Amphan||KOLKATA: Super cyclone Amphan is expected to bring another challenge to hospitals that are already reeling under the Covid-19 storm. Hospitals across the city are gearing up with specific measures in place. Covid hospitals, in particular, are stocking up essential medicines, oxygen cylinders, food and drinking water. Glass panes are being checked thoroughly and the loose ones are being replaced in order to prevent those from breaking to ensure safety. “We have procured enough diesel for power generators. All power lines, Wi-Fi and other devices of internal communication are being checked and primed,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. Loose material from the rooftops, including corrugated sheets, are being removed, glass panes are being checked. “Our staffers will stay in the hospital premises to tackle electrical and civil issues,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice-principal Medical College Hospital. Hospitals have constituted special task forces to ensure smooth services during the cyclone. With Amphan likely to reach speeds of up to 125kmph in the city, snapping of power lines is a major concern. Medical superintendent at MR Bangur Hospital Sisir Naskar expects uninterrupted services as most of its healthcare workers are staying on the campus and in nearby lodges. A five-member rapid response team headed by deputy superintendent Dwaipayan Biswas has been asked to take charge at NRS Medical College. All department heads have been told to ensure adequate manpower and around 1,400 beds have been readied.  “Our hospitals have kept diesel generator backup ready in case of power issues. As the overall patient occupancy is low due to the lockdown, we would be able to handle the situation,” said R Venkatesh, zonal director (eastern) of Narayana Health. Doctors fear Amphan could complicate the Covid transmission scenario by triggering temperature fluctuation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-take-guard-against-cyclone/articleshow/75835935.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Potential projectiles removed from tall buildings||KOLKATA: The chilling video of cyclone Fani toppling a tower crane installed atop an under-construction highrise in Bhubaneswar that went viral a year ago has led to a slew of measures to prevent a repeat when cyclone Amphan packs in an even stronger punch when it blows into Kolkata late Wednesday evening. Racing against time and battling a manpower crunch owing to the lockdown, site managers on Tuesday marshalled whatever little force was available to hastily stow away loose material that can be blown away by high-velocity winds and turn into deadly projectiles. At The 42, the city’s tallest tower located on Chowringhee, scaffolding that had been erected for a final paint work in balconies were dismantled. “We will switch off the electricity on Wednesday to prevent any short-circuit,” said Alcove Realty director Yashaswi Shroff. Though the facade of the 250m building was tested in a wind tunnel and was found to withstand winds of up to 200km/hr, cyclone Amphan will be a litmus test for the skyscraper to withstand nature’s fury. Amphan will also test the three-storied floating deck ‘Deya’ atop the 152m high Atmosphere next to Science City. The steel framework of the deck weighing 150 tonne spans 60m between the two towers. Forum Projects director Rahul Saraf said a team was deputed on Monday to check the sky deck. “Everything is anchored, including the trees atop the deck. A facade maintenance trolley suspended has been dismantled. All loose material have also been stowed safely,” said Saraf. The Mani Group that is part of the consortium that developed The 42 and has over 20 highrises in the city, either completed or under construction, has made the tower cranes free swivel so that they don’t resist the wind force but rotate. “It takes over two weeks to dismantle a tower crane. So that is not an option. What we have done is disconnect power supply and release the brakes so that they can move freely. The accident in Bhubaneswar probably happened because the cranes were not free movement,” said an engineer with the group. The agency contracted to renovate the Tallah tank in north Kolkata have just done that with the 110-ft tower crane. While shuttering material from the top floors have been removed in most project sites, safety nets have also been put around the building’s periphery where work has been suspended since lockdown. Nandu Belani, chairman of the Bengal chapter of Confederation of Real Esate Developers’ Association of India, has asked all members to ensure workers are shifted from labour hutments into under-construction buildings so that they are safe. “Should the cyclone stick to its path, Kolkata will face a huge challenge. We are already passing through trying times owing to the Covid pandemic. We don’t want any further loss of life,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/potential-projectiles-removed-from-tall-bldgs/articleshow/75835929.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Climate change making cyclones stronger by 8% every decade: Study||KOLKATA: Amphan has intensified from a category-1 to category-5 cyclone in a short span of 18 hours and is set to become the strongest storm on record in Bay of Bengal. It is expected to be stronger than the 1999 Super Cyclone and climate change is making cyclones more devastating, feel weather scientists. A study published recently showed that storms are growing stronger by about 8% every decade. Driven by climate change, water in the Bay of Bengal was at record temperatures in May. The higher sea-surface temperature has increased the energy available to the storm. Roxy Mathew Koll, scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said: “Our research shows that high ocean temperatures are conducive for rapid intensification of cyclones in north Indian Ocean. In the current case, Bay of Bengal has been particularly warm, which may have had some role in the rapid intensification from a depression to a cyclone and then to a super cyclone in a very short time. For example, some of the buoys in the Bay of Bengal registered maximum surface temperatures of 32°C-34°C in the first two weeks of May. These are record temperatures driven by climate change, we have never seen such high values until now. These high temperatures can super charge a cyclone since tropical cyclones primarily draw their energy from evaporation on the ocean surface.” The planet’s atmosphere is warming as a result of carbon emission. A warmer atmosphere can hold more water, driving extreme rainfall during cyclones, which also increases the threat of flooding. Scientists have directly linked the increase in atmospheric moisture with human-caused climate change. The number of record-breaking rainfall events globally has significantly increased in recent decades, which is again a result of global warming. And scientists predict that rainfall from cyclones will increase with the climate changing for the worst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/climate-change-making-cyclones-stronger-by-8-every-decade-study/articleshow/75835939.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shops open in bylanes but those on main streets keep shutters down||PUNE: Many shops located in small streets across the city’s non-containment areas opened on Tuesday after around 60 days of being shut, in the wake of the Covid-19 spread. However, shops on the main road remained close in the absence of fresh guidelines from the state government and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Mahendra Pitaliya, the secretary of Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), said most traders continued to wait for fresh guidelines before opening the stores located on arterial roads in the city. “We do not know when the local authorities will issue fresh guidelines. We prefer to wait than open stores as we don’t want to face police action,” he said. Meanwhile, areas that had opened last week, once again had hundreds of shops open during lockdown 4.0. Residents from Kalyaninagar said that while the rule of opening five non-essential stores in a smaller lane or five shops per kilometre in bigger streets was being allowed, the shops were not opening as per the allotted days. “Sweet marts, bakeries, stationery shops, hardware shops, apparel stores, toy shops and many others were open on Tuesday. People are following the timing and the five-shop rule as police are taking regular rounds to keep a check,” the resident said. Several shops selling non-essential items, including sports goods, opened in Warje on Monday and Tuesday. “The Union government issued new guidelines as we entered the next phase of the lockdown. While we wait for the local authorities to issue new guidelines, we do not know whether the previous guidelines are still valid. There aren’t many stores near my shop, so I decided to keep it open on Monday and Tuesday,” a trader from Warje said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-open-in-bylanes-but-those-on-main-streets-keep-shutters-down/articleshow/75836747.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 20, 2020||India||SC deplores harassment of journalists with multiple FIRs||NEW DELHI: Emphasising the crucial role of media in protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, the Supreme Court on Tuesday deplored the practice of harassing journalists by filing multiple FIRs in different parts of the country in the same matter and said that it would effectively destroy the freedom of the citizen to know of the affairs of governance. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said journalistic freedom was at the core of freedom of speech and expression protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and free citizens could exist when the news media was free and not chained to adhere to one position. "India’s freedoms will rest safe as long as journalists can speak to power without being chilled by the threat of reprisal. The exercise of that fundamental right is not absolute and is answerable to the legal regime enacted with reference to the provisions of Article 19(2). But to allow a journalist to be subjected to multiple complaints and to the pursuit of remedies traversing multiple states and jurisdictions when faced with successive FIRs and complaints bearing the same foundation has a stifling effect on the exercise of that freedom," the bench said. "This will effectively destroy the freedom of the citizen to know of the affairs of governance in the nation and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society. Our decisions hold that the right of a journalist under Article 19(1)(a) is no higher than the right of the citizen to speak and express. But we must, as a society, never forget that one cannot exist without the other. Free citizens cannot exist when the news media is chained to adhere to one position," it added. The comments were part of the court order on a plea filed by an English news channel anchor who approached the court after more than a dozen FIRs and complaints were lodged in different states for his statement made during a show. Although the apex court rejected his plea for quashing of all proceedings, it, however, directed that he would be probed in one FIR lodged in Mumbai and quashed all other FIRs and complaints. The bench also turned down his plea to hand over the investigation to CBI, saying the court should pass such order only in exceptional circumstances. "Subjecting an individual to numerous proceedings arising in different jurisdictions on the basis of the same cause of action cannot be accepted as the least restrictive and effective method of achieving the legitimate state aim in prosecuting crime. The manner in which the petitioner has been subjected to numerous FIRs in several states, besides the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, on the basis of identical allegations arising out of the same television show would leave no manner of doubt that the intervention of this court is necessary to protect the rights of the petitioner as a citizen and as a journalist to fair treatment (guaranteed by Article 14) and the liberty to conduct an independent portrayal of views," the bench said. The court also extended the anchor’s protection from arrest for three weeks and asked him to pursue his remedies before the competent forum, including the high court. It also made it clear that the FIR lodged against the journalist did not cover the offence of criminal defamation and that offence would not form the subject matter of the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-deplores-harassment-of-journalists-with-multiple-firs/articleshow/75837703.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
May 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Entry of mining lorries from TN and AP leaves Mudipu residents worried||Mangaluru: The arrival of 60 to 70 trucks from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to transport mura mud (mud of red stones) has left villagers of Mudipu/Pajeer a worried lot as they fear about the spread of coronavirus. Residents allege that the department of mines and geology has permitted inter-state transportation without conducting health check-up of drivers and cleaners. “Whether the mining activity is legal or illegal, with the outbreak of the pandemic we are worried about our safety. Despite ban on inter-district movement to prevent the spread of Covid-19, why did the district administration allow such activity inviting trouble to locals?” questioned a resident. Residents said that currently red mud mining is being carried out in several areas of Mudipu/Pajeer. They said that drivers, cleaners and others working at the mining area visit local shops and move around without any proper safety gear or masks. “The states they come from have seen highest number of Covid-19 cases and it is the duty of the district administration and health officials to allow them only after health check-up,” expressed residents. When TOI contacted Niranjan, deputy director, mine and geology department, he maintained that five persons in Mudipu are legally permitted to excavate and transport red mud to companies that produce cement. “The allegations made by villagers are far from truth. According to my knowledge, all the vehicles, which transport construction and other materials from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are checked in the border areas and permitted to enter. While returning, they carry red mud from Mudipu area,” he said, adding that all health safety measures are taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/entry-of-mining-lorries-from-tn-and-ap-leaves-mudipu-residents-worried/articleshow/75832456.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Restart economy, Y S Jaganmohan Reddy tells officials||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday directed officials to initiate steps to restore the economy even before the lockdown 4.0 ends on May 31. He has asked district collectors and other senior officials to monitor reopening of economic activity in the state. During a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation, the CM congratulated the staff for their hard work. The chief minister also directed the officials to ensure that the government’s welfare initiatives reached all beneficiaries. Jagan told the officials to prepare a list of migrant labourers and give them work under the MNREGS. He wanted the officials to create more wage days under MNREGS in villages taking up wide range of works for overall development of villages. Referring to Covid-19, the chief minister said that the state has conducted the highest number of tests in the country. He thanked all government employees in the state for their contribution in fighting the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/restart-economy-jagan-tells-officials/articleshow/75834900.cms||Gopi Dara
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Edu minister pans development officer over NREGA duty order for teachers||Jaipur: The development officer at Panchayat Samiti Rajakheda block in Dholpur on Tuesday issued an order to appoint government teachers to mark attendance of National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) workers. The move was opposed by school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra. The officer issued orders that NAREGA work was going on in Samor gram panchayat in Rajakheda block. To monitor workers, government teachers in the area were ordered to come on site and keep a record of workers’ attendance. Taking action against the order, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra wrote on twitter, “Please convey my message to the officer in charge that there is no need to obey such absurd orders for government teachers. Teachers can be only engaged in COVID 19 related duties and not in any other work.” This has sent a positive message to the government teaching fraternity. “This is a welcome step for teachers. This can be an example for other officials who expect teachers to do all kinds of work just because they have been appointed in pandemic duties,” said Vipin Sharma, general secretary, Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers Association. Lakhs of teachers are engaged in pandemic work, be it delivering ration, duties in the Covid ward in districts or door-to-door surveys. The government teachers are serving in almost all the areas during pandemic but these kinds of postings are unnecessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edu-minister-pans-development-officer-over-nrega-duty-order-for-teachers/articleshow/75836762.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Gram panchayats on guard to retain orange, green tags||Pune: Local administrations of the rural parts of Pune division are going all out to ensure their areas remain in the orange or green zones. The measures include gram panchayat members in Ambegaon, Purandar and Junnar forming teams to check toll posts and activating the health care mechanism to ensure the Covid-19 spread is limited. At the moment, the rural areas have registered 108 cases till Monday. These cases were mainly from Haveli, Junnar, Shirur, Mulshi, Velhe, Bhor, Baramati, Indapur, Daund, Maval and Khed. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said residents too were being involved to alert the gram panchayat about any outsiders or breach of quarantine orders. “There are many villages that have reported no cases, even as there may have been be one or two cases at the taluka level,” the collector said, adding, “We want to keep it that way and are taking all steps in that regard.” “Villagers, of their own volition, have postponed weddings and gatherings and are awaiting orders for even local markets to open, so that social distancing can be maintained,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gram-panchayats-on-guard-to-retain-orange-green-tags/articleshow/75836759.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 20, 2020||Goa||Prepare for monsoon, CM instructs depts||Panaji: Even as Goa tackles a spike in Covid-19 cases, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday directed all government departments to prepare for the fast-approaching monsoon, which is expected to arrive in the state on June 10. He said the government has decided to purchase two boats to assist in rescue operations in the event of a flood-like situation. Pumps have also been procured to remove water from low-lying areas. Last August, North Goa witnessed one of its worst floods in over two decades after surplus water was released from the nearby Tillari dam in Maharashtra that had reached its maximum capacity due a spell of heavy rain. It led to the evacuation of people from parts of the Bicholim and Ponda talukas and even from Mala in the state capital, Panaji. The floods also inundated fields and destroyed large swathes of crops. Sawant, who chaired a meeting with the state disaster management authority at Porvorim on Tuesday, told reporters that he reviewed work done by all the departments concerned and directed them to complete tasks within the stipulated time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prepare-for-monsoon-cm-instructs-depts/articleshow/75836761.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Civic body, police start evacuating risky buildings in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Maintaining safety of the residents of the city’s dilapidated buildings is going to be the toughest challenge that Amphan is likely to throw before the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators governing KMC, on Tuesday expressed concern over 59 such dilapidated buildings that are located across the city. In fact, Hakim on Tuesday instructed the KMC buildings department officials to keep a close eye on highly dilapidated buildings and arrange for evacuation of the residents. During a meeting held at the civic headquarters on Tuesday, a section of the civic officials stressed on removing people from dilapidated buildings in areas designated as high-risk zones by KMC. Some of the areas from where the KMC started evacuation, included Pathuriaghata Street, Chitpore, Cossipore, Burrabazar, MG Road, Beadon Street, Jorasanko, Bowbazar, Elliot Road, Colin Lane, Bhowanipore, Kidderpore and Garden Reach. Since some of the localities are Covid-19 containment zones. According to a KMC official, taking a lesson from their preparedness before cyclone Phani hit the Odisha coast, this time the civic body has readied rescue centres (mostly civic schools and community halls) for evacuation of inmates of dilapidated buildings. “We have asked all building department executive engineers to arrange for evacuation of highly insecure buildings that are located within their jurisdiction. We will follow social distancing norms in the rehabilitation centres,” a KMC official said. The KMC buildings department has kept ready private agencies, which may need to demolish parts of the insecure buildings after the cyclone hits the Bengal coast to save densely populated areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-body-police-start-evacuating-risky-buildings/articleshow/75835944.cms||Saikat Ray
May 20, 2020||Hubballi||Greenery adds to rugged Hampi’s beauty||Ballari: The lockdown has hit tourism hard and Hampi is no exception. One of the biggest revenue generators for the state and the region, the world heritage site which boasts of over 900-odd monuments wears a deserted look. But the brief spells of pre-monsoon showers has given the heritage site in Ballari district a green look. The rugged and hilly region place sports a green look and is all set to greet tourists with its vibrant atmosphere. For bird watcher Shivashankar Banakar its a dream come true. "One hears the calls of so many birds now as it is so silent and because of the greenery," he adds The trees which had withered in the scorching sun is prouting green foliage. P N Lokesh, commissioner, Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority, said Hampi looks beautiful now. Tourists are going to enjoy the beauty of monuments amidst the greenery. The last two months, green cover increased across Hampi. There is a huge patch of greenery between monuments like Purandardas Mantap and Vijaya Vitthal temple. The landscape is very beckoning." The last time Lokesh saw Hampi so lush green was way back in the 80s. "The green cover adds to the beauty of the ruins," he added. M H Prakash Rao, temple officer, Hampi Veerupaksha Temple said, "The 400-mtr long stretch from Veerupaksha temple to Yaduru Basavanna temple is green. The lockdown helped us clean the place and tend to the plants and gardens. This is not possible as we otherwise get so many tourists," he explained. K G Govindraj, vigilant officer, Gescom, said during lockdown locals would volunteer to keep the place clean and help in planting saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/greenery-adds-to-rugged-hampis-beauty/articleshow/75832483.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||‘Tourism hit, extend freeze on loan EMIs’||Panaji: Seeking relief for stakeholders of Goa’s tourism industry and its allied activities who have suffered massive losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, ports minister Michael Lobo on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking that the moratorium period on loans be extended from three months to one year. In his letter, Lobo said that the tourism industry, which is the backbone of Goa, has taken a severe hit due to the lockdown necessitated by the pandemic and that it has had a crippling effect on the state’s economy. Highlighting the difficulties of those involved in tourism activities in Goa, Lobo said, “Most of those involved in tourism and its allied activities have taken huge loans from banks/financial institutions for carrying out their activities. Due to the lockdown they have suffered losses and are not in a position to continue the repayments of their EMIs.” “While commending the actions of the government of India to give a moratorium period of three months for repayment of EMIs, I humbly request your good office to extend it to one year considering the grave effect of this pandemic whereby tourism and related activities will take at least six to eight months, or more, to get back on track in our beautiful state of Goa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-hit-extend-freeze-on-loan-emis/articleshow/75836768.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Workers issue notice to IIM-A, govt||Ahmedabad: A day after the migrant workmen clashed with police officials outside the new Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) campus, the workers on Tuesday served a legal notice to the IIM-A director as principal employer and the Gujarat government, for non-payment of wages during the lockdown period and seeking arrangements to return to their native places. The workmen’s advocate Anand Yagnik said the legal notice was issued under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, calling upon IIM-A director and the contractor to pay minimum wages and earned wages not paid till date. He said that the IIM-A director was served the notice because the workers were engaged in construction at the new IIM-A campus. It also calls upon the authorities “to ensure immediate release of all the migrant workers of Jharkhand and West Bengal who were detained after yesterday’s unfortunate incident and who have not been released yet”, and to ensure their repatriation to their respective parent states free of charge and meanwhile make interim arrangements with regard to their appropriate living and hygiene conditions. The lawyer said the notice was required because the employers failed to meet their obligations to repatriate the stranded migrant labourers to their native places. “These workers are not being paid wages and in spite of repeated requests after April 28, neither IIM-A as the principal employer nor the contractor made any arrangement to repatriate more than 500 workers who are working as contract labourers on construction of the new building of IIM Ahmedabad,” the lawyer said and added that Sections 14 and 15 of the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act are with regard to displacement allowance and journey allowance. They obligate the employer to bear repatriation, displacement and journey allowance costs. IIM-A director Prof Errol D’Souza said, “All workers are paid their dues. The primary issue that led to the unrest is their understandable perceived delay in obtaining travel permits and arranging of transportation by the state authorities.” On the notice, he said, “It would be unfortunate as it would affect workers’ return since the notice would require their presence to provide statements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/workers-issue-notice-to-iim-a-govt/articleshow/75836051.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Buzz back at secretariat as govt depts resume work at full strength||Bhubaneswar: The offices of the state government began functioning at full capacity on Tuesday, after almost two months. Most departments at the secretariat and the Kharavel Bhawan saw nearly 80 to 90 per cent of their staff turning up for work. Social distancing norms were strictly maintained, official sources said. “Almost all the departments have started functioning, with full attendance. Barring a few employees who have gone to their native places because of the lockdown, everyone else attended office today (Tuesday). All employees are adhering to the guidelines of the government on Covid-19,” said Bibekananda Samal, general secretary, Odisha Secretariat Service Association. During lockdown 3.0, only 15 ‘critical’ departments of the total 43 departments were allowed to operate with up to 50 per cent of their staff on a roster basis. This allowed the government to attend to essential works, while maintaining social distancing norms. Other departments were allowed to operate with up to 30 per cent of their staff. “Many departments had been categorised as partially critical departments and their work was being affected because of low attendance. Now, all employees have to be at office for extra hours for one or two weeks to clear pending work. Field-level offices have been asked to operate at full strength,” said an additional secretary-rank officer on the condition of anonymity. The chief minister’s office was running at full strength during all phases of the lockdown, but ministers are yet to attend office as many of them are in their respective constituencies. Besides, visitors’ entry to the secretariat is yet to resume, as is entry of mediapersons. Employees having symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) should not attend office, and should apply for leave instead, an advisory issued by the state general administration department said. “Also, government employees residing within containment zones are advised against attending office,” it added. The controlling officers of all departments have been asked to enforce social distancing protocols. Where social distancing is not possible due to lack of office space, the departments have been asked to resort to roster arrangements so that government work does not suffer. Subordinate offices at the state and the district levels have also resumed normal functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/buzz-back-at-secretariat-as-govt-depts-resume-work-at-full-strength/articleshow/75834915.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Airport set to receive foreign returnees||Vijayawada: With the first international flight from Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom bringing back Indians stranded abroad expected to land in Vijayawada today, district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz and Nuzivid sub-collector Swapnil Dinakar inspected Vijayawada International Airport on Tuesday. “Each and every international passenger who reaches the city will be thoroughly tested before heading for their home towns in buses,” Imtiaz said. The collector inspected the special health desk arranged at the airport and directed officials to thoroughly screen foreign returnees. “We will strictly follow the Covid-19 medical protocol at the international airport. Each passenger will be screened before boarding buses. Special counters will be arranged for the registration,” Imtiaz said. “Each foreign returnee has to undergo a mandatory 14 day home or government quarantine period as per guidelines and we have made necessary arrangements for this,” the collector said, adding, “We have alerted district administration across the state so that they can arrange quarantine facility.” The collector said foreign returnees can opt for paid quarantine facilities at star and other prominent hotels in the city that have come forward to extend this service. Officials have divided quarantine facilities into two categories. Persons who pay Rs 35,000 will be considered category 1 and those who pay Rs 28,000 will be included under category 2. Foreign returnees who do not display Covid-19 symptoms during the quarantine period will be sent home and asked to report to government authorities if they notice any symptom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/airport-set-to-receive-foreign-returnees/articleshow/75834917.cms||Venu Lanka
May 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: RTO to start renewing licences from next month||PUNE: The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) will start renewing licences which have expired, issue duplicate licences and make corrections, if any, from next month onwards. However, issue of new driving and learner's licences will not start anytime soon. "The RTO has started registering new vehicles from Monday. For renewal, issuance of duplicate licence or corrections, one has to fill forms online, pay the fees, and collect the licence from the RTO office. This is to ensure minimal presence of people at RTO offices," an official told TOI. The ministry of road transport and highways clarified last month that the validity of fitness, permits, driving licence, registration etc which could not be extended due to the lockdown and have expired since February 1 or will expire by June 30, will be treated valid till June 30. "People falling under this category need not worry as such documents get automatically updated in our system," another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-to-start-renewing-licences-from-next-month/articleshow/75836763.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Phased repatriation of Kannadigas is based on facilities available in DK: BJP||Mangaluru: Repatriation of stranded Kannadigas in other states and Gulf countries is becoming reason for political tussle between ruling BJP and opposition Congress, especially in Dakshina Kannada district, the home district of DK MP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel. With Congress leadership firing salvos at Nalin, Sudarshan M, president of district unit of BJP, rushed to the defence of the state BJP boss here on Tuesday. Sudarshan said the district administration is working as a team under the leadership of Nalin and district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojary and all seven BJP MLAs. “The party, without bias, has also reached out to the needs of people of Mangaluru assembly constituency represented by former minister and incumbent MLA U T Khader,” Sudarshan said, adding the party’s relief efforts have benefited vast marginalised and weaker sections of society. On the specific charge of not catering to the interests of Kannadigas stranded in the Middle East and in Maharashtra by way of arranging special flights or trains, Sudarshan said this is part of a well-thought-out move to bring them in batches. “The district authorities have created healthcare and quarantine facilities for a limited number, be it at Covid-19 hospital or institutional quarantine, and bringing them together will create logistical problems,” he said. Dismissing the allegations by Congress leaders, including former ministers Ramanath Rai, Khader and MLC Ivan D’Souza, Sudarshan said one cannot expect them to understand the farsightedness of by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in rolling out the economic revival package. “All must work collectively to alleviate the sufferings of people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/phased-repatriation-of-kannadigas-is-based-on-facilities-available-in-dk-bjp/articleshow/75831112.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Seaside villages in coastal belt look deserted||KENDRAPADA: Almost all the seaside villages were wearing a deserted look on Tuesday as people moved to safer places as with Cyclon Amphan all set to trigger heavy rainfall in coastal belt. The rain coupled with gusty wind forced many to leave their seaside houses as Amphan could be the worst storm since 1999 Super Cyclone when around 10,000 people lost their lives in the nature’s fury in Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapada districts. The sea has crept almost two km into Satabhaya gram panchayat in Kendrapada district within three decades. It is one of the state’s worst sea erosion-hit panchayats. Aware of the vulnerability, many residents in Satabhaya, Magarakandha, Kanhupur and other seaside villagers have moved to safer places. The fishing villages of Sandakuda, Padmapur, Kharinashi, Batighar, Kansarbadadandua, Ambikia, Goda , Padmapur and other villages in Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur districts look like ghost villages as many of the villagers left their houses fearing the onslaught of the cyclone. Villagers also moved cattle and other domestic animals to safer places. Panic gripped Dhinkia, Nuagaon and Gadakujang gram panchayats of Jagatsinghpur district near the Jatadhari river mouth on Tuesday as the cyclonic storm is approaching. In 1999 Super Cyclone, these villages were not devastated as the green cover and sand dunes protected the villagers from the surging tidal waves. “Five years back, the authorities denuded large tracks of green cover to provide land to South Korean steel giant Posco for which we have been spending sleepless nights,” said Manorama Khatua of Dhinkia. Prasanta Mirdha of Ambiki village under Erasama block in Jagatsinghpur district is one of the survivors of the 1999 Super Cyclone. “My life changed forever 21 years ago. When the Super Cyclone struck this area, I survived as I took shelter in the only two-storey pucca house in the village. But I lost my 15 members of family, including my parents, cousins, aunties, uncles, a brother and a sister,” said Prasanta, 30. “I lost my parents and I still can’t overcome the shock. The authorities have arranged our stay in a cyclone shelter at Dahibar village under Erasama block on Tuesday,” said Arakhita Maiti, 32, of Dahibar. “The coastal areas of Odisha are highly vulnerable to both natural and man-made disasters. One of the major cause of under development of the state is natural calamities which visit the state almost every year,” said Biswajit Mohanty secretary of Wildlife Society of Odisha. On October 29, 1999, thousands perished in villages of Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts due to denudation of mangrove forests, added Mohanty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/seaside-villages-in-coastal-belt-look-deserted/articleshow/75834914.cms||Ashis Senapati
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Work-from-home may go for a toss as power utilities warn of disruption||KOLKATA: Work from home that has become a new norm since the lockdown could face its first major bump on Wednesday with cyclone Amphan set to disrupt power supply and communication links. Unless the cyclone weakens or changes course dramatically, power utilities and telecom and internet service providers have warned of disruption caused by the high velocity winds and torrential rain. Once wind speeds exceed 45kmph, power utilities will switch off supply to Salt Lake and other areas in North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore to avoid any mishap if power lines snap. Pockets of Kolkata with overhead supply network are also expected to get hit. But a large portion of the city that has underground supply may escape a blackout during the cyclone. “Nor’westers that are a lot more mild than cyclones leave behind a trail of destruction. It takes a day, and at times more, to restore services. During Aila, the last severe cyclone that hit the city, the disruption was longer as the damage was more extensive,” said a spokesperson of WBSEDCL that supplies power to most of the state including Salt Lake. “If the city and surrounding areas are lashed by winds of 120kmph, transmission towers and poles can buckle, leading to snapping of cables. If the lines are live, they can cause havoc. So we will switch off the network to ensure there is no mishap,” he said. The utility has set up round-the-clock control rooms in the three districts that will face the cyclone’s brunt and has kept the entire workforce on alert to begin restoration work after the rain’s intensity subsides on Thursday. In Kolkata, CESC’s emergency control room will begin functioning at Victoria House around Wednesday noon. Two senior officials will oversee the situation and monitor reports from the 10 regional centres that will be manned by engineers and technicians. “Apart from 240 emergency restoration groups and 100 breakdown repair units, 100 more repair teams will be strategically placed in a decentralized manner across CESC licensed areas to cope up with exigency. There will be 5,000 men on duty,” a CESC spokesperson said. While the 27 major drainage pumping stations in Kolkata and leading hospitals have alternate feeds to ensure continuity of supply, generators will be placed at Covid-designated hospitals as an added precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-from-home-may-go-for-a-toss-as-power-utilities-warn-of-disruption/articleshow/75835948.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vadodara||In lockdown, engineer masters yoga mudras to control thirst||Vadodara: At the crack of dawn, she rolls out her mat and sits down in a yoga mudra. Tuesday was no different for Nazneen Kachwala, who took up yoga during the lockdown to achieve two purposes — self control and also learn a newer skill while being at home. “I come from a conservative family but when I explained the benefits of yoga to my parents, they understood it and supported me,” said engineer Nazneen, who claims she has been following this routine ever since the lockdown began. After performing yoga mudras, she observes roza at her residence on Ajwa Road and also offers namaz every evening. “I also do sukshma kriyas, recite Om chants while meditating along with Surya Namaskar,” said Nazneen, who added that her primary aim was to gain self control so that she could the stringent fast with ease during the holy month of Ramzan. “And it has helped me immensely,” gushed the 30-year-old, who said that with the help of the particular mudra she now no longer gets affected by thirst whole day long. “I have been observing roza for years now. However, it was always difficult as I used to feel very thirsty. I came to know about the yoga techniques and mudras that can curb my thirst. But I never got the time to practice these mudras earlier,” said the woman belonging to the Alavi Bohra muslim community. Talking to TOI, Nazneen said: “After the lockdown, when I began working from home, I decided to practice Khechri Mudra and since it was much ahead of Ramzan, I knew it would help me greatly. In this mudra, the tongue has to be rolled back to touch the tip of the uvula. It is very difficult and requires lot of time, patience and practice. But once learnt, the results are amazingly satisfying.” “After days of hard practice, I can now fast all day without getting parched. Whenever I feel thirsty, I immediately do this mudra along with Sheetali Pranayama that helps me cool down my body. I am able to focus on my work even while fasting all day,” said the enthusiast who also learnt yoga at Yoga Niketan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-lockdown-engineer-masters-yoga-mudras-to-control-thirst/articleshow/75834411.cms||Tushar Tere
May 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC anticipates waterlogging, sets up control room||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made arrangements to tackle waterlogging, if any, caused by heavy rain under the influence of Cyclone Amphan that will make landfall between West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon. The civic body has deployed engineering personnel at all vulnerable points of the city to prevent waterlogging. It has also set up a control room to receive complaints of waterlogging from residents and ensure smooth deployment of teams to rescue people trapped in flooded localities. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said 27 high-power motor pumps of the state fire department had been kept ready, besides 20 of the BMC. “We have formed six teams (two per zone) for deployment in areas under our jurisdiction. Coordination teams at the control room will move people if needed. Generator sets will be kept on standby for use in vantage points, vulnerable locations and the BMC office in case of a power failure,” said the commissioner. BMC sources said the usual waterlogging suspects — Mayfair Square, Jayadev Vihar, Acharya Vihar, Bhim Tangi, Gourisankar English Medium School area and Saswat Vihar — are under observation. Besides these localities, engineering and rescue teams have been allotted to Hanspal, Sriram City, Nayapalli Behera Sahi, Bairagi Nagar, Jharpada, Laxmisagar, Satabdi Nagar, Gayatri Nagar, Mallick Complex, Garage Chhak, Panchasakha Nagar and five other localities. No temporary shelter has been set up this time, and no one has been evacuated yet. Last year, 130 cyclone shelters had been set up in the city ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Fani and 60,000 people had been moved there. Unlike Fani, which battered Bhubaneswar with rain and winds of up to 200kmph, Amphan is likely to bring only rain to the city. The IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall, with winds of 60kmph speed. “At this rate, there is no danger of uprooting of trees and electric poles. Big hoardings, too, should not be blown away. Rooftop hoardings in the city have anyway been removed,” said a BMC officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-anticipates-waterlogging-sets-up-control-room/articleshow/75834925.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||7 hosps told to pay for death of mom, baby||Hyderabad: Noting that as many as seven hospitals denied treatment to Janeela which led to her death along with her newborn, the Telangana high court on Monday told the state to collect compensation from all seven hospitals and give it to her family. “What these hospitals and doctors displayed was criminal negligence,” the high court bench fumed. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy while hearing two PILs filed by advocates Sreenitha Pujari and Kishore Kumar sought to know from the state whether it has appointed nodal officers and ambulances for all containment areas, red zones, hotspots and had informed the public in those areas about such facilities. The bench gave several directions to the state while making it clear to the authorities that they should earmark hospitals and facilities to attend to non-covid medical emergencies. It also sought a report from the state and directed advocate general BS Prasad to inform the status of inquiry ordered into the incident by May 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-hosps-told-to-pay-for-death-of-mom-baby/articleshow/75835321.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Vadgaon Sheri locals in a fix over frequent road closure||Pune: Residents and businessowners in some parts of Vadgaon Sheri have said that frequent closing and opening of key roads and crucial shortcuts linking the area with adjacent Chandannagar and Kharadi have affected supplies and deliveries over the past few days.The connecting roads in eastern parts of Vadgaon Sheri, close to the containment zone areas like Chandannagar and parts of Kharadi, have been sealed completely. Police have barricaded the area with corrugated sheets, supported by bamboo, preventing supply of even essential services.Residents reported that some barricades were removed, while others came up within a span of a few hours.“I had to drop off an order near the Stella Maris School just a couple of days back, but the road was completely blocked. So, my client had to walk quite a bit to collect the order. But just this morning, I had another delivery in that area and the road was open. Since I was not aware, I requested the customer to walk up to the barricade when there was no need to,” said Suresh, who works as a delivery executive for an online grocery platform.Local businessowners and even vendors said that random opening and closing of roads was affecting their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vadgaon-sheri-locals-in-a-fix-over-frequent-road-closure/articleshow/75836771.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Stranded T students back from UK||Hyderabad: Telugu students stranded in the UK because of Covid-19 lockdown flew back to India in an Air India flight from London. Among the students were those who had been at the High Commission of India (HCI) during March when they had nowhere else to go after international flights were cancelled abruptly though they had reached the airports to fly back home before lockdown in India was announced. Earlier, students from Telangana were repatriated to Hyderabad in a special flight under the Centre’s Vande Bharat mission. That flight also took passengers to Kochi. Though most of the Telugu students were repatriated in the flight, there are still some more students from AP who have been forced to remain in London. “The flight was packed to capacity. We will pursue with the HCI to see if there is a scope to send the rest of the students too,” social worker Gampa Venugopal told TOI from London. He said more than 60 students were repatriated to Andhra Pradesh in the flight which took off and most of the students had got help from various Telugu organisations in London for their stay and food. Despite receiving confirmation to board the flight, a few students on reaching the airport were told that if they wanted, they could only fly business class and asked if they were willing to take those tickets. The four students, however, opted to stay back and fly in the next possible flight, Venugopal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stranded-t-students-back-from-uk/articleshow/75835402.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||118 child marriages prevented in Karnataka in the thick of lockdown||BENGALURU: Timely intervention by the women and child welfare department resulted in cancellation of 118 child marriages arranged in Karnataka during April, when the state was in the grip of Covid-19 and the consequent lockdown. In April, the department received 129 child marriage-related complaints from across the state and its child protection officers successfully prevented 118 of them. However, 11 marriages couldn’t be stopped. One of them had been held in Coimbatore in September 2019 but was brought to the notice of the department only in April 2020. The 10 other marriages took place in April, officials said. TimesViewChild marriage may have been made illegal in 1929, but it was only in 1978 that the marriageable age was legally set at 18 for women and 21 for men. And though child marriage numbers have been declining over the years, that the practice has not died out is a matter of shame. The silver lining is that more people recognise it as a crime and are willing to come forward and inform the authorities. The sad part is that we still have a long way to go before this social vice can be completely eradicated.April and May are known to be the season for child marriages and the department took several precautionary measures, say officials. It has prevented 356 child marriages in all till April-end this year. According to KA Dayananda, director, women and child welfare department, the number of child marriages prevented is the highest ever in April 2020. “This is because of increase in awareness. The more complaints we get, the more effective our action will be. April and May are the months when child marriages are more. That’s because it’s the time of summer holidays. The number of complaints we get also goes up during these months,” he said. Curiously, the marriages were all set to to be conducted in the thick of the lockdown. “But in rural areas, there was movement of people and vehicles between villages unlike in urban areas,” said Dayananda. Vasudeva Sharma NB, nodal director of Childline (1098), and executive director, Child Rights Trust, said several child marriages might have still taken place in April without them being reported anywhere. “Childline staffers have acted upon every complaint received. However, there could be cases that weren’t on our radar. Most child marriages occur within communities, relatives and villages. Lockdown may not have had an impact on such marriages,” he said. The department has filed FIRs in seven of these cases so far. Two cases were registered in Tumakuru, one in Shivamogga and four in Mysuru. The highest number of child marriages were prevented in Mysuru and Chitradurga (21 each), followed by Belagavi (12), Ballari (10) and seven each in Shivamogga, Koppal and Chikkamagaluru districts. Interestingly, no such complaints were reported from Yadgir, Mandya, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Haveri and Ramanagara districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/118-child-marriages-prevented-in-the-thick-of-lockdown/articleshow/75835651.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS eyes big win for Kalvakuntla Kavitha in MLC poll||HYDERABAD: The ruling TRS is set to square off with BJP again in the MLC election for the Nizamabad local authority constituency (LAC) which is expected to be held next month. After a lull in political activity for over one-and-a-half months due to coronavirus and lockdown, the political scene in Nizamabad is heating up where both parties have been trying to outdo each other. Former Nizamabad MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha is contesting as a TRS nominee, while BJP fielded former MLA Laxminarayana from the LAC. Congress has fielded V Subash Reddy as its candidate. Both parties are at loggerheads for the last one year, especially after Lok Sabha elections in which BJP candidate Arvind Dharmapuri won the race against TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter Kavitha. TRS regained some ground by bagging the mayor seat in Nizamabad Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections. Buoyed by the result, TRS is doing everything to defeat its bitter enemy BJP in the coming MLC election. Election to the MLC vacancy was supposed to be held in April first week but was postponed due to Covid-19. In this LAC, with all municipal corporators, councillors, MTPC and ZPTC members, there are 824 voters in the erstwhile Nizamabad district. Though TRS has two-thirds of majority to win the MLC seat, local leaders are going all out to decimate the saffron party in the election. On Tuesday, four MPTCs from BJP in Makloor mandal — Lakshmi Srinivas, Satyagangu Ramesh, Sujatha Naveen and Linitha Mahesh — joined the ruling party in the presence of Armoor MLA A Jeevan Reddy. The BJP leaders said they were joining TRS as there was no leadership in the BJP and they were vexed with false promises made by Arvind on getting a turmeric board to the district. Four days ago, three BJP corporators — Vikram Goud, Sadhu Sai Vardhan — and Raghavender from NMC joined the ruling party in presence of minister Vemula Prashant Reddy. Earlier, BJP Nandipet ZPTC member Y Yamuna joined TRS in Hyderabad. A Congress ZPTC member from Eretla G Rajeshwara Rao also joined TRS on Tuesday. While TRS is busy with its ‘Operation Akarsh’, BJP also launched a counter-attack. BJP Greater Hyderabad president and MLC N Ramchander Rao lodged a complaint with ECI, seeking disqualification of Kavitha from participating in the election alleging that she had false affidavit by undervaluing her properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-eyes-big-win-for-kavitha-in-mlc-poll/articleshow/75835294.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||In garbage-free city star ratings, nothing for Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A list of garbage-free cities was released by the housing and urban affairs ministry on Tuesday and none of the cities from the state was in it. Garbage-free cities are given star ratings (seven start being the highest) that will overall impact its ranking in Swachhta Survekshan 2020 results. Jaipur, Ajmer, Dungarpur, Udaipur and other three cities applied from Rajasthan but none of them got any star. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “We applied for star rating this year but were not able to get through. The ministry changed the criteria for selection. We didn’t have enough marks in the citizen grievance part due to which we were not able to qualify.” Out of the 141 cities in the list, six got five-star ratings, 65 got three stars and 70 managed one-star rating. No city was able to get seven star rating this year. According to the ministry, in all 1,435 cities had applied for star rating and 658 were able to fulfil the criteria but only 141 got star rating. There are 12 conditions to be fulfilled to achieve a 7-star rating — door-to-door garbage collection, sweeping of public places, litter bin, storage bins, waste segregation, plastic ban, screening of nullahs, waste processing and grievance redressal. Under Swachh Survekshan-2018 report, Jaipur jumped to 39 position after ranking 215 in 2017. In 2019, Jaipur slipped five positions and was adjudged 44th. This year, the civic body is expecting to get a better position but if there is no star rating, city administration has to perform better in other criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-garbage-free-city-star-ratings-nothing-for-raj/articleshow/75836781.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Agra||Girl, 6, crushed under truck as her migrant parents rush to catch bus||Agra: A truck ran over a girl, 6, while she was hurrying to board a bus with her parents in Mainpuri’s Kishni area on Tuesday morning. The family had travelled from Gurgaon and was going to UP’s Sitapur district. The accident happened when the family, along with 13 other migrants, was de-boarded from an “unsafe” truck and was asked to sit in a bus near Etawah-Mainpuri border. Shiv Kumar, a daily-wage labourer, told TOI over phone that his family and some close relatives started walking from Gurgaon on Monday. Later, they got a lift in a truck. On Tuesday morning, they were stopped by police at Etawah-Mainpuri border. “While we were getting out of the truck with our luggage to catch the bus, another speeding truck loaded with crushed stones mowed down my little daughter, Priyanka” said Kumar, adding that now he is taking his daughter’s body to his village in an ambulance arranged by Mainpuri administration. Mainpuri’s superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Kumar said that the truck has been confiscated. “The driver fled from the spot. He will be arrested soon,” the SP added. An FIR has been registered under relevant sections of IPC at Kishni police station. Kumar said he had returned to Gurgaon after Holi on March 15. “But, I could not land a work as lockdown was announced soon after that. Our survival depends on our daily income. Each day had become difficult for us in Gurgaon so we decided to return to our village in Sitapur. Our excitement to reach home turned into mourning. We lost out daughter,” he said, adding that he will never return to Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-6-crushed-under-truck-as-her-migrant-parents-rush-to-catch-bus/articleshow/75834928.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||HC to govt: Enlist measures taken to move sweet limes||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court, while expressing its anguish over tonnes of sweet lime (mosambi) going waste in Telangana owing to lack of transportation permissions, directed both Centre and state to inform about the steps taken in response to the issue. The fruit is considered to be a immunity builder and is much sought right now due to the coronavirus pandemic. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy on Monday, gave Centre and state a period of three details to furnish the details while hearing a PIL filed by Koripelly Narayana Reddy. The state agriculture department revealed that over five lakh metric tonnes of mosambi are produced in Telangana of which only 5% is consumed in the state. The rest is transported to markets in Delhi, Punjab, UP, Rajasthan, Bengal and the northeast. “This is an essential fruit in the current crisis period because it boosts the immunity in the consumers and its consumption has to be promoted,” the bench said wondering why the Centre did not think of this in its plans to fight the pandemic. It asked assistant solicitor general Namavarapu Rajeswara Rao and advocate general BS Prasad to inform the strategy to quickly move the fruits to the north by May 22. Noting that Telangana is lagging behind in areas like cold storage facilities, Chief Justice Chauhan said the state should now make use of the current situation where the Centre is easing curbs on interstate transportation. “You can also speak to the ministers of individual states,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-govt-enlist-measures-taken-to-move-sweet-limes/articleshow/75835367.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State police reports first infection||Bhubaneswar: A constable of commissionerate police in Bhubaneswar on Tuesday tested positive for the novel coronavirus, making him the first such case in the state police. Officials said the 36-year-old man, who belongs to the reserve police line here, might have contracted the virus from a migrant labourer of another state, whom he had met while he was on leave. “One of our police personnel was subjected to Covid-19 test after he returned from leave. His swab samples report has come out positive. He is asymptomatic and has been moved to a Covid care facility. It is learnt that he had come in contact with a labourer of another state,” commissionerate police has tweeted. “Doctors across our four police hospitals in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack are closely monitoring the health condition of all police personnel following the established protocol. Let us work together to defeat the virus,” the tweet further said. As the first case in Odisha Police has set alarm bells ringing for the men in uniform, government sources said it has begun tracing close contacts of the patient. The sources added that the constable stayed in the barracks after returning from leave on Sunday. “We will quarantine some personnel of the reserve police line after we trace his direct and indirect contacts. The place will be sanitized,” a police officer said. At least 6,000 police personnel have been deployed on Covid duty in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. The commissionerate police has recently sent out a proposal to the state government for setting up a Covid hospital specifically for the treatment of police personnel. In an attempt to keep the virus at bay, commissionerate police has taken a slew of precautions, including segregation of personnel with co-morbidities (who will not be put on Covid duty), decongestion of barracks, operation of fever clinics with infrared thermometers and deployment of medical officers to monitor the health condition of the personnel. On Monday, swab samples of a few personnel of the Kumbharapada police station in Puri were collected for test as they were found to be ‘contacts’ of an inmate of Puri jail who had tested positive on Sunday. The results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-police-reports-first-infection/articleshow/75834932.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 20, 2020||Indore||Eggs, chicken back on platter soon||Indore: Indore, the business capital of Madhya Pradesh, has started crawling back to normalcy. Gradually lifting ban on different commercial activities and services, district administration on Tuesday allowed selected firms to start doorstep delivery of namkeen, eggs and dressed chicken. Excise department has also chalked out a plan to open liquor shops in rural areas and is awaiting state government’s nod. In his order, collector Manish Singh instructed namkeen manufacturers, suppliers and sellers not to open their outlets and only deliver products on receiving orders through phone calls and online. Selected 20 namkeen manufacturers have been given relaxation under Section 144 of CrPC to start operations. Permission has also been granted to some agencies and farmers. They will collect orders on phone calls or through online system and deliver products at doorsteps of customers. The namkeen, eggs and dressed chicken suppliers will have to follow all required precautions to check spread of the disease and will also have to ensure that quality of the product is not affected. Local excise department has identified 84 liquor shops situated in rural areas and have chalked out a plan to start them soon after receiving nod from state government. “There are 84 out of total 173 liquor shops in rural areas including that in 29 villages in city limits. As per collector’s instructions, a plan has been prepared to open these shops after receiving nod from state government,” assistant excise commissioner Rajnarayana Soni told TOI. He added that in Indore, liquor shops have been shut from March 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/eggs-chicken-back-on-platter-soon/articleshow/75835961.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Three drown in lake in Kothagudem dist||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old farmer and two of his family members, including his son, drowned in a village lake at Lakshmipuram in Bhadradri Kothagudem district on Tuesday. The victims were, N Appa Rao, 40, a farmer from Lakshmipuram, his son Tejas Kumar, an engineering student, and Appa Rao’s nephew J Vinay (17), an SSC student of Jannaram village in Enkoor mandal in Khammam district. Early in the morning, Appa Rao, Tejas, Vinay and Appa Rao’s father, Krishna Rao, went to their agricultural field in the village. “Krishna Rao and Appa Rao have been farming vegetables. They went in the morning to spray pesticide in the fields. The mishap occurred when the youngsters went to the nearby lake to clean themselves after finishing the work,” Burgampahad SI Balakrishna said. According to police, Tejas entered the waterbody first to wash himself and when he started drowning, Vinay rushed into the lake to help him. “Along with Tejas, Vinay also started drowning as they went to the deeper side of the water. Hearing their screams, Appa Rao went to their rescue and he also drowned. None of them knew how to swim,” the SI said. Krishna Rao also ventured into the water to help out his family members but he was pulled out by the locals. Bodies of the three victims were fished out by villagers and a case was registered under section 174 of Criminal Procedure Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-drown-in-lake-in-kothagudem-dist/articleshow/75835385.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Ex-CM: Let SSC exams proceed||Panaji: Former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar on Tuesday said that SSC exams should be conducted as per schedule. He said that BJP has decided to stand by the decision taken by Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education to take responsibility of the student and conduct the exams. “We have told chief minister Pramod Sawant to wholeheartedly support the Goa Board in its decision,” he said. Stressing on the importance of SSC exams, he said that his party feels there should be no politics over the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-cm-let-ssc-exams-proceed/articleshow/75836775.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Transport department wants PPE for bus staff||BHUBANESWAR: If the transport department has its way, drivers and helpers of buses mobilised by the government to transport migrant returnees may get personal protective equipment (PPE) to fight Covid-19. Department secretary Madhusudan Padhi recently wrote a letter to the health department seeking PPE kits for the bus staff. Several private buses and small vehicles have been engaged at different railway stations for transporting migrants coming by Shramik Special trains. The drivers and helpers take the stranded returnees to quarantine centres. “In the past few days, it has been seen that many of the migrant workers have tested positive. This has created fear and anxiety among the bus drivers and helpers who transported the workers,” Padhi said. The movement of Shramik Special trains to Odisha has been temporarily suspended till Thursday in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. With the objective that no migrant should walk on the roads, the government has also sent several buses to different districts to transport workers to interstate border checkpoints. The state government already exempted vehicles transporting migrant workers from stations to quarantine centres from paying road tax. On the request of the bus owners’ association, the transport commissioner has recommended the supply of PPE to drivers and helpers as they work in close proximity with Covid-19 patients, Padhi said. Transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda said once the health department accepts the proposal, the regional transport officers (RTOs) will place the requisition for PPE to the district administrations. Earlier, drivers and conductors of vehicles engaged by the state government to transport stranded persons from other states and railway stations were covered under the Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme of the government. “We have asked RTOs to make a list of the drivers and conductors and other staff deployed at border checkpoints. In case of their deaths while discharging Covid-19 duty, their kin will get Rs 50 lakh as compensation. Since the drivers and conductors work like frontline corona warriors, they should be supplied with adequate PPE kits for their safety,” Panda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/transport-dept-wants-ppe-for-bus-staff/articleshow/75834923.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 20, 2020||Jodhpur||In garbage-free city star ratings, nothing for Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A list of garbage-free cities was released by the housing and urban affairs ministry on Tuesday and none of the cities from the state was in it. Garbage-free cities are given star ratings (seven start being the highest) that will overall impact its ranking in Swachhta Survekshan 2020 results. Jaipur, Ajmer, Dungarpur, Udaipur and other three cities applied from Rajasthan but none of them got any star. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “We applied for star rating this year but were not able to get through. The ministry changed the criteria for selection. We didn’t have enough marks in the citizen grievance part due to which we were not able to qualify.” Out of the 141 cities in the list, six got five-star ratings, 65 got three stars and 70 managed one-star rating. No city was able to get seven star rating this year. According to the ministry, in all 1,435 cities had applied for star rating and 658 were able to fulfil the criteria but only 141 got star rating. There are 12 conditions to be fulfilled to achieve a 7-star rating — door-to-door garbage collection, sweeping of public places, litter bin, storage bins, waste segregation, plastic ban, screening of nullahs, waste processing and grievance redressal. Under Swachh Survekshan-2018 report, Jaipur jumped to 39 position after ranking 215 in 2017. In 2019, Jaipur slipped five positions and was adjudged 44th. This year, the civic body is expecting to get a better position but if there is no star rating, city administration has to perform better in other criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/in-garbage-free-city-star-ratings-nothing-for-raj/articleshow/75845605.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Udaipur||In garbage-free city star ratings, nothing for Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A list of garbage-free cities was released by the housing and urban affairs ministry on Tuesday and none of the cities from the state was in it. Garbage-free cities are given star ratings (seven start being the highest) that will overall impact its ranking in Swachhta Survekshan 2020 results. Jaipur, Ajmer, Dungarpur, Udaipur and other three cities applied from Rajasthan but none of them got any star. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “We applied for star rating this year but were not able to get through. The ministry changed the criteria for selection. We didn’t have enough marks in the citizen grievance part due to which we were not able to qualify.” Out of the 141 cities in the list, six got five-star ratings, 65 got three stars and 70 managed one-star rating. No city was able to get seven star rating this year. According to the ministry, in all 1,435 cities had applied for star rating and 658 were able to fulfil the criteria but only 141 got star rating. There are 12 conditions to be fulfilled to achieve a 7-star rating — door-to-door garbage collection, sweeping of public places, litter bin, storage bins, waste segregation, plastic ban, screening of nullahs, waste processing and grievance redressal. Under Swachh Survekshan-2018 report, Jaipur jumped to 39 position after ranking 215 in 2017. In 2019, Jaipur slipped five positions and was adjudged 44th. This year, the civic body is expecting to get a better position but if there is no star rating, city administration has to perform better in other criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/in-garbage-free-city-star-ratings-nothing-for-raj/articleshow/75845604.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan University administration in search of exam centres for 80,000 UG students||JAIPUR: Rajasthan University administration is in search of exam centres for 80,000 undergraduate students. Due to the pandemic, pending exams were postponed. Now, university is trying to find suitable time and place when exams can be conducted again. According to the university administration, 4 lakh students study in the university and affiliated colleges in Jaipur and Dausa districts. Around 80% exams are yet to be conducted and the university has given priority to final year exams. University vice chancellor R K Kothari says, “Our first priority is to conduct exams of UG final year and PG final year. As per data, in our 161 centres we have proper space to conduct exams maintaining 2m distance. We can accommodate 3.2 lakh students in these centres. For the remaining 80,000 students, process to find new centres is on”. The university has called a meeting of exam centre allotment committee on Wednesday to find a solution. Most probably, the university will conduct exams in government high schools as their buildings are not in use at present. However, there is no decision on the exam dates yet. As the positive cases are on the rise, the administration may conduct exams in mid-June. More than 700 exam papers are yet to be conducted. There have been suggestions to promote first and second year students in further classes. But, the student bodies in Rajasthan University have objected to mass promotion of students as this will affect their admissions for higher studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-admn-in-search-of-exam-centres-for-80k-ug-students/articleshow/75836773.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ajmer||In garbage-free city star ratings, nothing for Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A list of garbage-free cities was released by the housing and urban affairs ministry on Tuesday and none of the cities from the state was in it. Garbage-free cities are given star ratings (seven start being the highest) that will overall impact its ranking in Swachhta Survekshan 2020 results. Jaipur, Ajmer, Dungarpur, Udaipur and other three cities applied from Rajasthan but none of them got any star. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “We applied for star rating this year but were not able to get through. The ministry changed the criteria for selection. We didn’t have enough marks in the citizen grievance part due to which we were not able to qualify.” Out of the 141 cities in the list, six got five-star ratings, 65 got three stars and 70 managed one-star rating. No city was able to get seven star rating this year. According to the ministry, in all 1,435 cities had applied for star rating and 658 were able to fulfil the criteria but only 141 got star rating. There are 12 conditions to be fulfilled to achieve a 7-star rating — door-to-door garbage collection, sweeping of public places, litter bin, storage bins, waste segregation, plastic ban, screening of nullahs, waste processing and grievance redressal. Under Swachh Survekshan-2018 report, Jaipur jumped to 39 position after ranking 215 in 2017. In 2019, Jaipur slipped five positions and was adjudged 44th. This year, the civic body is expecting to get a better position but if there is no star rating, city administration has to perform better in other criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/in-garbage-free-city-star-ratings-nothing-for-raj/articleshow/75845607.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Check-up for prisoner’s wife||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has directed the state government to get medical examination of a woman done so as to abate the anxiety of her husband, a murder accused, who wants temporary bail fearing that she was suffering from Covid-19. Even after the woman was tested negative in her Covid-19 test, the HC wanted to ensure that she is properly examined so that the prisoner is not required to go to his home, which is in a containment zone in the eastern part of the city. A murder accused in Vivekanand Nagar police station, Manubhai Desai, sought temporary bail to take care of his wife, who suffers from fever, and their three children in this critical situation. The prisoner suspected that his wife was Covid-19 positive, but report later showed that she has not contracted the infection. But she continued to suffer from fever, and Desai insisted on bail. The state government on Monday told the HC that Desai’s wife would be taken to the government hospitaland the hearing should be posted three days later so that by then there would be more clarity on Desai’s requirement of temporary bail. Justice Sonia Gokani, who was hearing the bail plea, also noted that Desai “is coming from jail and if joins family, he shall be going to the containment zone area where again there is a high risk for the people to move out”. The court further said, “For the present, medical examination of wife of the applicant shall be carried out and the report be placed before this court. Further consideration on the request made in this application shall be at an appropriate time, on receipt of such report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/check-up-for-prisoners-wife/articleshow/75836050.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra govt has failed to handle Covid-19: BJP||NASHIK: A memorandum was submitted to district collector Suraj Mandhare on Tuesday by members of city and district units of BJP, stating that the state government has failed in handling the Covid-19 crisis in Maharashtra. The state has so far reported the maximum cases and deaths related to Covid-19 across the country. The city and district units of BJP said that the Centre has issued certain guidelines in preventing the spread of coronavirus. “However, the state government has failed to implement the guidelines effectively. The same could have been done by ensuring there were sufficient availability of PPE kits, setting up hospitals and bringing people from all strata of the society towards combating Covid-19,” the memorandum said. It added that the state government should make it public where the money released by the Centre to combat Covid-19 has been spent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-govt-has-failed-to-handle-covid-19-bjp/articleshow/75833699.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||32 % eye docs battle mental health crisis||Hyderabad: Nearly 32 per cent of ophthalmologists in the country were found to have some degree of depression in the last fortnight. Of the total, 4.3 percent suffered severe depression and 3.2 per cent were found to have suicidal/self-harm ideations, revealed by an online study conducted by L V Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) in collaboration with the All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS) and The George Institute for Global Health India. The study focussed on evaluating the psychological impact of the Covid-19 crisis on trainees and practising ophthalmologists in India during Covid-19 lockdown. The survey indicated a significantly high proportion of ophthalmologists being affected psychologically as they are at an increased risk of close contact with patients’ eyes and face. It was also revealed that prevalence of depression is much higher than the 10 per cent prevalence for common mental disorders reported from the general population in India. Since majority of the eye surgeries and consultations are elective in nature and can be delayed for 6-13 months, the immediate impact of low patient volume in most of the eye hospitals is seen as reason for financial instability, a major reason behind the depression. The survey was completed by 2,355 ophthalmologists and ophthalmologists-in-training in the age group of 25 to 82 years. Depression was significantly higher in younger ophthalmologists. “The high level of depression could be due to a generalised pervading climate of uncertainty among the ophthalmologists, triggered by the limitations in training and job security in addition to the fear factor as Covid-19,” as per the survey. Speaking about the survey, Dr Rohit C Khanna, Epidemiologist and Director – rural eyecare services, L V Prasad Eye Institute said, “The national and state ophthalmology societies, health administration, and the government should be cognizant of the need to support the mental health of all the healthcare workers, and not only those in the frontline of the management of Covid-19 infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/32-eye-docs-battle-mental-health-crisis/articleshow/75835984.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, GUJCET to be held on July 30||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET) will be held on July 30, the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) said in a media statement on Tuesday. The announcement comes a few days after GSHSEB announced results for Class XII (science stream). More than 1.25 lakh students from across the state are expected to participate in GUJCET that were earlier scheduled to be held on March 31. The four-month delay has been because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that online modules have been prepared for candidates who are preparing for various entrance tests like GUJCET, NEET and JEE. GSHSEB, which conducts GUJCET, has seen 1,25,781 class XII (science) students registering for the exam. This consists of 49,888 students from Group A, 75,519 from Group B and 374 from Group AB. The state level exam is held annually for science students seeking admissions in degree engineering and pharmacy courses in government, grant-in-aid and self-financed engineering institutions in Gujarat. The results of class (science) board exams are announced along with the GUJCET results. However, due to Covid-19, the state government had deferred the GUJCET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-gujcet-to-be-held-on-july-31/articleshow/75836049.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Agra||Lockdown 4.0: Entire Agra city to remain under containment zone||AGRA: Agra city, Covid-19 epicentre in Uttar Pradesh, has now been marked as a containment zone under lockdown 4.0. Apart from this, 13 other rural areas in the district have also been marked as containment zones. According to the district administration, no relaxation will be allowed in these areas. Besides all the 100 municipal wards of the city, areas of the district which were marked containment zones include Nagla Kali on Deori road; Rajrai village in Barauli Ahir block, Fatehpur Sikri; village Jarua Katra in Akola block; Jharpura village and Bamrauli Katara under Sadar sub-division; Tapra village in Bichpuri block, Arsena village in Achnera block; Dhaurra village in Khandauli block; Shyamo village and Nadhot in Baroli block; Gadi Khandera village under Shamshabad block; Shashtri Nagar in Baroli Aheer block and Pathauli in Bichpuri village. According to the directives issued by the district administration, people above 65 years of age, those having multiple health issues, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age (exception for health-related requirements) are prohibited to step out of their homes. No one will be allowed to use a vehicle between 7pm to 7am, except in case of emergency. Restaurants and sweet shops outside the containment zones will be operating, but customers’ entry is not allowed. These setups will provide home delivery services. Marriage venues outside the containment zones will be operational, but maximum 20 people will be allowed to attend an event after the district magistrate grants permission. The 14-point directive also mentions that only one person will be allowed on a two-wheeler. Besides driver, only two people will be allowed to travel in a car or auto. All social, religious and political gatherings will remain prohibited across the district. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The entire city and small parts of rural areas of the district are in the containment zone. In areas outside the containment zones, majority of the businesses will be allowed to operate with some restrictions. We will also organise meetings with the business and market organization leaders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lockdown-4-0-entire-agra-city-to-remain-under-containment-zone/articleshow/75834935.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||PASA for stopping cops on duty: HC won’t intervene||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has refused to intervene in a PASA case that was invoked for obstructing cops from implementing the lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic. The case involves Bachubhai Kuchhadiya, a six-time sarpanch of Mitrana village of Parbandar district. The HC has refused to suspend detention order under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) after Kuchhadiya was booked for threatening cops when they tried to implement the lockdown in the village on April 29. Rejecting the plea for suspension of detention order, Justice Ashotosh Shastri said, “In such a crisis situation, when the police authorities at their risk of life are trying to maintain law and order and the norms of the lockdown, simply because the applicant is a sarpanch, he does not possess any license to threaten police officers who are working round the clock. This itself is a serious conduct allegedly committed by the applicant as narrated specifically in complaint.” On April 29, when a police team went to Mitrana village and tried to implement the lockdown, Kuchhadiya allegedly countered the cops and threatened them. He was booked for causing hindrance for cops in performing duty, criminal intimidation and for violation of lockdown under the IPC as well as under the Disaster Management Act. On May 2, the authority passed a detention order against him under PASA. Kuchhadiya’s health deteriorated and he was hospitalized. He also challenged the PASA order and sought its immediate suspension. What went against Kuchhadiya was the submission that he stopped the police because they were abusing the women of the village. He said he has been victimized because he belongs to an opposition party and he had no criminal antecedent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pasa-for-stopping-cops-on-duty-hc-wont-intervene/articleshow/75836048.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa-Chhattisgarh spl train delayed by 3hrs at Karmali||Panaji: The train for Raigarh, Chhattisgarh carrying 1,188 passengers left from Karmali railway station in Goa after a three-hour delay on Tuesday. The passengers, who were stranded in Goa during the lockdown, are being ferried back home in the Shramik special train 01630. The train which was supposed to depart at 5pm was delayed after some passengers arrived late. It left the railway station only at 8pm. Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC) buses were used to transport the labourers to the railway terminus. On arrival, state government officials handed over food packets and bottled water to the travellers free of cost. The travel permit of the people travelling were checked before they could board the train. Frontline workers facilitating the transport from Goa clapped for the migrants in a gesture to wish them good-bye. They stood in circles designated to maintain social distancing while bidding the passengers farewell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-chhattisgarh-spl-train-delayed-by-3hrs-at-karmali/articleshow/75836784.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Hawker unions to follow 50%-a-day rule to ensure social distancing, cops to keep watch||Kolkata: After conforming to lockdown rules for over two months, city’s hawkers are expected to be back in business from May 27 — the on-ground preparations for which started from Tuesday itself. Over 3,000 hawkers at Gariahat-Golpark-Rashbehari Avenue became the first union to agree to the “odd-and-even” number theory as suggested by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to reopen their stalls. “We need to follow the social distancing norms and hence we can’t engage all our hawkers to sell their wares at a time. Thus, we will follow the odd-and-even number theory as suggested by the state and police. We agreed keeping the larger interest and well-being of people in mind without thinking of the economic consequences,” said Debraj Ghosh, a hawker union leader in Gariahat-Ballygunge area. On ground, it will bring about tectonic changes, claimed a section of hawkers and cops. “Forget the chaos at Gariahat or Hatibagan Crossing, or the chaos at New Market. We have introduced certain restrictions and non-adherence means they cannot do business,” said an IPS officer at the police headquarters. “Keeping in mind the spread of the Covid virus, hawkers will be asked to follow social distancing norms strictly as directed by CM Mamata Banerjee. They have to produce a complete list to us and then mutually agree to sell their wares on alternate days. Ideally, no two hawkers will be allowed to sell their wares side by side,” said an IPS officer at Lalbazar. This is not all. The police have made it mandatory for every hawker to keep a sanitizer and offer it to every customer. Police also asked the hawkers to engage only one person per stall to avoid crowding. “This will remain following a register and we will propose that hawkers themselves appoint an ombudsman who will carry out the necessary check. There were a few issues with the timing of operations but we still have time to sort out the same,” said an officer of southeast division. Sources said besides the local police, the enforcement branch is going to keep an eye on the developments at city’s major hawker markets — Gariahat, Hatibagan, and New Market-Chowringhee belt. “The preliminary discussion is on. All talks will be on the table, including the issue that hawkers do not dump goods on pavement so that pedestrians can use it to maintain social distancing. We will begin working out the details from May 22,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hawker-unions-to-follow-50-a-day-rule-to-ensure-social-distancing-cops-to-keep-watch/articleshow/75835980.cms||Saikat Ray
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Offer Eid namaz at home, Muslims urged||PANAJI: With the number of Covid-19 cases on a rise and the lockdown in force, the customary namaz will not be performed at mosques and eidgahs on Eid-ul-fitr this year. The All Goa Muslim Jamats has issued an advisory to the community to offer the nafl chast namaz from their homes along with their family. The advisory also requested citizens to avoid organising any Eid-ul-fitr namaz in their locality or open space to keep with the MHA guidelines. The guidelines state that all religious places and places of worship shall be closed for public and religious congregations are strictly prohibited. In Goa, Section 144 is in force since the nationwide lockdown was imposed. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31. As the festival nears, shoppers are likely to purchase food items and new clothing. The advisory further reads that social distancing norms must be followed while shopping. “Do not crowd the markets, follow social distancing norms and compulsory use of face mask at all times,” the advisory read. Eid-ul-fitr is expected to be celebrated on May 25, based on the moon sighting. The hilal committee of Goa will meet on Saturday to decide on the sighting of the moon for the celebration of Eid-ul-fitr. The Eid date will be announced by 8.30pm on Saturday. Earlier, the association had issued guidelines for observing Ramzan in lockdown, asking people to maintain social distance and feed the poor instead of holding iftaar parties. People have been requested to perform daily namaz, taraweeh and iftaar at their respective homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/offer-eid-namaz-at-home-muslims-urged/articleshow/75836793.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Lab technicians resume testing of Covid samples||JAIPUR: Laboratory technicians, who had boycotted work on Monday, resumed testing of Covid samples in the state on Tuesday. It may be noted that a clash had broken out between doctors and laboratory technicians at microbiology lab of Sawai Man Singh Medical College on Monday. A meeting of both factions with additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh was held on Tuesday in which Singh decided to conduct an inquiry into the matter by an IAS officer. Also, the suspension order of the lab technician was withdrawn. But, it was decided that the lab technician will not get the posting at SMS Hospital’s microbiology laboratory. He has been transferred to Institute of Respiratory diseases in Shastri Nagar. After resolving the issues, Singh said, “In these stressful times of a pandemic that we are all facing, there is a greater need to work together and respect each other. Everyone, right from the top to the bottom, is fighting this battle as a team. Team health Rajasthan is extremely proud of the positive contribution that each one is making to defeat Coronavirus. Focused dedication, camaraderie, bonhomie and working hand in hand are the only mantra for success to meet this challenge. I am sure that Rajasthan shall overcome this too.” Meanwhile, Medical College Teachers Association of Rajasthan (MCTAR) wrote to SMS Medical College principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari. “In an unprecedented manner, the suspended culprit in the matter has been reinstated just for the reason that he could build enough pressure on the government. MCTAR has threatened the government to reconsider its stand on the issue in two days, failing which they will be forced to take some strong steps from May 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lab-technicians-resume-testing-of-covid-samples/articleshow/75836792.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||Govt issues guidelines for reopening of schools||Lakshmikantha.BK@timesgroup.com Mysuru: As the country enters the fourth phase of the lockdown from May 18 with new set of rules and new relaxations, Karnataka government has spoken about the possibility of reopening schools in the state. Although the state has not announced when the schools will reopen, it has issued guidelines for government, aided and private schools for the same. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB), which set the draft guidelines, has suggested that the schools be made responsible for arrangements to maintain social distancing among students by allowing only three students on a bench. In case of shortage of classrooms, the school heads were suggested to utilise library and sports rooms and computer labs and even the community halls, government buildings and anganwadi centres in the locality as classrooms. If any school faces further shortage, the institution heads may arrange classes in batches by clubbing classes. The guidelines also suggested that the classes be conducted from 8am to 3pm for the first batch and from 12.10pm to 5pm for the second batch. The timetable can be arranged based on the availability of rooms, teachers and student strength by the respective block education officers. While the guidelines have been issued, experts are sceptical about the implementation since most schools lack required infrastructure. Speaking to TOI, a government teacher who has 25 years of teaching experience said, “Implementing the guidelines is near impossible as there is lot of practical problems.” “Schools which have less strength can follow the guidelines, but it is difficult for schools with over 700 students. Due to the lack of infrastructure, several schools and colleges have been conducting classes in shifts before the lockdown,” said the teacher requesting anonymity. Several teachers said ensuring social distancing among primary school children is difficult. “There are lots of schools, including private schools, without sufficient rooms. According to the guidelines, schools may hold classes in community halls, but where will the students sit?” they wondered. Activist P V Nanjaraja Urs told TOI that that the guidelines are impractical. “Let the government take another month’s time and think over it. By making students follow social distancing it will create fear among students” he said. ***** Make best use of time: Experts Although many students are accessing online platforms to prepare for the II PU exams, several from rural areas do not access to online facilities. “With fewer options after the closure of schools, II PU students must make best use of online facilities by going through question banks prepared by subject experts,” said Geetha, DDPU, Mysuru. Geetha said a majority of private schools have given training on CET at the beginning of the academic year, but still students will have more doubts. “ Those students can clear their doubts online or by contacting their respective teachers,” she said. Support from parents is also crucial for students, she pointed out. G Sridhar, founder of a tutorial asked the students to use the time to prepare well for the exams. He asked them to attempt mock tests, identify weaknesses and focus on those while revising each subject. (With inputs from R Uday Kumar) -Eom-||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-issues-guidelines-for-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/75832556.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Hosps bank on retired nurses in hour of crisis||Kolkata: Desperate times call for desperate measures. Faced with an exodus of nurses in the middle of the pandemic — more than 500 have quit their jobs since last week — private hospitals in Kolkata are set to recruit nurses who have retired recently to keep services unaffected. At least two hospitals have prepared a list of those who have retired in the last one year and plan to appoint them on an yearly contract. Several others are recruiting nurses from small nursing homes across Kolkata that have now shut down and yet others have already started appointing from neighbouring states to which nurses have gone back during the exodus. AMRI Hospitals is exploring multiple sources to fill up the vacancies created by an exodus of 80 nurses across its three units last week. “We are in the process of drawing up a list of 15-20 retired nurses who will be approached with an offer. We have a provision for post-retirement recruitment for emergencies like the present one. But that will not be the only source,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. Medica Superspecialty hospital, too, has offered jobs to retired nurses to fill up vacancies immediately. “While we have started making fresh recruits, experienced hands will be very useful at this juncture. Since they are used to the functioning of our hospital and have loads of experience, they can guide the juniors efficiently. We are planning to use them at OPDs where the workload is comparatively less. New recruits will have a greater workload,” said hospital chairperson Alok Roy. Medics lost 75 nurses last week. AMRI is contemplating recruiting nurses from some small nursing homes that have shut down following the pandemic. “Our human resource department is exploring multiple sources, including nurses from these nursing homes who are now without jobs. Since the number of patients is now low, we can manage with fewer recruits. But as we scale up our functions and return to normalcy, we will need more nurses,” said Barua. New recruitments have started form neighbouring states, including Odisha where many nurses have returned to. Medica has recruited from the state apart from districts across Bengal. It has also asked its nurses, who are now on leave, to return to duty and help out. “We believe a large number of them will return and help to ease the crisis,” added Roy. Peerless Hospital, however, has decided to go on a fresh recruitment spree rather than call back retured nurses. “Since we are in the middle of a pandemic, we can’t take chances with the quality of care. Retired nurses may not be able to take the physical starin if attending to Covid patients. Also, it will be a step backwards which is why we prefer to look ahead. More than 70 nurses from across Bengal have just resigned. We believe a majority of them will return in the coming weeks. Till then we can manage with whatever we have since the number of patients is low,” said Peerless medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-bank-on-retired-nurses-in-hour-of-crisis/articleshow/75835989.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: After TOI report, school clears struggling teachers’ salary dues||HYDERABAD: High school teacher from Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, Chiranjeevi K, and his colleagues were paid a part of his salary on Tuesday, within hours of TOI publishing a report on how teachers in the Telugu states had been forced to become daily-wage labourers to survive the lockdown. The report stated that schools and colleges had not paid their teachers for the past couple of months. Chiranjeevi said a representative of the school management called him in the morning and informed about depositing the salary through a digital wallet platform. “They also said the deferred salary will be cleared in a few days and assured me that they will stand by all teachers during this crisis,” an elated Chiranjeevi, who has been a teacher for the past 12 years, told TOI. The management called all 45 teachers working at the school to the campus and informed them that they would be given their salaries in the next five days, he added. Chiranjeevi also said an individual from New Delhi called him up and provided Rs 20, 000 to meet his daily expenses. For the past week, Chiranjeevi and his wife Padma, an MBA graduate and a private teacher, have been working as daily-wage labourers in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district to feed their family of six. Like Chiranjeevi, thousands of teachers are struggling to earn their livelihood in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana since the lockdown began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-toi-report-school-clears-struggling-teachers-salary-dues/articleshow/75837454.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Meerut||Over 25 test positive in UP jails, government begins random sampling of inmates||Meerut: Over 25 inmates of UP jails -- both temporary and permanent-- have been tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last few days prompting the government to start random sampling of the prisoners lodged in jails across state. According to Anand Kumar, director general (DG) of prison administration and reform services, “Three samples from district jail Agra, 10 samples from central jail Agra and 12 samples from three temporary jails have been tested positive in the state.” “Almost 2000 samples have been taken. Though the sampling is random, it is based on certain factors like inmates with low immunity level, age and physical infirmity. We have test results of 800 samples and fortunately all have tested negative,” the DG said. As per prison officials, temporary jails have also come up in districts which have crossed threshold of 20 Covid-19 positive cases. Apart from foreign and domestic Jamaat followers, suspect arrested in fresh cases are also initially kept at these temporary jails. “Inmates at temporary jails are shifted to permanent ones only after they test negative and complete their quarantine period of 14 days,” he said. “As of now, six inmates in Moradabad, three in Kanpur and two in Meerut temporary jails have tested positive," DG (Jail) Kumar said. Meanwhile, three more prisoners of Agra district jail were confirmed Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. Agra district jail’s superintendent Shashikant Mishra said, “As a precaution, 22 inmates who had come in contact with the infected prisoners have been isolated in a separate block. Health department and Agra municipal corporation team have done sanitization in the jail premises. We are closely monitoring health of all the prisoners.” On Friday, the samples of a 90-year-old prisoner, who died during treatment at SN Medical College (SNMC) with Covid-19 symptoms on May 13, was tested positive. On May 9, a 60-year-old Covid-19 infected prisoner of Agra Central jail had died at SNMC. On May 13, 10 prisoners of the central jail were tested positive. Meanwhile, seven new Covid-19 cases surfaced in Agra, taking the district tally to 823. Out of these, 635 have been declared cured of infection and discharged from hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-25-test-positive-in-up-jails-government-begins-random-sampling-of-inmates/articleshow/75834956.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Migrants clash with police at Ravanfond||MARGAO: Migrant labourers, already exhausted after travelling on foot for miles together with their bags and belongings to reach Margao railway station, gave vent to their feelings of angst and desperation as they clashed with the police Monday evening. Sources said that when the group of migrants reached near the Ravanfond junction, they were stopped by the police and questioned. Wary of not being allowed to board the train, some started arguing with the cops. As the police threatened them of action, the migrants dared them to arrest them which led to arguments. As police started to act, the migrants retaliated by hurling stones at the police. However, as more police reinforcements came in, peace was restored. Police sources said some were detained and released, but no offence was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrants-clash-with-police-at-ravanfond/articleshow/75836802.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||PhD, MPhil students to get 6-month extension||Ahmedabad: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has granted six months extension to PhD and MPhil students for submission of research work. The extension given in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown situation, is for all varsities across the country and the colleges affiliated to them, said sources. Research scholars from Gujarat as well as other parts of the country had sought more time from UGC to submit their thesis and dissertations due to the lockdown situation, sources added. The 6-month extension is also applicable for those candidates who have already taken extension to submit their research work, according to sources. There are close to 800 seats for PhD courses and about 300 seats for MPhil courses in Gujarat. Extension of six months be granted to MPhil, PhD students and viva-voice be conducted through video conference, UGC suggested to universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phd-mphil-students-to-get-6-month-extension/articleshow/75836045.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Higher number of buses and passengers, wait longer too||NEW DELHI: The number of buses deployed for passenger services on Delhi’s roads went up significantly on Wednesday compared to Tuesday, when public transportation reopened after nearly two months. The number of commuters went up too, so did the wait for a bus. Early in the day, Delhi government said strict action would be taken against the driver, conductor and the marshal of a bus if more than 20 passengers were found travelling at a time. A police complaint will also be made at 100 by the bus staff against extra passengers if they refuse to get off. “Delhi government is serious about maintenance of social distancing in buses,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot. “If there is any violation, stringent action will be taken against the driver, conductor and the marshal,” he added. Hence, though more buses of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and the Cluster Scheme were available, people had to wait endlessly for a bus in the evening. Tired of waiting, many were seen flagging down autos, most of whom tried to fleece the hapless people after failing to find solo passengers during the day. “I have been waiting for a bus of route number 680 to reach my home in Ambedkar Nagar for almost an hour. But I can find only nearly empty buses of route number 460,” said a central government employee at the Central Secretariat stop. “Earlier cars were provided by office for pick-up and drop, but it has been stopped since Tuesday,” he said. Delhi government, however, assured that things would improve in three-four days with more buses being deployed. “Around 3,400 buses, including special hired ones, operated across Delhi on Tuesday,” said Gahlot. More Cluster Scheme buses were out on Wednesday as drivers stuck in Uttar Pradesh or Haryana reached Delhi on Tuesday, he added. Urging people to adhere to norms, the minister said they “must not violate the rules in autos, buses or bikes. If such violations take place, action will be taken”. Gahlot also said the government was working on a standard operating procedure for public transportation. At a bus stop near south Delhi’s INA market, where a sizeable number of commuters gathered by 5pm, two marshals of Delhi Home Guard were regulating the boarding of passengers. After asking the conductor about available seats, they allowed commuters to board one by one and asked people to deboard in case of any extra passenger. “Ensuring social distancing is not easy as everyone wants to go home early. We are dealing directly with commuters but don’t have sanitiser, forget thermal screening equipment,” said one of them. “We have started thermal screening at some key terminals and stops, and ordered more instruments,” said Gahlot. At the busy ITO bus stop, there were negligible number of buses around 6pm even as the number of commuters was high. “All buses are ‘Special Hire’ ones or are already arriving with 20 passengers. I have been waiting for a bus to Kalyanpuri for 45 minutes and don’t know how much longer I will have to wait,” said Sant Ram, who works in a private firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/higher-number-of-buses-and-passengers-wait-longer-too/articleshow/75856299.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 20, 2020||Goa||3,000 make it on trains to UP, over 1,000 left behind||Margao: Two Shramik Special trains carrying nearly 3,000 passengers to five districts of Uttar Pradesh departed from Margao railway station on Tuesday. However, over a 1,000 migrant labourers who had gathered near the railway station were sent back for want of room on both trains. While the first train carrying 1,464 passengers left for Gorakhpur and Faizabad railway stations at 7pm, the other departed at 11pm carrying an equal number of passengers for Kushinagar, Maharajganj and Sant Kabir Nagar stations. It was a moving sight outside the Margao railway station as homeless migrants—many with families and children—weary of standing in the scorching sun throughout the day with all their belongings, pleaded with the police to let them board the train. Many of these migrants have been gathering outside the railway station – some even spending the night on the footpaths – for the last 3-4 days hoping to board the home-bound train. District administration officials said SMSes were sent to migrants from only those specific districts where the trains would take stops. “However, as is the case since the last 4-5 days, people from other districts of UP as well as from other states like Bihar kept gathering at the station. Considerable time was spent in checking the addresses of the migrants, lest they boarded the wrong train,” an official overseeing the arrangements said. The police had a hard time in controlling the large crowd that started gathering since early morning. South Goa SP Arvind Gawas, along with other senior police officials, personally supervised the security arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3000-make-it-on-trains-to-up-over-1000-left-behind/articleshow/75836810.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||With govt docs busy with Covid cases, Nashik civil hosp seeks help||Nashik: Many doctors of the Nashik civil hospital are currently engaged in treating Covid-19 patients at the civil hospital and other parts of the district where covid facilities have been set up. As a result, the senior officers of the civil hospital are seeking services of doctors from other places. The Nashik civil hospital has 540 beds and has patients coming in from across the district and other places. However, since the Covid-19 outbreak, most doctors of the Nashik civil hospital have been shifted from one place to another to meet the requirements of coronavirus management. Senior officials at the Nashik civil hospital said the bed occupancy had dropped to approximately 50% at the civil hospital in April due to the lockdown. However, after the partial relaxation in the lockdown from the first week of May, the flow of patients has started increasing and 75% of the beds are currently occupied. Officials said the civil hospital is in need of doctors. Nashik civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale said: “We have written to the association of physicians to provide us with two physicians every day on a rotation basis as the two physicians with us are currently busy treating Covid-19 patients. We have also asked two surgeons (on a similar rotation basis) with the Nashik association of surgeons.” Apart from this, six MBBS doctors have been sought from the ESI hospital in Satpur. There are 202 doctors in the district working at the Nashik civil hospital, 6 sub-district hospitals and 28 rural hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/with-govt-docs-busy-with-covid-cases-nashik-civil-hosp-seeks-help/articleshow/75833743.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid effect: Wanderlust takes a backseat for locals this year||Hyderabad: The lockdown might end on May 31 but only 14% of Hyderabadis and citizens across the country are keen to travel in 2020, revealed the Holiday Readiness Report, May 2020 by Thomas Cook India and SOTC Travel. In a survey, which had over 2,500 respondents from Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Mumbai, Delhi among other cities, 45% of respondents said that they would deferring their holiday to 2021 and 41% are undecided. For 75% citizens, health and safety ranks as the primary concern, with 35% even willing to increase their travel cost to ensure the same, the survey revealed. A domestic holiday is preferred choice for 64% of Hyderabadis along with the other respondents. Destinations such as Ladakh Goa, North East, Kerala, followed by Himachal Pradesh and Kashmir closely, are among their preferred choices. Places that are at a driveable distance are also a favourite of many. Likewise, 36 percent of them showed a preference for an international holiday. When it comes to group size, many displayed a noticeable preference towards travelling in smaller groups — primarily due to health/hygiene. 63% of respondents were inclined to travel solo, with their immediate/extended family or friends/colleagues; 25% of respondents preferred to travel in small groups of below 20 co-travellers and 12% opted for a group size of approximately 35+.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-effect-wanderlust-takes-a-backseat-for-locals-this-year/articleshow/75835995.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Agra||Tractor-trolley crush woman to death in Agra||AGRA: A woman was killed and her husband injured, after their motorbike was crushed when they were attempting to overtake an overloaded tractor-trolley. The deceased victim was identified as Rekha (35) and injured husband Sunil, resident of Nayabas village of Pinhat police limits. According to victim’s nephew Mahipal Singh, “While returning from a bank, the couple was hit by a tractor-trolley. Rekha succumbed in a community health centre during treatment.” The tractor-trolley has been seized by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tractor-trolley-crush-woman-to-death-in-agra/articleshow/75834968.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Consider starting ‘lifeline’ metro: HC to Centre, Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Centre and AAP government to consider starting metro services in the city observing that for many commuters Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is a “lifeline”. However, a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad refused to issue any directions, leaving it to the discretion of the Centre and state authorities to take a call on a policy decision. In the process the court disposed of a PIL seeking resumption of public transport in Delhi, after the government’s counsel informed that as per latest revised norms, public buses, cabs and autos have been allowed to ply. Earlier, Delhi Metro had indicated to the court its readiness to start operations saying it is at present operating two trips daily on each line to keep the system healthy and has prepared a standard operating procedure to take care of social distancing, sanitation, thermal screening, use of masks etc. It informed the court that once services resume, DMRC is likely to allow passengers to sit only on alternate seats instead of next to each other. Also, the time trains spend at each station will be increased to give more time to commuters to board or get out of the train. During the hearing via videoconferencing earlier, Delhi government had said it can resume transport operations — buses, cabs and autos — with precautions to prevent further spread of the virus while the Centre had said restrictions on public transport operations have been placed only in “'red zones” and “that some responsibility would have to be taken by the civil society”. The petition contended that while the Centre and Delhi government allowed government and private establishments to function and also permitted use of cars and two-wheelers, they forgot that a large number of people in the national capital rely on public transportation to commute to work. It also sought that public transport be allowed to operate in the national capital “in strict compliance with social distancing and disinfection or sanitation norms”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/consider-starting-lifeline-metro-hc-to-centre-delhi/articleshow/75856323.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid tally continues to rise, 8 more takes it to 39||Panaji: Goa’s Covid-19 tally shot up to 39 on Tuesday as the state detected eight new cases, all of whom had travel history. While seven of them came by train — four from Delhi and three from Maharashtra — one came by road from West Bengal last week. The positive case from Bengal was one of seven men who went there last month to deliver barges. On their return, two tested positive last week, and the other five were placed in facility quarantine. “All patients have been shifted to the Covid hospital in Margao, and their condition is stable,” said director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa. Of the 39 patients currently at the Covid hospital, only one is over 60. On Tuesday, 316 samples tested negativ,e, and eight reports were awaited. On Tuesday, nine suspects were admitted to hospital isolation wards, and 581 persons were placed in quarantine at various facilities in the state. Meanwhile, there is growing consensus in the government that since most of the cases came to Goa by train, there needs to be more stringent checking of passengers. “All (passengers) need to be made to pay for the Covid test and be charged for the quarantine facility,” an official said, reacting to passengers coming to Goa for holidays and honeymoons. Similarly, he said that border checking needs to be made more stringent, as there have been attempts by some without proper documents to enter Goa using their connections. He said that while the government has intimated to the Centre that the Rajdhani Express should be cancelled, “the damage has already been done”, he said. “Our cases have shot up during few days.” Meanwhile, as the state prepares to receive flights of stranded Goans, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that four smart kiosks have been installed at Goa International Airport, Dabolim. “We are all set to receive our citizens. All passengers will be tested and kept under facility quarantine till the results are out,” he said. He also said that his ministry’s team is working round-the-clock to scale up testing facilities in the state and to ensure that all passengers are thoroughly tested before being discharged. Six couples on honeymoon roll into Goa by train Asenior official said on Tuesday that six couples on their honeymoon arrived in Goa by train over the past few days, reports Bindiya Chari. Since some passengers in their neighbouring coach tested positive, all of them (couples) are under observation and thus being accommodated for free. The official said that things are unlikely to change till the state government makes it explicitly clear that only Goans who are stranded outside the state will be allowed to return home. “Else, the influx of persons heading to Goa for holidays will not stop,” he said. They must understand this is not holiday time.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-tally-continues-to-rise-8-more-takes-it-to-39/articleshow/75836816.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Productivity, technical glitches challenges for work from home||AHMEDABAD: With extended lockdowns, while work from home (WHF) is slowly becoming a new normal, sustaining productivity and addressing technical glitches have remained prime concern for human resources departments (HRD), claimed a research by Ekta Sharma, faculty at Amrut Mody School of Management (AMSOM), Ahmedabad University. “Challenges are different for essential services. In my survey, managers said that there is family pressure to not attend office among employees. They are also working out solutions to ensure supply chain and provide protection such as PPEs,” she said. The survey highlights HR practices such as ensuring actual and virtual well-being of the employees through multiple platforms. About 70% of the organizations also provided counselling helplines to the employees. “About 25% respondents confess that due to financial crisis, they are unable to provide support to employees during this period of uncertainty,” said Sharma, adding that several of the companies are re-thinking their business models due to unprecedented situation where they could go capital expenditure heavy than operational expenditure heavy (CAPEX vs. OPEX).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/productivity-technical-glitches-challenges-for-wfh/articleshow/75836039.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||Safety measures keeping virus away from cops: SP||slug: MALEGAONNashik: The Nashik rural police’s efforts in bringing down the rate of coronavirus infection among the force in Malegaon is yielding good results as not a single personnel has tested positive in the past week. As many as 152 police personnel, including SRPF jawans, had tested positive for Covid-19 in the powerloom town and one of them succumbed to the infection until a week ago. However, 93 of those infected have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Superintendent of police (Nashik rural) Arti Singh said police have taken over more than 20 mangal karyalas (marriage halls) and a large number of lodges in Malegaon to accommodate SRPF jawans and local police personnel. Six companies of SRPF, comprising 540 jawans, and around 1,000 personnel from the rural police have been deployed in Maelgaon for nearly a month. “A maximum of 20 jawans are being put up at a time in mangal karyalas and around 10 jawans in lodges to ensure social distancing while they rest during long hours of work,” said Singh. Police have also deployed more buses for the personnel to avoid crowding. “These measures have started yielding results and not a single positive case of a policeman has been reported in the last one week. Except 60 jawans, all other personnel deployed in Malegaon have tested negative for Covid-19,” added Singh. Meanwhile, police have stopped using the sprawling SRPF hostel in Malegaon, which was initially used for lodging a large number of SRPF jawans. The use of the hostel was stopped after a large number of jawans had got infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/safety-measures-keeping-virus-away-from-cops-sp/articleshow/75833767.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Maids back at work across state, RWAs at their wits’ end||Hyderabad: Finally, domestic helps are allowed to work again in apartments, gated communities and other dwellings across the state. The municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department has allowed the maids to get on with their work amidst the extended lockdown. Talk was doing the rounds that after May 15, the government would allow the domestic helps to resume work. Tuesday’s decision was in tune with that. However, this decision has not gone done well with some resident welfare associations (RWAs) and apartment associations which do not want to rush given that infants would come in contact with the maids who work in several households and run the risk of contracting the coronavirus. “The onus to ensure strict compliance with Covid-19 protocols lies with the employer of these domestic helps and the concerned RWA,” said Arvind Kumar, principal secretary, MAUD. Housing society members are taking self-declaration forms from residents and maids.“We will allow them from May 22,” said Prashant Ganta of Meenakshi Sky Lounge, Hitex Road. “The elderly people in our apartment want maids but couples with infants are opposing their entry,” said the president of a gated community in Nanakramguda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maids-back-at-work-across-state-rwas-at-their-wits-end/articleshow/75836005.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 20, 2020||Vadodara||Fire in Vadodara commercial building||Vadodara: A minor fire broke out in Manubhai Tower in Sayajigunj on Tuesday afternoon due to short-circuit in electricity metres. Fire department sources said that around 1 pm, there was short-circuit in several metres on the ground floor of the building. Due to sparks, a number of cables caught fire and smoke filled the lobby of the building that houses several offices, shops, a bank and BJP’s Vadodara city unit’s office. The offices and shops had opened on Tuesday after a break of almost two months. Fire officials said that fire was doused within an hour. “We had formed two teams. One team was involved in dousing the fire and another team was involved in rescuing people,” said a fire official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fire-in-vadodara-commercial-building/articleshow/75834435.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||YCMOU hosts counselling sessions||Nashik: The city-based Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) has conducted over 6,000 counselling sessions in all its regional centres in a month. The 40-minute long sessions received good response from student, said teachers. Vice-chancellor of the varsity E Vayunandan said “We are amazed to see the response of the students for the counselling sessions. Earlier only a few students showed interest in attending these sessions and now about 80% of them are attending them online.” Being an open varsity, YCMOU conducts these counselling sessions to clarify the doubts of students. “The students get the study material at their homes and study on their own. Our teachers do not teach them each and every topic as they have opted to study on their own. However, we conduct regular counselling sessions round the year for different subjects,” said Vayunandan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ycmou-hosts-counselling-sessions/articleshow/75833789.cms||pragya jain
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan begins Special Shramik buses to take migrant workers home||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government started evacuating migrant workers, stranded due to the lockdown, in special buses on Tuesday. In the first phase, migrants are being transported in ‘Special Shramik Buses’ to nearby states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. A total of 16 lakh migrants, both inbound and outbound, had registered for travelling to their respective states by bus, but many of them have already left in hired vehicles or trains. According to official sources, Rajasthan migrants will have to wait for some more days as most of them are stuck in central and southern states. “As and when we get permission from the host states, we will send the buses. The service announced by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on May 17 will run on need basis,” said Naveen Jain, managing director, Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC). “Our buses are running as per the protocol and in every bus, seating capacity has been reduced to 25-30 to maintain social distancing,” said Jain. In the first phase, the buses are covering short distances. The next phase for running buses to faraway states like Gujarat and Maharashtra will begin in the coming days, he said. “Journeys to these destinations are nearly 24-hour long and would require detailed planning like arrangement for food, procurement of permissions from various agencies, etc.,” said Jain. Registered migrant workers are being notified with confirmation calls and given details of starting points of their journey, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-begins-spl-shramik-buses-to-take-migrant-workers-home/articleshow/75836823.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa govt allows private schools to hike fees||PANAJI: Even as parents suffer salary cuts and job losses as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government recently allowed private schools to hike their fees for the academic year 2020-21. A circular issued by the directorate of education allows ‘change in fee structure within a limit’, a far cry from states like Delhi and Telangana, which have asked private schools not to hike fees and burden parents. Goa’s private schools charge fees ranging from Rs 1-1.5 lakh a year per child, and even this steep fee rises by around 10% every year. For parents already struggling with income, this circular is yet another piece of bad news. Varca-resident Solon Furtado said that many seafarers in the South Goa beach belt, where he resides, are considering withdrawing their students from private schools after loss of jobs or massive cuts in their pay. “These are unprecedented times and we understand that schools need the cash flow,” said Furtado, the parent of a student of Manovikas School, Margao. “But we all need to share the burden, and schools should consider giving a fee waiver, let alone hiking the fees. Many seafarers have lost their jobs and are considering taking their children out of private schools. Schools need to consider these circumstances.” According to sources, besides the monthly tuition fees of Rs 5,000-6,500, parents are charged under other heads like development fees, etc, on a quarterly or half-yearly basis. Parents said they pay 20-30% more as fees every year, as higher classes already have a hiked charge, besides the 10% annual hike enforced by schools. ‘This will be a heavy burden to shoulder’Parents with more than one child in the same school often end up shelling out several lakhs a year. “Imagine those who have lost jobs and have more than one student studying in private schools. This will be a heavy burden to shoulder,” said another parent. However, there seems to be some relief for parents. The directorate of education has told schools that charges under heads like uniform, transportation, etc, must be kept in abeyance by the directorate of education. “Once the lockdown is lifted, the school has said classes will continue online for my daughter, as she is studying in kindergarten. But post-lockdown, both my husband and I will be going to work, and my daughter will be left at home with only her grandmother, who cannot operate a laptop. But I will continue paying the same fee, possibly a hiked one,” said the parent of a child studying at a private school in North Goa. Founding president of the All Goa Government-Recognised Unaided Schools Association (AGGRUSA), Deepak Khaitan, said private schools are already looking at reduced enrolment this year as some parents are already moving children to aided institutions. But the school still has to meet its fixed expenses like payment of teacher salaries. “We need to pay teachers and there is infrastructure maintenance, for which the cash flow has to continue. We understand the situation, and parents who are having difficulties in paying the fees should approach the schools. There can be a waiver, but it cannot be a blanket move for all parents. Schools already have a lot of backlog of fees,” said Khaitan A state official said the fee hike was approved by the directorate of education as it was within the usual yearly limit. “There are plenty of aided schools in the state, which virtually charge next to nothing. Parents have the option of (sending their kids to) these schools if they wish,” said the official. Meanwhile, parents of students in Manovikas School petitioned the institute asking that the school fees hike be reconsidered. The parents said that teaching assignments have reduced to a fourth of regular teaching during the lockdown, and that parents are left to teach the children. “Since it is unclear by when schools will reopen, it seems unfair on the part of the management to charge entire fees for the first quarter, inclusive of fee hike, and set a deadline towards making the payment,” the parents said in the petition, adding that the pandemic has overwhelmed everyone “emotionally, mentally and financially.” School principal Lavita Rodrigues said that the institute has started a Youtube channel to keep the teaching going. “We understand the situation, and the chairman has already given some concessions. For instance, payment of fees will be taken on a monthly basis and transportation and other such fees will not be charged for now. We have made sure we are keeping teaching activities going through different electronic media,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-parents-dismay-govt-allows-fee-hike-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/75836822.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 20, 2020||Hubballi||Plans of doubling production at HGMCL hit lockdown roadblock||Raichur: The plans to double the amount of gold extracted at Hatti Gold Mines Company Ltd (HGMCL) have hit a roadblock, with the lockdown putting the brakes on the construction of structures essential to the initiative. However, the management is confident of meeting its targets, and to this end, it is alternating operations between mining and hoisting at Lingasugur in Raichur district. However, sources said that targets could be revised depending on the situation. Work at the gold mines ground to a halt on March 25 following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement for a nation-wide lockdown, but operations resumed on May 4. Officials working on site at the mines said that production had slowed down considerably since merely one-fourth of the workforce had been pressed into duty owing to social distancing norms. As of now, only 1,000 of the over 4,000-strong workforce is employed at the site. However, HGMCL, the sole gold production company in the country, is not too worried about the prolonged hiatus in operations. To begin with, the enterprise has sufficient gold reserve, which includes unsold inventory in the month of April. The spike in the price of gold too will help its cause. HGMCL had been planning to double its annual production, which stood at 1,500kg in 2019 to 3,500 this year. The state government-owned company had even commenced construction of shaft and ball mills towards the accomplishment of the objective, and a sum of Rs 420 crore had been invested for the project. HGMCL managing director Salma K Fahim confirmed to TOI that the private entities to which the construction of new structures at the mines had been entrusted had been hit badly owing to the lockdown. “We have settled all our dues with the private firms. But they have not been able to resume business owing to the disruption in the supply chain. Some of the goods needed for the project need to be brought in from North India, and even abroad,” Salma said. Salma said that safety was paramount in the current situation. “This is why we have decided to slow down on our production goals. We will have much greater clarity on how much gold we can produce in two months. The company will take stock of the situation and revise its target accordingly,” she added. Salma said that the engineers were focussing on mining high grade ore, which was how operations were being continued across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/plans-of-doubling-production-at-hgmcl-hit-lockdown-roadblock/articleshow/75794229.cms||Shreyas HS
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mercury may touch 43°C today in city, says IMD||Ahmedabad: Weather forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday mentioned that the maximum temperature on Wednesday could touch 43Rs Cin Ahmedabad. On Tuesday, city’s maximum temperature was 42.3C and minimum temperature was 28.2C, which were 0.4C 1.1C higher than average, said IMD officials. IMD has also predicted heat wave conditions at isolated places in Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Surendranagar, Kutch and Union Territory of Diu on Wednesday and Thursday. Gandhinagar was the hottest in the state with 42.8C of maximum temperature on Tuesday, followed by Surendranagar (42.7C), Bhuj (42.4C ), Ahmedabad (42.3C ) and Amreli (42.2C ). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mercury-may-touch-43c-today-in-city-says-imd/articleshow/75836037.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Despite reprieve, most eateries stay shut||HYDERABAD: Though the state government allowed restaurants and hotels to provide takeaway services, more than 90% of the establishments remained shut in the city on Tuesday. Citizens who stepped out to get a parcel from their favourite restaurants, had to return empty-handed. “Since lockdown, my son was cravng Hyderabadi Biryani. I went to get some today from a famous biryani joint but the outlet has not resumed services,” said Ashok S, a techie. Members of the Telangana Hotels Association (THA) said that 90% of them did not open their outlets as they were not sure whether or not there would be demand for food, especially when some areas still falling under containment zones and roads blocked. “At many places, barricades are still in place.Further, for the majority of hotels, takeaways are a very small part of their sales,” said Jagadish Rao, secretary, THA. Explaining that 2020 is going to be very tricky for them, hoteliers said if governments do not announce some incentives for the industry, many of them would not be able to survive this crisis. “I don’t think any hotel or restaurant will be able to bounce back this year,” Rao said. The Hotels and Restaurants Association of Telangana State, which has managements of three, four, and five-star hotels as members, said that quite a few restaurants might open in the next few days. “Announcement on takeaways came very late on Monday. So, many were not prepared as we need to place orders, get staff back, and make other arrangements,” said Ashok Hemrajani, president, HRATS. There are over 10,000 eateries in the city. Of these, 101 are three, four, or five-star hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-reprieve-most-eateries-stay-shut/articleshow/75836019.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New cases in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam cast doubts over IQ testing protocol||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As Kerala grapples with an increasing case load in the third phase of Covid-19 outbreak, it is caught between challenges posed by the Centre’s insistence on 14-day institutional quarantine for expatriates and its endeavour to save up treatment and testing resources for a worst-case scenario. Lack of concrete evidence on incoming travellers being tested abroad and doubts over test accuracy are adding to the confusion, as was demonstrated in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram on Monday. Officials had circumvented guidelines and tested persons in IQ which proved crucial in identifying six positive cases among those housed at a Covid care centre. They had arrived in state on Saturday on the Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananthapuram flight. In the state capital, officials identified the candidates based on the verbal communication provided during screening at the airport. In Kollam, authorities came to know that persons housed in the institutional quarantine centre (IQC) had voiced suspicions that they may have tested positive before boarding the flight. They had reported that before boarding the flight, 11 passengers were kept apart for some time and they believed they may have been positive with some reporting themselves as contacts. The self-reporting format (SRF) and flight manifesto do not help authorities either. “The test was conducted based on what they told us. Guidelines call for testing only in symptomatic cases and high-risk contacts and as per ICMR strategy this has to be done between day five and day 10 of coming into contact with a confirmed case. The passengers did not have any documents about test results and we are in the dark about the exact confirmed case of which they were contacts,” an official said. They may even have undergone antibody tests, which are not considered standard protocol for confirming infection, the official added. Both Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram are now dealing with possibility of tracing and testing remaining passengers on the flight and all contacts of the confirmed cases since their arrival and travel to the care centre. There were a total of 177 passengers on board the flight and Kollam team has found that 67 persons had come in contact with three confirmed cases. With limited resources, Kerala is not in a position to initiate mass testing of returnees under institutional quarantine, however, compromise in protocol within IQCs could result in an outbreak within the centre; something the state can least afford. Officials say that Kerala’s time-tested strategy of home quarantine is the way forward in the light of challenges being faced in IQCs. “Our treatment and testing strategy clearly says that no testing is required for category A patients; those with mild symptoms. If we could strictly adhere to room isolation, it would help us reduce chances of spread of infection and will also ensure judicious use of testing and treatment,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-cases-in-tvm-kollam-cast-doubts-over-iq-testing-protocol/articleshow/75833795.cms||Aswin J Kumar
May 20, 2020||Goa||Two flights with Goan seafarers to land in Goa today||PANAJI: Two charters with around 280 stranded Goan seafarers are set to land at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Wednesday. The seafarers, who worked aboard cruise vessels in the European region, will land in flights chartered by Costa Cruises. A scheduled third chartered flight has been postponed by a few days, said Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials. The third flight could land in the coming days once the Italian embassy and the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) finalise the repatriation process for 100-odd Italians stranded in Goa. “The first charter flight from Italy will arrive at 8am and the second at 3pm,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. The first flight is expected to bring around 150 passengers, while the second flight will have 136 passengers on board. Additional crew for the flight back will also be on board, sources said. “It was a rumour that the charter flights will be cancelled. The flights will land and the cruise company is already in dialogue with the hotels where the seafarers will be quarantined,” said nodal officer for the arriving seafarers, P S Reddy. Till late on Tuesday evening, mails and calls were being exchanged between the office of the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), director general of shipping, Airports Authority of India, Goa’s department of health services and other agencies involved in bringing back the seafarers. A total of 414 stranded seafarers are to be repatriated to Goa, and Costa Cruises has chartered a total of three flights to bring the seafarers home. TOI had earlier reported that the flights would have to be staggered if the department of health services insists on screening and testing arriving seafarers at the terminal building. After hectic discussions, the state health department agreed to test the passengers at the quarantine facilities, said Venzy Viegas, who, along with the Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI), has been pursuing efforts to bring back the Goan seafarers. While one flight will take off from Milan International Airport, the second will depart from Rome. Both flights will make technical halts for refuelling at Cairo, Egypt and Muscat, Oman, before arriving at Dabolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-flights-with-goan-seafarers-to-land-in-goa-today/articleshow/75836827.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Cab, auto drivers struggle to find passengers in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With the government making way for auto-rickshaws and cabs to hit the streets again, many drivers in the city, who have been struggling to make ends meet amid the lockdown, resumed work on Tuesday. “It has been 59 days since I earned any money,” said Battula Shekar, an auto driver at Jubilee bus the station stand in Secunderabad. He, however, confessed that the first day on the road was quite difficult with very few people opting to commute in autos. “I have been waiting here from past two hours. Despite wearing mask and cleaning the auto, no one wants to hire the auto. We will not be able to survive it the situation continues to be like this,” said Shekar. The story is no different for others like him, who barely have any savings to fall back on. Some that TOI spoke to said their families have been struggling to survive due to the unprecedented lockdown. “There were days when my family survived on just one meal a day. The last two months were very difficult. Today, I earned Rs 120 after waiting for passengers the whole day. I hope I get more passengers at least tomorrow,” said another auto driver, Mohammad Hanif. Cab drivers who mostly depend on IT companies were also badly affected with majority employees still working from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cab-auto-drivers-struggle-to-find-passengers-in-city/articleshow/75836033.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Provide personal hygiene items at quarantine centres: Rajasthan HC||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to ensure that the institutional quarantine centres are provided with basic personal hygiene items such as sanitary napkin for women as is being done by other state governments. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mohanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma gave the direction while hearing a PIL by Shraddha Gautam. “The quarantined people, including women, are not allowed to go outside the centre and so they cannot purchase sanitary pads on their own. Due to non-availability of sanitary napkins, these women are forced to use damp and dirty cloth which could increase the risk of various types of infections,” the petition said. The petitioner referred to similar arrangements made by some other state governments. The court said the notification issued by other state governments be considered for the purpose. “Though it is learnt that the government agencies are taking care of all persons admitted to quarantine centres… in order to ensure personal hygiene of persons, including women, the respondents are directed to check and ensure that necessary articles are timely provided at all quarantine centres within the state,” the court directed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-provide-personal-hygieneproducts-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75836836.cms||Joychen Joseph
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Class X and Class XII general results in June||Ahmedabad: After declaring the Class XII (science stream) board exam results, the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) will declare the results of Class XII (general stream) and Class X in the first half of June, said GSHSEB officials. On Monday, a fake message went viral on social media claiming that Class XII (general stream) results will be published on May 19. This caused so much confusion that the GSHSEB was forced to issue a statement clarifying that the message was fake. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/class-x-and-class-xii-general-results-in-june/articleshow/75836036.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||Standing panel gives nod to devpt works||Nashik: The standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) held its first meeting after around three months on Tuesday and gave approval to development works worth Rs 50 crore. The projects that have been given the approval include construction of two bridges on Godavari and Nandini rivers along with major chunk of works related to water supply and sewage departments of the municipal corporation. Standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite gave approval to over 50 development works presented by the civic administration. The panel also gave its nod to giving work order to Nashik-based agency Sitaram Infraproject to construct bridge over Godavari river at a cost of Rs 17.94 crore. The second bridge is to be constructed on Nandini river in Satpur division at a cost of Rs 3.79 crore and the panel gave its nod to give the work order to another Nashik-based contractor. The panel also gave its approval for giving work order to the contractor concerned for developing sports ground on NMC’s reservation plot near K K Wagh school in Nashik East division of the municipal corporation at a total cost of Rs 2 crore. Permission was also given to carry out annual maintenance works of sewage pumping station at Kapila and Talkli — at a total cost of Rs 1.31 crore. Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game said that although the standing committee has approved works over Rs 50 crore, the work orders will be given only after considering the cash flow of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/standing-panel-gives-nod-to-devpt-works/articleshow/75833807.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Salons reopen in rural areas with precautions||Coimbatore: Salons in the rural areas of the district reopened on Tuesday after a gap of 54 days.While the central government extended the nation-wide lockdown till May 31, the state government announced several relaxations including reopening of salons in rural areas by issuing specific guidelines.Hairdressers and customers were asked to wear masks and maintain social distancing. The building should be cleaned with disinfectant regularly.Mani Ranganathan, a hairdresser at TT Palayam said he was expecting at least 60% of customers to visit the salon after it reopened. “But only half of them visited us on the first day. As the salons remained close for nearly two months, most of our customers cut their hair on their own or with the help of family members. It will take us another month to resume our business,” he said.Due to lack of revenue, the hairdressers have been struggling to meet their expenses. They managed to survive the lockdown with the help of volunteers, who distributed grocery items and vegetables.Representatives of hairdressers in the district had submitted a petition to collector K Rajamani and municipal administration minister SP Velumani, urging them to take steps to reopen the shops in town panchayats and corporation limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salons-reopen-in-rural-areas-with-precautions/articleshow/75836028.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Separate lanes for passenger, goods vehicles at Walayar||Coimbatore: To prevent vehicles from forming a beeline near the Walayar check-post, the district administration started separating goods vehicles from passenger vehicles from Tuesday.Following relaxation of the lockdown restrictions from May 4, the state borders witnessed heavy flow of vehicles from both the sides. As Kerala and Tamil Nadu governments had deployed separate teams to check all the vehicles, kilometers-long queues formed on both sides of the check-post and people were forced to wait for hours to cross the border.“To ensure that vehicles do not wait near the check-post for a long time, we have started to segregate passenger vehicles from goods vehicles. While the goods vehicles are allowed to pass through the highway after checking, passenger vehicles are allowed to pass through the service road. Sufficient manpower is deployed to check the vehicles separately,” said inspector general of police K Periaiah.Two teams have been deployed to check passenger vehicles. While the health team checks the passengers for temperature and other symptoms, the revenue team checks e-pass and other proof they carry. “Goods vehicles are checked thoroughly apart from driver and cleaner,” the official said.While 20 to 25 passenger vehicles cross the border every hour, the number of goods vehicles is almost double than that, said superintendent of police Sujith Kumar. “The number of vehicles leaving the state is higher that of those entering. Most of the people are aware that they should carry the e-pass issued by the state. Only one or two passengers were sent back as they were not carrying the passes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/separate-lanes-for-passenger-goods-vehicles-at-walayar/articleshow/75836057.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Five-member gang loots 50 sovereigns of gold||Coimbatore: A five-member gang decamped with 50 sovereigns of gold ornaments from the house of Vedhamuthu, elder brother of lottery baron Santiago Martin, at Sri Ragavendra Colony at Urumandampalayam near GN Mills on Tuesday morning.The miscreants, who had covered their faces with clothes, tied up Vedhamuthu, 65, his wife V Sebasti, 61 and their maid Arul Mary, 45, before stealing the valuables, police sources said. “The couple was sleeping in their bedroom and their maid was sleeping in the hall. The burglars entered the house by breaking open the front door lock around 1am. They tied up Mary and snatched her one sovereign gold mangalsutra before shifting her to another room. They tied up Vedhamuthu and his wife using towels and snatched her seven-sovereign mangalsutra. The gang broke open an almirah and looted 50 sovereigns of gold ornaments including bangles, rings, ear studs, chains and a diamond embedded necklace. They left the place around 2am,” a police officer said.The couple managed to come out of the room around 5am and informed the Thudiyalur police. Forensic and fingerprint experts inspected the crime scene. A sniffer dog was also pressed into service.“The gang members were speaking in Hindi and English in front of the couple but were speaking in Tamil in front of the maid. They were wearing gloves,” the officer told TOI. Police have registered a case under sections 394, 397 and 457 of IPC. Two special teams have been formed to nab the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-member-gang-loots-50-sovereigns-of-gold/articleshow/75836035.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: NRKs outdo domestic returnees in Covid cases||KOCHI: One in every hundred evacuated NRKs is testing positive for Covid-19. Under the Vande Bharat and Samudra Setu missions from May 7, 5,619 persons travelled to Kerala mostly from Gulf countries and Maldives. By contrast, the rate of infection among Malayalis returning from other states after lockdown restrictions were relaxed on May 4 is much less. Of the 59,945 who returned by road and train only 41 have tested positive. In the last 10 days, 67 persons from abroad have tested positive, with the majority of them making their way from the Middle East. Most of the domestic travellers testing positive for the coronavirus infection are from the two biggest hotspots in the country — Mumbai and Chennai. “Many have only mild symptoms and are being treated in Covid care centres. They don’t need ICU or ventilator support,” said Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer (public emergency) and currently in-charge of anti-Covid-19 efforts in the state. Health officials said the current situation was anticipated and there is nothing to be concerned about. With carriers from abroad accounting for a large number of the most recent wave of patients, a mere 20 cases were detected among their local contacts. With those coming from outside being placed in 14 days’ quarantine, either at home or in an institution, officials said that it is easy to identify and control the spread of infection. “Our entire effort is towards ensuring that there is no spread of infection amongst locals. At the moment, we are doing well,” said an official. “Moreover, awareness is being created among those who return, who are being told that they are welcome to the home state but now it’s their responsibility to ensure their own safety and safety of their family and people in the state,” the official said. However, compared to phase two of the infection when the state saw 100 new cases in 16 days, the current phase three has seen the same numbers in just 10 days. “But this was expected. Right up to March 25, when the lockdown was first implemented, other states didn’t have much cases. This held true for other countries as well. In the latest phase, most of those returning to the state are coming from hotspots. Therefore, we expect more positive cases and are more vigilant. Our strategy is to pick up cases early, treat them, trace their contacts and quarantine them, besides ensuring reverse quarantine,” said Dr B Ekbal, chairman, Kerala government’s medical advisory panel on Covid management. “We need to be doubly vigilant. Unavailability of antibody testing kits remains a concern,” said Dr Rakhal Gaitonde, professor, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, who is also a member of the advisory panel on Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nrks-outdo-domestic-returnees-in-covid-cases/articleshow/75833843.cms||Preetu Nair
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Clarify quickly on holding of SSC exam, HC tells MHA||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday sought an urgent reply from the Union ministry of home affairs on whether any clause in its May 17 lockdown extension order prohibits the holding of exams in schools and colleges. The Goa board’s SSC exam is scheduled to begin on Thursday. The court, which posted the next hearing for Wednesday, said that the MHA would have to take some stand and reply at the earliest. It also said that it’s not in the interest of anyone that uncertainty over the exam lingers any longer. Over 21,000 students have registered to answer the exam. On May 15, the high court declined to stay the holding of the exam. “Since then, the situation has changed, and not for the better as far as the Covid-19 situation is concerned,” said Justice M S Sonak. He said that the lockdown, which was to conclude by May 18, has now been extended to May 31. He also said that when the decision to hold the exam was taken on or about May 6, Goa did not have a single Covid-19 positive case. He noted that that on May 15, there were a few positive cases, detected out of people entering the state. “However, as of today, it is pointed out that there are at least about 31 positive cases being treated in Goa.” Two individuals, Cedric Vaz and Adwait Desai, approached the court raising issues of safety, and contended that it can’t be held as per the MHA order. Senior advocate A F Diniz argued that there are 42 Covid positive cases in Goa . He also said that the MHA order places an embargo on holding academic functions, which would include examinations involving more than 50 persons. In response, advocate general Devidas Pangam said that the state has considered the change scenario and said the examination should proceed as scheduled. He added that only persons coming from out of Goa have been detected Covid-19 positive. He contended that had the Centre intended to prohibit holding of exams, it would clearly have stated so. He also said that adequate measures have been taken regarding health an safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clarify-quickly-on-holding-of-ssc-exam-hc-tells-mha/articleshow/75836842.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||Mentally-ill daughter found living with mother’s corpse||TNN/ Udaya Kumar Shivamogga: The body of a 60-year-old woman was recovered from her residence at Basavanagudi in Shivamogga on Monday after neighbours complained that her daughter was living with the woman’s dead body for days without taking any steps to perform her last rites. The deceased, retired teacher Rajeshwari had died on Thursday, said police. The body had started decomposing when the neighbours got a whiff of her death. Rajeshwari had been living with her 25-year-old mentally challenged daughter after her husband’s death 20 years ago. The daughter had pursued B.com in 2016 and may have discontinued after she fell ill and started taking treatment, said neighbours. After her mother’s death, the woman locked herself in the house with the body and continued with the daily chores, including cooking, said police. Diagnosed with breast cancer, Rajeshwari had been undergoing Ayurvedic treatment. She died last week after taking an excess medicines. Her body was found on the floor and was in a decomposed stage, Jayanagar police told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mentally-ill-daughter-found-living-with-mothers-corpse/articleshow/75832616.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid hospital gets 70 more beds, swab centre working 24x7||PANAJI: The ESI Hospital at Margao, which is the state’s dedicated Covid-19 medical facility, has enhanced its capacity to 170 beds. Seventy beds were added on Tuesday, deputy director of health services, Dr Ira Almeida, said. “We are ready to accept more patients and plan to go up to 200 beds in a few days time. We have to be ready,” she said. One floor of the hospital has a dedicated paediatric ward with a paediatric ICU. This ward was used over the last weekend, when a four-month-old infant, a one-year-old toddler and three brothers aged 3, 6 and 11 years all tested positive for the virus. They have been admitted along with their mothers, two of whom have tested negative. Asymptomatic and symptomatic patients have been accommodated in separate wards on separate floors of the Covid-19 hospital. A 61-year-old woman is also among the admitted patients and is the first senior citizen to have tested positive till date. “Most of those who were sick have now turned asymptomatic. But so far, no one who was asymptomatic has become symptomatic,” Almeida said. Police accompany those entering Goa for testingThe hospital’s ICU has provision for 40 spaces where ventilators with central oxygen and compressed air can be accommodated. The TrueNat swabbing centre and testing laboratory at the new South Goa district hospital works round the clock in three shifts: 8am to 2pm, 2pm to 8pm and 8pm to 8am. Police travelling to and from the borders accompany those who enter by their own vehicles, for testing. The 24x7 swab centre and laboratory at the hospital tests between 100-150 samples each day. However, over the weekend, when the state received more than 650 passengers by trains, the TrueNat labs at Ponda and Mapusa were activated at night to cater to the load. If the TrueNat tests come negative, passengers are stamped for a 14-day home quarantine and sent to their residences. Those who test positive are sent to the isolation ward at TB hospital, Margao, while they are re-swabbed by the district hospital — this time a naso-pharyngeal swab — and wait for confirmatory PCR tests results from the GMC. There are two ambulances dedicated to moving people suspected to have Covid-19 and positive patients in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hospital-gets-70-more-beds-swab-centre-working-24x7/articleshow/75836834.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 20, 2020||Nashik||City bus service review after May 31: Mayor||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni on Tuesday said that the city bus service project will be started in phases once the lockdown is over. Kulkarni said that he will review major city projects after May 31. “We will speed up the city bus service project after the lockdown is over. Moreover, review of other major civic projects is also to be taken after May 31,” said Kulkarni. NMC had already signed agreement with two contractors to operate total 250 buses, including 200 CNG and remaining 50 diesel buses. The contractors made RTO passing of the vehicles and registration process before the lockdown. The fleet of 250 buses has been parked at three places in the city and they are ready to operate. Mayor said we can’t delay the city bus project now. The city bus service is now necessity of the city. We will start operating buses in phases once the lockdown is over. NMC is also yet to sign agreement for 150 electric buses with the contractor it has finalized due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-bus-service-review-after-may-31-mayor/articleshow/75833833.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: After building cities, they’re robbed of jobs and dignity||CHENNAI: Anand Haripal and 11 of his friends had set out nine days ago from Chengalpet on bicycles for Bolangir in Odisha, some 1,039km away from the city. On Tuesday, they reached till Gummidipoondi when the police beat them up and chased them away. The incident has forced Anand and his friends to behave like fugitives on the run. They sleep under trees and on farmlands, and take rural routes pedalling bicycles loaded with LPG cylinders, utensils, stoves and other belongings. “The police try to stop us from leaving but they have no solution to offer. We have set out on this journey after two failed trips to the MGR Central to board trains,” said Haripal who has lost his job as a construction worker. Cooking under the shade of a tree by the GNT Road, Haripal said, “Going back from the railway station was difficult at night. So we slept there. We used our savings, stocked up and began this trip.” If Haripal had no clue about a train, Jamman Sankar and his family missed it for turning up late at a government shelter. Sankar said he did not have a phone to be in touch with other guest workers from Odisha. “An official gave a slip and told us to go to Padiyanallur. When I reached the shelter, I was told that we missed the train by an hour,” said Sankar of Cuttack. He along with his wife, six children and their daughter-in-law have been working at a construction site near Madhavaram. A drive along Grand Northern Trunk Road sums up the helplessness of hundreds of guest workers. An arterial stretch that sees constant movement of heavy vehicles, the highway has guest workers walking, cycling and resting. Officials said at least 3,000 to 4,000 workers along with family members, including children, are walking along the stretch every day. But officials do not allow them to proceed. Every two kilometres, police have set up temporary checkposts to shift the workers to nearby shelters. Somewhere on the road TOI met Gokul Ram and Vignesh Yadav from Jharkhand’s Palamu district. The two have embarked on a 1,780km journey. “We are planning to cover around 120km a day on cycles. If no one stops us, we may reach home by the end of this month,” said Gokul. Another group heading to Madhya Pradesh said they are trying to avoid the police. “We are not sure when they will send us home. So we don’t want to waste our time here,” said Viju Ram from MP. He and his three friends are cycling after sunset. Those who are caught by police are moved to shelters arranged in Red Hills, Padiyanallur, Alamathi, Ponneri and Minnur. Revenue and health officials screen and group them, and give them badges. “The details of the workers are sent to the collector. We send them when we receive information about trains,” said a revenue official in the Padiyanallur shelter where around 1,500 guest workers have been accommodated. Amid the confusion, Sonu Balu from UP has some clarity. He was among the 150-odd workers seated in two government buses. “We waited for two months and began to walk home. We were brought to the shelter and are happy that we are going home finally,” Sonu said. But unlike Sonu, thousands are still stranded on the road, robbed of jobs, livelihood and their dignity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-building-cities-theyre-robbed-of-jobs-and-dignity/articleshow/75836071.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt cracks whip on hospital for barring patients||Ahmedabad: The government has cracked the whip on Sterling Hospital in Gurukul for refusing to admit Covid-19 patients referred by the municipal corporation and government-run hospitals. On Tuesday, Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) issued a show-cause notice to Sterling Hospital management seeking to know, “...why the land allocated to the hospital and the hospital should not be taken over by AUDA.” “The area where the hospital stands today was allotted to the hospital on a token rate on the condition that 80% of the allotted land will be used for charitable health services,” said A B Gor, the chief executive officer of AUDA. Recently, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had issued notices to the hospital for not complying with the orders of the municipal commissioner to allocate 50% of its bed capacity for Covid-19 patients referred by the AMC. Seven hospitals in the city have been hauled up by the AMC for not admitting Covid-19 patients referred by the civic body. These seven hospitals are Sardar Hospital at Nikol Gam, SAL Hospital at Thaltej, Bodyline Hospital in Paldi, Lifecare in Stadium area, Saraswati Hospital at Ambli-Bopal junction, Bopal ICU and Trauma Centre in Ambli, and Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura. The AMC has threatened criminal and civil action against these hospitals. The notice to these hospitals states, “In case you fail to comply, it shall be considered that you are deliberately and willfully disobeying the same and thereby causing grave prejudice to the safety and security of the public at large, the same shall also entail action strict consequences under civil and criminal law.” The notice issued also quotes the Gujarat high court order that “If private hospitals do not budge and are determined to not budge and are determined to demand exorbitant amount, then this court will have to take appropriate legal action against such hospitals and the consequences may be quite bitter including cancellation of licence.” The AMC had recently negotiated with private hospitals to increase Covid-19 care rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-cracks-whip-on-hospital-for-barring-patients/articleshow/75836157.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Salem||Coimbatore: Drunk woman kills husband following scuffle, arrested||COIMBATORE: A 32-year-old woman and her brother-in-law were arrested on Tuesday for killing her husband in a state of drunken stupor at Periyakuyili near Chettipalayam in Coimbatore district. The deceased, M Annamalai, 35, from Naduvaneri village in Salem was living in a rented house with his wife A Priya, 32, and two children at Periyakuyili. The couple were daily wage labourers and were used to drinking liquor after work. On many occasions, the couple fought with each other after getting drunk, police said. On Sunday evening, the couple got involved in a heated argument after consuming liquor at their residence. In a fit of rage, Priya assaulted Annamalai with a stone. Annamalai suffered severe head injuries and died instantly. Police said she killed her husband in the presence of her minor daughter. A few hours later, Priya became normal and found her husband lying dead in a pool of blood. She rang up her elder sister’s husband K Selvaraj, 35, from Jalikottai near Kanavaipudur in Salem district, who hired an ambulance and travelled to Coimbatore the same night. The duo then took Annamalai’s body to his native place at Naduvaneri in Salem early on Monday and told the relatives that her husband had died after a fall under the influence of alcohol. However, M Sengodan, 40, the elder brother of the deceased, refused to believe their version and informed Magudanchavadi police that there was something amiss. Police took the body to Salem government hospital for a postmortem, which revealed that Annamalai had died of head injuries. Following the report, Chettipalayam police registered a case against Priya under IPC section 302 (murder) and section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information) against Selvaraj. Both were arrested on Tuesday and remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/drunk-woman-kills-husband-following-scuffle-arrested/articleshow/75840566.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Drunk woman kills husband following scuffle, arrested||COIMBATORE: A 32-year-old woman and her brother-in-law were arrested on Tuesday for killing her husband in a state of drunken stupor at Periyakuyili near Chettipalayam in Coimbatore district. The deceased, M Annamalai, 35, from Naduvaneri village in Salem was living in a rented house with his wife A Priya, 32, and two children at Periyakuyili. The couple were daily wage labourers and were used to drinking liquor after work. On many occasions, the couple fought with each other after getting drunk, police said. On Sunday evening, the couple got involved in a heated argument after consuming liquor at their residence. In a fit of rage, Priya assaulted Annamalai with a stone. Annamalai suffered severe head injuries and died instantly. Police said she killed her husband in the presence of her minor daughter. A few hours later, Priya became normal and found her husband lying dead in a pool of blood. She rang up her elder sister’s husband K Selvaraj, 35, from Jalikottai near Kanavaipudur in Salem district, who hired an ambulance and travelled to Coimbatore the same night. The duo then took Annamalai’s body to his native place at Naduvaneri in Salem early on Monday and told the relatives that her husband had died after a fall under the influence of alcohol. However, M Sengodan, 40, the elder brother of the deceased, refused to believe their version and informed Magudanchavadi police that there was something amiss. Police took the body to Salem government hospital for a postmortem, which revealed that Annamalai had died of head injuries. Following the report, Chettipalayam police registered a case against Priya under IPC section 302 (murder) and section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information) against Selvaraj. Both were arrested on Tuesday and remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drunk-woman-kills-husband-following-scuffle-arrested/articleshow/75836061.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Shops in Sec’bad Cantt to reopen from today with curbs||Secunderabad: Over 6,000 shops and commercial units in Secunderabad Cantonment will reopen on Wednesday, after nearly two months of lockdown. Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials will implement the odd-even rule being followed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). On Tuesday, a high-level meeting chaired by SCB chief executive officer SVR Chandra Sekhar decided to reopen the shops. “The process of marking numbers on over 6,000 shops based on the odd-even pattern will begin on Wednesday. The shopkeepers have to implement their business transaction on alternate days. For instance, odd numbered shops have to open on odd days and even numbered shops will open on even numbered days of the week,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM) M Devender told TOI. The odd-even pattern is new to the Cantonment shopkeepers and we will explain it in detail to them, the official added. “A penalty of Rs 1,000 will be imposed on shopkeepers who did not implement this new pattern,” said Devender and added that a team of officials will be deputed to monitor the system. Shopkeepers and staff will have to take certain preventive measures like social distancing and using of sanitizers. “They have to implement a policy of ‘no mask-no goods/no service’. It is mandatory for shopkeepers to mark blocks with four-feet distance,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shops-in-secbad-cantt-to-reopen-from-today-with-curbs/articleshow/75836075.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 20, 2020||Coimbatore||8-day-old baby born with 5 abnormalities in heart saved by doctors of city hospital||COIMBATORE: It was a rebirth for an eight-day-old baby born with a combination of five abnormalities in heart. Born on April 17 to Mahalakshmi and Sanjivkumar, a dairy farm labourer from Dindigul, the baby was diagnosed with Tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia, a combination of five abnormalities in heart. When Mahalakshmi went for the fifth month scan in 2019-end, she was shocked when the sonologist detected that the fetus had a complex congenital heart defect. “I did not understand much of the condition. The doctor just said there was a problem in the baby’s heart and will require a difficult surgery immediately after birth. Since the doctor said the baby could survive after surgery, my wife and I did not want to abort and wanted to have the baby,” said Sanjivkumar. As doctors predicted, when Mahalakshmi gave birth on April 17 at Madurai Medical College, the baby weighing 2.2 kg was detected with respiratory distress and low saturation after birth. An echocardiogram confirmed that the baby had TOF with type 1 valvular pulmonary atresia. Babies with the above conditions have a hole in between the chambers of the heart, the aorta moving towards the right side of the heart and absence of a valve connecting the heart and lungs. The parents immediately rushed the baby to Coimbatore-based G Kuppusamy Naidu Hospital. The baby on arrival was found to have a saturation of 60%. The baby required urgent open-heart surgery. The baby underwent a total correction on April 24. “Despite the risks involved and accepting the 80% survival rate we offered, the parents were clear they wanted the correction done in a single surgery, rather than procedures done in gaps until the baby turns two,” said the surgeon, Dr Vijayakumar Raju. The surgery took nearly six hours. The baby underwent another procedure to correct his left diaphragm on May 2 and was off the ventilator from May 3. He finally began consuming milk from May 10 and was discharged on May 12. The surgery costing Rs 3 lakh was funded by Genesis Foundation. Babies with an immediate correction of this rare condition, which affects less than 1% of babies born, has a survival rate of 58% after 25 years. Senior consultant, Cardiothoracic and vascular surgery at Fortis Malar Hospital, Dr Anto Sahayaraj, said it is extremely rare that the surgery was performed at eight days, because the tube that you place to connect the heart and lungs after closing the hole, will be tiny. As the child grows older to about three to four years, may have to be replaced. So, most people perform the total correction at between 6 months and two years. But if the surgeon believed the surgery needed to be done this quickly and the baby has recovered well, it’s a complicated but good surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/8-day-old-baby-born-with-5-abnormalities-in-heart-saved-by-doctors-of-city-hospital/articleshow/75836073.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra minister writes to UGC to cancel final-year exams||PUNE: The state government has written to the University Grants Commission (UGC) requesting permission to cancel the examination for final year students in colleges across the state, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said on Tuesday during a live broadcast on a social media platform. There is rising anxiety among students about the exam so the government has urged the UGC to issue guidelines on a grading pattern, Samant said. “Students have been urging the cancellation of the examination and environment minister Aditya Thackeray had written to UGC about it. We will wait for two days for a response and then meet officials and vice-chancellors of universities. We will declare our decision within two days,” Samant added. The May 17 letter says, “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Maharashtra and considering the feasibility of conducting the exams for approximately 8 lakh to 10 lakh students from across Maharashtra and India by maintaining all safety protocols seems very challenging and may endanger the safety and health of the students. Hence, I am of the opinion that the terminal examinations should not be conducted this year…..I hereby request you to kindly consider the option of promoting students without conducting exams of last year for UG/PG and grade them as per UGC guidelines. Request you to kindly issue guidelines in this regard for betterment of students.” Samant said a decision on whether to return the examination fee or carry it forward for the next examination will be taken soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minister-writes-to-ugc-to-cancel-final-year-exams/articleshow/75836069.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 20, 2020||Nashik||No more relaxation in Nashik during lockdown 4||Nashik: Though an order from the district collector is yet to come based on the new guidelines set by the state government for lockdown 4, sources have informed that there will be no further relaxation and the current restrictions are set to continue. According to sources from district administration, municipal corporation and police, no more relaxation would be granted in the city and rural parts of the district. “There will be no major changes in the new guidelines. Shops, that do not have permission to open, can open only for repairing and cleaning. Most other things we have already allowed in red zones except containment zones,” an official from the district administration said. As per the fresh state government guidelines, Nashik, Malegaon, Dhule and Jalgaon municipal corporations in North Maharashtra continue to be in the red zones. Except malls, hospitality industry, rickshaw and saloons, most of the shops have already opened in the city. Jewellery and garment shops have already opened in the city for the past few days. Liquor shops also opened in in non-containment zones of the city and district. The government has also allowed the industries to start their operations, except those in containment areas. Over 5,500 small, medium and large industries have already started operations by maintaining social distancing. “Apart from buses, we have also issued passes for two-wheelers and four-wheelers for people to reach work places,” an MIDC official said. Meanwhile, movement of people was witnessed on city street for buying essentials and other things. “The situation of the city is now completely under control. Of the total 48 Covid-19 positive patients in the city, 37 have been discharged, while two have succumbed to the infection. There are only nine active cases of Covid-19 in the city,” a senior NMC official said. “More relaxations have already been given and there will be no more relaxation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-more-relaxation-in-nashik-during-lockdown-4/articleshow/75833852.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 20, 2020||Pune||Hurt pet parakeet released into the wild after recovery||Pune: The Ela Transit Treatment Centre, a joint initiative of the Pune-based Ela Foundation and Maharashtra Forest Department, rewilded a plum-headed parakeet on Monday. The escaped pet bird was rescued from Ambegaon in February this year. Satish Pande, the foundation’s director, said that it was a rare success story as it is not easy to rewild a pet bird. The juvenile parakeet was spotted in the last week of February by bird photographer Madhura Shrotri. “She saw the bird being attacked by crows near Jambhulwadi lake in Ambegaon and brought it home. Soon, the lockdown was announced and she continued to look after the bird. As it began to recover, Shrotri realised that it was a pet who had escaped as it could say a few words fluently,” he said. Shrotri then contacted Pande, who asked her to hand over the parakeet to the centre located at Ela Habitat in Pingori village. Pande said the most efficient way to reintroduce such erstwhile caged birds into the wild is by slowly pushing them towards their free counterparts in their natural habitat. “The plum-headed Parakeets reside and breed in the area around Ela Habitat. Hence, we kept the cage of the parakeet in the natural habitat and introduced it to natural food. Once it got used to that, we opened the cage and let it take flight. Soon, the bird circled our treatment centre thrice before disappearing into the wild,” Pande added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hurt-pet-parakeet-released-into-the-wild-after-recovery/articleshow/75836076.cms||Manjiri Damle
May 20, 2020||Rajkot||34k labourers sent to native states||Rajkot: The administrations of Morbi and Bhavnagar have sent as many as 34,351 migrant labourers to their natives in Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Jharkhand. “In the past 13 days, the Morbi district administration has sent 18,500 labourers back to their native places in 14 shramik special trains. These trains included four each for UP and Odisha, one for Bihar, three for MP and two for Jharkhand,” said Morbi district collector J B Patel. “We have requested 10 more trains for UP, six for Jharkhand and two each for Bihar,” said Patel. So far, Bhavnagar district administration has sent a total of 15,851 migrant labourers back to their natives in Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand in 11 special trains for labourers so far. Before sending migrants to their respective states, the Bhavnagar district administration provided 73,926 kits of food grains to the labourers and distributed 8,99,738 food packets among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/34k-labourers-sent-to-native-states/articleshow/75835075.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Class XII exam resumes today||Panaji: The public exam of the three remaining Class XII papers of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will begin from Wednesday. The three-day exam will begin with the Marathi language paper at 9am on Wednesday. Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said that parents will not be allowed within 200m of the vicinity of exam centre or sub-centre. Students will be allowed to carry sanitisers and transparent water bottles into the exam halls and wear masks. Volunteers will ensure that students leave the sub-centres, block-wise by maintaining social distancing. Students will be answering political science and geography papers on May 21 and 22. All other usual exam norms will continue like before, like candidates are required to report for the exam 30 minutes before the scheduled time. Arriving 30 minutes after the paper begins will disqualify the student from answering the exam and students will not be allowed to leave the exam hall before one hour after the exam begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-xii-exam-resumes-today/articleshow/75836861.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||With surgeries off, kidney patients’ woes continue||Lucknow: As elective surgeries have been suspended due to Covid-19 pandemic, the number of patients requiring urgent kidney transplant and their sufferings are growing with each passing day. Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science (RMLIMS) – the only two public sector premier institutes which conduct renal transplant in UP – have not been able to take up any case in last 50 days. As a result, patients are suffering both physically and economically. Sample this: On dialysis for last one year, a 32-year-old patient at RMLIMS got some hope when his renal transplant was scheduled for March. The patient's father, a tailor by profession, was the donor. The duo had to go through testing for four months before the date was finalised but lockdown made their year-long wait even longer. Head of nephrology department at RMLIMS Prof Abhilash Chandra said, “The patient is from financially weaker section and continuous dialysis has consumed the money saved for transplant. It is difficult to tell when the transplant would be possible. He, however, said new guidelines for transplant amid the pandemic is expected. On an average, 10-12 kidney transplant are done at SGPGIMS and 3-4 at RMLIMS every month. “So far, backlog of around 20 renal transplants has been created. Consequently, patients requiring urgent transplant are on a four-hour twice a week dialysis schedule for which they have to visit institutes every time, which in itself is a problem,” said a senior professor at SGPGIMS. While patients whose procedures were deferred are waiting for lockdown to end, those in waiting are wondering when the backlog will clear. At SGPGI, where the waiting list of patients requiring kidney transplant is over 100, backlog of about 18 has been created during lockdown. “We will prioritise kidney transplant patients and expedite procedures once the lockdown is relaxed,” said SGPGI CMS Prof Amit Agarwal. At RMLIMS, the waiting period is of three months. “We will increase transplants after lockdown relaxation,” said RMLIMS spokesperson Dr Shrikesh Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-surgeries-off-kidney-patients-woes-continue/articleshow/75836852.cms||Yusra Husain
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||71 cases a day puts Mandya on tenterhooks||Mandya: Migrants from Mumbai, who came back home both legally and illegally, pushed the tally of positive cases to 160 in Mandya district. Mandya district has recorded the highest Covid-19 cases in Karnataka in a single day. The worst fears, that migrants from Mumbai will bring the disease here, have now come true. Now the Cauvery heartland has more number of villages which are sealed, than any other district in the state. Of the 71 fresh cases recorded here, a majority of them are from KR Pet taluk, which became the epicentre of the pandemic in the district, followed by Nagamangala taluk, which is known for having the highest number of migrant workers, who are working in neighbouring cities and states. According to DC Venkatesh, out of total 71 fresh cases, 15 are children, including two who just a year old. All the people who tested positive, returned from various cities in Maharashtra, and a majority of them were from Mumbai. The total positive cases in Mandya reached 160, out of which 21 people were cured and discharged. As on Tuesday, Mandya district has 139 active Covid-19 cases. Venkatesh said that the health authorities have increased the rate of Covid-19 testing, and that so far more than 8,000 people have been tested for Covid-19. "We have decided to increase the testing capacity, and we are contemplating to subject every migrant worker to a mandatory testing, apart from quaranting them for 14 days. We are using the administrative machinery, both in rural and urban areas, to track and catch the elusive migrant workers, who may have sneaked into Mandya district," said Venkatesh. Authorities are intensifying efforts to increase the number of isolation wards. The 350-bed isolation ward in MIMS is unlikely to be able to handle the cases in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/71-cases-a-day-puts-mandya-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/75832649.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Chennai||The return of the native: 66,000 back in Tamil Nadu in 12 days||CHENNAI: As the Covid-19 pandemic drove hordes of panic-stricken people across borders, Tamil Nadu recorded 66,310 arrivals through various modes of transport since May 6. At least 19,051 people returned to Chennai, as per records available with the state, with majority of them arriving from Karnataka. The second highest group of 14,793 people returned to Dindigul, followed by 3,626 to Madurai and 3,607 to Tuticorin. Irrespective of their arrivals through various modes, testing is done for all the travellers coming into the state. If they test positive, they are taken to hospitals. If they test negative, they are kept under institutional quarantine for seven days, especially those coming from hotspots such as Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra. After seven days, the individuals are sent home for quarantine if they do not show any symptom. The state health bulletin on Tuesday said 37 people ferried in flights and 50 who had returned from Maharashtra and Kerala tested positive. “Every arrival is recorded by the government since e-pass is in place for movement on road. We are seeing the arrival of passengers via special trains and buses from other states. The numbers are only growing,” said a senior government official. Civil aviation ministry has operated 10 special flights from Dubai, Kuwait, Kuala Lumpur, Muscat, Dhaka, Manila, London and Chicago to Chennai and a flight to Trichy, while two vessels INS Jalashwa and INS Magar brought the stranded Tamils from Maldives. The railway is also set to operate more Shramik special trains without consent of the state. The reverse migration in Dindigul has caused some apprehension among local residents. “The number is huge. The district has seen no economic development in the recent decades, resulting in more people moving to neighbouring states as daily wagers and money lenders,” CPM state committee member K Balabharathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-return-of-the-native-66k-back-in-tn-in-12-days/articleshow/75836078.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||60% of elderly who died had co-morbidities||Ahmedabad: Over the past two months, the high Covid-19 death rate in Ahmedabad city has stumped health authorities. Most of those who died are the elderly, 60% of whom had co-morbid conditions of diabetes and hypertension. In all, 36% of patients had no co-morbid conditions. Experts at Civil Hospital said that the majority of these cases did not spend more than a week at the hospital. Today, the city’s Covid-19 death rate hovers around 6.95%, one of the highest in the country. Those who are dying are largely in the age group of 61-70, constituting 31% of the deaths. They are followed by people in the 51-60 age group (28%), and those in the 71-80 and 41-50 age groups who constitute roughly 14% each. As for women patients, 35% of them have succumbed to the disease. This has emerged from the analysis of 363 deaths of the 569 that had occurred till May 19 evening. A senior health expert in the AMC said that over the past two months, several elderly people could not access hospitals for regular consulting as they were all closed. In terms of co-morbid conditions, 60% of those who died had a combination of hypertension and diabetes; 15% also had asthma. However, apart from cancers, 1.5% of those dead had thyroid, 2 % of the victims had kidney ailments. But the largest number of victims, almost 35%, had heart ailments. “Our surveillance in containment zones is looking for the elderly with co-morbid conditions apart from identifying people with fever and other symptoms,” said a senior AMC official. The official added that in the coming weeks, timely critical care for the elderly will be the key focus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-of-elderly-who-died-had-co-morbidities/articleshow/75836152.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 20, 2020||Pune||Heeding measures, Eid festivities to move indoors||Pune: The Sunni Ulema Council has urged the Muslim community to pray and celebrate the festival of Eid-ul-Fitr at home under lockdown this weekend. Traditionally, Eid-ul-Fitr is marked by prayers held at mosques as well as visits to friends and family members. Eid will be celebrated either on Sunday or Monday, depending on the sighting of the crescent. Maulana Abdul Rahman, secretary of the Sunni Ulema Council, Pune, said, “The council has requested the central government to relax the lockdown norms to allow the Muslim community to offer namaz at mosques because, on Eid, prayers are to be offered in congregation but no decision has been taken on this front as yet. We have appealed to the Muslim community to pray and celebrate Eid at home and give charity.” Abdul Rahman added, “We have asked the community to offer the ‘Shab-e-Qadr’ namaz at home on Wednesday night. We have also appealed to them to take measures like maintaining social distance to prevent the spread of coronavirus.” “The real happiness on Eid is meeting your relatives and friends. However, this time, the celebrations will be restricted to the house and it’s a sad thing in a way,” said homemaker Wahida Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heeding-measures-eid-festivities-to-move-indoors/articleshow/75836081.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 20, 2020||Pune||11 wait outside jail, land in custody||Pune: Eleven men were booked on Monday night on the charge of flouting lockdown directives by assembling outside the Yerawada central jail to welcome an under trial prisoner released on bail. The Pune Rural police had arrested the accused, Vishnu Yashwant Jadhav (42), in a murder case of 2015. He was to walk out of the jail on Monday evening on bail. To welcome Jadhav, his relatives from Hadapsar, Loni Kalbhor, Shirur and Ahmednagar gathered outside the jail premises from 7pm in violation of the 7pm-7am curfew orders. Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh of the Yerawada police said, “We took all the 11 men into custody as they had no reason to wait outside the jail after 7pm. They had no reason to travel here without digital passes.” Assistant inspector Balbhim Nanaware said, “Around 8pm, we came to know that Jadhav’s relative were waiting outside the jail. The crime branch of the rural police took Jadhav into custody for taking preventive action against him minutes after he was released on bail. We have seized three cars of Jadhav’s relative and charged them for disobedience, unlawful assembly and offences under the Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Act, National Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Covid-19 Rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11-wait-outside-jail-land-in-custody/articleshow/75836085.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers leave camp eyeing work||COIMBATORE: With lockdown restrictions being eased and commercial establishments and construction sector springing back to life in the city, guest workers from other districts who were put up in a corporation school here have started moving to their earlier workplaces in the hope of reclaiming their jobs. These workers, earlier employed in hotels and construction sites before the lockdown, were left without any income and shelter as all commercial establishments and construction sites were shut. The guest workers from various Chennai, Tirupur, Trichy, Madurai, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Theni, and neighbouring Kerala were shifted to a corporation school in Varadarajapuram on April 5 after the intervention of an NGO. On Tuesday, out of the 47 guest workers who were staying at the school, 38 left for their earlier workplaces in the hope of finding jobs. “Some of them have found work at construction sites, while others are still looking for work,” said G Vivek, a volunteer who had been taking care of the workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-leave-camp-eyeing-work/articleshow/75836079.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||Curbs hit immunisation, leave parents anxious||LUCKNOW: Sandhya Shukla of Gomtinagar is a worried mother these days. Her three-month-old daughter’s immunisation is getting delayed due to nationwide lockdown and she is worried that if life-saving vaccines are not administered timely, her baby might be susceptible to serious diseases. Interruption in routine immunisation in most hospitals, including government-aided facilities, has become a cause for concern for parents across the state. Vaccination of newborns, infants and children up to five years of age has been suspended since March 25 following an advisory by the ministry of family and health welfare. Some parents, who can afford exorbitant cost, are getting their newborns immunised at private clinics by shelling out around Rs 10,000 for vaccination, which is otherwise free or comes at a nominal cost in government sector. “I contacted every hospital in April-end and was informed about the suspension of immunisation. Left with no option, I got my child immunised at a private clinic in Dalibagh,” she added. Santosh Sinha, a housemaid, came from Krishnanagar to a hospital in Gomtinagar on a bicycle but returned disappointed as vaccination was not available. According to child specialists, if rotavirus vaccine is not administered within three months of birth, it cannot be given later. In April, the World Health Organisation had stated that over 117 million children in 37 countries might miss out on life-saving measles vaccine due to coronavirus pandemic. Sanjay Niranjan, executive board member of Indian Academy of Pediatrics, said: “Vaccination is an essential service. Birth dose (polio and Hepatitis B) should be administered to newborn before discharge from hospital. Primary vaccines are must though booster doses can wait.” Lucknow CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “No hospital should stop primary immunisation programme even during lockdown. Those which have stopped it will be asked to resume it by Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/curbs-hit-immunisation-leave-parents-anxious/articleshow/75836866.cms||Ankur Tewari
May 20, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Man held for making fake police e-pass||NASHIK: Ambad police have arrested a man, one Yogesh Kode from Uttam Nagar, for making and giving a fake police e-pass to a woman for inter-district travel. Senior inspector at Ambad police station Kumar Chaudhary said the woman came to know that Kode was making fake travel passes issued by the city police. Subsequently, she approached him and told him that she had to travel out of the district as someone in her family had passed away. Kode then prepared a fake pass and gave it to her against a certain sum of money. Realising that Kode was taking money for a pass that was issued for free by the police, the woman lodged a complaint. Chaudhary said that Kode was arrested on the charges of forgery. He has made only one fake pass so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-making-fake-police-e-pass/articleshow/75833868.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||7-year-old boy drowns in well||Pune: A seven-year-old boy drowned, while his younger brother (5) and mother (35) were rescued from a well at Sonawane Vasti in Chikhli on Monday evening. Police said the woman was undergoing treatment for mental illness. Satish Mane, senior inspector of Chikhli police, said after her husband went to work, she took her sons to Sonawane Vasti well and jumped into it. Some youths rescued her from the well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-year-old-boy-drowns-in-well/articleshow/75836096.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||With UN Mehta’s 228, Civil to have 2k beds||Ahmedabad: The state government on Tuesday gave nod to add 228 beds at the new building of UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre (UNMICRC) with a capacity of 800 beds. There was a long pending demand from the experts to utilize the hospital on the Civil Hospital campus, which was completed in March and was to be inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi, for treatment of Covid-19 patients. On Tuesday, state deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is also state’s health minister, visited the hospital with senior IAS officers and UNMICRC director Dr RK Patel. “Global trends suggest that we may have to live with coronavirus for a long time. As a precautionary measure, we have decided to utilise this new building for treating Covid-19 patients whenever a need arises. We have made necessary changes in infrastructure (of the building),” Patel told reporters. The city, which is already declared a Covid-19 hotspot, is recording 200 to 250-plus cases for past fortnight and thus the state government along with civic body is in process of expanding the medical infrastructure in the city. Dr Patel told TOI that the institute has created infrastructure for the hospital and it also has experts who could look after the Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-un-mehtas-228-civil-to-have-2k-beds/articleshow/75836148.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Techie duped of Rs 5.7 lakh in online fraud||PUNE: A 46-year-old software engineer from Bavdhan lost Rs5.70 lakh while trying to have his Paytm account updated online on April 29. The fraudsters siphoned off the amount from his two savings accounts in different private banks and also from his Demat account. After realizing that he had been duped, the techie blocked his accounts and approached the Hinjewadi police on Monday and had the case registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-duped-of-rs-5-7l-in-online-fraud/articleshow/75836093.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Doctors protest BMC diktat against swab test without checking patient||MUMBAI: Instructions from civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal calling for strict action against doctors prescribing swab test without physical examination of a patient have come under sharp criticism from the medical fraternity. A BMC note issued on May 17 said if a doctor is found recommending a test to an asymptomatic person, the practitioner’s licence could be cancelled and even an FIR could be filed. The Association of Medical Consultants (AMC) said such a diktat goes against the Medical Council of India and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) norms that recognize telemedicine as a valid medium for diagnosis and treatment of diseases. “Further, the BMC’s instructions are not in line with the basis of the ICMR guidelines for testing of ‘Influenza like illness’ (ILI), where diagnosis is based on symptoms and physical findings may not play a decisive role always,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of AMC. Civic officials said despite warnings, they continue to see asymptomatic patients being advised the test. “One of the reasons why we are seeing more positive cases is because we are able to test more symptomatic people whereas previously a lot of tests were wasted for patients who didn’t fit the testing criteria,” said a senior BMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-protest-bmc-diktat-against-swab-test-without-checking-patient/articleshow/75836100.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||130 CRPF jawans arrive in Nashik||Nashik: A total of 130 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans arrived in Nashik on Tuesday to help police in implementation of lockdown. According to police, the jawans will be deployed in different parts of the district as per requirement. “They will mainly be sent to Malegaon given the gravity of the situation,” a senior police officer said. Senior officers of Nashik rural police, including SP Arti Singh, are personally monitoring the security arrangements to ensure that people do not move out of their homes unless it’s an emergency. The rural police have already got a force of 350 Government Railway Police Force (GRPF) jawans in Malegaon where over 600 people have tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/130-crpf-jawans-arrive-in-nashik/articleshow/75833880.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||With migrant workers’ exit, construction sector struggles to take off||Mysuru: With thousands of migrant workers returning to their home states, construction sector in the district has been severely hit due to shortage of skilled labour. Most of these migrant workers from Bihar, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh were not only dedicated workers but also experts in various fields including interiors. With their absence, various organizations including the Builders Association of India have been compelled to train local workers in new skills. In Mysuru alone 12,000 migrant workers have enrolled their names to go back to their states. This could have a huge impact on construction, hotel and other industries which are looking to resume operations. Migrant workers constituted more than 60% of the workforce. Now with most of them going back to their respective states, it is going have adverse effect and many construction activities are expected to be delayed. S Basavegowda, managing director of a construction company said, “Migrant workers were especially experts in interiors and granite related work. Their contribution was immense. In the absence of migrant workers, we are facing problems. Hope the government come out with some measures to get these workers back. They are dedicated, hard working and always ready to extend their timings.” M Rathnaraj, president, BAI, Mysuru chapter, said, “Many projects, especially apartment works have been stopped. These workers were into all fields including centring, carpentry, bar bending, granite and interiors. They were very dedicated and hardly they used to take leave. Now with their absence work is going on in a slow pace. The government should take some initiative in getting these workers back. In the meanwhile, we have decided to train local workers in these skills. We will approach the government seeking permission for the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/with-migrant-workers-exit-construction-sector-struggles-to-take-off/articleshow/75832693.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||60 Keralites among Indians to be evacuated from Israel||Thiruvananthapuram: Several Indians, including around 60 Keralites, currently stranded in Israel would soon be brought back to India. Efforts for their repatriation are underway, said Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. Interacting with people stuck in several parts of the world, Muraleedharan said on a Facebook live programme that Union government was planning to send a flight with some Israeli nationals stranded in India back to Tel Aviv. “We are planning to send them back most probably on May 25. We are trying to bring back the stranded Indians on the same flight. Exact details of Indians stuck there are being collected. The flight service is being organised by the ministry of external affairs as part of the Vande Bharat mission,” Muraleedharan said. According to the minister, the plight of several Malayalis stuck in Tel Aviv was brought to his attention by BJP Kerala state president K Surendran who was contacted by some Malayali nurses seeking help after they lost their jobs there. “Even if the evacuation flight carrying Indians would be reaching Delhi airport only, arrangements would be made to bring all Malayali passengers, mostly health professionals, to Kerala,” he said. The efforts to evacuate Indians stranded in Israel had begun a few days ago, the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/60-keralites-among-indians-to-be-evacuated-from-israel/articleshow/75833893.cms||B S Anilkumar
May 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Kiln workers want to go home, owner beats them||CHENNAI: Police on Tuesday registered a case against a brick kiln owner of Pudukuppam in Tiruvallur district and a few others after they bashed up nearly 25 guest workers who wanted to be sent home. A hunt is on for Munusamy, the kiln owner, and the others. The victims were among 300-odd workers from Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand at the kiln, 40km from Chennai. The incident occurred early on Monday but came to light only on Tuesday following an alert from the Odisha government. “The workers sent photos of the injured and videos of the incident to their relatives and officials in Odisha and sought help,” said a worker on a condition of anonymity. An inquiry by revenue and police officers found Dhuma Bariha, 39, Chatru Bariha, 36, Gopal Sahu, 42, Liabana Sahu, 45, Joshobant Sahu, 40, and 20 others were beaten up. “They had requested the owner to send them home after they learned about the TN government arranging special trains for guest workers to return to their home states. Munusamy refused and the labourers stopped work in protest. They were then beaten,” said an official who accompanied Tiruvallur revenue divisional officer C Vidya. A few suffered head injuries and were taken to a government hospital. “We have taken appropriate action against the perpetrators,” the RDO said, adding that a policeman was deployed to ensure the workers’ safety. The inquiry found the workers were employed even during the lockdown and were being paid Rs 200 a week, said the source, quoting some workers. The authorities said the workers would be sent home soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kiln-workers-want-to-go-home-owner-beats-them/articleshow/75836088.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||Civil hosp’s call to ex-donors for blood||Nashik: With the Nashik civil hospital running short of blood due to its inability to organise enough donation camps amid the lockdown, senior officials of the blood bank are calling up previous donors and asking them to donate blood. Senior officials said that of the average 25 previous donors they called everyday, some 15-16 people responded in the affirmative and came to donate blood. As on Tuesday, the Nashik civil hospital had 475 bags of blood. The need for blood is constantly felt at the civil hospital given the stream of accident patients, pregnant women and other patients in need of surgery flowing into the hospital everyday. Officials said that the civil hospital required approximately 30 bags of blood on a daily basis, apart from supplying blood to nine storage centres at the rural hospitals in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosps-call-to-ex-donors-for-blood/articleshow/75833900.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kochi||Keralites stuck in Salalah request repatriation flights||KOCHI: Keralites stranded in Salalah, the second largest city in Oman after its capital city Muscat, have written to the state and central governments requesting repatriation flights. The repatriation flights are currently operated only from Muscat, which is 1,250km away from Salalah. Keralites who have registered with Norka and the Indian embassy already to travel to Kerala could not travel to Muscat which is under strict lockdown. Though one repatriation flight has been scheduled in phase 2 from Salalah to Kokzhikode, Keralites said that more flights need to be arranged similar to those from Muscat to various airports in Kerala as the majority of Indians living there are Keralites. In Salalah, people who are sick, those who lost jobs, those with expired visas, etc, are waiting to return to their native place. Moreover, hundreds of students who have registered for various entrance exams like JEE could take the exams only if they reach Kerala and complete the mandatory 14-day quarantine. “More than 45,000 Indians are living in Salalah and majority are Keralites. Already 3,000 Keralites have registered to travel to Kerala but most of them could not as there were no flights from Salalah. Going to Muscat is impossible and we have no option but wait for repatriation flights from Salalah. The only flight scheduled in phase 2 can carry maximum 180 passengers and there are thousands remaining here. A letter has been sent by the officebearers of Salalah’s Indian Social Club (Malayala Vibhagam), a Malayali-association, to V Muraleedharan, Union minister of state for external affairs. Also, similar approaches are made to get help from the state government and the chief minister too,” said RM Unnithan, a member of the association. In the letter by Mohandas Thampi, convenor of the association, it is said that at least two flights per week should be considered from Salalah to any of the airports in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralites-stuck-in-salalah-request-repatriation-flights/articleshow/75833920.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Row erupts over Dhaman-1 ‘ventilators’ at Civil Hospital||Ahmedabad/ Rajkot: Gujarat is among the four worst-affected states of India with more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases. Ahmedabad alone has more than 8,000 patients now. The state has the highest mortality rate among the worst four states, 5.9%, with the other three being Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.At the eye of the storm is the Rajkot-made ‘breathing apparatus’ called ‘Dhaman I’ which were termed ‘ventilators’ and were considered a major success by the state machinery. While 1,000 of these machines have already been provided to the state governments, critical care experts are not happy as they failed to give the ‘desired results’. It was the reason Dr J P Modi, superintendent of Civil Hospital, Gujarat’s biggest Covid-19 treatment centre, was prompted to write to the state-owned GMSCL on May 14, about the urgent requirement of 50 high-end ventilators for the Covid-19 hospital and 50 for the IKDRC in the campus.Civil Hospital currently has 250 Dhaman I machines and on Tuesday afternoon, 14 patients were being treated with use of the machine. Senior health department officials said that there is no plan to replace the 1,000 machines and they will wait for the upgrade.Amit Chavda, state Congress president, on Tuesday demanded that the breathing apparatus be withdrawn from hospitals. He alleged that Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani is playing with citizens’ lives in time of Covid-19 crisis by use of ‘faulty ventilator.’“The Rajkot-based manufacturer of Dhaman I is a close friend of CM Rupani. Thus, without testing or clinical trials, it was used for treating critically ill Covid-19 patients and is the chief cause of Gujarat’s highest Covid-19 mortality rate,” he said, adding that the CM ignored advice by the experts and did not wait for clearance of DGCI for ‘cheap publicity’.Parakramsinh Jadeja, chairman of Jyoti CNC, the company that manufactured Dhaman I, told TOI that they are in process of manufacturing Dhaman III, an advanced version of the current device. “One has to understand that the product was manufactured in 10 days with limited resources. Even then, we had said that we will be upgrading the product. We maintain that the product is sufficient for Covid-19 patients,” he said, alleging that a lobby is working against Indian-made machines.Jadeja added that Dhaman I is certified to the meet the IEC 60601 and ISO 86101 standards and doesn’t need a certificate from the Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) as ventilators are not in the prescribed categories.A city-based critical care specialist said that across the globe, hospitals are finding it difficult to sustain Covid-19 patients experiments such as Dhaman I have taken place elsewhere. “It’s like saying that a car used for intra-city travel and those for long distances need to have the same specifications. One has to keep in mind that they are standardized, tested by experts and then deployed in critical care,” said the expert. Another expert, who worked with the machines, said that not many critical patients are treated with Dhaman I as they prefer ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/row-erupts-over-dhaman-1-ventilators-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/75836146.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Chennai||NRIs stuck in Chennai appeal for help||CHENNAI: More than 300 NRIs, who work in the US, are stranded in Chennai and a few other places in the state as flights are yet to resume because of extension of the lockdown across the country. The stranded people had come to the country due to a variety of reasons - vacation, to attend social functions, to take back their spouse and to renew their visas. Erica Mukherjee, a software engineer, who took a few days off from work in Dallas and reached Chennai in March to get her H1B visa stamped is at a risk of losing her job if she cannot return at the earliest. “I got my visa stamped and was supposed to return in the last week of March when flights were suspended. I could not work from here because I did not plan to stay longer. I lost the project I was working on. My internet connection is bad and I tried to work from here and attend meetings using mobile hotspots. But that is not working out. I have missed a few meetings too.” Mukherjee said returning was important because she had to pay rent for the house and EMIs for loans in the US. Akshaya Vishwanath, who is stranded with her child while her husband is in San Diego, said: “I am doing my masters there in data science and I have already lost a few internship options. I got a call from a few recruiters but they backed off when they heard that I was stuck in Chennai. I missed a chance to fly from Delhi because there were no flights from Chennai to Delhi.” A petition on change.org addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi says, “Some of us are looking at loss of jobs and livelihood because of this shutdown. Many of us are on unpaid leave, paying out of our rapidly dwindling savings for our car loans, house mortgages, apartment rents, and, student loans. Financial concerns aside, the most painful part is that several of us are separated from our immediate families.” After coming together via social media, more than 1,000 NRIs stranded all over the country have formed a group online and have tweeted their plight to the ministry of external affairs. The US consulate is closed because of the lockdown and are not encouraging emergency appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nris-stuck-in-city-appeal-for-help/articleshow/75836101.cms||V Ayyappan
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||First flight from Bahrain lands at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport||HYDERABAD: The first special evacuation flight from Bahrain landed at Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Tuesday evening, with 175 passengers on board — 174 adults and one infant. The Air India Express flight, IX 890, operated under phase 2 of the Vande Bharat Mission, reached Hyderabad at 8.31 pm. All passengers were escorted out of the facility — to paid quarantine centres in the city — through a fully sanitised arrivals international terminal, an airport source said. While the flight came as a huge relief to many Indians, several Bahrain nationals from Hyderabad appealed to authorities to provide a return flight to their country. “Why are there no flights from Hyderabad to Bahrain? Aren’t there any Bahraini residents in Hyderabad wishing to travel to Bahrain? Though there is a flight coming back to Hyderabad from Bahrain. Only flights from Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram,” wrote Gazala Fatima while many said they struggled to get passes, to travel to Mumbai, to board the flight back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-flight-from-bahrain-lands-at-rgia/articleshow/75836103.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal tests over a lakh samples, positivity rate below national average||KOLKATA: With the number of swab samples tested crossing one lakh, the positivity rate in West Bengal has slipped below the national average. As on Tuesday, Bengal had tested 1,02,282 samples and its positivity rate had declined as low as 2.9%, against the national average that has been pegged at around 3%. Health experts said that this was a good sign but warned that this should not be a reason to reduce testing. Also known as rate of positive case, this parameter is an indicator of the spread of the virus. Even two weeks before, this rate was as high as 4.8% in the state. Ramping up the number of tests in the past few weeks has brought this rate down. “There seems to have been a lot of hard work and efforts to increase testing in the past few weeks which have pulled down the positivity rate. In addition, the doubling time which is more relevant in terms of the ferocity of the spread has improved. This shows there has been some control in the spread of the infection,” said cardiothoracic surgeon Kunal Sarkar. On Tuesday, 8,712 tests were conducted, of which 136 samples tested positive. Amid the late start and criticism for not testing more samples, the state started ramping up testing towards April-end. For the past five days, an average of 7,900 tests have been done every day. Even till the first week of May number of daily tests was around 2,000. “Now we have 23 laboratories conducting Covid tests, licence for more laboratories is expected to come. We will be targeting to achieve a daily test of about 10,000,” said a health department officials. From symptomatic patients and close contacts of positive patients, the testing norms have been expanded to include symptomatic patients, who need to undergo surgery, as well as asymptomatic close contacts of positive patients. Last week, the health department also launched a sentinel surveillance project to test three categories of people — pregnant women, asymptomatic OPD and admitted patients and healthcare workers —across 23 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-tests-over-a-lakh-samples-positivity-rate-below-natl-average/articleshow/75836102.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Lawyer moves HC for selling liquor only to licence holders||Nagpur: A lawyer approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court praying for directives to the government for providing liquor only to those possessing valid permit/licence. Quoting the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 and Bombay Foreign Liquor Riles, 1953, he also requested the court to treat his petition as a PIL. Justice Rohit Deo on Tuesday issued notices to the Maharashtra government through the Excise Department’s principal secretary and city collector. Petitioner Anand Daga, through his father Dilip, further demanded to declare designated licenced vendor of liquor as ‘officer authorized by the state government to issue permanent/annual/daily permit or licence’ for purchase and possession of liquor as per the rules. Mentioning the same rules and regulations, the petitioner said if liquor sale is regulated, it would effectively raise the state revenue and reduce the negative impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. According to Daga, the government should compulsorily issue licence to the vendor as per the rules which clearly mention that liquor products should be sold only to those having permits. Explaining various licences, Daga said they are issued on permanent, annual and daily basis. He also demanded directives for vendors to mandatorily check liquor licences of buyers before selling their products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lawyer-moves-hc-for-selling-liquor-only-to-licence-holders/articleshow/75836111.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 20, 2020||Pune||Bars can clear stock in sealed bottles||Pune: Bars, hotels and permit rooms in Maharashtra can now sell their excess liquor in sealed bottles to valid permit holders for off-premise consumption. Principal secretary of state excise Valsa Nair Singh on Tuesday issued an order in this regard. “The closing stock of foreign liquor as on March 24, 2020, at the FL-III licence (permit rooms, bars) may be sold to valid permit-holder in sealed bottles for “off consumption”.” The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) had written to the state government earlier, requesting hotels and restaurants be given permission to liquidate perishable liquor stocks with them. The order stated that the FL-III licence-holders must not procure fresh liquor stocks till the lockdown lasted. — Neha Madaan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bars-can-clear-stock-in-sealed-bottles/articleshow/75836104.cms||Neha Madaan
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Cong workers stage sit-in on Raj-UP border||Alwar: Congress workers are staging a sit-in at the Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border here on Tuesday, demanding the entry of over 250 empty buses supposed to bring state migrants from UP. Zubair Khan, AICC secretary, told TOI that they would file an FIR against UP’s additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi and Agra district magistrate Prabhu Narain Singh for not allowing the buses enter UP via Agra. “This is a breach of trust by the UP administration. It has resulted in huge financial loss and grave inconvenience to the Congress workers, bus drivers and conductors,” Khan said. Bharatpur SP Haider Ali Zaidi said that no complaint was filed against any UP government official. When the last report came in, around 100 Congress workers led by Khan were still protesting on the highway attempting to get the clearance from the police to enter UP. Rajasthan Congress has arranged over 500 buses for migrant labourers working in UP after they received a direction from Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi who had received approval from UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Out of the over 500 buses, 250 were allowed as it had UP-bound workers from several districts of Rajasthan. These buses started arriving at the border area in Bharatpur district from Tuesday morning. The border patrol police allowed buses with guest workers while refusing permission to buses which were empty. State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Tuesday termed the denial of private buses into UP a “sin” committed by Yogi Adityanath. “It is unfortunate that the UP government has stopped the movement of our buses lined up at the Bharatpur border. It shows that the UP government is anti-poor. They are trying to derail a non-political initiative taken by Priyanka Gandhi purely intended to provide relief to migrant workers,” said the minister. Most of these buses came from Alwar, Jaipur, Dausa, Sikar and Ajmer. Initially, the local leaders tried to get clearance from the police, but failed as cops said they can permit only buses with passengers. “It shows the insensitivity of CM Yogi Adityanath towards migrants at the time of the pandemic. Congress is just trying to unite families and not politicising by placing our party flag or banner of our political leaders on buses to create an impression that it has been arranged by the party,” said Zubair Khan, Congress secretary, Uttar Pradesh (east). The situation took an ugly turn late in the afternoon after Congress workers and the UP police confronted each other. Heavy police present on both sides prevented any untoward situation. “Additional police have been deployed to ensure that no unlawful incident takes place,” said SP Haider Ali Zaidi, Bharatpur. Sources said that these empty buses were required to transport migrants travelling on foot or stranded in many places in UP. The UP administration had only allowed Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) buses, bringing UP migrant workers from Rajasthan, throughout the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/19-congress-buses/articleshow/75836911.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nashik||6 Covid-19 patients sent from Beed to Pune||Aurangabad: The Beed district administration seems to be unprepared in the face of Covid-19 outbreak as six patients were sent to Pune because they were not comfortable at the civil hospital and wanted to be admitted to a private hospital. District civil surgeon, Beed, Ashok Thorat said, “The patients did not feel comfortable taking treatment at the district civil hospital. There are no private hospitals in Beed. So, on their insistence, they were sent to Pune where they are being treated at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital.” On May 17, the first two Covid-19 cases in Beed district emerged from Hivra in Majalgaon and Itkur in Gevrai. Nine more Covid-19 cases were reported the next day, which included seven people—all natives of Pimpalgaon in Ahmednagar—who travelled from Mumbai and tested positive for the infection in Ashti taluka in Beed. A 65-year-old woman, who was part of the group, succumbed to the infection on May 18. All of them were being treated at the district civil hospital in Beed. The district civil hospital sent the six Covid-19 patients from Ashti to Pune on Monday. Currently, there are four active Covid-19 cases in Beed. Meanwhile, the doctors posted at the Covid ward in Beed district civil hospital struck work on Tuesday morning demanding good quality PPE kits and accommodation with sanitation and food. Thorat said that the hospital had adequate PPE kits and a hostel, along with food provisions, was allocated for the doctors serving the Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-covid-19-patients-sent-from-beed-to-pune/articleshow/75833914.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||An attack on cops every second day, says DGP||Ahmedabad: The prolonged lockdown has been hard on the cops, while on on one hand they are deployed at checkposts to restrict movement of people and on the other they get attacked every now and then. According to the figures provided by Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha, there was on attack on police in the state every second day of the lockdown. Jha on Tuesday said that there were 40 incidents where frontline workers were attacked, including 28 attacks on police personnel, ever since the lockdown was announced. Jha said they invoked The Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) on those who attacked police and other frontline workers such as members of the Gujarat Rakshak Dal (GRD), Home Guard, health workers, revenue officers and Asha workers. As many as 94 persons have been arrested and booked under PASA for these 40 attacks on frontline workers, he said. “We have continued to invoke PASA against those who attacked cops and other frontline personnel. Three more persons were recently booked under PASA,” said Jha. Jha said that so far two cops have died of Covid-19, a head constable of Krishnanagar police named Bharat Somaji who died on Monday and SRP Group 3 head constable Kanaiyalal Prajapati, who died on Tuesday. Prajapati was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Monday and was admitted to a hospital where he died during treatment, said Jha. Jha said that police have been enforcing the lockdown strictly in the state and registered 1.75 lakh cases for lockdown violations, breaches of quarantine rules or rioting, besides charges under the Disaster Management Act. As many as 2.33 lakh have been arrested so far, he said. The police on Monday registered 1,892 cases and arrested 2,056 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/an-attack-on-cops-every-second-day-says-dgp/articleshow/75836144.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Techies from state in Saudi Arabia want to be repatriated||Mangaluru: Samar and Priya (names changed), who are techies from Bengaluru, had flown to Saudi Arabia on a short business trip, in the second week of March, and wanted to return by April, but got stranded due to the pandemic. Samar, who has a three-year-old daughter, found it tough to cope with the situation, and had two panic attacks, and is currently undergoing psychological counselling online, from a physician in Bengaluru. Like him, many techies from Bengaluru who landed in Saudi Arabia on short business trips have got stranded due to the non-availability of flights. According to former deputy chairperson, NRI Forum of Karnataka, Dr Arathi Krishna, as many as 4,800 Kannadigas have registered to be repatriated, but there are not many Vande Bharat Mission flights scheduled from Saudi Arabia to Karnataka. She blames the state government for not taking up the issue strongly with the Union government. “We will get more flights from Gulf countries, if political representatives put pressure on the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and ministry of civil aviation (MoCA),” she said. “However, my only wish is to return safely and be reunited with my family. My company has tried everything possible. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia had started flights to send us back, but the government of India denied permission. Saudi Arabia has sent many people back to their home countries, but India failed to receive us back,” said Samar. Samar said that life stuck inside a hotel room was turning nightmarish for him. “Recently, our hotel booked guests in 10 more rooms, and we are hence fearful to step outside our room. I am cleaning my room on a daily basis. There is no demarcation of containment zones here. We don’t have any friends to help us out. The Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia are not responding to us at all,” he said. Another techie, Ram, (named changed) says he doesn’t have any issue when it comes to accommodation and food, but the experience is affecting him psychologically. “I came here in January for a two-month trip, but have been stuck here for more than five months now. I left my family back in India.” Another Kannadiga said that the Saudi Arabia government is willing to send chartered flights to India, and that even big companies are ready to offer charter flights for Indians stranded in the kingdom, but the Indian government has denied permission for the same. “Novel coronavirus cases are rising in Saudi Arabia, and the rate of infection is alarming, but still our government and the government of Karnataka, in particular, does not understand the seriousness of our request. It is a very tough situation to face mentally, and many of us are surviving on bare minimum food,” said a distressed Indian who was stranded in Saudi Arabia. Union fertiliser minister D V Sadananda Gowda, who is overseeing repatriation of Kannadigas, was not available for comment. Twitter campaign Twitterati on Monday tried to get the attention of the Karnataka and central governments on repatriating Kannadigas stranded in Gulf countries, through the Twitter campaign #BringBackGulfKannadigas and #BringBackSaudiKannadigas, by tagging chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others. This campaign comes after the allotment of only a few flights to Karnataka from Gulf countries. Close to 6,000 tweets were made in favour of the campaign, within a few hours of the campaign. Mohammed kaizer @KaizerMohammed tweeted, “One of the major source of foreign currency inflow in the country is money transfer/remittance made by NRI’s. The same NRI’s are stranded here with no sigh of repatriation.” #BringBackSaudiKannadigas #BringBackGulfKannadigas Mohammed Afreed @appu_s21 tweeted, “Kannadigas who had travelled KSA for employment,business, pilgrimage etc are stranded, after two months of unspeakable hardships they are desirous of returning to their land safely. The government needs to act.”#BringBackSaudiKannadigas#BringBackSaudiKannadigas @CMofKarnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/techies-from-state-in-saudi-arabia-want-to-be-repatriated/articleshow/75832720.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Corporator held for gambling||HYDERABAD: Seven people, including the corporator of Jawaharnagar, were caught by Malkajgiri police on Tuesday for gambling. The accused, Bilegilika Shivaji, corporator, Chillasagara Kiran, Karchalla Raju, businessman and four others. Police seized Rs 1.2 lakh and seven mobile phones and booked them under Section 188 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-held-for-gambling/articleshow/75836124.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal family accuses cops of drunken assault, police deny||Bhopal: A family in Bhopal’s Katara Hills locality has alleged that some drunken cops urinated in front of their house and beat up a man when he objected. He suffered a head injury from alleged lathi blows. Police have denied the allegations and accused the man of threatening police with a stick. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota has ordered an investigation, and said action will be taken on getting the report. The complainant, Jitendra Sirole, 38, runs a pharmaceutical business. He told TOI that around 9pm on Monday, he was having dinner when he heard his mother Laxmi and wife Bhawna shouting. They were taking an after-dinner walk in the courtyard when they saw a policeman get out of a SUV in front of their house and start urinating in the open. The women protested, but the cops allegedly hurled abuses at them. Seeing this, Jitendra confronted the cops, who allegedly hit him with lathis. Hearing the noise, his younger brother Yashvendra came out, and the cops attacked him too, says Jitendra. When neighbours started filming the cops, they fled, says Jitendra. He and his mother went to the Katara Hills police outpost to complain, but the same cops detained him and took him to Katara Hills police station where they allegedly assaulted him, took away his mobile phone and booked him on charges of lockdown violation, says Jitendra. Jitendra said that he approached senior police officers, but nothing moved. Videos of the incident went viral on Tuesday. Senior police officers rejected the allegations and insisted it was Jitendra and his brother who went after the cops. Misrod subdivisional police officer Anil Tripathi said ASI Vikram Singh and civilian driver Amit Mishra had gone to his house to bring medicines. When they were returning Mishra stopped the SUV to relieve himself and the women objected to this, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-family-accuses-cops-of-drunken-assault-police-deny/articleshow/75836113.cms||Sudeept Mishra
May 20, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP MLC booked for violating lockdown||Aurangabad: A BJP MLC from Beed district, Suresh Dhas, was booked on Monday for violating the lockdown and visiting a containment zone where he interacted with several people. In the past week, 12 Covid-19 cases have been reported across Beed of which seven have been reported from Sangvi Patan village in Ashti tehsil. The MLC visited this village following which his pictures went viral on social media platforms. Taking cognizance of the same, Beed police registered an offence against him at Ashti police station under sections 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by authorities), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. In addition this, sections of National Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Police Act have also been imposed. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said, “We have registered an offence against Dhas for violating the lockdown and entering containment zone.” The officer said that this is the second offence registered against the MLC during the ongoing lockdown. “Earlier, he was booked for defying border sealing and going to Ahmednagar district,” he added. The registration of offence was followed by the local crime branch (LCB) summoning the MLC and getting the mandatory bond signed by him under CrPC section 107 (security for keeping the peace in other cases). “I had to go there to reassure the people. Moreover, I did not enter the village. There is political conspiracy behind registering offences against me,” Dhas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-mlc-booked-for-violating-lockdown/articleshow/75833942.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nikol cops’ aides assault six, minor injured||Ahmedabad: As many as six motorcycle-borne ‘helpers’ of Nikol police, who were reportedly given the responsibility of enforcing the lockdown in the jurisdiction, on Tuesday evening allegedly abused and assaulted citizens in the Sattadharnagar locality, in which a 17-year-old boy suffered injuries. According to a resident of Sattadharnagar, these swayamsevaks (volunteers) of Nikol police routinely roamed about in the area and scolded citizens for the past four days. “On Tuesday, when the boy went just outside his house, these people arrived there on motorcycles and started beating people, the boy and six senior citizens,” said Vikramsingh Rajput, a resident of Sattadharnagar. He said that these people come around twice or thrice a day and threaten people with dire consequences. On Tuesday, when they were beating innocent citizens, some locals opposed them causing them to flee on their motorcycles. A video of incident shows one of these persons filming a local woman on his mobile phone while threatening and verbally abusing her. Rajput said that locals called the police control room after the incident and took the boy to Shardaben Hospital in Saraspur where he was treated. Another resident of the locality said that these volunteers have been given permission by the police to roam about. “They threatened people as if they are cops and helped their associates roam about even during the lockdown,” said an elderly man from the locality. Locals also said these volunteers had also threatened vegetable vendors in the area and threatened them that they would book them in a case for violation of the lockdown. An FIR is yet to be filed in this matter but police took cognizance of the incident in the station diary and a medicolegal case was filed at Shardaben Hospital. Inspector Hitesh Jhala of Nikol police was not unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nikol-cops-aides-assault-six-minor-injured/articleshow/75836140.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Now, you can go for haircut and take a walk in park||LUCKNOW: After remaining locked down for about two months, you can now get a haircut, have your aching tooth extracted, go for morning walks, order home delivery of food from restaurant and host wedding party with 20 guests, while following safety protocols from May 21 between 7am to 7pm. However, you will not be able to travel in any public transport, visit religious places and go to malls or for a movie. The guidelines for Lockdown 4.0 released by district administration on Tuesday eased many restrictions on commercial activities, including emergency dental care services in the `green’ zones, while strict prohibitory orders will continue in containment and buffer zones. The relief which has come just before the Eid celebrated by all communities in the city is likely to add some colour in the strictly stay-home-celebrations this year. District Magistrate, Abhishek Prakash said, “The guidelines are as per the instructions of state and Central governments and are aimed at resuming commercial activities gradually while taking all precautions to contain spread of virus. Essential services like fuel supply, grocery and medicines will continue as earlier.” In containment zones, only essential home deliveries will be allowed with no public movement, while in buffer zones, some movement will be allowed, but only essentials shops will operate. Relaxations will be introduced in rest of the city from Thursday. All shopkeepers were directed to get their premises sanitised on Tuesday and Wednesday. The major relief is that now markets with shops selling variety of products and services including printing press and dry cleaners can operate with shops on left and right side of the road opened on alternate days. Traders’ association will make blue print of their respective areas for smooth operation. Street vendors can also operate from Saturday (May 23) in open places after taking permission from the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC). Another big concession is that people now can order food from restaurants and buy sweets from shops. Both will remain open daily between 7am to 7pm with a weekly off. The eateries, however, have to follow strict regime which includes daily sanitisation of place with bleaching powder/sodium hypochlorite twice daily and thermal scanning of employees who will also have to wear head cover, masks,, gloves and shoe cover. The owners will have to maintain a month’s stock of raw material, but day’s leftover will not be used on the next day. All work will have to be monitored through CCTV. No dining in the restaurant or take-away will be allowed. In addition to the norms for restaurants, sweets shops will also have to ensure social distancing among customers and keep record of buyers with name, address and phone numbers. No customer will be entertained without mask. Shops will not be allowed to set up extension counters on footpaths. Similar rules will be for bakery shops. Sportspersons can go for training in stadium/sports complex. However, it was not clear whether contact and group sport training has been allowed or not. Gyming and swimming practice has not been allowed. However, people can go for morning and evening walks and yoga/physical exercise in parks run by LMC and LDA. “Wedding parties with upto 20 guests have been allowed, but no other celebrations like birthday has been permitted. Maximum 20 people can take part in a funeral. People can visit relatives or friends only if it is urgent while following safety norms,” Mukesh Meshram, divisional commissioner, Lucknow. While it will be mandatory for people to wear masks, all shops involved in direct contact with customers will have to provide hand sanitisation to buyers before and after transaction and ensure social distancing in and outside their premises. Further, industries/shops will work with 50% workforce and office with 33% Apart from daily garbage collection, LMC has been directed to sanitize each market on its respective weekly off. Hotels will remain reserved to be used as quarantine facility for corona warriors.Street vendors can also operate from Saturday, May 23, in open places after taking permission from Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC). The administration has also allowed printing press and dry cleaners to resume business. In another big concession, people can now order food from restaurants and buy sweets from shops, both remaining open daily from 7am to 7pm with a weekly off. The eateries, however, have to follow a strict regime, including daily sanitisation of place with bleaching powder/sodium hypochlorite twice daily and thermal scanning of employees who will have to wear gloves, masks, head and shoe covers. The owners will have to maintain a month’s stock of raw material, but the day’s leftover will not be used next day. All work will be monitored through CCTV. No dining in restaurants will be allowed nor would there be take-away facility. In addition to norms for restaurants, sweets shops will also have to ensure social distancing among customers and keep record of buyers with name, address and phone numbers. No customer without mask will be entertained. Shops will not be allowed to set up extension counters on footpaths in front. Similar rules will have to be followed by bakeries. While gymnasiums and swimming pools will remain closed, sportspersons can go to stadium, sports complex for training. However, it was not clear whether contact and group sport training has been allowed or not. People can also go for morning and evening walks and do yoga, physical exercise in parks run by LMC and LDA. “Weddings have been allowed but just with up to 20 guests, including families of bride and groom. No other celebrations like birthday are permitted. Maximum 20 people can attend a funeral. People can visit relatives and friends only if it is urgent while following safety norms,” said Mukesh Meshram, divisional commissioner, Lucknow. While it will be mandatory for people to wear masks, all shops will have to provide hand sanitiser to buyers before and after transaction and ensure social distancing. Besides, industries, shops have been allowed to work with 50% workforce and offices with 33% staff. Apart from daily cleaning and garbage collection, LMC has been directed to sanitize each market on weekly off. Hotels will remain reserved to be used as quarantine facility for corona warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-you-can-go-for-haircut-take-a-walk-in-city-park/articleshow/75836901.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar ASI arrested for molestation||ALWAR: Assistant Sub Inspector Surendra Singh of Neemrana police station was arrested on Tuesday for alleged molestation of girls who were around 22 years old. The action against the policeman was taken after the victims, who work in a factory at Neermrana industrial area, registered an FIR against him. Deputy superintendent of police Siddhant Sharma confirmed the arrest of the ASI. Sharma said , “The girls came to the checkpost situated at Neemrana after they had a dispute with their landlord over rent. Instead of acting on their complaint, the ASI harassed and molested the girls. An FIR was registered by the victims. After investigating the matter the ASI was arrested”. In the past too, a complaint of molestation was registered against Singh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/asi-arrested-for-molestation/articleshow/75836912.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU administrative work begins, no clarity for colleges||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University (GU) resumed operations on Tuesday for administrative staff members, said officials in GU. Earlier this week, Gujarat Technological University (GTU), with 550 colleges affiliated to it and an overall student strength of 5.5 lakh, started administrative work on its Chandkheda campus. GTU has directed all affiliated colleges to resume administrative work. While GU has begun administrative work on its campus in Ahmedabad, there is lack of clarity for the 350-odd colleges affiliated to it. “The circular issued by GU is pertaining to administrative staff for resuming work at the university offices. There is no mention for GU-affiliated colleges,” said a GU source. All colleges and schools have been shut down for the past two months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed across the country to contain its spread. The state government has, however, allowed universities and colleges to resume administrative work with limited staff members. There are close to 3.5 lakh students enrolled in GU and its affiliated colleges. The varsity has clearly instructed in its circular that students and parents seeking clarity on exam dates should not visit the administrative offices, sources added. The exam procedure will be conducted in line with the instructions issued by the UGC and the state government, according to the circular. The authorities of GU had last month issued a circular to its affiliated colleges to start administrative work. However, the campus of GU in Ahmedabad fell into containment zone due to Covid-19 cases, and work could not be started, said sources in GU. Currently, the situation has improved and the area is no longer in containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-administrative-work-begins-no-clarity-for-colleges/articleshow/75836137.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||4-mth-old Kawasaki kid with Covid returns home cured||Kolkata: Thirteen days after a four-month-old child from Tarakeshwar, who had been suffering from the rare Kawasaki disease, had tested positive for Covid-19 along with his mother, the two returned home from the Medical College Hospital on Sunday night amid cheers from the medical staffers. Doctors at the hospital said they had conducted retests on the woman and her child who had a major complication, though the revised Covid treatment protocol does not make it a necessity. “Both of them tested negative and we are happy that they could return home. We have advised home quarantine for the woman and her child,” said a doctor, who had treated the two. A family friend of the woman told TOI that she had returned to the house of the child’s maternal uncle in Dum Dum. “The woman’s husband and other family members are still in quarantine in Tarakeshwar,” she said. The child’s mother said she was impressed with the facility at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-mth-old-kawasaki-kid-with-covid-returns-home-cured/articleshow/75836127.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 20, 2020||Trichy||Cos scout for local people to replace guest workers||Trichy: With more than 600 guest workers of large-scale industries and MSMEs in the central districts leaving for their native place in the past few days, entrepreneurs and companies have started employing local people to ensure that the operations which resumed are not disrupted. Cement factories, fabrication companies and engineering firms, mostly in Ariyalur, Perambalur and Trichy have approached manpower recruitment agencies to hire unskilled workers.Industry sources said that cement factories in Ariyalur district had a significant number of guest workers hailing from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Chhattisgarh. They were employed as unskilled workers to pack and load cement bags. A section of guest workers was also deployed in construction works within the industries in Ariyalur and Perambalur. Fabrication units in and around Bhel Trichy had also employed guest workers from northern states as welders. In the past two weeks, a section of the guest workers have left for their native places by trains. Cement factory sources in Ariyalur said that they are temporarily engaging the local workers to ensure that the operations are not hit. “We have to train and employ the local workforce. The guest workers were deployed in critical areas of the factory on a shift basis,” a source in a private cement production unit in Ariyalur said. The factories were providing accommodation and electricity for guest workers.A few factories have approached manpower agencies to recruit people from nearby villages for filling up the shortfall of manpower. “Employment opportunities are there for the local people but not on a major scale. Once the factories start functioning in full swing, the demand for local workers may increase,” R Jayakumar, a manpower agency owner said. Since the factories are operating with a minimal workforce, the absence of guest workers has not much impacted the units. “We have to employ skilled local workforce to run the fabrication work,” R Ilango, president, Tiruchirapalli District Tiny & Small Scale Industries (TIDITSSIA) said. Even if the guest workers return, the local workforce will be given priority as they had helped the industry run during the crucial period, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cos-scout-for-local-people-to-replace-guest-workers/articleshow/75836895.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||MLA Meghe wants liquor shops in Nagpur rural closed||Nagpur: BJP MLA from Hingna, Sameer Meghe, met district collector Ravindra Thakre and demanded that liquor shops be closed in Nagpur rural. Home delivery of liquor should also be stopped. He submitted a memorandum in this regard along with his supporters. Meghe told TOI that due to the lockdown, people were not earning anything. “I have received reports that people are either selling household items or borrowing heavily to buy liquor. It is their wives and kids who will suffer. Liquor sale should not be allowed until the economy is back to normal and people are earning well,” said Meghe. He also submitted a memorandum to the Hingna tehsildar, protesting the failure of the state government on various fronts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-meghe-wants-liquor-shops-in-nagpur-rural-closed/articleshow/75836123.cms||Ashish Roy
May 20, 2020||Goa||Students meet Goa board chief, want exam cancelled||Panaji: The national student’s union of India (NSUI) on Tuesday led a small group of Class X and XII students to the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) office in Porvorim, seeking cancellation of the Class X and XII public exams scheduled to begin from May 21 and 20, respectively. Mohit Chavan, a student of Class X, said that chief minister Pramod Sawant should give an assurance that he will take responsibility if any student is infected with Covid-19 while students appear for the exam. “There will be so many students and their parents will be accompanying them to the examination hall. How can we be sure that social distancing and other norms will be followed and our safety assured?” said Sairaj Gad, a Class XII commerce student from Porvorim. A representative of the students met the Goa Board chairman, who told them that the matter about the Class X exams is currently in the high court and therefore it is up to the court now to decide. “Goa University (GU) has said on Monday that first and second year exams stand cancelled. If GU believes that it is unsafe to hold the exams at present, then how can the Goa Board take a contradictory stand,” said NSUI’s Ahraz Mulla. Simran Malkarnekar of NSUI said that Covid-19 cases are rapidly increasing in Goa and therefore there needs to be a rethink on the decision to conduct the Class X and XII public exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-meet-goa-board-chief-want-exam-cancelled/articleshow/75836908.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Hospitals, care centres see more patients as many cannot afford home-isolation||CHENNAI: The number of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and care centres is growing as many people can’t afford to be in isolation at their homes. There were 1,140 people in 11 care centres and 1,700 in covid wards at medical college hospitals, according to official data. Though the state allows people to go for home isolation, not many can afford it say doctors. As on Monday, there were around 1,450 patients in home-isolation in the city. Of the total cases reported so far, only 4% were symptomatic and another 15% had co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension. Only these patients need hospital care, said a senior health department official. Others, who need only basic medical care, were allowed to isolate themselves at their homes provided that they had a separate bedroom with a toilet attached to it. A medical kit was provided to each of these patients under home isolation. This kit contained zinc and vitamin C tablets, face masks and kabasura kudineer packets for the next 10 days so that they needn't come out of their rooms. “Emergency contact details and other standard instructions were made available to these patients and our control centres make random checkups through phone calls as well. Though home-isolation was preferred by most, patients from slums and other congested localities in the city, who didn't have separate rooms in their homes, were admitted at Covid care centres so that the spread could be controlled,” the health department official added. A team comprising four or six doctors, nurses, pharmacists, health supervisors and corporation workers (depending on the size of the centre) were deployed in three shifts to address medical and sanitary needs of workers. At least two or three ambulances were stationed outside each of these 11 centres to ensure that the patients can be taken to hospitals immediately in case there was an emergency or a change in vital health indicators. “One major concern raised by patients at these centres was quality of food. This was addressed and at present, we are providing food prepared by a top restaurant in the city,” said a corporation official. One patient at Nandambakkam care centre had posted vidoes on social media showing dal, vegetables, nuts and milk being provided to them after protest last week there. Approach towards contacts of Covid-19 patients was changing frequently and more asymptomatic patients might be put under home-isolation if cases increased, said a doctor from Kilpauk Medical College Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hospitals-care-centres-see-more-patients-as-many-cannot-afford-home-isolation/articleshow/75836122.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Migrants form a big chunk of cases in Sirohi & Jalore||Jodhpur: The movement of migrant labourers has converted Sirohi district from green zone into red. All five blocks in the district have reported positive cases and total count touched 60 on Tuesday Sirohi’s neighbouring district Jalore too has most of the positive cases from the migrants. Out of the 97 positive cases Jalore reported till Tuesday, 89 are of migrants. In Jalore, two have died, while three have been declared cured. According to information from the health officials, of the 60 positive cases in Sirohi, 45 are migrants who have returned from Gujarat and other southern states in past two weeks. Until Sunday, all the positive cases the district reported were migrants but now even the non-migrants have started getting infected. District collector Bhagwati Prasad said of the five blocks in the district, maximum cases have been reported from the Sirohi block and the entire district has been categories as a red zone. Considering the sharp spike in positive cases in Sirohi, most of whom are migrants, the administration has appealed to the all the migrant coming to the district, to keep caution and help the administration to keep Sirohi on firm footing. “We have appealed to the migrants that they had done a lot for Sirohi and have earned a name for the district in their respective working states. It is now their duty to remain in their homes and away from their family members to make Sirohi free from Covid-19,” said Prasad. He also appealed to the villagers and all the neighbourrs of migrants to keep an eye on all the migrants in their respective areas and help them follow quarantine protocol. District collector (Jalore) Himanshu Gupta said that the administration has a special focus on rural areas where a large influx of migrants has been reported and a surveillance mechanism has been put in place where 3-4 healthy youths have been roped in as volunteers under the supervision of a village level committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrants-form-a-big-chunk-of-cases-in-sirohi-jalore/articleshow/75836916.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||7.40 lakh migrants sent home||Gandhinagar: The state government said on Tuesday that until midnight on Monday, around 7.40 lakh migrant workers have left back for their respective states through 5,128 Shramik Special trains. With another 39 trains operated on Tuesday, an additional 61,000 persons left for their respective states. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “The state government has operated 518 labour trains to ensure the safe return of 7.40 lakh migrant workers as of midnight on Monday. Total 363 trains have been operated for UP, 59 for Bihar, 40 for Odisha, 25 for MP, 16 for Jharkhand, 7 for Chhattisgarh, 5 for Uttarakhand and 1 each for Maharashtra, Manipur and Rajasthan. On Tuesday, 61,000 workers left for UP, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and other states. Out of these, 28 trains were for UP, 7 for Bihar, 2 for Jharkhand, 1 each for Chhattisgarh and West Bengal, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-40-lakh-migrants-sent-home/articleshow/75836134.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: HC seeks government view on drawing on expat fund||KOCHI: The high court has sought the views of the central government on a petition for utilizing Indian Community Welfare Fund (ICWF) to provide flight tickets to expatriates who wish to return but are unable to afford tickets. Justice Anu Sivaraman sought a response from the government while considering a petition filed by Jisha Prajith of Kozhikode and three others. The petitioners, who include wives of three expatriates who have lost their jobs and are unable to afford the flight tickets, pointed out that their husbands and low-income workers like them in the Middle East are eligible for the benefit of the welfare fund. The fund was set up by ministry of external affairs in 2009 to assist Indian expatriates in times of distress and emergency. As per the petition, ICWF is meant to provide financial help to overseas Indians during contingencies, including emergency medical care, air passage to stranded persons back to India, legal assistance, expenditure on similar other incidents, and airlifting mortal remains of Indians who die abroad. A letter received from Consulate General of India, Jeddah says Rs 6.45 crore is available with ICWF, whereas Rs 22 crore is lying in ICWF with Embassy of India, Riyad. Similarly, huge amounts are available in ICWF with the Consulate General of India, UAE and the Embassy of India in Qatar, the petition said. As those returning now would have to bear flight expenses themselves, the poor Indian labourers stranded in the Middle East will not get the benefit of the mass evacuation being carried out now, the petition alleged. Many of the Indian workers abroad are employed in small establishments, which have been closed due to lockdown. They are now depending on philanthropic individuals and organizations for food and basic needs. Most of them are living in overcrowded places and the situation is deteriorating day by day, the petition said, while seeking a court directive on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-seeks-govt-view-on-drawing-on-expat-fund/articleshow/75833954.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hubballi||Construction sector won’t pick up soon, say engineers||Hubballi: Though the state government has relaxed lockdown norms to restart the engine of the economy, construction sector does not seem to pick up any time soon, going by the shortage of material and non-availability of labour. One of the biggest sectors in terms of generating jobs and business, the construction industry was in bad shape due to economic slowdown even before the lockdown. “Prices of raw materials have sky-rocketed deterring people from starting construction of houses, commercial complexes and other buildings,” said GS Angadi, civil engineer. This apart, majority of the civil engineers are yet to renew their licence which expired on March 30. Without licence, one cannot apply for permission to take up construction work. Guruprasad Joshi, another civil engineer from the city, said that 350 cubic feet of sand now costs Rs 35,000 now, which is far higher than the price before lockdown. Steel was sold for Rs 44 per kg earlier, but now it costs Rs 50-52. The pre-lockdown price of cement was Rs 300 per bag but now it costs Rs 360. Steep prices of raw materials have forced many to defer their housing plans. Civil engineers Halesh Haller and Raghvendra Sakalathi said construction industry is facing numerous problems and it will take at least six moths for the sector to return to normalcy. People are anxious about their future, there have been salary cuts, job cuts and losses in business and moreover, banks are not all too keen on sanctioning housing loans they said. The government might take up some infrastructure projects but labour shortage will hit their progress, they opined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/construction-sector-wont-pick-up-soon-say-engineers/articleshow/75832782.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Dispute turns awry, youth killed; mob attacks cops||JAISALMER: A dispute going on for last two days between two groups from different villages under Mohangarh police station area in the district turned violent late on Monday night. A father-son duo on tractor mowed down a youth on motorcycle and then surrendered at the police station. The youth succumbed and police have started a probe in the matter. When the other group got the information about the murder, they attacked the police station, in an attempt to kill the father-son duo who were in police custody. The agitated mob torched the vehicle used in murder and pelted stones at policemen, injuring a few personnel. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang reached Mohangarh police station and controlled the situation. On Tuesday morning, after persuasion, the agitated group agreed for a postmortem of the body. The deceased youth’s family members have lodged a case, while another case was filed by the police against 35-40 people including seven people with names. The situation is under control at Mohangarh but tension still prevails. Additional police force has been deployed there. Kang, after returning to Jaisalmer, explained the dispute saying that two groups from Cheh Ki Dhani and Rehroond in Mohangarh area clashed on Monday over comments passed on the sister of one Tayar Khan. Later both parties compromised. Another clash broke out in the evening wherein Ismail Khan (53) and his son Alabachaya (24) were injured. When the father-son due were on the way to the hospital for treatment, they saw Tayar Khan coming on motorcycle and crushed him to death with their vehicle. Tayar died on the spot and the duo went to the police station and surrendered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dispute-turns-awry-youth-killed-mob-attacks-cops/articleshow/75836915.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Last batch of 110 workers from MP leaves Jaisalmer in buses||Jaisalmer: More than 35,000 migrant labourers stuck in Jaisalmer district during the lockdown have been sent back to their native states in a planned way. The district administration used 660 government and private buses, as well as trains to send back the migrants. On Tuesday, the last batch of 110 labourers belonging to Madhya Pradesh was sent back in buses. Around 200 labourers from West Bengal were sent on Sunday. With this, all migrant labourers in Jaisalmer district have been sent back to their states. The district collector has, however, directed all SDOs to keep shelter homes ready and arrange buses if any labourer is found left behind. There was a record crop production worth Rs 5 billion in the Indira Gandhi canal area in Jaisalmer district. To harvest these crops, around 45,000 labourers came to Jaisalmer from other states and from within Rajasthan. They got stuck here due to the pandemic. Over 6,000 labourers left for their states before the lockdown started, while more than 35,000 got stuck here. They were kept in 100 shelter homes at various places by the district administration. Till the state government issued guidelines to send these labourers, the district administration and the local philanthropists provided food and water to these labourers. After getting directions from the state government, the labourers were sent home from Jaisalmer in a planned manner. Collector Namit Mehta said that amid the lockdown, more than 35,000 labourers were sent back to their native states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/last-batch-of-110-workers-from-mp-leaves-jaisalmer-in-buses/articleshow/75836913.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand Covid-19 cases cross 100 after highest 1-day jump||Dehradun: In the highest single-day jump so far, 15 new Covid-19 positive patients were found in Uttarakhand on Tuesday, taking the total count of cases to 111 in the state. Chamoli and Bageshwar districts, both in green zone, reported their first coronavirus case on the day. According to the health department, one case was reported from Chamoli, two cases each were found in Bageshwar and Pauri Garhwal districts, seven cases in Nainital, and the remaining three positive cases were detected from Udham Singh Nagar. “The virology lab at Srinagar Medical College confirmed that a 32-year-old man from Gairsain tested Covid-19-positive. Similarly, a 19-year-old youth and 25-year-old man from Pauri also tested positive. Both the cases had a travelling history to New Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR),” said additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant. In Bageshwar, two men (a 20-year-old and another 35-year-old) tested positive for the virus. Both had returned to the state recently. In Nainital, the seven new patients are aged between 14 years and 50 years, officials said. “In Udham Singh Nagar, a 19-year-old woman and a 13-year-old boy tested positive on Tuesday. They both had come in contact with their cousin brother who tested positive for the virus on May 15 and had returned from Gurgaon. The third case is of a 46-year-old migrant worker who returned to the state from Mumbai,” said Dr Shailja Bhatt, chief medical officer of US Nagar. With cases crossing the 100 mark, the state’s recovery rate has now dropped to 48%. The total number of active cases in the state is 57 at present. Meanwhile, the health department said that the next update in the orange and green zones that were decided by the government on May 18 will be made on May 25. The department, on Tuesday, collected 792 samples and had received reports of 415 cases by 3 pm. The reports of 1,456 samples were awaited at the time of filing this report. In yet another significant development related to Covid-19, Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) started pool testing of samples on Tuesday. According to health department, Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani would also start pool testing from Wednesday and both labs are expected to test 1,500 samples everyday with this technique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-covid-19-cases-cross-100-after-highest-1-day-jump/articleshow/75832813.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Garbage-free cities: Vij gets 3-star rating||Vijayawada/Tirupati: The temple city of Tirupati and Vijayawada have got 3-star ratings in the category of garbage-free cities in the country. However, Visakhapatnam, which got a 2-star rating in 2019, has been relegated further, and got only a 1-star rating this year. The 1-star rating has come as a big shocker to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, which pinned hopes on a higher rating after last year’s poor show. The results of the star ratings were released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs in New Delhi on Tuesday. The garbage-free city concept was launched by the central government under the Swachh Bharat mission. Cites are certified garbage-free and are awarded rankings based on their compliance to a stringent set of 19-odd parameters across the solid waste management spectrum. Tirupati municipal commissioner PS Girisha applauded the efforts of the temple city’s denizens and municipal workers for the 3-star rating. “A lot of effort went into earning the 3-star garbage-free city tag for Tirupati, considering that close to one lakh pilgrims visit the city every single day of the year,” he said. Meanwhile, Vizag lost 650 marks in the star rating component alone in 2019, which adversely affected its Swachh Survekshan ranking too. The star certification comprises 1,000 out of 6,000 marks under Swachh Survekshan 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/garbage-free-cities-vij-gets-3-star-rating/articleshow/75835152.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Contractor shuts shop at Mayo, dumps 200 housekeeping workers||Nagpur: The IGGMCH’s private contractor on Monday night disbursed one month’s salary to over 220 housekeeping workers before announcing termination of their services at the hospital. Of these, 20 workers were absorbed by the IGGMCH to keep its functioning smooth. The rest of the workers are now left in the lurch. They said the contractor told them that their remaining two months’ salary will not be paid. Workers said no notice has been served while no one from the hospital, city administration or political party has come forward to rescue them. The workers have been staging a silent protest for the last four days at the entrance and parking lot of the IGGMCH, better known as Mayo Hospital. Though the contractor shunned them, the workers stayed put on the hospital premises for the entire day, hoping to get some relief. The contractor had held back two months’ salary of the housekeeping workers, many of whom were banking on hand loans and kindness of relatives and friends. “We don’t know what to do know. They say services at Mayo have been stopped but there is no notice or any official letter from the contractor. They should ideally give us some time and due notice before taking such a drastic step. We have been told to forget about our two months’ salaries too,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contractor-shuts-shop-at-mayo-dumps-200-housekeeping-workers/articleshow/75836131.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||2 die in accident in Patancheru||Hyderabad: Two persons died in a road accident in Patancheru area after their bikes collided on Monday. The victims, Bhupalan and Ashok of Shankarpally were severely injured and were rushed to the hospital. According to police, both the victims declared brought dead. The incident occurred at Kardhanur. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-die-in-accident-in-patancheru/articleshow/75836142.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Civil Hospital head nurse dies of Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: Staff gave Catherine Christian, 56, the head nurse at Civil Hospital who succumbed to Covid-19, a teary farewell on Tuesday morning. As her mortal remains were laid in a casket, she was given a guard of honour by staff members and Home Guard personnel on duty at the campus as a ‘corona warrior’ who had served in the Covid-19 ward. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that Catherine, a resident of Maninagar, had joined GG Hospital in Jamnagar in 1988. “She became part of the Civil Hospital family in 1996 and ever since served patients from the city and beyond ever since. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, she was assigned to the gynaecology ward,” he said. Her colleagues remembered her as a disciplinarian about ward cleanliness and management and a true friend to many junior nurses. “She was given duty in Ward A-1 of the Covid-19 hospital from April 26 to May 3. She took a break for three days and then was given duty in the gynaecology ward. On May 11, she complained of symptoms and tested positive. She was then admitted to the hospital for treatment,” said a senior Civil Hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-head-nurse-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75836133.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Of 200 wards, 31 record no Covid-19 case in last 3 days||CHENNAI: In the last three days, around 31 of the 200 wards in the city have not recorded a single Covid-19 case, said J Radhakrishnan, special officer on deputation to Greater Chennai Corporation, on Tuesday. Radhakrishnan also said that 136 wards recorded less than 10 cases cumulatively in the same period. He used this data to buttress the fact that Covid-19 was not spreading across entire Chennai, but was restricted to specific pockets in the city. “Four zones in the city are the problem areas. Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar and Kodambakkam. However, the rate of increase in number of cases in Kodambakkam and Valasaravakkam has started reducing,” Radhakrishnan said. Based on this analysis, the civic body will now roll out a new plan for every ward which has a high incidence of cases. Corporation health workers equipped with mobile X-ray scanning machines as well as thermal scanners, will be deployed in these wards to screen 200 homes every day, Radhakrishnan said. Some of the areas in Royapuram where this would be started are Anjenaya Street, Bojarajan Nagar and Annai Sathya Nagar, he added. According to a ward-wise Covid-19 incidence map released by the corporation on Tuesday evening, Muthialpet (ward 56), Seethakathi Nagar (60), Panamarathotti (50), George Town (59) have 41-124 cases per lakh population. These wards fall under Royapuram zone. In Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Pulianthope (ward 77) has an incidence of 124-242 cases per lakh population. The map shows this is the ward with the highest case incidence in the city. Sembium (68) is a shade lower and has an incidence of 41-124 cases per lakh population. Wards in other zones which have 41-124 cases per lakh population include Koyambedu, Ambattur, Maduravoyal, Nerkundram, Tondiarpet, Periyamedu and Krishnamapet. A look at the map shows that major part of south Chennai barely has any ward which has cases above 14 per lakh population. GCC data shows that four southern zones Alandur, Adyar, Perungudi and Shollinganallur have only 16, 22, 17 and 22 containment streets. In comparison, Royapuram alone has 130 containment streets, which is more than those of the four southern zones put together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/of-200-wards-31-record-no-covid-case-in-last-3-days/articleshow/75836128.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||U’khand, Himachal migrants leave from Jodhpur in 8 buses||Jodhpur: After trains, buses have also been rolled out for transporting migrants to their destinations in other states. First such fleet of eight buses carrying migrants from Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh was flagged off from Jodhpur roadways bus stand on Tuesday afternoon. Of these, seven buses had 226 passengers on board for Uttarakhand, while one bus had 21 passengers from Himachal Pradesh. MLA of Jodhpur City Minisha Panwar flagged off these buses. She said that all the migrants were satisfied with the arrangements and were desperate to go to their native palace once to see their families and relatives. Nodal officer Mahaveer Singh Jodha informed that the these buses would be reaching Haridwar on Wednesday morning and a bus for 21 passengers for Shimla would be made available at Haridwar which would reach there by the evening. Jodha said all these migrants have been provided with free transportation and were provided with food packets and water for the travel. The migrant left by these buses for two states mainly included those working in hotel industry and restaurants. “Besides, these migrants also included those who have been working as guards at many commercial establishments and residential colonies. Some were also doing other kinds of jobs in Jodhpur,” said Jodha. President of the Uttarakhand Samaj at Jodhpur Sanjeev Singh Rawat said that most of the migrants had been working here in hotel and restaurant industry and had been rendered jobless due to closure of the hotels and restaurants after lockdown. “Because of this situation, they had been facing problem of food and shelter as they had run out of their savings and finding it difficult to sustain,” Rawat said. Apart from this, 424 migrants from Bengaluru also landed at Bhagat ki Kothi railway station on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ukhand-himachal-migrants-leave-from-jodhpur-in-8-buses/articleshow/75836922.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Schools look at alternate day classes for batches||Panaji: With no guarantee about whether the lockdown will be eased post May 31, the directorate of education and schools are preparing for a possible delayed start to the academic year. Those in the know said that state officials are likely to follow the line of the CBSE calendar for the new academic year. “If the lockdown is continued, schools may begin in July (instead of June 4). Teachers from the primary to higher secondary school level are already being trained to use online tools to conduct classes. If the situation does not improve with regards to rise in Covid-19 cases, then the new academic year may begin with online classes,” a source said. At the training, teachers are being taught how to use presentations as part of the video call using Google tools. The source said that students who do not have connectivity, can refer to the presentations and notes later. “It can work well for higher secondary school students and even higher classes of secondary schools,” the source said. Schools are also considering various ways in which classes can be conducted by maintaining social distance. “Many schools have realised that they do not have sufficient classrooms to conduct classes by dividing them into smaller groups. Most likely they will divide students into batches and ask them to attend classes on alternate days. The day the students are at home, they will be given home assignments,” a source said. Teachers, are worried that if the lockdown continues, and opening of the schools is delayed, then they will be left with fewer teaching hours. “The challenge will be teaching primary school students through the online mode. In rural areas, it is unlikely parents will own laptops. Also, if students come to school on alternate days, then we will have lesser time to complete the syllabus,” a teacher said. DoE has engaged Adhyayan Foundation, Tata Trusts and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) to train teachers in online teaching. In the first phase, 5,000 teachers have already been trained in 168 groups. From next week, the remaining 5,500 teachers from the primary to higher secondary level will be trained. “Initially, we were facing issues with the network in connecting with students. Now, we have sorted it out and our teachers are ready to teach online,” headmaster of Dr KB Hedgewar High School Vilas Satarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-look-at-alternate-day-classes-for-batches/articleshow/75836920.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police get PPEs, HCQS tablets||Aurangabad: Jalna police have started providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits along with hydroxichloroquine tablets to policemen posted on field to protect them against Covid-19. With this, Jalna has become one of the very few units in the state to provide PPE kits to policemen. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya told TOI, “We are doing everything possible to keep our force safe from Covid-19 as one case of infection takes a toll on the entire force’s morale.” The officer said that all the policemen across the hierarchy have been provided with the homoeopathic medicine prescribed by state police headquarters. “In addition to this, hydroxycholoroquine (Hcqs) tablets have been given to all policemen,” said Chaitanya. Sources said that due to shortage of hcqs tablets, Jalna police contacted all the possible sources for the medicine and ensured that all their frontline staff receives it. For now, 300 PPE kits have been procured while more are on the way, officials said. “Every policemen who works as frontline staff will get the PPE kit,” said Chaitanya. In addition to this, policemen deployed at check posts have been provided with bluetooth speakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-get-ppes-hcqs-tablets/articleshow/75833962.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||9 of 10 new Covid cases are migrants||Lucknow: Nine migrant workers were among 10 people diagnosed with Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 316. All the migrant workers who were tested positive on Tuesday had arrived at the state capital by Shramik Special train on May 17. Eight of the migrants tested positive on Tuesday were from Maharashtra (Mumbai) while one was from Madhya Pradesh. So far, 20 migrant workers have been found to have coronavirus infection and 19 of them have come from Mumbai. All of them are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment at Lokbandhu Hospital. Chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “All migrants who have come by Shramik Special trains are being quarantined at Alambagh bus station. Those found negative will be sent to their native places with instructions of 14-day quarantine, while those testing positive are being shifted to hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-of-10-new-covid-cases-are-migrants/articleshow/75836917.cms||---
May 20, 2020||India||NTA launches app for JEE (Main) and NEET aspirants||NEW DELHI: In the face of continued lockdown, now there is help at hand for JEE (Main) and NEET-UG aspirants— a mobile app, provided or free by the National Testing Agency, which not only allows candidates to take mock tests but also get a personalised report which analyses scores through AI, corrects concepts and even indicates the time taken to solve a particular question. Also, the app doesn’t require continuous internet connectivity. The NTA launched its “National Test Abhyas” mobile App on Tuesday to hand-hold all engineering and medical aspirants in their preparation for the tests which were postponed due to Covidtriggered lockdown. The App, according to a senior NTA official from the technical team, will be offering mock tests each of three hours for JEE (Main) and NEET-UG. The candidates will get a personalised report card immediately on completion of the test, which will not only reflect the scores, but also incorrect inputs with an explainer why the answer is wrong. Another big advantage is that once a particular candidate completes 4-5 tests, using AI and advance analytics, the personalised report will pin-point the weaknesses such as whether one has taken more than necessary time on a particular question or section as compared to the average time taken by other candidates and which topic(s) should a candidate focus on to improve his or performance. “The difficulty level will be same as that of an actual paper. Moreover, for each incorrect entry NTA’s report card will also explain the correct answer and its concept. The aspirants can keep taking these tests every day and any time to learn and improve,” said the official. Once a candidate downloads the test, it works perfectly even without internet connectivity, which will prove advantageous for students even in areas with low bandwidth. While this is likely to benefit aspirants who are not being able to go for their regular classroom coaching due to the nationwide lockdown, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said the mission is to help candidates who don’t have the opportunities to go for expensive coaching in cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/app-for-mock-jee-main-neet-tests/articleshow/75839173.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||Niece of KGMU nurse also tests +ve for virus||LUCKNOW: A day after a KGMU nurse working in Queen Mary’s Hospital was diagnosed with Covid-19, her 18-year-old niece, who lives with her, was also found infected with novel coronavirus. “The niece of the nurse was shifted to the ICU unit for a few hours today to monitor her vitals, but she is stable,” said Dr D Himanshu, in-charge infectious disease unit told TOI on Tuesday. The nurse (26) was in the team that performed emergency C-section on a pregnant woman last Thursday. The woman was found having Covid-19, a day after the surgery, following which the entire team was tested and when the reports arrived the nurse was found positive. During contact tracing, the authorities came to know that the nurse’ niece was suffering from flu-like symptoms since four days and got her tested on Monday. KGMU authorities said there is a strong possibility of the nurse contracting infection from her niece. When asked about the possibility of nurse passing infection to the patient as none of the latter’s family members tested positive, KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said that it is highly unlikely. “Since the incubation period of the virus is at least five days, a test will show positive result only after 3-4 days of infection. In this case, the patient was found positive two days after being admitted. If incubation period is taken into account, indications are that the patient already had infection at the time of admission,” Dr Singh said. When asked that the nurse worked in the hospital till Sunday and if incubation period is 3-4 days, many would have been exposed to infection, Dr Singh said: “Chances of the nurse passing infection to other patients are also low because safety protocol is followed at every step. All the medical personnel have tested negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/niece-of-kgmu-nurse-also-tests-ve-for-virus/articleshow/75836931.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man attacked, robbed by two||HYDERABAD: A 36-year-old advocate from Chandrayangutta was robbed near his house by two bikers on Tuesday. The victim, Hamed Ahmed Jabri, was standing outside his home when two persons in a bike approached him. The duo asked him for some petrol. After Jabri gave them petrol they asked him for his mobile to make an emergency call. When he did so the duo fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-attacked-robbed-by-two/articleshow/75836165.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||82-yr-old wins nCoV battle after 24-day stay in hospital||Kolkata: Tapan Mitra, 82, former MD of the erstwhile Indal, has emerged victorious in his fight against Covid. Mitra, with underlying lung and heart conditions, hyper tension and diabetes, stayed in the hospital for 24 days, including the two extremely critical stints in the ICU. Admitted to Fortis Hospital on May 18 with severe COPD conditions, Mitra tested Covid positive and was in the isolation ward initially. He developed a secondary bacterial infection and was on ventilator for seven days. “I had a horrible journey. I was so scared,” he said in a after being released from hospital on Monday. “My memories kept me going. I constantly kept my mind engaged with good thoughts,” said Mitra, who is the president of Calcutta Rowing Club (CRC). Arafat Faisal, head of medical services, Fortis Hospital, said, “Such recoveries require huge motivation for doctors, nurses and healthworkers who have been working relentlessly for Covid patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/82-yr-old-wins-ncov-battle-after-24-day-stay-in-hospital/articleshow/75836138.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Reverse migration: Quarantined population surge past 14k in M’wada||Aurangabad: The reverse migration, being observed across Marathwada during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and gradually relaxing lockdown norms, has by Monday increased the number of people in quarantine to 14,281. As per official data, a total of 11,387 individuals are in home quarantine, while another 2,894 have been put in institutional quarantine. Osmanabad district has the highest (4,225) individuals under quarantine, followed by 2,971 in Aurangabad district, 2,350 in Nanded, 1,782 in Jalna, 1,144 in Hingoli, 843 in Latur, 623 in Beed and 343 in Parbhani. Nanded deputy collector Prashant Shelke said people returning to their homes from other parts of the country are mandatorily put under home-quarantine if they are asymptomatic. “As per protocol, these people are stamped and asked to remain confined in their homes for 14 days. Health teams have been formed to keep a check on such people and they are picked up if found symptomatic for Covid-19,” he said. Amid reported surge in reverse migration, Jalna district administration has ordered formation of special vigilance squads in urban and rural areas to keep an eye on home-quarantined people. “The squads will ensure stamping of returnees, asking them to download Arogya Setu mobile application and provide ration and other essentials to people confined in homes for 14-days,” an official release quoting Jalna district collector Ravindra Binwade said. As per official data, a total of 8,320 individuals have completed their quarantine period of 14-days across eight districts of Marathwada, by Monday. It includes maximum 3,782 persons from Aurangabad district followed by Hingoli (1,332), Osmanabad (1,331), Nanded (1,009), Latur (613), Beed (193), Jalna (33), Parbhani (27). Considerable chunk of this population includes sugarcane field workers who have returned to their native places in different parts of Marathwada during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/reverse-migration-quarantined-population-surge-past-14k-in-mwada/articleshow/75833999.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 20, 2020||Amaravati||Schools across Andhra Pradesh to reopen on August 3||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has decided to reopen schools from August 3. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the education department to take necessary measures to reopen schools by ensuring social distancing. The government is likely to launch YSR Vidhya Kanuka on August 3 in which students will be given uniform, books, belt, shoes and socks. During the Spandana video conference with district collectors here on Tuesday, the CM instructed the collectors to take an active role and evaluate the daily progress of the works completed. He also the officials to make sure there was no shortage of sand and cement for the works. In the first phase, nearly 15,715 schools are going to have a makeover with a revolving budget of Rs 456 crore. Under the Nadu-Nedu scheme, a total of nine development works, including school infrastructure and basic facilities will be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/schools-across-ap-to-reopen-on-august-3/articleshow/75842644.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Schools across Andhra Pradesh to reopen on August 3||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has decided to reopen schools from August 3. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the education department to take necessary measures to reopen schools by ensuring social distancing. The government is likely to launch YSR Vidhya Kanuka on August 3 in which students will be given uniform, books, belt, shoes and socks. During the Spandana video conference with district collectors here on Tuesday, the CM instructed the collectors to take an active role and evaluate the daily progress of the works completed. He also the officials to make sure there was no shortage of sand and cement for the works. In the first phase, nearly 15,715 schools are going to have a makeover with a revolving budget of Rs 456 crore. Under the Nadu-Nedu scheme, a total of nine development works, including school infrastructure and basic facilities will be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/schools-across-ap-to-reopen-on-august-3/articleshow/75835160.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman held for ‘objectionable’ Facebook post||VIJAYAWADA: Crime Investigation Department (CID) booked a 60-year-old woman in Guntur for making ‘objectionable comments’ against the government’s handling of the styrene gas leak incident at LG Polymers company in Vizag on Tuesday. The woman was identified as Poonthota Ranganayaki. According to her Facebook post, Ranganayaki raised 14 points questioning questions why LG styrene wasn’t seized by the government and why the liquid asset (styrene) was allowed by the government to be sent back to Korea. “Which bank issued loan on the styrene liquid, is the plant still running with the LG management or was it leased out to someone else. If the company defaults on its loans, who will be responsible. Why the state government announced the companies would be shifting from Vizag,” are some of the questions she raised. Speaking to the media, Ranganayaki condemned the government action and stated that all she did was raise questions and neither did she promote enmity nor did she commit ‘public mischief’. The styrene leak on May 7 in Vizag resulted in the death of 12 people, apart from affecting the health of more than 450 people across four villages near the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-held-for-objectionable-facebook-post/articleshow/75835155.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Pokhran defeats corona, no cases in last 25 days||JAISALMER: After Bhilwara’s ruthless containment model, Pokhran town of Jaisalmer is now being praised for its steps to check the spread of Covid-19. By strictly implementing the corona protocol with joint efforts of the district administration, health department and police, there hasn’t been a single case in the last 25 days in Pokhran, which had turned into a corona hotspot in April and was under curfew for 40 days. From a red zone, Pokhran has now turned into an orange zone and markets reopened on Tuesday. Altogether 35 people had tested positive in the town after infected Tablighi Jamaat members reached the town last month. The first positive case in Pokhran was detected on April 5 after which Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta, SP Kiran Kang along with health department, administrative officers, medical department teams made a strategy to check its spread. The last case was detected on April 26. After the first case, the health department started sampling, random sampling and survey in all the wards on a war footing and policemen were deployed to ensure that the norms were followed effectively. The medical department tested 2,000 samples daily and is still continuing it. Jaisalmer cyber cell in-charge Beera played an important role in breaking the corona chain. Medical and health department ACS Rohit Kumar Singh tweeted that Pokhran had become corona-free and congratulated on the success of the Pokhran model. Initially, the number of cases kept increasing but the teams did not lose courage and kept fighting and today results are before everyone. Collector Mehta said Pokhran had become corona-free and all the 35 positive patients have recovered and returned to their homes. Curfew has been lifted from May 15 and from Wednesday even the prohibition has been lifted. The district administration is however still on alert mode and random sampling was being conducted. Kang said after a long time markets opened and there was crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pokhran-defeats-corona-no-cases-in-last-25-days/articleshow/75836924.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Rs 1lakh fine on anyone carrying people illegally into Gadchiroli||Nagpur: Gadchiroli collector Deepak Singla on Tuesday announced a Rs1 lakh fine on transporters bringing persons without permission into the district that now has six Covid-19 cases. The sixth sample tested positive at Nagpur’s Government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday. It belongs to a labourer who had returned to Armori from Mumbai. Singla said the person was taken directly to sub-divisional hospital from Armori check point and then shifted to the district hospital as he had symptoms. “We did not allow the labourer to enter Armori and hence it may not have to be converted into a containment zone as of now,” said Singla. He added that the man’s wife has tested negative. The district administration will also slap a fine of Rs5,000 on any person found violating quarantine and containment zone restrictions. Anyone found having entered the district without permission from authorities will also be fined Rs5,000. The fines would be levied by the respective tehsildars and criminal action will also be initiated against them. Singla said stringent actions are required against the violators as their entry was leaving the local residents angered. “We had to convince the people of the containment zones of Yengelkheda (north Gadchiroli) to cooperate as they feel Mumbai-based labourers returning home are the reason for their troubles now,” he said. Singla has turned 10 places, including the quarantine centres, into containment zones. The district administration has also quarantined drivers of vehicles that had ferried the labourers to their respective villages. The villages too have been turned into containment zones in Kurkheda tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs-1lakh-fine-on-anyone-carrying-people-illegally-into-gadchiroli/articleshow/75836162.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Gym owners to meet collector today, seek permission to reopen||Visakhapatnam: Owners of gymnasium in Visakhapatnam have decided to meet the district collector on Wednesday to request him to let the 200-odd gyms in the city open for business. All the gyms have been closed since the Janata Curfew on March 22. Many health enthusiasts have paid the annual subscription but have been unable to attend sessions for almost three months. Gym memberships in the city cost anything between Rs 600 to Rs 3,000 per month. “Everybody knows that gyms help to live a fit and healthy life. Unfortunately, at this hour of crisis, the state government has opened liquor stores but not the gyms. We would be meeting the district collector to ask him to allow our gyms to open,” said Mohan Rao, working secretary of Visakha District Gym Owners’ Union (VDGOU). Owners claimed that ahead of the meet they have drawn up fool-proof guidelines so that norms recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) pertaining to containing Covid-19 can be followed in the gyms. Among these are that gyms will not allow more than three to five persons depending on the size of the gym for an hour-long session. This will help maintain social distance. Besides, masks and gloves will be mandatory and they will sanitise the rooms and equipment at regular intervals. “We are also ready to adhere to norms that the district administration will lay down. Considering the situation, gyms should be opened at the earliest,” said K Ganesh, the president of VDGOU and the owner of a 25-year-old gym in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gym-owners-to-meet-collector-today-seek-permission-to-reopen/articleshow/75835184.cms||Arpit Basu
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 54-year-old businessman, denied a bed for not having Covid report, dies||MUMBAI: It was yet another Catch-22 situation that ended in tragedy. A 54-year-old businessman suffering from a respiratory tract infection died within hours of queuing up at Nair Hospital for a Covid-19 test but being unable to get a bed as he was not a confirmed coronavirus patient. His grief-stricken family made several attempts to obtain his test report from the hospital even as they faced mounting social stigma from neighbours. After days of waiting the family was “shocked” to learn that the report could not be prepared as the hospital had discarded the samples. Rajendra Pidugu lived with his wife and teenage son in Mumbai Central. He developed a fever on May 5 and visited a local physician. The antibiotics did not work. On the night of May 8, he developed breathlessness. The next morning he went to a diagnostic lab for a chest X-ray and blood tests. Looking at his X-ray plates, a local doctor suggested he get hospitalized immediately. Pidugu then went to Nair Hospital with his wife. “He waited for two hours to get his Covid test done as there was a long queue. All the while his condition kept deteriorating. When the test was finally done, the staff asked him to go home and return a few days later. My relatives argued he was in no condition to do that, but in vain,” Pidugu’s married daughter Priti told TOI. “The hospital said they could only admit Covid patients. My parents waited on the street outside the hospital for four hours. All this while, I dialled dozens of hospitals to ask if I could admit him. Some hospitals were shut, others demanded Covid test reports,” said Priti. At 5pm, after Pidugu’s relatives kept pleading with hospital staff, he was finally taken to a ward on the fifth floor. But doctors said his chances of survival were low. Around 8.10pm, he was declared dead. On his hospital papers, doctors mentioned the cause of death as “cardiorespiratory arrest in a case of lower respiratory tract infection with acute febrile illness”. They also mentioned he was a Covid suspect and his reports were awaited. The body was not released immediately. “My mother and brother faced much social stigma; neighbouring residents presumed my father had succumbed to Covid. Our relatives repeatedly visited the Nair Hospital for the test report but were sent away. A day after my father's death, BMC staff visited his residence and home quarantined my mother and brother, even though there was no Covid positive test report to show,” said Priti. After checking with the lab where Nair Hospital was supposed to send samples for testing, the family found out that Pidugu's sample had never been sent. Staff at Nair Hospital eventually told them the sample had got damaged at their end and had to be discarded. When contacted, Nair Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi blamed the damaged samples on “human error” and did not comment further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/54-year-old-bizman-denied-a-bed-for-not-having-covid-report-dies/articleshow/75836964.cms||Nitasha Natu
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||Manipur couple on vacation in Doon got stuck for 2 months||Dehradun: A Manipur couple came to Dehradun for vacation but got stuck here for two months after the lockdown was announced on March 22. Initially, they stayed in a hotel but later moved to a rented accommodation near ISBT. After two months, they finally managed to take a train back to Manipur on Tuesday. Mohd Firoz, accompanied by his wife and two toddlers, five and four years of age, came to Dehradun from Manipur in mid-March. Their plan was to visit Shimla, Mussoorie and Rishikesh. But destiny had other plans for them. He said, “We visited Shimla and then we arrived in Dehradun in mid-March. But before we could even explore the city, the lockdown was announced. Initially, we stayed in a hotel but later moved to a rented accommodation near ISBT as hotel stay was becoming very expensive.” Firoz, who owns a small business in Manipur, said that he had to spend around Rs 70,000 in the past two months. Their happiness knew no bounds on Tuesday and the family reached the Dehradun railway station with their luggage at 9 am with a hope to return to here to see the Queen of Hills. The father brought chips, biscuits and nuts for his kids as the train would take at least two days to reach Manipur from Dehradun, after covering a distance of at least 2,700 km. The railways in Dehradun told TOI that 402 people boarded the train to Manipur in six coaches. The train will also stop at Saharanpur, Moradabad and a couple of other stations for more passengers. Firoz, who is grateful that his family is safe from coronavirus, said that the prolonged vacation not only drained him of his savings but also made him quite annoyed. “My wife kept me motivated and now finally after so many days, we are heading home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manipur-couple-on-vacation-in-doon-got-stuck-for-2-months/articleshow/75834027.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Draft plan sought for IT park in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The IT Association of Kolhapur (ITAK) has been tasked with preparing a draft plan for the IT park to be set up in the city and submitting it to the civic administration within a week. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has already reserved a plot at Temblaiwadi for the IT park. However, new sites may be suggested for the convenience of the IT companies interested to invest in their set ups. District guardian minister Satej Patil said, “We are in talks with major IT firms who are ready to shift their base or set up their units here. The IT association has demanded that 50% of the space in the proposed park be reserved for local firms.” A committee will be set up in the next few days to coordinate between the IT professionals and the KMC and overcome any administrative or professional hurdles. “Due to the pandemic, many IT professionals and staff employed in Pune and Bengaluru have expressed their willingness in staying back and working here,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/draft-plan-sought-for-it-park-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75834011.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||600 college faculty trained in online research tools||Panaji: Nearly 600 researchers and faculty members of Goa University and affiliated colleges were trained online through a webinar on Monday by the directorate of higher education on how to access academic writings available online and utilise research tools.  Director of higher education Prasad Loyalekar said that the webinar was an effort at improving research footprint by the teaching and researcher community. It was most required in this challenging period of Covid-19 pandemic, he said. The webinar was to familiarise the researcher community and faculty members in Goa with the use of online tools like ScienceDirect, Scopus and Mendeley. These tools are offered by Elsevier and the directorate held the webinar in association with Elsevier on developing research workflow and academic writing. Officials said that besides Elsevier tools for developing research workflow, the webinar also focussed on best practices in academic publishing.  South Asia consultant for Elsevier Shubhra Dutta was the resource person for the webinar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/600-college-faculty-trained-in-online-research-tools/articleshow/75836972.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Meat sellers booked for cheating buyers||Visakhapatnam: Legal metrology personnel appealed to consumers to become aware of cheating at many meat shops in Anakapalle in Vizag district. Many meat tradershave been putting electronic weighing machines in litre mode instead of grams mode, which leads to lesser weight of meat bought by consumers. Officials from the legal metrology department and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation raided meat shops at various places in Anakapalle Town and registered eight cases after they found that traders manipulated weighing machines and cheated customers. Officials also sealed one meat shop for allegedly selling red meat mixed with beef at Mallaveedhi. PV Ranga Reddy assistant controller of legal metrology department, who led the raid after receiving complaints, said the raids were conducted on meat shops located in Nehru Chowk, Woodpeta, Vijayaramarajupeta, Mallaveedhi, and a few other areas in Anakapalle. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/meat-sellers-booked-for-cheating-buyers/articleshow/75835168.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Return of migrant workers could hit realty sector hard||Visakhapatnam: The real-estate sector in Andhra Pradesh is set to be hit by another wave of low-demand and price-correction as buyers struggle with economic uncertainty. On the other end, developers are battling to complete projects stalled by the shortage of skilled manpower and increasing input costs. The mass departure of skilled migrant workers, after hurting the industrial sector due to Covid-19 lockdown, is now beginning to hit the real estate sector in Vizag, Vijayawada, Tirupati and other cities and towns in Andhra Pradesh. Speaking to TOI, K Subba Raju, chairman of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Andhra Pradesh, said that Covid-19 lockdown has stalled 3,000 to 4,000 real estate house projects at various stages worth crores of rupees in the state. Though the government has allowed the resumption of construction activity after lockdown restrictions are eased, the industry faces several challenges. “As the majority (over 70 percent of masons, carpenters and others) of the workers who engaged in the real estate sector are migrant workers, the revival of the construction business amid easing of lockdown is possible only after the return of the migrant workers. We don’t know when the migrant workers will return. We are expecting that it will take at least six months to resume construction work,” Subba Raju added. The price of a cement bag has increased by about Rs 80 to Rs 100. Before the lockdown it was Rs 300, now it is Rs 380 to Rs 400. Similarly, the price of steel has increased by around Rs 2,000 per metric tonne and the price of gravel increased by around 20 to 40 percent in the state. The real-estate sector is facing a sharp increase in construction costs and buyers’ despondency. “The shortage of skilled workers and severe liquidity crunch in the market has further lead to projects being stalled. Builders are struggling with low capital inflows and that will impact the delivery of projects,” said B Srinivasa Rao, president of Vizag city unit of CREDAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/return-of-migrant-workers-could-hit-realty-sector-hard/articleshow/75835219.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||24-yr-old kills self in Champawat||Nainital: A 24-year-old woman who drank pesticide to defy quarantine on Sunday died in Tanakpur area of Champawat district on Tuesday. The woman was directed to be home quarantine after she came to the area from outside. However, she drank pesticide after which she was first taken to Tanakpur hospital and then referred to a higher centre. Her family took her to Khatima but the private hospitals refused to admit her. The family brought her back to Tanakpur and on Monday as her condition improved, she was discharged. But on Tuesday evening she died at home. Police said that the body has been sent for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/24-yr-old-kills-self-in-champawat/articleshow/75834052.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Complete cleaning of nullahs at the earliest: Kothe||Nagpur: The civic administration has started cleaning rivers, nullahs and stormwater drains in the city during lockdown, but if it is not completed on time, the city will face flood-like situation in the rainy season, said officiating mayor Manisha Kothe. After inspecting nullahs in Ashi Nagar, Mangalwari, Hanuman Nagar and Nehru Nagar zones to review the cleanliness drive in Nagpur on Wednesday, Kothe directed municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to accelerate the work and complete the unfinished work at the earliest. She was accompanied by standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja, and assistant municipal commissioners among others.Zalke said there should be no financial problem in carrying out the nullah cleaning work as provision for the same has been done in the budget. No fund crisis should stall the work, said Zalke.Kukreja said that there is a need to bring transparency in non-sanitation. “No written instructions have been issued to the zone officials. If the condition of cleaning of nullahs remains the same, nullahs are likely to be flooded during monsoon. This could lead to flood-like situation in Nagpur. Therefore, the administration should give priority to cleaning of nallas,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/complete-cleaning-of-nullahs-at-the-earliest-kothe/articleshow/75855508.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Markets fare better, but some flout rules||New Delhi: The situation in the city’s markets seemed a bit better on Wednesday than a day earlier with customers coming out to buy commodities that were otherwise unavailable.In Greater Kailash-I, Gaffar Market near Karol Bagh, Kamla Nagar and Laxmi Nagar, the streets had turned lively with queues outside sweets shops. People were also seen checking out electronics, clothes, mobile phones and airconditioners. However, there were many places where shopkeepers were not following the odd-even rule and customers flouted social distancing norms.The owner of an electronics shop in Laxmi Nagar said, “During peak summer, our showroom used to be flooded with customers buying airconditioners and other electronics items. On certain days, it was difficult to find space to stand. However, this year we haven’t been able to open our shop for 55 days due to novel coronavirus. Thankfully on Wednesday, we got 4-5 customers. I hope the number increases in the coming days.”Traders of GK-I market said the limited footfall kept their hopes high as they were otherwise sitting idle at home and running huge losses.Rajendra Sharda of Greater Kailash-I market association said, “It was nice to see people buying clothes and toys for their children. The youngsters were seen ordering food, while others bought household or plastic items. This will encourage traders to continue their business. To avoid confusion about the odd-even rule, we had allotted numbers to the shops in advance.”In Gaffar Market near Karol Bagh, the parking lot was almost full and the attendants were busy organising vehicles to allow smooth flow of traffic. However, when TOI went inside the market, it found that neither the shopkeepers nor visitors were following social distancing. Some of them were without masks. Besides, odd-numbered shops were also open despite it being an even day. Even at Vikas Marg, the same situation prevailed.While the market association president couldn’t be reached for comment, a North Delhi Municipal Corporation official clarified that the responsibility for checking violations lay with the district administration.Meanwhile, prominent markets such as CP, Janpath and Pusa Road continued to be deserted on Wednesday.Amit Gupta, an office-bearer of New Delhi Traders Association, said, “Most of our customers come from far-flung areas. I don’t think they will take the risk of coming to the market without knowing which shop is open. Also, there’s no point in coming to the market and not being able to buy all required goods at once.”“We have written to Delhi government to allow us to open all shops considering we have a huge verandah and open space for maintaining social distancing,” Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/markets-fare-better-but-some-flout-rules/articleshow/75857394.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 20, 2020||Pune||Curbs remain in big Maharashtra cities, but Sharad Pawar says time to move on||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued a new set of lockdown restrictions for red zones that will remain in force till May 31, drawing criticism from within the ruling coalition on the “inadequate” measures taken to kickstart a dormant economy. The guidelines issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta grant no significant relaxation to the worst virus-afflicted areas including Mumbai, a decision NCP chief Sharad Pawar questioned in the context of the migrant exodus and its impact on various sectors. “Government has relaxed certain conditions for reopening industries, but the revised guidelines are inadequate,” Pawar said. “A large number of workers have left for their hometowns. Unless they come back, it will be difficult to reopen industries. We have to draft a plan to bring them back.” Under the new rules, the only concession for red zones like Mumbai, Thane and Pune is that the curbs will be limited to their municipal areas. But in Mumbai’s case, that will bring no respite as the city covers two districts entirely. CM plays it safe, but e-commerce for non-essential products resumesState has simplified the classification of various regions, based on their coronavirus case load, into red and non-red zones. All municipal areas within the MMR fall in the red zone apart from municipal corporations of Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and Amaravati. Yavatmal, Satara and Nagpur, which were in the red zone, have been moved out though Nagpur district officials are likely to write to the state asking it to keep Nagpur city in the red zone category. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We are maintaining status quo in red zones as cases from these areas are still very high. In the remaining areas, we have given maximum relaxation. Industries have already opened in non-red zones and now more relaxations have been given to these zones to normalise life ," said Tope. Officials said CM Uddhav Thackeray balked at allowing more activities to resume in red zones despite requests from various sections. Under the new rules that come into effect from May 22, essential shops will remain open in red zones and only those non-essential shops, which have been already allowed by the respective municipal corporation, will function. On Tuesday Pawar said at a meeting, “The government has relaxed certain conditions for reopening of industries, but the revised guidelines are inadequate. A large number of workers and migrants have left for their homes states, so unless they come back, it will be difficult to reopen industries. We will have to draft a plan for bringing them back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/curbs-remain-in-big-maha-cities-but-pawar-says-time-to-move-on/articleshow/75840534.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP Board exams evaluation begins||LUCKNOW: Evaluation of class 10 and 12 answer copies of UP Board began in red zones, including Lucknow on Tuesday after the process was kicked off early this month in green and orange zones. On the first day of evaluation, 60% teachers skipped duty while those who came to evaluation centres alleged non-compliance of social distancing norms and a hygiene crisis. A section of teachers associated with UP Secondary Education Teachers’ Association boycotted evaluation work. “Three evaluation centres are in close proximity to KGMU, posing threat to teachers. Inside the centres, teachers are made to sit close to each other, violating social distancing norms,” said R K Trivedi, examiner at Government Jubilee Inter College, who skipped evaluation duty. Three evaluation centres, Government Jubilee Inter College on City Station Road, Government Inter College, Hussainabad, and Government Girls Inter College at Shahmeena Road are near KGMU, said teachers. Another centre, Aminabad Inter College, is 740m away from a containment zone. Over the next week, 1.46 lakh teachers are tasked with the evaluation of 3.1 crore class 10 and 12 answer copies at 275 evaluation centres in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-exams-evaluation-begins/articleshow/75859476.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Curbs remain in big Maharashtra cities, but Sharad Pawar says time to move on||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued a new set of lockdown restrictions for red zones that will remain in force till May 31, drawing criticism from within the ruling coalition on the “inadequate” measures taken to kickstart a dormant economy. The guidelines issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta grant no significant relaxation to the worst virus-afflicted areas including Mumbai, a decision NCP chief Sharad Pawar questioned in the context of the migrant exodus and its impact on various sectors. “Government has relaxed certain conditions for reopening industries, but the revised guidelines are inadequate,” Pawar said. “A large number of workers have left for their hometowns. Unless they come back, it will be difficult to reopen industries. We have to draft a plan to bring them back.” Under the new rules, the only concession for red zones like Mumbai, Thane and Pune is that the curbs will be limited to their municipal areas. But in Mumbai’s case, that will bring no respite as the city covers two districts entirely. CM plays it safe, but e-commerce for non-essential products resumesState has simplified the classification of various regions, based on their coronavirus case load, into red and non-red zones. All municipal areas within the MMR fall in the red zone apart from municipal corporations of Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and Amaravati. Yavatmal, Satara and Nagpur, which were in the red zone, have been moved out though Nagpur district officials are likely to write to the state asking it to keep Nagpur city in the red zone category. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We are maintaining status quo in red zones as cases from these areas are still very high. In the remaining areas, we have given maximum relaxation. Industries have already opened in non-red zones and now more relaxations have been given to these zones to normalise life ," said Tope. Officials said CM Uddhav Thackeray balked at allowing more activities to resume in red zones despite requests from various sections. Under the new rules that come into effect from May 22, essential shops will remain open in red zones and only those non-essential shops, which have been already allowed by the respective municipal corporation, will function. On Tuesday Pawar said at a meeting, “The government has relaxed certain conditions for reopening of industries, but the revised guidelines are inadequate. A large number of workers and migrants have left for their homes states, so unless they come back, it will be difficult to reopen industries. We will have to draft a plan for bringing them back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/curbs-remain-in-big-maha-cities-but-pawar-says-time-to-move-on/articleshow/75836969.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Cong should send 1,000 buses to Lucknow’||Lucknow: BSP president Mayawati on Tuesday said if the Congress has 1,000 buses at its disposal, it should send them to the state capital without any delay. Earlier, a war of words had ensued between the BJP and the Congress after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra offered 1,000 buses to ferry migrants. Accepting the offer on Monday, the UP government asked the Congress to send buses to Lucknow. Claiming that the buses were stationed at state borders for more than a day, Congress questioned the UP government’s motive in asking for buses to be sent to Lucknow, saying that migrant workers were stuck at state borders and buses were needed there. “BSP would like to say that if Congress has 1,000 buses, it should send them to Lucknow immediately as there are many migrant workers in the state capital waiting desperately to return home,” Mayawati said. She also appealed to the Centre that keeping in mind the financial condition of states, it should bear the cost of taking migrant workers back to their respective states by bus and train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-should-send-1000-buses-to-lucknow/articleshow/75836984.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Delays mark first day of bus services||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) resumed all services on Tuesday, except for buses that ply within the city. However, while passengers and drivers were seen taking some precautionary measures by wearing masks and gloves, it was noticed that no physical distancing measures were taken at certain bus stations. Also, commuters, who queued up at some of the major bus stations by 6.30am, said they had to wait for more than three hours for the services to resume. “I have been stranded in the city for the last two months. After the chief minister announced that the buses will start plying from early morning, I came here at 6.30am thinking that I can finally go home,” Ramesh Nellikonda, who was waiting for a bus at Jubilee Bus Station, told TOI. Nellikonda and a dozen other passengers could get a bus only around 10 am. Suguna Ravikumar, who was waiting with her four-year-old daughter, and husband, said, “We came to visit my sister and were stuck since then. We are waiting from two hours.” When asked about the delay, L Vijay Kumar, superintendent, TSRTC head office, said, “The entire staff was alerted last night after the government gave orders to start operations from Tuesday morning. There could have been a delay in a few places since the services started after two months.” Officials said tickets were being issued based on seating capacity, which was reduced to half. “We are also ensuring that there is no overcrowding or foot boarding in the buses,” said Kumar. Around 6,000 buses were operated and TSTRC executive director Yadagiri said there was no huge rush at the stations in the districts and at the temporary boarding points in the city. In the city, which still has containment zones, buses were not terminated before regular stops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delays-mark-first-day-of-bus-services/articleshow/75836253.cms||Moulika.KV
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Nearly 1.5L street vendors in a fix||New Delhi: While the Sarojini Market has started opening on odd-even basis, Bablu Mahto, who sells clothes nearby, remains unsure about his future with his wares lying packed in blue tarpaulin sheets. And Mahto is not alone — around 1.5 lakh vendors in the capital don’t figure in the lockdown relaxation rules. Popular markets like Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat and Karol Bagh are known for their streetside offerings from vendors, but now these are lined with tarpaulin-wrapped outlets with layers of dust gathering on them. The National Association for Street Vendors has reported multiple instances of its members being roughed up by police in the past two days. Arvind Singh, its national coordinator, said, “Street vendors and weekly markets are simply not mentioned in the relaxation rules. Police are harassing vendors by not allowing them to set up shops. We have received calls from Karol Bagh and Harkesh Nagar.”The association has urged the authorities to frame some regulations to let vendors resume their livelihood. “We have written to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the Union urban affairs ministry suggesting formation of time zones, conversion of weekly markets into daily ones to reduce crowd and space allocation,” Singh said. The policy makers are allowing takeaways for restaurants, but forgetting small food vendors, he alleged. A government official said vendors had not been allowed to operate but the government was working on a plan to incorporate them in the relaxations.According to the association, Delhi has over 400 big and small weekly markets. One such is Old Delhi’s Daryaganj Sunday Book Bazar, which has been relocated. Ashrafilal Verma, the vice-president of the Book Bazar association, said, “The livelihood of more than 275 vendors and their families depend on the market. What will we do now?” Pleading for some financial help from the government to revive the market, he said, “Most of us are broke.” Singh said the lack of clarity on financial help and permission to open shops was affecting people. “The weekly markets come up in fixed localities where a large number of people belonging to the middle and lower strata replenish their reserves,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-1-5l-street-vendors-in-a-fix/articleshow/75857406.cms||Paras Singh
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Mumbai returnee tests +ve after residents report him||Nagpur: A 45-year-old man from Santoshi Nagar, Nara, tested Covid-19 positive at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on Tuesday. The case was detected after local residents raised the alarm as the person had returned from Mumbai, country’s major hotspot. Santoshi Nagar is situated on the city’s boundary towards Koradi in ward no.1 under Mangalwari zone. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) may not notify the area as containment zone as the residents had not allowed the person to stay at his home. Sources from the NMC and IGGMCH told TOI, “The man used to work as a fitter in Mumbai and returned home after a long time. The residents noticed him in the locality and informed police who arranged an ambulance to take him to IGGMCH on Monday,” sources said. Doctors at OPD of IGGMCH informed deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande. “After coming to know that the person had travelled in a truck from Mumbai and not in a legal way after undergoing medical check-up there, he was admitted and swab samples sent for testing which turned out to be Covid positive,” said Dr Pande. Meanwhile, total number of cases from the district increased to 374 on Tuesday while 474 samples tested negative. Eighteen persons — 17 from isolation ward of GMCH and one from IGGMCH — were discharged as per new guidelines. A discharged pregnant woman was admitted again in IGGMCH as her delivery is expected soon. Total number of discharged patients has now increased to 290. The death count remained at seven. Active cases in the district are now at 77 and all are undergoing treatment at GMCH and IGGMCH. A few days ago, Kharbi residents had raised similar alarm when a person from Mominpura had shifted to their area. The person had also tested positive. Similarly, several families from Mominpura and Satranjipura were sent to institutional quarantine after residents from Kalamna had complained about they not following Covid precautions. The latest case is yet another example of proactive step by the IGGMCH to detect corona patients and prevent virus spread in the area. Earlier, IGGMCH had detected cases from Satranjipura, Mominpura, Tulsi Nagar, Khamla, Gandhisagar etc. A team from NMC’s Mangalwari zone, led by assistant commissioner Harish Raut and zonal medical officer Atik Khan, quarantined 408 persons from Gaddigodam on Monday night, thus taking the number of quarantined persons from this area to 607. A 65-year-old man with comorbidity from this area had died at GMCH on May 16. Eleven more persons from this area have tested positive in last two days. At Mominpura containment zone, team led by assistant commissioner Ashok Patil and zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin quarantined around 190 persons from Hansapuri in last two days following death of a 56-year-old woman from this area on Monday. Number of quarantined persons from Mominpura containment zone has now increased to over 1,200. Meanwhile, the NMC has removed Bairagipura from containment zone as no new case was reported from the area in the last few days. Now, containment zone will be with boundaries at Maldhakka road, Buddh Vihar, Sunil Hotel, Chinteshwar Gate and Balaji Mandir Chowk areas. This area was notified containment zone after nephew and close contacts of deceased from Satranjipura (city’s first Covid-19 casualty) had tested Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mumbai-returnee-tests-ve-after-residents-report-him/articleshow/75836238.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 20, 2020||Patna||Nine migrant workers die in Bhagalpur accident||BHAGALPUR: Nine migrant workers died when the truck in which they were travelling collided with a bus on NH-31 near Naugachia in Bhagalpur district on Tuesday. The deceased were sitting on the roof of the truck loaded with iron bars and other construction material. At least 30 migrant workers travelling in the bus were also injured in the accident, which took place near Ambho Chowk under Kharik police station. The impact of the head-on collision was so severe that the truck overturned and fell into a roadside ditch. The iron bars as well as the truck fell on the workers, killing nine of them on the spot. The truck driver absconded. Three of the deceased were identified as Rustam and Gulshan of Motihari and Md Hasim from Bettiah. The remaining six were yet to be identified. Some of the injured migrant workers commuting by the bus from Darbhanga to Banka were given first aid, while seriously injured Pramod Yadav, Jagdish Yadav, Bacchu Khera and Punam Khera from Banka district were admitted to local government hospital. CM Nitish Kumar expressed grief on the death of nine persons and announced ex gratia payment of Rs4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. He also directed Bhagalpur administration to ensure proper medical treatment to the injured. Nitish also appealed to the migrant workers and others not to travel in clandestine manner as the central and the state governments were making arrangements for their safe transportation. Sources said the deceased were riding bicycles and took lift on the truck from Naugachia on their way back home at Motihari and Bettiah in East Champaran and West Champaran districts respectively. The truck was going to Muzaffarpur. DIG (Bhagalpur range) Sujeet Kumar said the deceased were travelling on the truck along with their bicycles. “The truck belongs to a person from Muzaffarpur,” he said. Naugachia SP Nidhi Rani, SDPO Pravendra Bharti, SDO Mukesh Kumar and Kharik police got the injured rescued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/9-migrant-workers-die-in-bhagalpur-accident/articleshow/75834533.cms||Kumar Rajesh
May 20, 2020||Hubballi||Chicken prices skyrocket as consumption picks up||Hubballi: Chicken prices have skyrocketed after the lockdown has been eased. On Sunday, a kg of skinless chicken was sold for Rs 260-300. Ten days ago, the price was in Rs 140-180 range. In the last six weeks, poultry farmers sold chicken at throwaway prices. Due to spread of rumours among people that chicken consumption may lead to catching Covid-19, poultry units suffered and farmers were unable to run their units. During the lockdown, the price of chicken was set by BBMP in Bengaluru and also other city corporations in the state. In Bengaluru the price of the chicken per kg is Rs 240 to 250. According to those in the business, prices have gone up because consumption of chicken is slowly increasing but supply is not catching up with demand. Dr RS Patil, veterinarian and poultry consultant, said the difference between demand and supply is the main reason for the sudden spike in price clubbed with high cost of production of chicken. Maze and soya prices went up in April. “Because of no transportation from neighbouring districts, chicken traders are not getting supply. So they had to rely on local supply,” he added. Mallapur Devaraj, president, Madhya Karnataka Poultry Farmers and Traders Co-operative Society, Davanagere, which covers almost 16 districts and has more than thousand members, said that shortage of live birds is the main reason for the hike in price. The feed prices too are more and many people with the fear of lock down don’t have that adequate stock. “Farmers are selling live birds at Rs 120 -140 per kg, but traders are ferrying and making more profit. During lockdown, farmers culled live birds in large numbers and incurred losses. Some even sold at Rs 30-40 per kg,”, he added. According to farmers and experts in the field, once fresh live birds start entering the market, prices will gradually come down. Hanif Nadaf, president, Hubballi Poultry Farmers Association, said that during the lockdown, a chick was being sold for Rs 2 to 3 and now prices have jumped to Rs 24. If the same market condition continues, prices of chicks is expected to reach nearly Rs 35 to 40, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/chicken-prices-skyrocket-as-consumption-picks-up/articleshow/75825278.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra adds 2,127 cases & 76 deaths, Mumbai 1,411 & 43||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 76 fatalities, its highest one-day Covid toll. Mumbai contributed 43 of these, also its highest single-day toll. In the last 19 days, the state has recorded 866 deaths at an average of 45 a day. The state’s overall toll now is 1,325. For the third day in a row, Maharashtra added over 2,000 new cases (2,127) and Mumbai added 1,411, its second highest daily count. State officials attributed the jump in deaths to book-keeping and said 32 of the 76 deaths had occurred in the past 24 hours while the other 44 were from April 30 to May 16. The 43 deaths in Mumbai have taken the toll in the city to 800. Of the Mumbai deaths, 21 were from the past 24 hours, while the remaining 22 had taken place between April 30 and May 16, officials said. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday admitted Mumbai was facing an acute shortage of ICU beds and called it a ‘hand-to-mouth’ situation for the country’s biggest city. But he added the situation would improve in the next few days as BMC was adding a large number of beds across categories. “We are planning to take the beds in Covid Care Centres from 60,000 to 1 lakh,” Tope said. Tope said the state was taking 80% beds from private hospitals to augment bed capacity, and a notification to fix charges at the government rate for those 80% beds will be issued soon; for the remaining 20% beds, the hospitals can charge their rates. The civic body in a release said the capacity of ICU beds in the city that currently stood at 535 is being augmented to 1,000. It also said the count of beds in 38 dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH, for serious patients) has been increased to 5,030, including 3,657 in the public sector, from 1,960 beds in April. It further claimed there was strengthening of beds in dedicated corona health centres (DCHC, meant for moderately ill or co-morbid patients) too where there are 1,100 beds. “The combined capacity of DCH and DCHC is 6,130 beds. The upcoming jumbo facilities supposed to be ready by May 31 will add to more beds with oxygen. In all, the target is to achieve 10,000 beds of DCH and DCHC,” an official said. Civic officials also confirmed that the city will be part of the sero-surveillance study to be carried out by the ICMR to gauge spread in the community. With 2,127 new cases, the total cases in the state are now 37,136. Tope said the high number of cases were because of large-scale testing. “We are conducting over 15,000 tests in 67 labs in the state. The numbers of cases being added are high, but rate of discharge too is going up,” he said. He also said the doubling rate of the state was almost 14 days now, and the discharge rate was 25%. The total cases in Mumbai are now 22,746. Fifteen deaths were reported from Thane city, 6 from Pune, 3 from Akola, 2 each from Navi Mumbai, Buldhana and Nagpur city and one each from Aurangabad, Dhule and Nashik. The deaths from Thane, 2 from Akola and one each from Buldhana, Dhule, Nagpur, Nashik and Pune were old ones, from April 30 to May 16. Even as the state reported 6 deaths from Pune, the local administration confirmed that 8 more patients admitted to various hospitals succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday. All were aged 50 years and above and had co-morbidities. Over 150 tested positive in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), pushing the tally of cases there over 4,200. Around 150 patients are in critical condition, of which 43 are on ventilator support. A total of 1,202 patients were discharged on Tuesday, the highest so far, taking the total patients to be sent back home to 9,639.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-adds-2127-cases-76-deaths-city-1411-43/articleshow/75837006.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||Key civic projects hit, budgetary allocations sit idle||Lucknow: Multi-crore civic projects have come to a grinding halt following the lockdown and work can't be resumed soon due to exodus of labourers to the rural heartland. Top officials in the urban development department said, the worst-affected infrastructure projects include drainage, sewerage and drinking water. Official sources said, local bodies were readying to go full throttle in completing projects of the new fiscal with budgetary allocations, including Rs 2,200 crore for Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme and Rs 2,000 crore for Smart Cities Mission. The department also received Rs 4,695-crore grant from the finance commission. Principal secretary, urban development, Deepak Kumar, said the department is assessing the quantum of work which could not be taken up after lockdown was clamped. “The department would soon kick-start civic works in local bodies after implementing pandemic guidelines,” he said. Urban development department has also to take care of 8.5 lakh registered street vendors and rickshaw-pullers and 20 lakh labourers. The department pins its hope on Centre’s allocation of Rs 10,000 as working capital for every registered street vendor once lockdown ends. Urban development department officials said, detailed guidelines have to be chalked out for financial aid to street vendors. In April, chief minister Yogi Adityanath transferred Rs 1,000 each to accounts of over 4.61 lakh street vendors, rickshaw pullers and 11 lakh construction labourers. The government also formed a committee under chairmanship of state finance minister Suresh Khanna to oversee rehabilitation of those who lost their livelihoods. Sources said, the department has decided to rope in 60,000 vendors in doorstep delivery, particularly in covid-19 hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/key-civic-projects-hit-budgetary-allocations-sit-idle/articleshow/75837003.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens cautiously optimistic over Nagpur shedding red zone tag||Nagpur: ‘Cautiously optimistic’ is probably the best way to describe how Nagpurians feel about the possibility of the city coming out of the red zone tag from May 22, which could pave the way for many shops and services to reopen. A majority however, look forward to seeing the economy slowly coming out of hibernation. Kaustav Chatterjee, a social and environmental activist, said, “I believe private offices as well as industries around Nagpur should start operating at the earliest as it has direct effect on the economy, but with strict compliance of the government guidelines.” He added that the exit plan needs to be phased out. “The aviation sector must open up so that Nagpur can be connected to other cities,” said Chatterjee. Karan Tuli, a businessman and political activist, said, “Things should open up in a phased manner and I’m confident that the state government will take the right decision. I look forward to resuming my daily walks in the fresh open air.” Rina Sinha, an edupreneur, said, “I look forward to the revival of the economy. Faith and trust in each other’s business and understanding that sanitization and adhering to guidelines is the key to going back to business as usual.” She looks forward to the public transport opening up. “Both city and inter-state transport, but with covid distancing norms. It will be good to see some awareness camps on coping with Covid-19, medically, financially and emotionally,” said Sinha. Dinesh Naidu, a businessman, is looking forward to fresh air and some exercise. “I’m bored of walking on the terrace and in the compound. I will go for long walks,” said Naidu. Sitesh Rawell, a businessman, said, “I think the first place I will rush to is the saloon but will ensure that distancing guidelines are followed. I would like to see more small shops and public transport being opened up as well.” Shivkumar Rao, a businessman, said, “I’m looking forward to resuming my daily 10km run in the open air. Have been missing it badly.” Public relations professional Shobha Dhanwatay said “Within 2km area, at least one of every kind of establishment must start instead of rushing out. It could be a saloon, a spa, an eatery etc” She added that the extended lockdown was a challenge but it was “gracefully accepted, despite its drawbacks”. Amit Pimpale, an architect said that he’s looking forward to the ‘outdoor’life. “I’m just waiting to go jogging and cycling. Wish to be back with nature and spend time in the open,” said Pimpale. He feels that citizens need to show maturity whenever the exit plan is put into motion. “We all must behave like mature citizens and be patient until everything becomes normal,” said Pimpale. Theatre veteran Vikash Khurana said, “I look forward to meeting my friends, colleagues and spending time at my favourite cafés. Also, I’m terribly missing my rehearsals as I have two plays in the pipeline.” He said the lockdown routine gets boring after a point in time. “I was on an eat-sleep-movies-read-repeat mode but after a while, even that too got on my nerves,” said Khurana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-cautiously-optimistic-over-nagpur-shedding-red-zone-tag/articleshow/75836272.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Cambridge first board to declare results this season||Mumbai: The Cambridge International on Tuesday announced the first results among all boards for the season, for its March 2020 exam series in India. Exams for classes X to XII were completed before the lockdown. The March series is popular among Indian students as it enables them to get their results in time to meet local admission deadlines. This year, combined 52,190 entries were submitted for IGCSE (Class X), AS (Class XI) and A (Class XII) levels by 337 schools in the country. Of these, more than 41,000 entries were for IGCSE and over 11,000 for AS and A levels. Mahesh Srivastava, regional director, South Asia, Cambridge International, said, “These are unprecedented times and I feel these exam results give hope and encourage students to plan for the future. As an international education provider, we are committed to getting results out to students on time even in a crisis. We are doing all we can to allow students to continue their education as smoothly as possible.” Schools across the city recorded a high number of students scoring A and A* (highest) grades in various subjects. “Out of the 183 students who appeared, we have achieved 226 A* and 381 As. The highest score is 93.86%. Though the board allowed us to conduct internal exams for A levels, which were scheduled in May- June, we have rescheduled it to the October exam series,” said Bijo Kurian, principal, Witty International School, Malad. Rakhi Mukherjee, principal, Utpal Shanghvi Global School, said, “Students will get sufficient time to plan the further course of studies with the confidence of having their marks in hand.” At the school, 34.4% and 58.7% of all A level and IGCSE grades, respectively, achieved A* and As. At SVKM International School, Vile Parle, around 55% of the grades among IGCSE students were A* and As.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cambridge-first-board-to-declare-results-this-season/articleshow/75834148.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
May 20, 2020||Lucknow||Self-generate your power bill in lockdown||LUCKNOW: With hand held billing suspended during the lockdown, the energy department on Tuesday pitched for trust billing, that is, self-generation of electricity bill. Power minister Shrikant Sharma said UPPCL has been receiving complaints that consumers are not getting bills because of the lockdown. “The problem needs to be addressed swiftly,” he said. For this, he said, the only solution would be trust billing wherein a consumer could generate electricity bill by logging on to UP energy department website www.upenergy.in. Under the process, a consumer has to create an ID and generate bill. The facility will be applicable for consumer having a load up to 9 Kilo Watt. Sharma also emphasised on constitution of a helpdesk at the billing counters. Sharma said the department was also receiving complaints of consumers not being given electricity connections under Saubhagya scheme. Also, many applications under Jhatpat connection and Nivesh Mitr portal are pending. Sharma directed UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar to get the applications disposed of under a set of guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/self-generate-your-power-bill-in-lockdown/articleshow/75837017.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls may see online voting: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday said the upcoming Bihar assembly elections will involve digital campaigning and people may not need to go to polling booths to vote if the Election Commission of India approves the online voting process. “It is certain that the elections cannot be held in the conventional manner owing to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said, adding, Bihar elections may also be held on the lines of the recently held polls in South Korea while maintaining social distancing at polling booths. Assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November this year. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has cast a shadow on not only the elections but electioneering as well. Deliberating upon the possibility of online voting, the senior BJP functionary, told TOI on Tuesday that the Election Commission has been working on the idea of holding online elections even before the Covid-19 pandemic broke. “Several countries have held elections through online medium. Thus, if EC develops such a system here as well, then voters may not be required to go to the polling booths and exercise their franchise sitting at home,” he said. On the expected change in electioneering methods, SuMo said, “Political leaders hold massive rallies and public meets but I do not see any possibility of such conventional electioneering over the next one year or more not only in Bihar but across the country. Old methods will change and new technologies are required to be adopted for reaching out to the electorate.” SuMo added: “Interaction with the electorate will be done mostly through digital medium. Today, every house in Bihar has a television set and all villages in the state get 18-20 hours of electricity. For instance, we are interacting with our party workers in two hour-long audio and video sessions every day. Thus, the next election will be digital election involving digital electioneering.” The deputy CM also emphasized on the expected increase in the relevance of door- to- door campaigning and micro planning for elections. He claimed that BJP is ahead of other parties in using the digital mediums for electioneering and it will have an edge in the upcoming elections too. Patna: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said on Tuesday that upcoming Bihar assembly elections will be a digital election, involving digital campaigning. He said that people may also not need to go to polling booths and they may exercise their franchise through electronic means while sitting in their home. The deputy CM anticipated that Bihar elections may also be held on the lines of recently held polls in South Korea while maintaining social distancing at polling booths. “It is certain that the elections cannot be held in the conventional manner owing to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Assembly elections in Bihar are due October- November, this year. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has cast a shadow on not only the elections but the electioneering as well. Deliberating upon the possibility of online voting, SuMo, a senior BJP functionary, told TOI on Tuesday evening that Election Commission of India has been working on online medium of holding the elections even before the Covid-19 pandemic. “Several countries have held elections through online medium. Thus, if election commission develops such a system here as well, then voters may not be required to go to the polling booths and exercise their franchise sitting at home,” he said. Talking about expected change in electioneering methods, SuMo said: “Political leaders used to hold massive rallies and public meets but I do not see any possibility of such conventional electioneering over the next one or one and a half years not only in Bihar but across the country. Old methods will change and new technologies are required to be adopted for reaching out to the electorate.” On being asked about the expected nature of electioneering in post- Corona period, SuMo said: “Interaction with electorate will be done mostly through digital mediums- audio and video conferring as well as television. Today, every house in Bihar has television and all villages in the state get 18-20 hours of electricity. For instance, we are interacting with our party workers in two hours long audio and video conferring sessions every day. Thus, the next election will be digital election involving digital electioneering.” The deputy CM also emphasized on expected increase in the relevance of door- to- dor campaigning and micro planning for the elections. SuMo claimed that BJP is ahead of other parties in using digital mediums for electioneering ad it will accordingly have an edge in the upcoming elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-polls-may-see-online-voting-sumo/articleshow/75834574.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||Public transport can ply with 50% capacity, salons allowed to open in Doon||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration, on Tuesday, issued a detailed guideline for the commercial activities that are allowed during lockdown 4.0 in the state capital. According to the order, public transport vehicles have been allowed to make interstate and intrastate movement with only 50% occupancy. Salons, spas, and beauty parlours have also been allowed to remain open from Monday onwards. However, only five people (two workers and maximum of three customers) will be allowed inside a salon at a time. It has been mandated that the salon owners should sanitise equipment after using them on a customer. Manvendra Rawat, owner of a salon in the city, told TOI, “I have sanitised my shop on Tuesday to ensure complete safety for my customers and staff. I have received almost 50 calls since this morning from the customers and I am assigning them time slots to abide by the guidelines. I had pre-ordered disposable cutting sheets which will come handy now and help in maintaining a high standard of cleanliness.” In Dehradun and Rishikesh, the movement of private cars has been allowed in an odd-even traffic arrangement. Besides the driver, a maximum of three passengers are allowed to travel in a private car. Only those heavy vehicles, carrying essential supplies, which have been verified by state government, will be excluded from this odd-even arrangement. In the fourth phase of lockdown, restaurants have also been permitted to operate but only home delivery of food is allowed. They can’t provide dine-in facility. Other commercial establishments are allowed to remain operational between 7 am and 4 pm from Monday to Saturday. On Sundays, only vegetable vends, medical stores and other essential supplies can remain open. The permission for private construction will be given to those who have a valid map authorised by development authorities. Also, SDMs and SHOs of the respective areas can be contacted to get permission for marriage functions or funeral processions. Meanwhile, the relaxations extended by the administration exclude gyms, panchkarma (Ayurveda) centres, clubs, swimming pools, movie theatres, shopping malls, hotels, educational and coaching institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/public-transport-can-ply-with-50-capacity-salons-allowed-to-open-in-doon/articleshow/75832994.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hubballi||BWS, other ranges sees 65% decline in forest fires||Belagavi: The number of forest fire incidents in Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary (BWS) and the three vulnerable forest ranges in Belagavi has come down by 65% this summer. The drastic drop in the fire incidents is attributed to the steps taken by the forest department, coupled with lockdown benefits. The measures have also helped herbivorous animals feed on fresh green cover grown after controlled burning. According to officials, the forest department had identified fire-prone patches in the woods to create fire lines. About 36-40 areas had reported burning consecutively in the last four years. The department staff initially collated the data before acting on the ground. Apart from BWS, the protected forest spread on 19,042.58 hectares, the three other vulnerable forest ranges are Khanapur, Kankumbi and Londa. After identification of grey areas, assistant conservator of forest (ACF) Shashidhar said controlled burning was done in early December. “As grassland areas are prone to fire, we burnt grass in December and January. This is the time when dew-drops fall on earth.” Almost all the burnings were done in the evening hours, particularly between 4pm and 7pm. The staffers were mandated to stay at the site until the fire died down, thus ensuring that it does not spread in the deep forest. Because of dew fall after the burn, fresh green cover reappeared, helping sambar, deer, bark deer and other herbivorous animals. The ACF said in BWS, four fire incidents were reported as against 12 in 2019. At Londa forest range, a staggering 93 incidents were reported last year, and the number has come down to 42 now. In Kankumbi and Khanapur ranges, 30 incidents each were reported earlier. Now, it’s just five and six, respectively. The analysis shows that incidents have dipped by about 65%. The officer also attributed the success to lockdown, which has reduced human activities compared to earlier days. Villagers residing near the forests were less frequenting during March and April. This is also one of the contributory factors in the reduction of the fire incidents, he added. GREEN VALLEY: A patch of grassland at Bhimgad National Park in Belagavi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bws-other-ranges-sees-65-decline-in-forest-fires/articleshow/75834143.cms||Shreyas HS
May 20, 2020||Goa||QMC issues stop-work order to ex-councillor||Quepem: The Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) has issued a stop-work notice to former councillor Suchita Sirvoikar regarding 25 allegedly illegal structures under construction at Sirvoi. The order comes after a site inspection by municipal engineer Nitin Kotharkar was submitted to QMC’s chief officer Rohit Kadam, who is also deputy collector of Quepem. Kadam has asked Sirvoikar to present relevant documents on Wednesday, failing which action would be taken as per the Goa Municipalities Act. Quepem mamlatdar Mamesh Gaonkar has also conducted a separate inspection. The civic administration had initiated action following a report published in TOI on May 11 highlighting the alleged illegal construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/qmc-issues-stop-work-order-to-ex-councillor/articleshow/75837038.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Trichy||494 arrive from Maha, despatched to 23 dists||Trichy: A total of 494 people hailing from 24 districts in the state arrived at Trichy junction by a special train from Maharashtra on Tuesday morning. They included eight from Ariyalur, 25 each from Trichy, Karur and Nagapattinam, 15 from Perambalur, 80 from Pudukottai, 29 from Thanjavur and 62 from Triruvarur. They were sent to their districts on 12 special buses arranged by the district administration. The 25 passengers hailing from Trichy were taken to the Government engineering college at Sethurapatti, where they will be in isolation for 14 days for Covid-19 surveillance, collector S Sivarasu said. So far, a total of 2,014 Tamil Nadu residents have returned from various states to Trichy. Meanwhile, out of around 10,000 guest workers staying in Trichy, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur district, 3,497 have started for their native places. “A total of 608 guest workers who had already registered their names to return had been sent by a special train on May 18 from Thanjavur junction. Another 1,464 from Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam started for Bihar on Tuesday”, according to Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/494-arrive-from-maha-despatched-to-23-dists/articleshow/75837011.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||In 18 days of May, 21k traffic violators pay Rs 21.75L fine||Nagpur: In spite of ongoing lockdown in the city, traffic violations continue to soar. As per Nagpur city traffic police data, in 18 days of this month, 20,951 motorists have collectively paid Rs 21.75 lakh fine for flouting traffic rules, while in entire April, 21,449 Nagpurians had paid Rs 29.41 lakh fine. A senior police inspector (traffic) said almost 600 traffic police personnel have been deployed across the city. These cops along with CCTV cameras installed at many busy junctions and important stretches continue to keep track of violators. In May, traffic violations on city roads increased by almost 39% compared to last month. On average, the traffic policemen from 10 zones have been penalizing 1,164 motorists per day in May, while the figure was 714 a day last month. However, the violations as well as fines are far less than in pre-lockdown days. In January 2020, the traffic police had penalized 43,168 motorists and recovered Rs 74.71 lakh as fines. Similarly in February and March, the traffic police penalized 49,365 and 49,952 motorists and collected fine of Rs 74.05 lakh and Rs 74.18 lakh respectively from the violators. “The lockdown affects everyone and it is there to ensure the safety of all. It is unfortunate so many are willing to put their own life and that of their loved ones at risk,” said a traffic activist. Month---Cases---Fine (inRs) JAN---43,168---74,71,100 FEB---49,365---74,05,900 MAR---49,952---74,18,850 APR---21,449---29,41,200 MAY (UPTO 18)---20,951---21,75,500||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-18-days-of-may-21k-traffic-violators-pay-rs-21-75l-fine/articleshow/75837041.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Govt’s Covid helpline gets over 2L calls in 56 days||Jaipur: The state government’s Covid helpline 181 registered over 2 lakh grievances during the first three phases of the lockdown. In order to assist people, the government had designated its Raj Sampark number ‘181’ as the Covid helpline. After the lockdown was imposed (from March 24 till May 18), the department registered 2,16,702 grievances. Of them, 2,04,321 have been disposed of, mostly in less than 48 hours, claim officials. Other than grievances, the helpline also received numerous calls for information. Around 30,986 calls were received daily on an average during the first three phases of lockdown. As the state entered the fourth phase of lockdown, on May 18 the helpline received more than 58,000 calls. The helpline has served as a useful platform for most citizens to reach the government even as they were unable to do so through the routine process. Interestingly, the grievances registered were not of routine nature. Some callers sought transport, some demanded medicine while there were also those who wanted food. All these and many other requests required immediate action and the helpline served its purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govts-covid-helpline-gets-over-2l-calls-in-56-days/articleshow/75837043.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: HC seeks reply on seamen’s paid quarantine||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has sought a reply from the state government authorities on a plea challenging its order imposing cost of quarantine on seafarers’ companies. The petition claims that state government order is violative of relaxations given by the central government. Dixon Vaz, an ex-seafarer and founder of Goan Seamen Association of India, and two others have approached the court and sought that the order issued by Goa government on May 8 be declared as illegal. The order states that seafarers who test negative will undergo mandatory institutional quarantine to be paid by their company for a minimum period of 14 days on arrival in India either by flight or ship. The petitioners have pointed out that the state government order is contrary to the directives issued by Director General of Shipping regarding calculation of 14-day quarantine period. The Director General of Shipping order provides that the period spent on board from the last port of call should be counted as period spent under quarantine, “since the ship itself is disinfected and without any Covid-19 symptoms”. The petitioners have stated that the amount directed to be paid by government might not be paid by the employer company and seafarers will have to pay it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-seeks-reply-on-seamens-paid-quarantine/articleshow/75837059.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Trichy||11 test Covid positive in central TN||Trichy: Central region of Tamil Nadu reported 11 more Covid-19 positive cases from Karur, Thanjavur, Nagappattinam and Trichy on Tuesday. With the addition of six new cases, the total number of active cases in Karur climbed to 18. All the six positives patients, native of Pallapatti, were intercepted at check posts of the district and shifted to hospital. Natives of Karur returning from Maharashtra have been adding up to the total 79 positive cases in the district. On Tuesday, six patients have been discharged after recovery. Three more positive cases were reported on Tuesday in Thanjavur district taking the tally to 75. The patients were a 66-year-old man, his 56-year-old wife and a 29-year-old relative woman of Manakudi village. The couple was staying with their son in Chennai. They tested positive on their return. All of them have been put under quarantine at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. With a new single positive case in Nagapattinam, the total number of positive cases in the district has climbed to 51. The patient is a 36-year-old man returned from Chennai. Trichy district also recorded one Covid-19 case, a 22-year-old man. He is an employee in a private company in Perambalur district. He is a native of Vayaloor. Sample of his mother and some of the secondary contacts were taken by the health department in Trichy district. The officials said that the source of infection of the patient was yet to be ascertained. The officials said that samples of 14 workers in the factory where he was working were collected. The factory was in operation after taking preventing measures. With the new case, the total number of cases touched 68 in Trichy district. Two Covid-19 positive patients under treatment at old government hospital of Pudukottai were discharged on Tuesday. With this, only one patient is remaining in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/11-test-covid-positive-in-central-tn/articleshow/75837047.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||RSLDC to launch 40 courses for labourers||Jaipur: The Rajasthan Skill and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) is introducing around 40 new courses for migrant labourers to prepare them for the job market in the state. These courses were listed based on local industry requirements and to fill the vacuum created by the departure of migrant workers. The duration of these courses is from one month to three months and they are free for all migrants. Neeraj K Pawan, secretary labour, employment and skill, said that they have finalised courses for the inbound migrants which will provide a much-needed workforce to the deserted industries and manufacturing units in the state. “The courses have been chosen from the pool of existing courses while considering the requirements of industry,” said Pawan. Basic courses from plumbing to electrician to semi-skill courses in security, textile, telecom, accounts and those related to the computers. The format of these courses will be dual, online and on the field. The theoretical part will be done through online even via mobile phones. For field training, the government is working out on modalities to make sure that training is provided with the bare minimum resources. Those trained migrants will be provided jobs or employment opportunity by the state through the newly announced online labour exchange platform for migrant workers returning into the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsldc-to-launch-40-courses-for-labourers/articleshow/75837053.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Woman ends life in GMCH bathroom||Nagpur: Mamta Bhade, 42, ended her life in the bathroom at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday. Her husband, a farmer from Seoni in Madhya Pradesh, was admitted a few days due to cardiac ailments. Bhade was found hanging from the ventilator grill with her scarf after her family and GMCH staffers forced open the bathroom door on the second floor after repeated knocks. Bhade, a mother of two, was disturbed since morning, said sources. She is learnt to have attempted suicide in the past too. In another incident within the GMCH premises, 75-year-old Panchgulam Shahu was declared dead after he complained of uneasiness. This incident also took place on Tuesday. He was discharged earlier on May 14 but had been staying on the footpath with his wife instead of returning to his residence in Gayatri Nagar. The two cases were registered as accidental deaths at Ajni police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-ends-life-in-gmch-bathroom/articleshow/75837061.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rare Red-necked Phalaropes spotted at Sambhar Lake||JAIPUR: In a first, pairs of Red-necked Phalarope, a rare species of wetland birds, have chosen India’s biggest inland saline wetland Sambhar Lake as their breeding habitat. Bird watchers and ornithologists are surprised to record these winged guests during May which is breeding season for these waders. Gaurav Dadhich, who managed to take photographs of 10 pairs of Phalarope along the shore, said “Phalarope breeds in the Artic regions of North America and Eurasia. This is possibly the first time that these birds are spotted during summers at Sambhar Lake during the breeding season,” he said. Red-necked Phalaropes nest around Arctic tundra pools. During migration, they pause on shallow ponds in Rajasthan. The Phalarope, known as a unusual bird, has surprised researchers too with the new pattern. “As winter wanes and temperatures begin to rise, these birds return to their native place. It’s a question why these birds are at Sambhar during summers. The species best known for its unusual mating system have surprised us. Last year, it was sighted in April in Jaipur,” ornithologist Asha Sharma said. As characteristics of these birds are different from most birds, researchers and bird watchers are also visiting Sambhar Lake for sighting of rare species. Abay Singh, a birdwatcher, said, “This bird develops a red neck during breeding season, otherwise the young birds are grey and brown above, with buff underparts and a black patch through the eye. In winter, the plumage is grey above and white below.” IUCN wildlife health specialist group member Dr Dau Lal Bohra explained, Phalaropes exhibits reverse sexual dimorphism. He said, “In this species, female is larger and a little more colourful. Females take the lead in courtship and males are left to incubate the eggs and care for the young ones.” The last time anyone had documented a sighting of the Phalarope was over five years ago. But what would otherwise have been an occasion to celebrate is causing concern among conservationists and nature lovers because deaths are still occurring at Sambhar. Last week, death of 14 migratory birds was reported at the lake. “The state government should immediately step into to preserve this Ramsar site as its surprise the bird watchers every time with rare species,” said a bird watcher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rare-red-necked-phalaropes-spotted-at-sambhar-lake/articleshow/75837050.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra wakes up to whiff of freedom||Rajkot: Saurashtra’s commercial capital relished the burst of freedom after lockdown rules were eased after 58 days on Tuesday. As expected, serpentine queues were witnessed outside shops selling tobacco items, mainly mava (lime-laced betelnut mixed with tobacco) as well as farsan shops. The aroma of Saurashtra’s quintessential breakfast —gathiya and jalebi - wafted across the city as people lined up early in the morning to grab their share. Sunil Kanabar, a fafda shop owner at Race Course park said, “The crowd was uncontrollable. We had to request people that everyone would get fafda and jalebi.” Social media accounts of citizens were flooded with their pictures gorging on fafdas and jalebis.In fact, police had to be called in Karanpara area as tobacco addicts and retailers even thronged the shops of traders selling tobacco products in wholesale. An apprehension that another such lockdown could stop the sale of mava was evident. One of the traders was forced to close the shop due to the commotion while others ran out of stock in no time.Shopkeepers at cloth markets, gold market, Kansara Bazaar, plastic marketsin old city areas like Lakhajiraj Road, Dharmendra Road, Para Bazaar and Palace Road were also seen cleaning the cobwebs and layers of dust that had accumulated in their closed premises.The markets on Yagnik Road, Kalavad Road and 150 feet Ring Road also opened, but the response obviously was not as seen in fafda and paan shops.Shops selling non-essentials are allowed to remain open till 4pm while those selling essential commodities will function till 7pm. In line with state government’s directives, Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has announced odd-even formula for the shopkeepers based on the last digit of their property tax number. But several were seen flouting this rule. RMC has decided to paste stickers mentioning number 1 and number 2 on the 65,000 shops by Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtra-wakes-up-to-whiff-of-freedom/articleshow/75834253.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Try opening non-academic activities in educational institutions, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday directed the officials to explore the possibilities of non-educational activities in educational institutions and offices in malls allowed to be opened by following the guidelines of the Central government. The chief minister was reviewing the corona situation in the state with senior officials at his residence. Chief minister Gehlot said due to the efforts of the government and cooperation of the people, Corona infection in the state is under control and the government is exploring extending more relaxation in lock down. The chief minister expressed satisfaction that now the migrants’ walking towards their homes have come to a halt after the government made adequate arrangements for buses and trains. The officials informed that chief secretary is coordinating with his counterparts in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat on the transportation of migrant labourers. The chief minister directed to keep in touch with other states as well so that the workers could reach home safely. ACS Industries Subodh Agarwal informed that the migrant workers travel has been smoothened and in the next five days, 23 trains have been booked from the state. The chief minister said those migrant workers returning from the Gulf and west Asia are not financially well off and the government had to rope in philanthropists to make arrangement for their quarantine. All those who return from foreign countries had to undergo compulsory 14 days’ quarantine in their place of landing and only after mandatory quarantine they will be allowed to go home. The chief minister had appointed officers in charge for 11 districts where a spike in Covid-19 have been reported after the arrival of migrant workers. These officers have been directed to visit the districts and monitor the situation in there. They were also directed to argument the health and quarantine arrangement in the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/try-opening-non-academic-activities-in-edu-institutions/articleshow/75837056.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mangaluru||SSLC student drowns in dam||Mangaluru: An SSLC student drowned in Adyapady dam near Bajpe on Tuesday afternoon. The victim has been identified as Mallik, 17, a resident of Mulur village in Gurpur. According to police, Mallik, along with some others, had come to the dam to catch fish on Tuesday morning. While at it, he slipped into the waters and drowned. His body was recovered later. Bajpe police have registered a case of unnatural death.  Six fishermen were rescued from sinking boat: Six fishermen were rescued from a deep-sea boat, which capsized after hitting a rock near Malpe on Tuesday. The boat was owned by Reshma Kharvi. The incident occurred while the boat was returning after fishing to Malpe harbor. The helsman lost control over the boat after steering got damaged and hit the rock and damaged. The crew of another boat, which was near to the sinking boat, immediately rushed and rescued six fishermen. Attempts to rescue the sinking boat using the yet another boat could not materialise. The loss is said to be about Rs 80 lakh, including Rs. 5 lakh worth items, including fish, net, and other accessories. The boat ventured from Malpe port on May 14 at 10-30 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sslc-student-drowns-in-dam/articleshow/75834217.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaiupur: Masks get facelift as Covid-19 digs in heels for long haul||JAIPUR: If you think masks constantly remind you of corona, conceal your face and have become an everyday drudgery, the days are numbered even as the pandemic keeps raging around the world. Already buyers from overseas markets have reached out-of-work garment exporters with specimens that are going to add another assessory to your outfit, if not the wardrobe. Demand for block-printed masks in various colours and designs with motifs and messages, skin-friendly fabric and fashion quotient are growing, say garment exporters in Jaipur. Buyers from the US, Europe and Japan have already begun sourcing from countries like Bangladesh, Indonesia and Vietnam. So far, India was not the choice for buyers as the country had banned export of masks in on January 31 fearing shortage in the country. But last Saturday, the Centre lifted the curbs for exporting non-surgical and medical masks after the industry lobbied. “Exporters have been approached by buyers from different countries with specimens. Enquiries have come for 5 lakh pieces in the short period following the lifting of the ban. They want masks made of pure cotton and some of them even asked for organic dying and printing. While it is a low margin business, the volume is humongous. For many of us, it can certainly give us a start while we keep our fingers crossed for our core business,” said Naveen Advani, vice-president of Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan. Designer masks have already found a market in the country. One can buy them online and they come in various styles and colours. But Saurav Gupta, a garment manufacturer in Sitapura, who has already supplied 3 lakh masks said masks matching with kurtas is beginning to be a new trend. “We make masks in many colours and designs. But masks matching with kurtas, like in case of dupattas, are beginning to gain traction. Buying houses and big retailers in India are now adding masks to their order of kurtas. While transactional volume is very marginal, certainly it is a trend that Covid-19 has forced on us,” added Gupta. Medical masks have better fabric density to protect virus which are 3mm in size but they cannot be washed and reused. In case of the non-medical or surgical masks, which can be reused after a wash, the fabric is of lower density but can provide a fair level of protection if not fully from the virus. Gupta said it is not only masks, but aam aadmi PPEs are going to be a new trend. PPEs are used by medical and health professionals but they also be used by people when they go out. “In recent weeks, we have started making PPEs for common man who can wear it when they go out. Generally, the virus gets stuck in the clothes and we don’t wash them every time we come back home. In this situation, comfortable wearable PPEs, in sizes of kurtas, can be used. They also don’t look out of place when you wear them,” added Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/masks-get-facelift-as-covid-digs-in-heels-for-long-haul/articleshow/75837060.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Markets open, but owners find odds tough||NEW DELHI: Markets across the city on Tuesday started limping back to the new normal. Though shopkeepers and their employees were seen disinfecting and tidying up their outlets, which were closed for almost two months, customers shied away from venturing out. When TOI visited Connaught Place, Khan Market, Janakpuri City Centre, Sarojini Nagar, South Extension, Laxmi Nagar and Karol Bagh, it found 25-35% shops open, but most of them wore a deserted look. Most shop owners expressed apprehension about consumer footfall picking up in the first two weeks. In Connaught Place, shops of clothing, accessories and jewellery and food outlets had opened their shutters. Market associations said a different set of rules should be framed for spacious planned markets as many were finding it difficult to implement the odd-even rule. New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) president Atul Bhargava said, “We are willing to take all precautions. Different set of rules should be applicable for planned and unplanned markets. There are some properties that have 10 outlets, while many others have just one. How will the market associations decide which places should remain open?” Shopkeepers said they are likely to allow customers in only from Wednesday. Devendra Kumar, a clothing store owner at Janakpuri District Centre, said, “We checked our stock and clothes were put on the shelves again. Each corner was disinfected thoroughly. Others are also following the same protocol.” Sonu Malhotra, who runs Raj Rani Sanitary and Electrical Repair Shop at Rajouri Garden market, said he doesn’t expect things to return to normal anytime soon. “We inspected our goods and took around two hours to disinfect the shop. We got a few customers, but it will take a lot of time for things to go back to normal,” he added. Vijay Shukla, who has a standalone shop selling tobacco products, said he couldn’t even make 33% of his earlier sales. Several paan vendors talked about supply chain problems in procuring tobacco and other products. Liquor shops in west Delhi had no crowding, while many outlets in places like Munirka and Gole Market were found shut. At the popular upscale Khan Market, around 100 shops were open, 40 of essential goods. The traders said they were following the odd-even rule based on store numbers. The market association, however, said operational problems may make this difficult in the long-run. Khan Market Traders’ Association president Sanjiv Mehra said, “It will create a lot of inconvenience to customers as they know us by name and not store numbers. People may come to the market only to find the shop of their choice closed. They will end up visiting the market multiple times, which will result in crowding.” An innovative sanitiser stand was being sold at Karol Bagh market. By pressing a foot pedal, one could release a small amount of sanitiser and use it. Kamal Kumar, the seller who also runs a clothing shop, said, “We are selling them for Rs 1,100 along with a 5 litre bottle of sanitiser, which costs Rs 1,000. Each shop will need them once people start visiting the market. This implement will avoid people touching the sanitiser bottle.” Murli Mani, who heads Ajmal Khan Market Traders’ Association, said all 300 shops have been marked with numbers and traders have agreed to open alternate shops. While a few shops were open in Sarojini Nagar, Ashok Randhawa from the market association said they held a meeting with authorities and decided to remain closed till the month end. He added that some of the restrictions were impractical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/markets-open-but-owners-find-odds-tough/articleshow/75837566.cms||Paras Singh
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Offices not ready to risk it yet, few turn up at work||NEW DELHI: Despite relaxations granted by Delhi government allowing private and public offices to function at full strength, most organisations on Tuesday kept staff at a minimum and worked below the 33% workforce recommended earlier. Busy commercial areas like Bhikaji Cama Place, Barakhamba Road and Nehru Place showed a marginal increase in footfall, but a majority of the private firms preferred continuing with the work-from-home set-up. In a visit to Bhikaji Cama Place in south Delhi, TOI saw temperature screening being carried out at the office complex and guards at the entry point were equipped with hand sanitisers to disinfect the hands of people entering the buildings. Notices had been plastered mentioning that offices would be sanitised twice a day, employees would be screened with thermal guns and shoes would be sprayed with disinfectants. Guards manning the thermal screening post said the notices had been sent to all. Offices resuming on-site operations were working in coordination with the SHO of the local police station. Pankaj Gupta, a visitor who had come to collect documents, said, “Only employees who cannot work from home have been called. The risk is very high.” An IT department employee with a private company on Barakhamba Road, Ved Prakash, said he was called to work when relaxations were announced during Lockdown 3.0, but more staff wasn’t called in on Tuesday. “Only a couple of people from each department are being called in. More people may not be called anytime soon as work is functioning smoothly from home,” he said. Another office-goer in the same area, Virendra Singh, said he was there as his services were required in the legal department. But companies were trying to avoid calling many employees. Ram Avadh, a tea vendor, said he used to get over 200 customers daily, but now hardly five visit his shop. “I have never seen Barakhamba Road this deserted in the past 30 years,” he remarked. A private firm employee, C P Kukreja, said his employer had asked only 20% of the workforce to resume operations. “Currently, we don’t have many clients and most of the work can be handled from home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/offices-not-ready-to-risk-it-yet-few-turn-up-at-work/articleshow/75837569.cms||Paras Singh
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur still not in pink of health, but on way to becoming normal||Jaipur: There were signs of normalcy in markets and on roads here after nearly two months of coronavirus shutdown with shops opening and more vehicles coming out on Tuesday, as the state government announced relaxations in curbs during lockdown 4.0. However, shops in containments zones, curfew areas and malls were still closed, and those that opened outside them had to follow strict social-distancing norms. The lockdown was imposed here on March 21 and the shops were closed since. Jaipur city falls under the high-risk ‘red zone' categorisation for coronavirus, but the government on Monday night allowed reopening of shops in all areas except in containment zones and curfew areas. Jaipur’s all 15 panchayat samitis are under ‘orange zone’. There are 13 containment zones in Ramganj area, which is inside the Walled City of Jaipur. Ramganj is the most-affected place in the city. In the rest of the Walled City, markets are closed, but grocery shops and those selling essentials were already functioning. Out of the Walled City, markets in other areas came alive. “This relaxation was much needed at this time. I suffered losses in two months and now I will try to make up,” Prakash Verma, a shopkeeper in Arjun Nagar, said. He said social-distancing norms will be followed as has been directed by the government. “Everybody now knows about coronavirus and its impact. People need to act in a disciplined manner and maintain social-distancing. I am, therefore, putting a board in front of my shop saying that only five people are allowed inside the shop at one time as per the government rule,” he said. Traffic volume on roads, too, increased and it looked almost like a normal pre-coronavirus day. The government had already given certain relaxations during lockdown 3.0 and people had started their movement in private vehicles. It increased as the much-relaxed lockdown 4.0 kicked in from Monday. The sale of paan, gutkha and tobacco products are still banned. Since Jaipur is in the ‘red zone', no commercial passenger transport is allowed unless specifically permitted. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-still-not-in-pink-of-health-but-on-way-to-becoming-normal/articleshow/75837064.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19 count touches new high of 338 cases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A day after the state government issued fresh guidelines for lockdown 4.0, Covid-19 count touched a new high of 338 cases in the state on Tuesday. It is for the second consecutive time that Covid-19 figures breached the 300-mark in the state. The first time this happened was on Monday when the state recorded 305 cases. The state recorded five deaths — two from Jaipur and one each from Kota, Nagaur and Sikar, bringing the toll to 143. The total cases stand at 5,845. Dungarpur reported highest number of cases as 87 migrants were found infected with the virus. “All of them travelled by buses from Mumbai. We have kept them at quarantine facilities. There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur three days ago but with more migrants reaching here, the tally has increased to 211. All fresh cases in past three days are migrants. All of them have travelled from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. In Pali too, the situation is more or less the same. “Here, 77 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of them, 36 are those who travelled by trains from Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu,” said a health department official in Pali. The continuous fresh spike in the state is mainly due to the increasing number of migrants entering the state and testing positive for Covid-19. It has been happening for the past six days that each day, the state is setting a new record of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day. On May 14, state breached the 200-mark for the first time and reported 206 cases. On the next day, it recorded another high with 213 cases, followed by 213, 242 and 305 in past three days, before it touched 338 cases on Tuesday. Since May 1, as many as 888 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19. Out of these, 232 were diagnosed on Tuesday. The districts which reported cases are: Dungarpur (87), Pali (77), Jodhpur (39), Nagaur (22), Barmer (17), Sirohi (17), Jaipur (17), Udaipur (16), Bikaner (12), Sikar (7), Kota (5), Tonk (5) Ajmer (3), Churu (3), Bhilwara (2), Pratapgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Alwar (1) and Chittorgarh (1). In Jaipur, four cases were reported from Central jail, three from Hasanpura, two each from Chandpole and Sanganer and one case each was reported from Govind Nagar, Ramganj, Bhatta Basti, Transport Nagar, Suraj Pole and SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-count-touches-new-high-of-338-cases-in-state/articleshow/75845635.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 count touches new high of 338 cases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A day after the state government issued fresh guidelines for lockdown 4.0, Covid-19 count touched a new high of 338 cases in the state on Tuesday. It is for the second consecutive time that Covid-19 figures breached the 300-mark in the state. The first time this happened was on Monday when the state recorded 305 cases. The state recorded five deaths — two from Jaipur and one each from Kota, Nagaur and Sikar, bringing the toll to 143. The total cases stand at 5,845. Dungarpur reported highest number of cases as 87 migrants were found infected with the virus. “All of them travelled by buses from Mumbai. We have kept them at quarantine facilities. There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur three days ago but with more migrants reaching here, the tally has increased to 211. All fresh cases in past three days are migrants. All of them have travelled from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. In Pali too, the situation is more or less the same. “Here, 77 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of them, 36 are those who travelled by trains from Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu,” said a health department official in Pali. The continuous fresh spike in the state is mainly due to the increasing number of migrants entering the state and testing positive for Covid-19. It has been happening for the past six days that each day, the state is setting a new record of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day. On May 14, state breached the 200-mark for the first time and reported 206 cases. On the next day, it recorded another high with 213 cases, followed by 213, 242 and 305 in past three days, before it touched 338 cases on Tuesday. Since May 1, as many as 888 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19. Out of these, 232 were diagnosed on Tuesday. The districts which reported cases are: Dungarpur (87), Pali (77), Jodhpur (39), Nagaur (22), Barmer (17), Sirohi (17), Jaipur (17), Udaipur (16), Bikaner (12), Sikar (7), Kota (5), Tonk (5) Ajmer (3), Churu (3), Bhilwara (2), Pratapgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Alwar (1) and Chittorgarh (1). In Jaipur, four cases were reported from Central jail, three from Hasanpura, two each from Chandpole and Sanganer and one case each was reported from Govind Nagar, Ramganj, Bhatta Basti, Transport Nagar, Suraj Pole and SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-count-touches-new-high-of-338-cases-in-state/articleshow/75837069.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bhopal||24 Kuwait-returnees test +ve; 16 new cases in city||Bhopal: On Tuesday, 24 more people — who returned to India from Kuwait — tested positive for Covid-19, said health department. In all, 48 of the 234 passengers have tested positive. The plane had landed in Indore and the passengers are quarantined in Bhopal at 3EME Centre facility at Bairagarh. The first batch of 18 passengers tested positive one Saturday. Since then, 30 more have tested positive. Most of them are hospitalised at Chirayu Medical College and others at Gandhi Medical College, according to district admiration sources. When contacted, district health department officials did not comment increase in Covid-19 among the passengers. According to passenger accounts, they tested negative for Covid-19 twice before their departure and boarding a flight back to India. All are under mandatory quarantine for 14 days. These passengers are from Kerala, Telangana, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Punjab. One person is from Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, Bhopal reported 16 more cases on Tuesday. The total number of positive patients in the state capital has touched 1046. Among them, 632 have recovered and there are 375 active Covid-19 cases. 68 people were added to the recovery list on Tuesday going by health department bulletin. Cases were reported from Jehangirabad and Ashoka Garden area of the state capital. Three who have recovered also donated their blood for ongoing clinical trial of convalescent plasma for Covid-19 at Gandhi Medical College (GMC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/24-kuwait-returnees-test-ve-16-new-cases-in-city/articleshow/75835400.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Trichy||Newly-married couple gifts groceries worth Rs 1L to needy||Trichy: A newly married couple from a village in Nagapattinam has utilized the Rs 1 lakh they saved for their marriage to gift essential items to around 100 labourers in their native place to help them tide over the lockdown. G Manikandan and B Karthika decided to tie the knot even as many couples who were engaged postponed their marriages because of the restrictions imposed. Manikandan is a mechanical engineering graduate working in Pune while his bride is a teaches at a private college in the district. They got married on Monday at a simple event organized at his house in Thevur village in Nagapattinam according to the norms prescribed by the state government.“People in the rural areas have no money even to spend on meals. We thought if our marriage would be postponed to the coming months, it would become a burden for our friends and relatives as they have to gift something. To avert that situation, we decided to complete the event right away,” Manikandan said.Though he had planned to spend Rs 10 lakh for his marriage, the present circumstances brought the budget down to just Rs 2 lakh. Had he gone ahead with the marriage as per their earlier plan, he would have spent Rs 2 lakh for the feast. “So, I decided to spend at least half the amount for donating essential commodities to the needy,” Manikandan told TOI.“Around 2,000 families are there in our village, mostly of washermen and potters. A number of destitute people, widows and disabled also live here. So, we purchased rice and groceries, made them into 100 packages and distributed them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/newly-married-couple-gifts-groceries-worth-rs-1l-to-needy/articleshow/75837067.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 20, 2020||Patna||Autos to run on odd-even rule with 2 passengers in Bihar||PATNA: Two days after the Union home ministry issued guidelines for fourth extension of the nationwide lockdown, state transport department issued a notification on Tuesday allowing certain relaxations in public transport in Bihar. As per the notification, autorickshaws and e-rickshaws will start running from Wednesday on odd-even basis with just two passengers. Cycle rickshaws, on the other hand, will be allowed to carry only one person. “Autorickshaws and e-rickshaws with odd registration numbers will be allowed to run on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and those with even numbers on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. Apart from driver, only two passengers with masks will be allowed in the autorickshaws and e-rickshaws,” state transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said. Taxis and app-based cabs will be allowed to run within the district with only two passengers. These vehicles will be allowed to go outside the state only if a pass is issued by the district transport officer. Passengers in all such public transport vehicles will be mandatorily required to wear face masks. The vehicles will also have to be regularly cleaned and sanitised. Motorcycle taxis will, however, remain prohibited. Also, the existing restrictions will remain in effect in containment zones. The Patna district administration has also issued different timings for textile and readymade garment shops outside the containment zones. As per the order, the shops have been allowed to remain open only between 11am and 4pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Patna DM Kumar Ravi has asked the officials concerned to ensure that all instructions are followed. “The earlier orders regarding opening of shops, including those selling essential and non-essential items, will remain in force. These shops can operate from 6am to 6pm. The new timing is for shops which were granted permissions in the fourth phase of lockdown,” he said. The district administration has also permitted dry cleaners and shops selling furniture, sports items, except for those in the containment zones, to remain open. Divya Prasad Ambashta, owner of a boutique in Digha, said she was discussing plans with other employees in order to do good business with minimal manpower and reduced working hours. “I am still making plans regarding revenue generation. Seeing the current situation and restrictions, it is not very easy to start the business again and expect a profit. Hence, we have decided to open our shop in the coming week after proper planning,” she said. Shubham Kumar, owner of a leading textile showroom at Saguna Mor, who will be reopening his showroom on Wednesday, said, “The working days, hours and manpower have decreased, but there’s no respite as far as rent and electricity bills are concerned. Even though we will be opening the showroom only thrice a week with 33% workforce, we are pressed to give the salary to every employee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/autos-to-run-on-odd-even-rule-with-2-passengers/articleshow/75834488.cms||Archi Rani
May 20, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 count touches new high of 338 cases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A day after the state government issued fresh guidelines for lockdown 4.0, Covid-19 count touched a new high of 338 cases in the state on Tuesday. It is for the second consecutive time that Covid-19 figures breached the 300-mark in the state. The first time this happened was on Monday when the state recorded 305 cases. The state recorded five deaths — two from Jaipur and one each from Kota, Nagaur and Sikar, bringing the toll to 143. The total cases stand at 5,845. Dungarpur reported highest number of cases as 87 migrants were found infected with the virus. “All of them travelled by buses from Mumbai. We have kept them at quarantine facilities. There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur three days ago but with more migrants reaching here, the tally has increased to 211. All fresh cases in past three days are migrants. All of them have travelled from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. In Pali too, the situation is more or less the same. “Here, 77 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of them, 36 are those who travelled by trains from Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu,” said a health department official in Pali. The continuous fresh spike in the state is mainly due to the increasing number of migrants entering the state and testing positive for Covid-19. It has been happening for the past six days that each day, the state is setting a new record of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day. On May 14, state breached the 200-mark for the first time and reported 206 cases. On the next day, it recorded another high with 213 cases, followed by 213, 242 and 305 in past three days, before it touched 338 cases on Tuesday. Since May 1, as many as 888 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19. Out of these, 232 were diagnosed on Tuesday. The districts which reported cases are: Dungarpur (87), Pali (77), Jodhpur (39), Nagaur (22), Barmer (17), Sirohi (17), Jaipur (17), Udaipur (16), Bikaner (12), Sikar (7), Kota (5), Tonk (5) Ajmer (3), Churu (3), Bhilwara (2), Pratapgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Alwar (1) and Chittorgarh (1). In Jaipur, four cases were reported from Central jail, three from Hasanpura, two each from Chandpole and Sanganer and one case each was reported from Govind Nagar, Ramganj, Bhatta Basti, Transport Nagar, Suraj Pole and SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-count-touches-new-high-of-338-cases-in-state/articleshow/75845633.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 count touches new high of 338 cases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A day after the state government issued fresh guidelines for lockdown 4.0, Covid-19 count touched a new high of 338 cases in the state on Tuesday. It is for the second consecutive time that Covid-19 figures breached the 300-mark in the state. The first time this happened was on Monday when the state recorded 305 cases. The state recorded five deaths — two from Jaipur and one each from Kota, Nagaur and Sikar, bringing the toll to 143. The total cases stand at 5,845. Dungarpur reported highest number of cases as 87 migrants were found infected with the virus. “All of them travelled by buses from Mumbai. We have kept them at quarantine facilities. There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur three days ago but with more migrants reaching here, the tally has increased to 211. All fresh cases in past three days are migrants. All of them have travelled from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. In Pali too, the situation is more or less the same. “Here, 77 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of them, 36 are those who travelled by trains from Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu,” said a health department official in Pali. The continuous fresh spike in the state is mainly due to the increasing number of migrants entering the state and testing positive for Covid-19. It has been happening for the past six days that each day, the state is setting a new record of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day. On May 14, state breached the 200-mark for the first time and reported 206 cases. On the next day, it recorded another high with 213 cases, followed by 213, 242 and 305 in past three days, before it touched 338 cases on Tuesday. Since May 1, as many as 888 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19. Out of these, 232 were diagnosed on Tuesday. The districts which reported cases are: Dungarpur (87), Pali (77), Jodhpur (39), Nagaur (22), Barmer (17), Sirohi (17), Jaipur (17), Udaipur (16), Bikaner (12), Sikar (7), Kota (5), Tonk (5) Ajmer (3), Churu (3), Bhilwara (2), Pratapgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Alwar (1) and Chittorgarh (1). In Jaipur, four cases were reported from Central jail, three from Hasanpura, two each from Chandpole and Sanganer and one case each was reported from Govind Nagar, Ramganj, Bhatta Basti, Transport Nagar, Suraj Pole and SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-count-touches-new-high-of-338-cases-in-state/articleshow/75845631.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Centre failed to draft policy on welfare of workers, says Deputy CM Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot alleged that the Centre has utterly failed to formulate any concrete policy to send migrant workers to their respective states and provide relief to them. Pilot said that by not allowing entry of thousands of migrant labourers struggling to go home in hundreds of buses arranged by the Congress on Uttar Pradesh border, the UP government was playing negative politics. “It is unfortunate for migrant workers to be denied access to their homes. This is the time to understand their responsibility towards migrant workers and understand their suffering while keeping sensitivity towards them. The labourers are facing a lot of trouble due to the current situation. It is the social responsibility of all of us to share their grief and pain,” he said. He met migrant workers at a camp in Kamla Devi Budhia School, Hirapura, 200 feet bypass, Ajmer Road on Tuesday. Transport minister and transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas will be present on the occasion. Pilot distributed food items, biscuit packets, water bottles and footwear to workers. He also directed the officials to take the migrant workers to their locality in a safe and orderly manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-failed-to-draft-policy-on-welfare-of-workers-pilot/articleshow/75837065.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Cotton Market closed again as NMC’s norms irk vendors||Nagpur: City’s wholesale vegetable market — Cotton Market — resumed its business after 50 days of lockdown on Tuesday. Within hours, the wholesale vendors associated with Mahatma Phule Sabji va Fal Adatiya Association closed the market expressing anguish over Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s decision to allow only 40 vendors to do business in a day. “There are more than 300 vendors and allowing a mere 40 per day means a vendor will do business once a week,” said association’s secretary Ram Mahajan. Hence, the association members have decided not to open the market until lockdown is in force, said Mahajan. On Tuesday morning TOI visited the market and found the NMC’s lockdown rules were brazenly violated. The market was abuzz with activity of both sellers and buyers. At least 2,000 people including vendors, vegetable growers visited the market, said Mahajan, adding it is not possible to maintain the Covid distancing norms in wholesale vegetable markets like Phule Market. “The situation of vegetable markets across the country is not different,” he justified. The NMC had shut the market on March 30 due to non-compliance of norms laid down to contain the spread of coronavirus in the city. The association then opposed the move and apart from submitting a memorandum to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, their delegation also met additional commissioner Ram Joshi. “However, the NMC denied permission to restart the market after which we met mayor Sandip Joshi,” said Mahajan. Even Joshi’s order to Mundhe to restart the market was not obliged by the administration. On May 17, the NMC issued an order to restart the wholesale vegetable market with some riders including Covid distancing, wearing masks and opening shops on rotational basis. According to vendors, vegetable business is a daily trade. “If one does not open shop daily, one will not only lose vegetable growers but buyers too,” said Mahajan. “With over 300 vendors in the market, it would not be possible to do business with the diktat issued by the civic body,” said Mahajan. According to Mahajan, the wholesale traders have decided not to open shops during lockdown. “We will open the shops only when lockdown is lifted,” he said. A senior official from NMC’s market department said the administration won’t allow any violations of lockdown rules laid to contain spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cotton-market-closed-again-as-nmcs-norms-irk-vendors/articleshow/75836342.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 20, 2020||Patna||96 more Covid cases in Bihar, tally rises to 1,519||PATNA: With 96 people, including 14 women, testing positive for the Covid-19 virus on Tuesday, the total number of cases went up to 1,519 in the state. One ofthe cases was reported from Pandarak in Patna . Altogether 534 people have recovered from the virus infection so far, while the number of active cases stood at 976 and nine persons have died. Total 40 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the past 24 hours after they tested negative. On Tuesday, new Covid- 19 positive cases were reported from 14 districts across the state. Jehanabad reported the highest number of cases at 3, followed by 14 in Begusarai, four in Aurangabad, three each in Arwal, Gaya, Nawada and Supaul, two each in Buxar, Sheikhpura, Madhepura and Bhagalpur and one each in Patna and Samastipur. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary (health), told this newspaper on Tuesday that most of the Covid-19 patients are migrants who came from other states by special trains. “To expedite the testing of samples in Bihar, we are purchasing Cobas, a fully automated high-end machine for performing RT- PCR tests for Covid-19,” he said. He added: “The machine would likely come by May 20 at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna. The daily testing capacity would increase to 2,500. It will take 2- 3 days to set up this machine.” The health department is also planning to set up RT-PCR labs at Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH), Gaya, Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College and Hospital, Madhepura, Vardhman Institute of Medical sciences, Pawapuri and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna. Sanjay said these testing facilities would begin functioning by May- end. Meanwhile, two new cases were reported from Barh and Pandarak, taking the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Patna district to 168. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said as of now 49 people have been sent home after their third result of samples tested negative. “There are 117 active cases in the district and so far, two deaths have been reported,” he added. According to health officials, 50,563 samples have been tested till Tuesday afternoon and the results of more than 3,000 samples are pending. Around 754 positive cases were reported after May 3 after migrants from other states started arriving. So far, 1,400 samples of migrants have been collected of which 4-5% have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/96-more-covid-cases-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-1519/articleshow/75835405.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 20, 2020||India||Trade unions move ILO, say changes in labour laws ‘undermine’ global norms||NEW DELHI: In the wake of certain changes in labour laws effected by over a dozen states, central trade unions with the exception of RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) have complained to the International Labour Organisation, alleging that India has “undermined” the ILO Convention 144 concerning tripartite consultations for implementation of global labour standards. India is a signatory to the Convention. In a complaint to ILO secretary general Guy Ryder, representatives of central trade unions — INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC — have said the Indian working people have been subjected to “inhuman sufferings owing to loss of jobs, loss of wages and eviction from residences” during the lockdown. The unions have termed as “unfortunate” the government’s support to “blanket exemptions” given to industrial establishments by some states. “It is unfortunate that the government of India supports the blanket exemptions to all establishments from the employers’ obligation under all substantive labour laws for a period of three years by state governments... empowering employers to hire and fire workers at their convenience, freezing collective bargaining rights and undoing the rights of occupational safety and health...” the trade unions said. They sought ILO’s intervention “in the interest of the working class of India”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trade-unions-move-ilo-say-changes-in-labour-laws-undermine-global-norms/articleshow/75837734.cms||Swati Mathur
May 20, 2020||Goa||Mines dept to regulate no. of mining truck trips||Panaji: To reduce air pollution in the mining belt, the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) has decided to regulate transportation of iron ore by reducing the number of trips made by the trucks. The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) had written to the DMG asking that the number of trips by the trucks be reduced in areas where it has noticed air pollution. “After reducing the truck trips, we hope the air pollution in the mining belt will reduce,” an officer said. On May 17, TOI had reported that iron ore transportation has once again led to increase in air pollution in the state’s mining belt. Air monitoring data with the GSPCB showed the pollution was due to ore transportation activities, which commenced in March. The pollution board monitors air quality at 12 locations across the state through air ambient quality monitoring stations. As per the report from the monitoring stations installed at Capxem, Sanvordem, Sanguem, Ambegal-Pale and Curchorem, pollution has exceeded the PM10 limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mines-dept-to-regulate-no-of-mining-truck-trips/articleshow/75837081.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Dehradun||Odd-even scheme starts, buses to ply with 50℅ capacity soon||Dehradun: The odd-even traffic rule came into effect in seven cities of Uttarakhand — Haldwani, Rudrapur, Kashipur, Haridwar, Dehradun, Kotdwar and Roorkee — on Tuesday. According to the rule, vehicles with registration numbers ending in odd numbers are allowed on the roads on odd dates and even-numbered vehicles are allowed on the roads on even dates. Addressing mediapersons regarding the scheme, secretary (transport) Shailesh Bagauli said, “The arrangement has been made to ensure that minimum possible vehicles are out on the road during lockdown relaxation hours. We would like to recommend people who have one vehicle to go for car pool or use a public transport.” The official pointed out that the buses would be permitted to ply within the city with 50% of their passenger capacity. “We are working out an elaborate plan and it will be rolled out soon,” added Bagauli. Meanwhile, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that buses would only be permitted to ply between green zone districts. “The two green zone districts must be neighbouring to each other as a public transport is not allowed to pass through an orange or a red district,” said the minister. As per state government claims, a total of 2.30 lakh people have registered themselves for returning to Uttarakhand. Out of which, 1.11 lakh people have already reached Uttarakhand and another 10,000 are expected to arrive in the next few days. The maximum of 37,000 people have returned from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/odd-even-scheme-starts-buses-to-ply-with-50-capacity-soon/articleshow/75833076.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 20, 2020||Jaipur||10-year-old with rare neuro ailment beats coronavirus||JAIPUR: A 10-year-old girl, who was suffering from a rare neurological disorder, defeated Covid-19 in Jaipur. Doctors said they did not have much knowledge about how she would respond to Covid-19 treatment given her neurological disorder, but eventually she managed to beat the virus. “She was the first case of Covid-19 accompanied by the rare disease of Covid-19in the state. There was a concern about how she will respond to the treatment. Globally there is not much literature available about how patients with rare diseases suffering from Covid-19 need to be treated. We provided her hydroxychloroquine. It was nice to see that she responded well,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, superintendent of JK Lon Hospital and an expert of rare diseases. However, the girl took a much longer time to recover in comparison to other children. The day Aditi (name changed) complained of seizures, her family rushed her to JK Lon Hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19. She was admitted to the Covid-19 ward on May 1. Due to her medical condition, the girl is unable to speak and depend on others for routine work. She only can hear and remains in bed all the time. Her father narrated the ordeal he had faced in the last 15 days. “Since birth, my daughter has been suffering from rare neurodevelopment disorder known as Rett syndrome. Her physical growth is just like any normal child but her mind has not developed. On April 29, she complained of seizures and we rushed her to JK Lon Hospital, where she tested positive,” said her father. “We rushed her for treatment for seizures, which is common in Rett syndrome. We were not aware that she was suffering from Covid-19 too. They took my samples and I was found infected with the virus too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-yr-old-with-rare-neuro-ailment-beats-coronavirus/articleshow/75837074.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Trichy||Man ‘marries’ minor twice to swindle gold, utensils, arrested under POCSO||THANJAVUR: Vallam all-women police have arrested a 43-year-old man under POCSO Act for sexually assaulting a minor after illegally marrying her. The accused also married the girl for a second time at a mass wedding programme for appropriating gold and utensils from the organizers. Police identified the accused as S Balraj, 43, a native of Mettupatti, an agent who hires workers for textile showrooms. He was booked under POCSO Act and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 for committing penetrative sexual assault on the minor repeatedly. He is remanded in judicial custody. The 14-year-old minor, a native of Thiruverumbur in Trichy district, had moved to Valappakudi village in Thanjavur district along with her family for employment. During his visit to Valappakudi for hiring workers, Balraj noticed the girl and decided to marry her. Despite the girl’s opposition, the accused married the girl exploiting the poverty of the girl’s family. The marriage was conducted at his relative’s house in Pudukottai district in 2019. After the wedding, he took her to a rented house in Pudukottai. Balraj had sexually tortured her on a daily basis. Later, hiding his marriage with the girl, He again married her in a mass wedding ceremony organised ununder the marriage assistance scheme as part of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's birth anniversary celebrations on March 22 in Thanjavur. After the ‘second marriage’, he moved to his native place at Mettupatti along with the girl. Balraj also forced the girl to lodge a false rape attempt complaint against a few people from his native place as he had issues with them. As the girl refused to lodge such a false complaint, an angered Balraj threatened to kill her. However, the girl managed to escape from the house on Monday and lodged a complaint with the all-women police at Vallam in Thanjavur district with the help of her relatives. Based on her compliant, police registered a case and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-marries-minor-twice-to-swindle-gold-utensils-arrested-under-pocso/articleshow/75837070.cms||---
May 20, 2020||India||50 ventilators coming soon, says US, trashes talk of $2 million payment||NEW DELHI: The first tranche of 50 ventilators being donated by the US will arrive in India in a few days, with another 150 coming in the next few weeks, US officials told journalists on Tuesday. They refuted some news reports which had said India would be paying over $2 million for the ventilators. “This is a donation. The US government plans to donate 200 ventilators to India, and we expect the first tranche of 50 to arrive soon,” said Ramona El Hamzaoui, acting director of the US Agency for International Development (USAID). Ventilators, she said, are being provided by the US to a number of countries to help fight the Covid-19 pandemic. This was announced by US President Donald Trump in a tweet a couple of days ago. The US is donating 200 ventilators to Russia as well, along with several other countries, as part of the $900 million assistance programme in the time of the pandemic. While Trump has threatened to cut off funding to the WHO, Meghna Desai, representative of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), said they were working on WHO reform that “access to vaccines and supply chains should be open to all”. The CDC has recently given $3.6 million to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/50-ventilators-coming-soon-says-us-trashes-talk-of-2-million-payment/articleshow/75837738.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Delhi||As police fail to break barriers, residents face the heat in Delhi||NEW DELHI: There was a major stumbling block in the way of resumption of economic activities in Delhi on Tuesday. Many roads in residential colonies were closed, not only obstructing the movement of home service providers like domestic workers and cleaners, but also forcing people going for work or to their businesses to spend more time exiting the areas. Explaining why road barriers were put up on colony roads, police claimed the arrangements were to create a single-point entry and exit of vehicles to facilitate a check of the specified norms for cars. In some places, with traffic stalling at peak hours, the residents had to remove the barricades to ease the movement of vehicles. In areas like Mayur Vihar, Chittaranjan Park, Vasant Vihar and Saket, with little or no public transport available during the peak hour, house workers were reluctant to report for the daily chores. “There should be some relaxation for such workers, at least during the peak hours,” complained Saket resident Rukmini Singh. “They have to walk all the way to the entry points and most are unwilling to do this due to the summer heat.” Pawan Kumar, who works as a driver in Kalkaji, was an example of the troubled worker. “I had to walk nearly seven kilometres to reach my employer’s house because the colony roads were closed,” he said. “Only e-rickshaws and autos were agreeable to finding ways past the barricades.” Police officers, however, said things would ease on Wednesday. “We don’t want people to face unnecessary hassles. It’s just that a single entry and exit point allows us to keep an eye on the people coming to the colonies. The SHOs are in touch with the residents and have been instructed to decide on clearing the roads as and when required,” said an officer. Despite the problems, most RWAs were in favour of keeping barricades in place for a few more days to check any violation of the lockdown rules. “We feel this arrangement should continue although people are facing problems,” said Sanjay Rana of Greater Kailash II RWA. “It is or the safety of the residents. However, we can work on acceptable convenience for everyone.” In places like Vasant Vihar, vehicles were not allowed on colony roads except Vasant Marg. “It is more of a law and order issue,” explained Gurpreet Bindra of the local RWA. “I will request police to review the situation and open the roads for vehicles if they feel it is okay. The RWAs have been told they cannot decide such issues.” In east Delhi, cops heeded requests from residents and opened most colony roads during the peak hours. “We are seeing how the situation unfolds over the next few days,” said B S Vohra, East Delhi Association of RWAs. “Since we have been asked not to interfere with the state government’s decisions, we will not ourselves take active interest for the time being. After monitoring the situation for a few days, we will submit an assessment report to Delhi government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-police-fail-to-break-barriers-residents-face-the-heat/articleshow/75836717.cms||---
May 20, 2020||India||Radio operators approach PM, seek 300 crore aid to stay afloat||NEW DELHI: The Association of Radio Operators in India on Tuesday petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, seeking a Rs 300 crore relief package for FM radio channels to remain afloat. AROI president Anurradha Prasad said while the radio industry had looked with hope towards the government’s economic revival package, it was “deeply pained” to note that none of the measures announced had any effect on the private FM radio sector. The only measure, credit relief to MSMEs, will help only 31 of 371 FM radio stations leaving the remaining 340 which fall outside the purview of MSME without any help, Prasad said. AROI, which had in its previous submissions to the I&B ministry said private FM radio sector is staring at cumulative losses of Rs 600 crore by the end of September this year, also said since the FM radio sector is expected to pay, over the next 12 years, approximately Rs 15,000 crore to the government by way of migration, licence fee, rentals, and GST, a “survival relief package” of Rs 300 crore to keep the sector alive is “in the interest of the nation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/radio-operators-approach-pm-seek-300-crore-aid-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/75837743.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Residents of red light area fleeced by touts||Nagpur: Hordes of residents hailing from the city’s red light area (Ganga Jamuna) were allegedly compelled to pay Rs4,500 by agents who allegedly used fake Aadhaar cards to prepare their inter-state passes as ‘hamaals’ or labourers as well as migrants for seeking permission to return to their homes in Madhya Pradesh. The names of a couple of police personnel too are surfacing as part of the racket. Sources at Ganga Jamuna said that several lanes of the red light area now wear a deserted look following the mass exodus. On Monday late evening, a bus was leaving for Gwalior with around 38 passengers from Ganga Jamuna but was intercepted by Lakadganj police for verification of passes which were apparently by the collector office. As the passes appeared doubtful, cops detained the bus overnight. On Tuesday, the bus was allowed to roll out of city after it came to fore that the passes were genuinely issued by the collector office. A police source said the collector office had issued the pass from Khaparkheda to Gwalior but the bus was leaving from city’s Ganga Jamuna locality. “The bus was allowed as the passes issued were genuine,” said senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station. Collector Ravindra Thakare said police should have booked the passengers for offence under section 188 of IPC for the of lockdown norms. “We had issued the passes as they were applied as migrant labourers. If we find that anyone has misused the system, they would be taken to task,” he said. After Lakadganj police facilitated the exit of 24 persons and two drivers with authentic passes in a bus following the norms of inter-state journey, a racket came alive in the red light area offering a package for the rest of the residents to leave for Gwalior and other places for Rs4,500, including arrangement of passes. A source stated that many residents of the locality possess double Aadhaar cards, including one with the address of their native places. “The Aadhaar cards having addresses of MP were used in many cases to prove that they were outstation labourers stranded in the city due to lockdown. As local cops were not allowing their exit, the agents misused the facility offered at a senior officer’s office,” said the source. “Some of the local residents also used address proof of Pardi to prove that they were casual labourers stuck in the city and wanted to go back to their native places. The agents and some policemen coordinated the entire efforts of preparing their application and sending them to either a senior police officer or the collector for issuance of passes,” he said. The names of some police personnel have surfaced for conniving with the agents. An elderly resident of the area said the exodus was orchestrated. “There was no dearth of food or ration kit as cops and NGOs were helping. Some local agents misled the residents stating that coronavirus was fast catching up and that their livelihood was at stake. The unaware residents fell prey to these rumours and decided to pay the amount,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/residents-of-red-light-area-fleeced-by-touts/articleshow/75835830.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant women throng NMC camp for Covid testing||Nagpur: Unlike some containment zones, Nagpur Municipal Corporation's ante-natal checkup (ANC) camp for pregnant women organized at urban primary health centre in Babulkheda in Rameshwari got good response on Tuesday. Over 100 women visited the camp while 46 swab samples were collected for Covid testing, zonal medical officials said. On Wednesday, the camp is likely to be held at Manewada. The camp was mainly intended to benefit women from Parvati Nagar area, others from as far as Manish Nagar too came, officials said. This led to huge rush at Manavata High School where the camp was put up. The pregnant women were mobilized with the help of door to door survey carried out by Asha workers, officials said. Earlier, ANCs were held at Mahdibagh, Pachpaoli, Mominpura, KT Nagar, Sudam Nagari in Pandhrabodi. The city has recorded eight pregnant women who tested positive for coronavirus. Five pregnant women alone were found positive from ANC at Mominpura on May 14. Two of them were into their ninth month and delivered healthy babies at IGGMCH and GMCH. Later, two more women delivered babies at these hospitals. Total four pregnant women tested during ANCs have tested positive and given birth to negative babies. Officials said pregnant women nearing their term must compulsorily get themselves checked up at ANC and give their samples. “As there is risk to doctors and medical staff from them, these women must ensure they got themselves tested for Covid. The result will help in ensuring the hospital staff doesn’t get infected in case they are carriers,” they said. Earlier, the rush had panicked residents of Babulkheda where the camp was held. People complained the crowding of women raised concern of spread of coronavirus. A doctor at the camp said, “Initially there was rush for swab testing but we controlled the crowd and made them stand with physical distancing. People were getting impatient because of the rush and the rising temperature.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-women-throng-nmc-camp-for-covid-testing/articleshow/75835844.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 20, 2020||Business||Malls seek e-tail nod, to home-deliver products||Kolkata: Restaurants and retailers who are present in city malls have urged the government to allow them to function as home delivery and e-retail entities and start off-site sales even as the embargo on customer entry continues. Speaking to TOI, owners of restaurants with multi-mall presence said that the facilities in which they are present have not been allowed to open to public even in lockdown 4.0, while the restaurants should be allowed to operate their kitchens and deliver food through orders placed online or through food delivery aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato. “Just ahead of the first lockdown, the malls had shut without notice on March 20-21. There are perishables that are lying in cold storage that need to be discarded and kitchens cleaned. It is only fair that we should be allowed to do so as well,” said restaurateur Anjan Chatterjee, who has 18 restaurants, including Oh! Calcutta, Mainland China and Asia Kitchen, across six city malls. Sisir Bajoria who has 12 restaurants in malls, including Chili’s and Subway, had scheduled pest control and sanitisation expecting that they will be allowed to function with social-distancing norms, including re-organised seating and reduced covers, is going ahead with application for police passes so that the kitchen in these units can be ready for at least home delivery. Sushil Mohta, developer of Acropolis and co-developer of South City, doesn’t see why kitchens in malls cannot function or stores access their stocks for home delivery. “Till the time the ministry of home affairs and state government decides to allow malls to function, we believe there is no curb on home delivery of food and e-tailing from units in malls,” he said. South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree agrees but he isn’t prepared to take chances till there is a written permission. Shiv Daswani of children’s wear retail brand Little Shop that has 11stores in malls pointed out how children outgrow clothes. “There are a whole lot of essentials required for newborns that our stores cater to. I have received calls from couples who have recently had a child and are desperate for specific merchandise and toiletries for infants but I have been unable to help,” he rued. Rahul Saraf, owner of a mall each in Kolkata and Howrah and director of Shopping Centres Association of India that has already prepared an SOP for mall operation and submitted it to the Union home minister and Bengal chief minister, said the lockdown that will soon be two months long has both mall operators and retailers with a presence in them bleeding. Malls that have been shut for nearly two months. — Basabdatta Sarkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/malls-seek-e-tail-nod-to-home-deliver-products/articleshow/75835855.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Shopkeepers hope biz will gather steam||Nagpur: Tuesday was the first day of the opening of auto spares, hosiery, opticals and stationery shops after a gap of two months. The owners have heaved a sigh of relief and now hope that business will pick up. Akshay Patil of Akshay Opticals said that he had suffered a loss of business due to the lockdown.“Since morning, the only customers who wanted their glasses or frame repaired have turned up. No one came to buy new glasses as most eye specialists are yet to start their clinics,” he said. Patil said that even though he suffered losses, he supported the decision to allow shops to open on alternate days and that too up to 7pm. “Nearby, we have the containment zone of Pandhrabodi. I fear for my life. I would not have opened my shop but other shops would have started their establishments and taken away my business,” he added. The shop owner complained that even though his swipe machine was deactivated, he was charged a rental of Rs 3,000 for his two shops. An employee of Lawrence & Mayo Opticals, however, said that shops should be allowed to remain open on all days as the owners were finding it difficult to pay salaries. Kamal Bajaj of Cardin Garments said that even though he sold garments, he was selling only hosiery. “It is difficult to pay shop assistants by selling hosiery only. Only two customers have turned up since morning to buy hosiery. NMC should allow us to sell garments. I used to earn Rs 2,000 every day so you can calculate my loss,” he added. Sudeep Jain of Naveen Stationeries said that his business was down even after opening his shop last week as people were not buying much from his establishment as schools and colleges have closed. “Only government offices have purchased a few items,” he told TOI. Mahesh Hinge of New Taj Automobiles said that he was not getting much business on the first day. “I run a garage too but my mechanic is from Satranjipura, which is in a containment zone. He is unable to come to work and the customer is angry as I am unable to repair his vehicle. I have suffered a loss of around Rs 3.5 lakh in two months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shopkeepers-hope-biz-will-gather-steam/articleshow/75835868.cms||Ashish Roy
May 20, 2020||India||India too may ban 27 pest killers outlawed elsewhere||NEW DELHI: The Centre has proposed banning 27 insecticides which are currently being used by farmers in India though they have long been banned in many countries across the globe due to the threat they pose to human and animal health. The agriculture ministry issued a draft proposal on the ban on May 14, saying use of these 27 insecticides is likely to “involve risk to human beings and animals”. While the ministry may issue its final order banning the insecticides in July, it has, in the meanwhile, sought objections or suggestions from stakeholders on its draft proposal within 45 days. The insecticides in the list of 27 include Acephate (already banned in 32 countries as it is toxic to honey-bees), Atrazine (toxic to fish and other aquatic lives), Benfuracarb (banned in 28 countries and not approved by EU), Captan (toxic to fish), Diuron, Malathion, Zineb and Ziram. No person will be allowed to import, manufacture, sale, transport, distribute and use these insecticides from the date of the final order. "This is a welcome step from the central government and we hope that they will not take too long to notify the actual ban, unlike the last time where unreasonable delay was witnessed between the draft notification and actual order,” said Kavitha Kuruganti from the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA). Kuruganti, farm activist, who has been pursuing the issue of banning such toxic insecticides/pesticides for long, said, “This list of 27 insecticides includes some deadly pesticides like chlorpyrifos, 2,4-D, acephate, quinalphos etc., which are known to cause numerous adverse impacts. We would now like the government to pick up the remaining pesticides that we had submitted to the Supreme Court when we pointed out that India has more than 100 pesticides that have been banned elsewhere". The ministry’s move is in continuation of its decision in August, 2018 when it had banned 18 pesticides on the basis of recommendation of an expert committee. Of these 18, 12 pesticides had been banned with immediate effect in 2018 while ban on another six will be implemented from December 31, 2020. “The Expert Committee itself was set up way back in 2013 and the government irrationally depended on industry to generate data for the review of these pesticides to take place rather than depend on independent literature that is already pointing to numerous problems with these bannable pesticides,” said Kuruganti. Asked about procedures, an official in agriculture ministry said, “Technical reviews are carried out from time to time by expert committees to assess the safety and efficacy of registered pesticides for their continued use or otherwise.” Till now, 44 pesticides have been banned for import, manufacture and use in the country; two pesticides are banned for use but continued to manufacture for export; eight pesticides have been withdrawn from the list of approved ago-chemicals; nine pesticides are restricted for use in the country and six pesticides will be phased out by December 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-too-may-ban-27-pest-killers-outlawed-elsewhere/articleshow/75837749.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||After dull start, tendu collection picks up||Nagpur: Amid the Covid-19 scare, collection of tendu leaves has picked up in the state after initial dull start. According to forest officials, the tendu season started from April 27, but in the first two weeks till May 10, only 2,500 standard bags were collected. Last week, 32,500 standard bags (20%) of the targeted 1,76,730 bags were collected. A standard bag contains 1,000 bundles of 70 leaves each. “Due to fear of spread of coronavirus, tendu auction was affected and only 144 units of the total 279 in seven forest circles — Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Nagpur, Bhandara, Yavatmal, Dhule, Aurangabad and buffer zones of Tadoba and Pench — were sold after 8th round of auctioning. The forest department generated revenue of Rs26.48 crore from the auction of these units,” said APCCF TK Choubey. Choubey adds, due to various restrictions owing to lockdown from March 25, there was poor response from bidders as they were worried about arrangement of labourers, who are brought from outside the state, and transport of produce. “Only after some relaxation from the government for minor forest produce (MFP) collection, including transportation, some units could be sold. Similarly, only 23 units could be sold out of 46 in PESA villages under Option 1 category,” he adds. Tendu collection has started by following Covid-19 distancing and use of sanitizers. Tendu (diospyros melanoxylon), which is also called Indian ebony tree, is found widely in Central India. Its leaves are used in making bidis, which are still consumed by thousands of rural folks due to its peculiar taste and being cheaper. Tendu collection is a significant alternative source of income in many forest fringe areas. Considering its employment generation potential, tendu collection was put under the permissible list under Covid-19 guidelines. DyCF Prabhunath Shukla said, “After initial fears, tendu collection has started successfully with the support of district administration which delegated powers of issuing movement passes to contractors, managers, labourers etc related with tendu activity.” “In Nagpur division, there are 31 group of units. Out of these, 27 have been e-auctioned fetching Rs5.13 crore. Considering Covid-19 threat, collection centres are avoiding crowd and during the plucking of leaves also villagers are maintaining Covid distancing and wearing masks,” Shukla said. Villagers have been advised not to enter forest early morning or late evening and move in groups to get rid of man-animal conflict situations. Forest teams are visiting at each centre and villages to spread awareness. Tendu collection will continue till mid-June. Tendu collectors get Rs2,200 wage per standard bag and in Gadchiroli the rate is Rs3,000. Besides, out of the auctioned price of units, government will declare bonus amount to be given to tendu collectors next year based on the quantum of leaves collected this year. WITH PIC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-dull-start-tendu-collection-picks-up/articleshow/75835900.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||HC: Explore testing for med, police staff||Nagpur: Equating medical and police personnel with “brave hearts in the armed forces”, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked the collector and police commissioner to explore conducting Covid-19 testing on a pilot basis on those discharging duties in containment areas of Mominpura and Satranjipura. While directing them to reply within 48 hours, justice Rohit Deo stated that the citizens appear to be broadly appreciative of the bureaucracy’s role in handling the extraordinary situation. “The only anxiety is that both should come with a structured response to the suggestion of a pilot project and take a decision either way,” said Deo. Observing that medical and police personnel are answering the call of duty at the risk of falling prey to the deadly virus, the judge clarified that HC’s order is in no way a reflection on the sincerity of the intent or efforts of the government machinery. “The society in general and the state in particular owes it to the frontline warriors to take all possible measures to minimize if not obliterate the threat of infection, assuming that the ICMR’s advisory or guidelines don’t cover them till the symptoms are manifested.” While adjourning the hearing till May 22, the judge stated that the government is expected to take additional measures, going beyond the guidelines, if those ensure minimization of risk to medical and police personnel. “Ordinarily, the courts ought to refrain from treading in the territory and domain reserved for the policymakers. The restrain is not self-imposed. The doctrine of separation of power envisages that the judiciary shall ordinarily not venture into the executive’s domain. It’s expected that respondents’ decision shall be taken uninfluenced by any observation by the HC.” Hearing a PIL by the Citizen Forum for Equality through counsel Tushar Mandlekar praying for conducting Covid-19 testing on all frontline workers, including doctors, police, pharmacists and para-medical staff, justice Deo further clarified that a Covid-19 patient may exhibit symptoms only after 10 to 12 days. “The medical and police personnel, who discharge duty in the containment zones, would expose themselves to infection through asymptomatic persons. The question which the authorities will have to address is whether the guidelines be read narrowly or pedantically or whether the government owes it to the frontline warriors to take additional steps or measures, assuming that the guidelines do not envisage such testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-explore-testing-for-med-police-staff/articleshow/75835920.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||BJP launches stir against govt||Nagpur: BJP leaders have launched a scathing attack on Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for its failure to contain coronavirus epidemic in the state and not providing relief to weaker sections of the society. They have launched a Maharashtra Bachao Andolan to protest government’s failure on various fronts. A delegation of BJP leaders under former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule met district collector Ravindra Thakre and handed him a letter highlighting government failures. Slamming chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, BJP leaders said it was expected that he would tour the state and take review of measures taken by the administration to contain coronavirus. However, he refuses to leave his home and was busy getting elected unopposed to the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Bawankule claimed in the letter that central government had given money to the state to fight the pandemic. “However, people have not been told where this money has been spent,” he stated. “Several states have announced packages for providing succour to people, but Maharashtra has not done it. Instead of giving ration for free, state is charging poor people. It did not provide them subsidized rations in the month of April,” he added. People are not getting money under Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Yojana, PPE kits are not available, basic amenities are practically non-existent in quarantine centres, etc, he said. As state government did not make any arrangements for migrants workers, lakhs of them left the state on foot and atop trucks. Thousands of Maharashtrians are stuck up in other states but the government has not made arrangements to bring them back, the letter said. Bawankule claimed that Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan had also recently criticized the government for its failure on various fronts. MP Vikas Mahatme, MLA Mohan Mate, MLC Anil Sole, MLC Nago Ganar, MLC Pravin Datke, NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, deputy mayor Manisha Kothe, NMC ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav and others were part of the delegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-launches-stir-against-govt/articleshow/75835936.cms||Ashish Roy
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Watchful Bengaluru back in business, but buzz is missing||BENGALURU: With most lockdown restrictions eased, Bengaluru was wary even as life returned to normal on Tuesday. Morning walkers queued up before Lalbagh and Cubbon Park, among other lung spaces, in the city, adhering to socialdistancing norms and sanitizing their hands at the gates. As the morning wore on, government and private offices resumed work without any cap on attendance and private vehicles, BMTC buses, cabs and autorickshaws filled the roads. But IT companies and several private companies stuck to the government advisory to work from home to the maximum extent possible. Salons, shops and business establishments upped their shutters and shoppers stepped in gingerly. Kavya R, an IT professional shopping for kurtis on her birthday at a FabIndia store on New BEL Road, said: “All stores are practising social distancing, checking temperature and providing hand sanitizers at the entrance. This store also provided me with disposable gloves before I could touch the clothes on display.” BMTC officials, however, said the ridership was comparatively less. Autorickshaws and taxis, too, witnessed less commuters and there were complaints of exorbitant fares being demanded by auto drivers and surge pricing by app-based aggregators. Across the state, police removed barricades to enable inter-district flow of traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/watchful-bengaluru-back-in-business-but-buzz-is-missing/articleshow/75837754.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||Earnings have gone down, somehow feeding my family||For the past 22 years, I have been selling tea and snacks. I started this business after completing my matriculation. With my earnings, I got married and purchased a mini tempo on loan in 2001 to start a side business of transporting household material. I live with my mother, wife and two sons at a rented house in Hiranwar Layout. After all my savings got exhausted, I decided to sell vegetables on my tempo. Since last 20 days, I’m waking up at 3am to buy vegetables from wholesale markets temporarily set up by the district administration. I go to nearby areas to sell my vegetables. Since the day the lockdown was announced, I have been adhering to the Covid distancing norms and spending quality time with my family. After work, my job is to hand over the funds to my mother and wife as both run the house. From my tea stall and other side business of property selling, I used to be left with Rs20,000 a month after paying my bank EMIs. The wheels of my family were well on track. I was also able to save money. With the extension of the lockdown, came the financial crunch and I was left with no choice but to start selling vegetables. My lifestyle has completely changed. Once upon a time, I used to stand at my own stall and earn, but now, I need to start my day very early in order to sell vegetables. For stall owners like me who are selling vegetables, there is a lot of competition and hence, the income is less. Though my earnings have gone down drastically, somehow, I’m able to feed my family by selling vegetables. I have a Kesari card, but as our house is managed by my mother and wife, I do not know how ration is procured. Whenever they require money, I just try and make arrangements. I wish to go back to my stall (tapri). I don’t know when that day will come. I hope the government comes out with a scheme for tapri owners. (As told to Amit Sampat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/earnings-have-gone-down-somehow-feeding-my-family/articleshow/75835956.cms||---
May 20, 2020||India||BJP welcomes J&K’s domicile rules; Pakistan fumes||NEW DELHI: Senior BJP functionaries on Tuesday welcomed Jammu & Kashmir’s new domicile rules and said this would give long due rights to refugees as well as Kashmiri Pandits living outside the Union Territory. “The new domicile rules gazetted in J&K are a welcome step. This will give the long due rights to all refugees, including those from West Pakistan, Scheduled Caste workers from the rest of India settled in J&K for decades and children of Kashmiri Pandits living outside J&K, to claim domicile now. Equality and dignity for all,” party president J P Nadda said on Twitter. BJP general secretary Ram Madhav said the party had fulfilled yet another promise. Party spokesperson Sambit Patra said, “The domicile rules notified now replace the erstwhile J&K permanent resident rules that stood abrogated along with the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A. This is something that India had long waited for.” Pakistan termed the new rules “illegal”, alleging they were clear violation of the UN resolutions and agreements between the two countries, PTI reports from Islamabad. Pakistan’s foreign office also alleged that the domicile law is aimed at changing the demographic structure of the Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-welcomes-jks-domicile-rules-pakistan-fumes/articleshow/75837760.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Delhi||Mercury set to cross 43°C, but rain likely on Friday in Delhi||NEW DELHI: While the mercury is on the rise in the national capital for the past few days, expect no relief from the scorching heat until Friday. Temperature in Delhi is likely to cross 43 degrees Celsius-mark at Safdarjung in the next couple of days. At Palam, it may even touch 44 degrees, predicts the Met department. On Tuesday, at Safdarjung, which is considered base for the city, the maximum was 40.7 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, while the minimum was 22.1, four degrees below normal. At Palam, the maximum was 42.8 degrees Celsius, while the minimum was 22.8 degrees. “The maximum temperature is set to rise till May 22. There won’t be much impact of the super cyclone Amphan in Delhi-NCR. However, with a fresh western disturbance approaching and wind direction becoming easterly in lower levels, slight moisture incursion will take place over Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Under its influence, very light rain and thunderstorm accompanied with gusty winds of speed 50-60 km per hour will prevail over Delhi-NCR on May 22 and 23,” a Met official told TOI. On Wednesday, mainly clear sky is expected. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 41 and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively. Meanwhile, in terms of air quality, it was another “poor” day on Tuesday with an AQI of 212, according to Central Pollution Control Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-set-to-cross-43c-but-rain-likely-on-friday/articleshow/75836593.cms||Ritam Halder
May 20, 2020||Nagpur||62-yr-old leaves Ytl hosp after 43 days||Yavatmal: Admitted initially to medical intensive care unit (MICU) of local GMCH on April 4 as a paralysis patient having cough, fever and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), 62-year-old man was finally discharged from isolation ward on testing Covid negative on May 17. After seven Nizamuddin Markaz meet returnees had tested positive on April 1, the Indira Nagar resident was identified as one of the primary contacts of the Tablighi Jamaatis (TJs). He was shifted to isolation ward after testing positive on April 7. Indira Nagar was in the news recently after over 60 persons from the locality had tested positive from there. As the senior citizen’s health condition was critical from day one in the MICU, he was put on ventilator. After 14 days, his swab samples were sent for testing which turned out to be Covid positive on April 21. The man remained in the isolation ward after four subsequent swab tests, carried out with a gap of seven days each, turned out to be positive. As the man was initially admitted to ward no.19 (male intensive care unit), over 40 staffers including doctors and nurses were sent to institutional quarantine.The ward was also sealed and sanitized on April 8. Doctors and nurses in the isolation ward didn’t lose heart and they continued to take care of the patient which finally resulted in the man getting discharge after full recovery. The 62-year-old will now remain in home quarantine for 14 days. “We are glad and relieved as this patient has finally tested negative and is able to go home,” said head of department of medicine Dr Baba Elke. His assistant Dr Tejas Madavi termed the senior citizen’s recovery as a miracle. Yavatmal has remained zero death despite crossing 100 positive patients unlike other districts in Maharashtra, opined Covid-19 coordinator Dr Milind Kamble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/62-yr-old-leaves-ytl-hosp-after-43-days/articleshow/75835981.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Under fire, Karnataka set to relax quarantine rule for returnees||BENGALURU: With the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine for returnees from other states turning out to be a logistical nightmare, the Karnataka government is contemplating reintroduction of home quarantine for asymptomatic returnees. The new strategy, coming in the backdrop of traumatic experiences aired by returnees quarantined in hotels, is set to be rolled out in the next days. Revenue minister R Ashoka told TOI: “We will be revising quarantine-related guidelines. We will allow asymptomatic persons returning to Karnataka from other states to observe home quarantine. On arrival, all returnees will be screened and asymptomatic returnees will be hand-stamped and allowed for home quarantine.” The government had received 1.9 lakh applications through Seva Sindhu portal from Karnataka residents, who have been stranded along with their families in other states after the national lockdown was announced, seeking entry into the state. While the government has no data on how many persons have entered the state after interstate online passes were issued, a section of the bureaucracy admitted that forcing returnees to pay for their 14-day hotel stay was not a prudent move. Moreover, thousands of returnees quarantined have been complaining of pathetic hotel conditions and low-quality food being served to them. Those in home quarantine will be monitored: AshokaAshoka said: “We are thinking of taking those with Covid symptoms to designated hospitals for treatment; the rest can go home and report if they develop symptoms. Of course, physical and technological surveillance will be done on those in home quarantine to ensure there are no violations. We will speak to the CM and a government order to this effect is expected.” “The government anticipates a bigger challenge since lakhs of people would start coming since interstate movement of vehicles will be allowed in a fullfledged manner in the coming days. While it is difficult to handle such a huge crowd, the government cannot make arrangements for institutional quarantine for such a massive number,” said an official. Health experts have suggested the government extend institutional quarantine only for those returning from high-risk states. But there is a flip side, a senior bureaucrat said, adding: “The list of high-risk states is revised every Monday and it may create more confusion.” Complaints continue to pour in against institutional quarantine. “We are forced to stay in a hotel and pay huge sums for 14 days. But medical officers are not checking our health. Why can’t they let us go home,” said Archana M, a traveller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/under-fire-karnataka-set-to-relax-quarantine-rule-for-returnees/articleshow/75837769.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 20, 2020||India||Governments must pay up huge dues of advertisement money to newspapers||NEW DELHI: The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) and News Broadcasters’ Association have told the apex court that the central and state governments should pay up arrears of hundreds of crores of rupees that they owe to newspapers as advertisement money. As per various industry estimates, the Central and state governments owe between Rs 1,500 crore and Rs 1,800 crore to several media companies. A large chunk of this Rs 800-900 crore is owed to the print industry alone. The Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP) outstanding alone are Rs 363 crore. "Such amounts have been outstanding for several months and there is little prospect of realising the same any time soon," the INS said in response to petitions filed by journalists' associations. It also said print media’s advertisement revenue has hit rock-bottom in the aftermath of the lockdown. The print media thrives on the advertisement expenditure of industries like e-commerce, finance and automobiles, all of which had been hit by the lockdown. “The newsprint cost of a newspaper establishment is about 40-60% of its expenses while wages are about 20-30% of the expense. The net circulation revenue, which is the cover price of a newspaper, covers only a small portion of the total cost. Hence, the lifeblood of a newspaper is revenue from advertisements,” the INS said. The industry body also blamed the government for the “drastically reduced advertising much prior to the crisis”, attributing the reduced advertising as the reason for several papers being forced to reduce the number of pages in their editions. The INS has also argued that many newspapers were compelled to shut their physical editions because vendors refused to deliver papers or because RWAs had banned their entry. Citing the instance of Maharashtra, where the government has stopped doorstep delivery of newspapers, INS said subscriptions were also hit because newspapers are not reaching homes in several big cities. In a similar plea before court, the NBA lamented the absence of “packages or measures” by the government for news broadcasters even as their business has collapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/governments-must-pay-up-huge-dues-of-advertisement-money-to-newspapers/articleshow/75837767.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IIPE mulls online exams in July, new session may begin in Aug||Visakhapatnam: Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), Visakhapatnam, is planning to conduct semester examinations from the first week of July. The institute is working on a software to conduct online examinations, if things do not improve enough so as to be able to conduct them at the campus. IIPE is currently offering two engineering undergraduate programmes with a mix of students from 20 states. Dr VSRK Prasad, IIPE director, said that their priority is to hold examinations for final year students. “The exams will be held in a staggered manner – first for final year students, then third year students and so on. We are planning to schedule the classes from the first week of August. However, other than face-to-face practical sessions for one month on a rotational basis for students of each year of the programmes, the students will take theory classes remotely,” said Dr Prasad. He said IIPE has been training its faculty to scale up and improve the delivery of online classes which will become the new normal. “We will take a final call on the scheduling of examinations and classes in the first week of June based on the Covid situation. Our students come from nearly 20 states of the country. We have to consider all these factors before resuming academic activities on the campus,” said Prasad. Soon after the advisories issued by the Ministry of Human Resources Development and other government organisations, IIPE had announced holidays for students from March 16 to March 31. Later, the summer vacation was postponed to April and May instead of declaring holidays after the conclusion of the examinations. Meanwhile, the faculty has been conducting online classes and providing resources for students to compensate for classroom assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iipe-mulls-online-exams-in-july-new-session-may-begin-in-aug/articleshow/75835040.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: HC questions govt on decision to open liquor stores||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Tuesday asked the state government how it can allow liquor shops to run while shutting down all other shops in the name of containing Covid-19. The high court said that imposing a lockdown bears no meaning if liquor shops are allowed to operate. A high court bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice K Suresh Reddy heard three public interest litigation (PIL) petitions challenging the government’s decision to allow liquor sale amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The petitioners argued that mandatory social distancing norms are not being followed at liquor stores. This will not only put the health of those at liquor stores at risk, but also increase the chance of contraction, the petitioners said. The high court also asked that when the Union government has accorded permission to open liquor outlets, why states should deny the same. The HC bench said that since the matter is currently pending with the Supreme Court, the bench can’t pass any order at this point in time. The bench allowed petitioners to approach the apex court with their contentions. The state government told the high court that the liquor shops are being run in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union government and that the government is taking all steps to maintain social distancing at liquor stores. The high court directed the state to file a detailed counter on the issue and posted the matter for further hearing to May 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-questions-govt-on-decision-to-open-liquor-stores/articleshow/75835053.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IMA calls cops’ treatment of doc ‘deplorable’||Visakhapatnam: A fact-finding committee of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Visakhapatnam has submitted an interim report about the incident regarding anaesthetist Dr K Sudhakar Rao who was arrested by the police recently. As per the committee’s report, interim conclusions were drawn taking the chain of events into cognisance. The committee surmised that firstly, the way in which the police handled the incident surrounding Dr Sudhakar, a civil assistant surgeon currently under suspension, was deplorable, indecent and against human rights. The way in which he was taken into custody, with the police tying his hands and not covering his shirtless body is against human rights, the committee said in its report. The act of physical assault on the doctor, as evidenced in the video clip, is in violation of the rules of detention and the laws of natural justice, the report said. IMA also condemned the language used by Dr Sudhakar and said that it considers the doctor’s behaviour a major flaw. He has to apologise in due course, IMA maintained. Further, the committee opined that Saturday’s incident is an unfortunate fallout of his suspension for his comments about the unavailability of PPEs. But these comments were made in professional interest. This could have been condoned with a reprimand instead of a suspension, said the report. “The committee therefore states that errant cops should be taken to task and the cases registered against him must be withdrawn immediately. Dr Rao must apologise to heads of governments of both Telugu-speaking states after certification of sound status of his mental health. The proceedings of the inquiry should be expedited,” said Dr P Phanidhar, honorary AP state secretary, IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ima-calls-cops-treatment-of-doc-deplorable/articleshow/75835065.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Produce Dr Sudhakar in court: HC to govt||Vijayawada: The AP high court has asked the state government to present Dr Sudhakar before the court on Wednesday, May 20. V Anita, president of TDP women wing had written to the high court contending the police’s behaviour with Dr Sudhakar with video clips of him being detained by the police. The high court took cognisance of the letter and has regarded it as a PIL (public interest litigation). The petition was heard by a high court bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice K Suresh Reddy on Monday. Arguing on behalf of the government, advocate general S Sriram said the videos being shown to the court are edited portions. He further said the police detained Dr Sudhakar for creating a nuisance in public allegedly in an inebriated state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/produce-dr-sudhakar-in-court-hc-to-govt/articleshow/75835073.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Quarantine ten for every patient, BMC chief orders||MUMBAI: BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal has told his officials to make contact tracing rigorous and target a ratio of 1:10. For every Covid patient, he has said at least ten high and low-risk contacts should be identified and quarantined, particularly in slums. Last week, Chahal visited M-East ward, which has some of the city's most congested slums (like Baiganwadi and Lotus Colony in Shivaji Nagar), and has seen a surge in cases recently, not to mention that as of last week, at nearly 10%, it had one of the highest case fatality rates in the city. While contact tracing is a key component of the strategy to contain viral spread, BMC documents show that the ratio varies widely among wards. A document accessed by TOI showed that most wards could trace 3-6 contacts per Covid patient, with the exceptions being wards N (Ghatkopar, Vidyavihar) and S (Vikhroli, Bhandup), where 15-16 contacts were being traced per patient. "Blame it on the lockdown, exhaustion of grassroots health workers or the rise in cases, contact tracing has slowed down to some extent in many areas," said a ward official. A 44-year-old vegetable vendor from Labour Camp, Dharavi, who claimed that his wife and daughter had not been contacted by BMC even four days after he tested positive, shows that contact tracing could be slacking. Admitted in ESIC Hospital, Kandivli, the man told TOI, "My positive report came on Friday. My wife and 12-year-old daughter are home. They don't have symptoms, but I would be relieved if they are checked once." A health official from one of the wards said that before the lockdown, the contact tracing ratio for most wards hovered between 1:8 and 1: 12. "But during the lockdown, that number has come down. The number of possible contacts of a patient also varies majorly between slums and high-rises. Sometimes, a family in a high-rise may have 5-6 members but mostly it's just husband, wife and child. But in slums, contacts number 5-10," he said. Non-cooperation too is a hurdle. "Most are extremely hesitant to name neighbours or people they may have come in contact with as they fear those people will be quarantined, an experience many don't want to go through," said another ward official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/quarantine-ten-for-every-patient-bmc-chief-orders/articleshow/75837782.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 20, 2020||Delhi||One-rider rule: People prefer cabs to autos in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With autorickshaws not allowed to ferry more than one passenger at a time, cabs and taxis were preferred modes of transport in Delhi on Tuesday. They are allowed to ferry maximum two passengers. In the morning, cabs picking up passengers from New Delhi Railway Station outnumbered autorickshaws and kaali peeli by a huge margin. Most passengers TOI talked to at the station said that they preferred a cab as autorickshaws were not allowed to ferry more than one passenger. Cabs are air-conditioned and more comfortable than kaali peeli, they added. Customers demanding AC in their vehicles, however, put many cabs drivers in a fix. App-based cab aggregators, Ola and Uber, have said that cabs will not use AC and customers will have to wear masks compulsorily. “I had to refuse two passengers as they insisted that I switch on the AC. I requested that either of us could be carrying an infection and the AC would result in the virus spreading,” said Amit (named changed), a driver. “The customers insisted that air conditioning wouldn’t be a problem as both of us were wearing masks, but I requested them to take another cab. I can’t risk getting an infection,” he added. “I was on the verge of starvation and the permission to operate has come as a breather for me. But now, we have to bear the additional cost of sanitising the cab after each trip,” said another driver on the condition of anonymity. “I have bought a kit worth Rs 400, but don’t know how long it will last. Many drivers have put up plastic sheet to cover the driver’s area and I may also buy one,” he added. “Three members of the same family should have been allowed to share a ride,” opined Kamaljit Gill, president of Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi. “Many drivers have left Delhi. This led to shortage of cabs and surge pricing today,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/one-rider-rule-people-prefer-cabs-to-autos/articleshow/75836730.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 20, 2020||World||China experts claim new drug has potential to treat Covid-19||BEIJING: A Chinese laboratory has been developing a drug it believes has the power to bring the pandemic to a halt. The drug being tested by scientists at China’s Peking University could not only shorten the recovery time for those infected, but even offer short-term immunity from the virus, researchers say. Sunney Xie, director of the university’s Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Genomics, said that the drug has been successful at the animal testing stage. “When we injected neutralising antibodies into infected mice, after five days the viral load was reduced by a factor of 2,500,” said Xie. “That means this potential drug has (a) therapeutic effect.” The drug uses neutralising antibodies — produced by the human immune system to prevent the virus infecting cells — which Xie’s team isolated from the blood of 60 recovered patients. A study on the team’s research, published on Sunday in the scientific journal Cell, suggests that using the antibodies provides a potential “cure” for the disease. Xie said he hopes that the drug will be ready for use later this year. “Planning for the clinical trial is under way,” he said, adding it will be carried out in Australia and other countries since cases have dwindled in China, offering fewer people for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-experts-claim-new-drug-has-potential-to-treat-covid-19/articleshow/75837783.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||BMC hospitals use costly drugs to cut fatalities||MUMBAI: Faced with a high mortality rate in its battle against Covid-19, public hospitals have started providing patients an expensive medicine costing between Rs 30,000 and Rs 80,000 depending on the person's weight, round-the-clock oxygen support, and CT scans for those critically ill. The medicine, an injection named tocilizumab meant to control inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis patients, has been so far given to over 80 patients in the four main BMC hospitals for Covid care-namely KEM, Sion, Nair and Kasturba Hospitals. "In Nair Hospital, we gave it to 40 patients and 96% of them have done well,'' said dean Dr Mohan Joshi. "The BMC has been paying for the medicine and it has shown good results. The BMC won't spare costs as we have to save lives," said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary who is on deputation to BMC for the Covid crisis. The civic body believes the interventions have helped keep the mortality rate from galloping. From 7.6 in April, the death rate has been 3.6 for weeks in Mumbai now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-hospitals-use-costly-drugs-to-cut-fatalities/articleshow/75837785.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 20, 2020||Mumbai||Bars outside Mumbai can sell their stock||The Maharashtra government has allowed bars/permit rooms to sell their liquor stock, mostly beer lying idle due to the lockdown, to consumers as takeaway or to nearby liquor shops. The decision, however, won't be applicable to Mumbai unless BMC allows home delivery of liquor. Meanwhile, the Panvel Municipal Corporation allowed home delivery of liquor on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bars-outside-mumbai-can-sell-their-stock/articleshow/75837789.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka restaurants, hotels to get nod?||BENGALURU: Hotels and restaurants across the state may be soon allowed to open for business and serve customers on the premises, instead of only providing takeaways or home delivery. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who is under intense pressure from the hotel industry, reportedly assured a delegation of hoteliers on Tuesday that he would prevail upon the Centre to allow hotels and restaurants to operate like they did before lockdown restrictions kicked in. Relaxing norms for the Lockdown 4.0 till May 31, the state government allowed hotels to open kitchens for parcel service but not for customers as it could lead to violation of social distancing norms. Though the CM wanted hotels to continue parcel service till May 31, association members said they continue the service for three more days and then stop. “It’s not feasible for hotels to survive only on takeaways. We explained our problems to the CM and he said he’d try to get permission after consulting the central government,” said PC Rao, president, Bengaluru Hoteliers Association. “We told the chief minister that when roadside eateries and street vendors are allowed to serve customers in the open, why shouldn’t hotels and restaurants be allowed to serve customers in their dining halls. Yediyurappa said he’d write to the Centre to relax norms for us to open for business,’’ said Madhukar Shetty, president, Karnataka Hotels Association. The association said Karnataka has over 7,000 hotels and restaurants with dine-in facilities across the state in the organised sector, with over 50 per cent in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Hubli. They employ 1 million people directly and indirectly and these include migrants too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-restaurants-hotels-to-get-nod/articleshow/75837788.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka restaurants, hotels to get nod?||BENGALURU: Hotels and restaurants across the state may be soon allowed to open for business and serve customers on the premises, instead of only providing takeaways or home delivery. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who is under intense pressure from the hotel industry, reportedly assured a delegation of hoteliers on Tuesday that he would prevail upon the Centre to allow hotels and restaurants to operate like they did before lockdown restrictions kicked in. Relaxing norms for the Lockdown 4.0 till May 31, the state government allowed hotels to open kitchens for parcel service but not for customers as it could lead to violation of social distancing norms. Though the CM wanted hotels to continue parcel service till May 31, association members said they continue the service for three more days and then stop. “It’s not feasible for hotels to survive only on takeaways. We explained our problems to the CM and he said he’d try to get permission after consulting the central government,” said PC Rao, president, Bengaluru Hoteliers Association. “We told the chief minister that when roadside eateries and street vendors are allowed to serve customers in the open, why shouldn’t hotels and restaurants be allowed to serve customers in their dining halls. Yediyurappa said he’d write to the Centre to relax norms for us to open for business,’’ said Madhukar Shetty, president, Karnataka Hotels Association. The association said Karnataka has over 7,000 hotels and restaurants with dine-in facilities across the state in the organised sector, with over 50 per cent in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Hubli. They employ 1 million people directly and indirectly and these include migrants too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-restaurants-hotels-to-get-nod/articleshow/75837800.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka restaurants, hotels to get nod?||BENGALURU: Hotels and restaurants across the state may be soon allowed to open for business and serve customers on the premises, instead of only providing takeaways or home delivery. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who is under intense pressure from the hotel industry, reportedly assured a delegation of hoteliers on Tuesday that he would prevail upon the Centre to allow hotels and restaurants to operate like they did before lockdown restrictions kicked in. Relaxing norms for the Lockdown 4.0 till May 31, the state government allowed hotels to open kitchens for parcel service but not for customers as it could lead to violation of social distancing norms. Though the CM wanted hotels to continue parcel service till May 31, association members said they continue the service for three more days and then stop. “It’s not feasible for hotels to survive only on takeaways. We explained our problems to the CM and he said he’d try to get permission after consulting the central government,” said PC Rao, president, Bengaluru Hoteliers Association. “We told the chief minister that when roadside eateries and street vendors are allowed to serve customers in the open, why shouldn’t hotels and restaurants be allowed to serve customers in their dining halls. Yediyurappa said he’d write to the Centre to relax norms for us to open for business,’’ said Madhukar Shetty, president, Karnataka Hotels Association. The association said Karnataka has over 7,000 hotels and restaurants with dine-in facilities across the state in the organised sector, with over 50 per cent in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Hubli. They employ 1 million people directly and indirectly and these include migrants too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-restaurants-hotels-to-get-nod/articleshow/75837802.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka restaurants, hotels to get nod?||BENGALURU: Hotels and restaurants across the state may be soon allowed to open for business and serve customers on the premises, instead of only providing takeaways or home delivery. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who is under intense pressure from the hotel industry, reportedly assured a delegation of hoteliers on Tuesday that he would prevail upon the Centre to allow hotels and restaurants to operate like they did before lockdown restrictions kicked in. Relaxing norms for the Lockdown 4.0 till May 31, the state government allowed hotels to open kitchens for parcel service but not for customers as it could lead to violation of social distancing norms. Though the CM wanted hotels to continue parcel service till May 31, association members said they continue the service for three more days and then stop. “It’s not feasible for hotels to survive only on takeaways. We explained our problems to the CM and he said he’d try to get permission after consulting the central government,” said PC Rao, president, Bengaluru Hoteliers Association. “We told the chief minister that when roadside eateries and street vendors are allowed to serve customers in the open, why shouldn’t hotels and restaurants be allowed to serve customers in their dining halls. Yediyurappa said he’d write to the Centre to relax norms for us to open for business,’’ said Madhukar Shetty, president, Karnataka Hotels Association. The association said Karnataka has over 7,000 hotels and restaurants with dine-in facilities across the state in the organised sector, with over 50 per cent in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Hubli. They employ 1 million people directly and indirectly and these include migrants too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-restaurants-hotels-to-get-nod/articleshow/75837801.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Chennai||Class X exams postponed to June 15 in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: After drawing flak for scheduling Class X state board exams from June 1 to 12 amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday put them off by two weeks to June 15 - 25. But the move has been questioned by educationists who say children need more time to overcome lockdown trauma and prepare for the ir school finals. This move comes a day after political leaders and educationists accused the government of endangering the lives of 9.5 lakh children by scheduling the exams when Covid-19 cases are still increasing in many parts of the state. School education minister K A Sengottaiyan said the school reopening dates would be decided only after the situations improved. "It was ensured that students can write exams within five km radius of their houses by increasing the number of exam centres from 3,825 to 12,690," he added. The postponed Class XI exam would be held on June 16. The re-exam for absentees of Class XII final exam will be conducted on June 18. "Postponing exams is a relief, but not a complete solution. The solution is for the government to conduct classes for 15 days after the lockdown ends and then hold the examination. They can follow same social distancing measures for these classes," said educationist Prince Gajendrababu. This would boost the confidence of children and prepare them mentally to write the exams. "The state government has arbitrarily announced the time-table without any preparation. The exam dates were announced due to pressure from private schools," he added. "Asking the students to directly appear for exams after more than 60 days of lockdown is not acceptable. Many families have lost their livelihood and students would be under mental stress. Exams should be held after reopening of schools," Tamil Nadu Teachers Association president PK Ilamaran said. "Students are writing exams under new syllabus for the first time. Conducting exams after such a long gap without revisions might affect the results. Students need at least 10 days of revision in classrooms," N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matric Higher Secondary School. S Moorthy, state coordinator, Forum for Education Development, urged the state government to consult teachers before taking major decisions to avoid confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/class-x-exams-postponed-to-june-15-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/75837819.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Business||Hero Moto will defer investments, save cash||NEW DELHI: The country’s top two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp has decided to defer planned investments for capacity additions due to the coronavirus pandemic, and has sought an immediate tax relief from the government in terms of GST rate cut and relaxations in electric vehicle launch mandates. Pawan Munjal, chairman and CEO of Hero Moto-Corp, said the company has gradually resumed production at its factories in India, Bangladesh and Colombia (in Latin America), though the output is limited to begin with. However, he said that while the company conserves cash, it will not be cutting jobs or salaries. “The plants are not fully functional as yet, as we are working in single shift, with a smaller number of people. We are not operating all assembly lines, and are maintaining a safe distance. This naturally brings down our production and productivity,” Munjal said at the opening session of TOI Dialogues, a unique leadership summit (The topic for Tuesday’s TOI Dialogues was business continuity in the times of Covid). Top 10 Dialogues of Dr. Pawan Munjal at TOI Dialogues inaugural sessionHero MotoCorp had said a few months ago that the company was looking to invest as much as Rs 10,000 crore towards model launches, new technologies, and capacity augmentation. Munjal said that some of these investments may now be deferred. “We are paying salaries, and taking care of our overheads in a shutdown when we are not making any revenues. The most important thing for the organisation now is to conserve cash. Cash is very precious, and so investments do take a back seat.” Munjal said that investments that were already in progress would be completed. “… we haven’t stopped that. But where we did not start, we definitely stopped… We will definitely defer expansion in Halol (Gujarat) plant and new investments in Andhra Pradesh facility.” The company does not see the need to produce more when demand is expected to stay weak. “For this fiscal, the total sales will probably be lower than what we had expected previously. Thus, why would we go there and put in investments that will stand still and give no returns?” Apart from a cut in GST, Munjal said that the government should also look at reducing dividend tax. “People will then have the ability to give higher dividends and put more money in the hands of the consumers.” Watch the complete session of TOI Dialogues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hero-moto-will-defer-investments-save-cash/articleshow/75837820.cms||Pankaj Doval
May 20, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand migrant dies in Maha accident||Ranchi/Mumbai: Three migrant labourers, one from Jharkhand’s Palamu district, and a bus driver were killed in a road accident in Solapur on Tuesday after the vehicle they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra in the wee hours of Tuesday. The two other deceased were migrants from Chhattisgarh. Police said 22 others were injured in the accident which took place when the migrants, hailing from Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, were travelling towards Nagpur railway station to board Shramik Special trains. Out of the 22, 18 are from Jharkhand with 10 from Palamu and eight others from Garhwa districts. Expressing grief, chief minister Hemant Soren requested the Maharashtra government to provide all necessary assistance to the injured. He also asked the state co-ordinator for Maharashtra to get in touch with the Solapur administration for proper return of the body of the deceased and the injured persons. This is the second such incident in a week’s time where migrants from Jharkhand died while on their way home from other states. Earlier, 11 migrants from Bokaro died in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district after a trailer rammed into a truck. On Tuesday, additional superintendent of police (Solapur) Noorul Hasan said, “The accident took place at Kolwan village around 3.30am when the bus was on its way to Nagpur railway station where the labourers were supposed to board a Shramik Special train.” “The driver of the bus lost control over the wheels, following which, the vehicle hit a stationary truck which was carrying road construction material,” said Hasan. A police officer said, “Earlier, nearly 28 migrant labourers had set off on foot for their native places in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand and were stopped at Solapur on Monday.” The tehsildar (revenue officer) of North Solapur requested the state transport depot manager to facilitate transportation of the labourers, following which, a bus was arranged for them, the officer added. “On the request of the labourers, the bus was supposed to drop them at the Nagpur railway station in Maharashtra,” the officer said. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said he has demanded the government to give Rs 4 lakh as compensation to the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to those injured. “I have appealed to the CM to announce a financial help for the the victim’s family.” Oraon, who is also the state Congress president, said he has also asked party workers to extend all possible help to the family members of the dead and the injured. Congress spokesperson Lal Kishore Nath Shahdeo said, “A five-member team will soon visit their (the dead and injured migrants) homes to extend initial help in form of ration and other necessities.” with agency inputs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-migrant-dies-in-maha-accident/articleshow/75835397.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Sonia calls oppn meet on Fri, Mamata to attend video-con||New Delhi/Kolkata: Congress president Sonia Gandhi will hold a video-conference with 16 opposition parties on Friday, the first such initiative since Narendra Modi took charge as PM for a second term in 2019. Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee will be present at the meet. The opposition conference — the first since lockdown was enforced across the country in March to contain the coronavirus pandemic — will discuss, among others, the plight of migrant workers and relief measures for the needy in light of the government’s announcement of Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to revive the Covid-19 hit economy. Apart from Banerjee, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, DMK chief MK Stalin, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh and Left leaders will join the meet. The Bengal chief minister has already debunked the economic package as a “big zero”. Opposition parties have also been vocal about the manner in which the Centre has allowed BJP-ruled states — namely Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh — to amend labour laws, taking away the existing rights of workers. The changes include exempting industrial units from labour welfare statutes, allowing them to take steps like increasing daily and weekly working hours of workers, and depriving workers of their right to move court. Banerjee has also flagged her dissent to the Centre raising the FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003) limit from 3% to 5% for states and linking it with reforms. “We wrote to the Centre for raising FRBM limit to help states manage funds for Covid management. But the relaxation in its present form will help states by 0.5%. The remaining 1.5% is linked to refor- ms. This goes against the spirit of federalism,” she said. Banerjee is likely to take up the issue with other leaders during the conference. Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party leaders are yet to confirm their participation, though Stalin will be on board with other opposition leaders. “Mamata-di took the first step on March 26, three days after lockdown 1.0 was announced on March 23. She wrote to as many as 18 CMs urging them to provide food and shelter to Bengal migrants stranded in other states,” said Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien. Meanwhile, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh expressed concern over the plight of people living in coastal villages with Super Cyclone Amphan likely to make a landfall in South 24 Parganas on Wednesday. “The administration has informed people using the public address system in Digha. But there has been no such initiative in villages,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sonia-calls-oppn-meet-on-fri-mamata-to-attend-video-con/articleshow/75837077.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Why not allow Metro to resume service, ask experts||Bengaluru: The Centre’s decision to allow all public transport barring Metro during the lockdown 4.0 has baffled many. One of the reasons cited is that the coaches have centralised air-conditioned system, which is not advisable given the coronavirus spread faster in cold conditions. Also, maintaining social distancing can be challenging in the mass transit considering the volume of daily traffic. Officials in the chief minister’s office said a comprehensive plan has been prepared to resume operations with 33% of the passenger capacity. Wearing masks and maintaining distance between two passengers will be mandatory. Also, there will be a sanitisation mechanism in place. “We’ve prepared a regulatory mechanism to ensure 100 compliance of it. We’re awaiting the government’s nod to resume operations,” said BL Yeshavant Chavan, spokesperson of Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited. On an average, 4.5 lakh people take the Metro daily. Under the new rule, not more than 300 passengers will be allowed to board a six-coach train. The room temperature must be in the range of 24-30 degree centigrade and relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%. Recirculation of air should be avoided to the extent possible while frequent cleaning of air filters is a must. “I don’t see any reason why Metro is not allowed along with other mass transport systems. We can never expect the economy to revive quickly without all-round public mobility in place. Metro, being the lifeline of Bengaluru, is essential to revive economic activities,’’ said J Crasta, national executive member of FICCI and Assocham. About 70% of MSME units in Bengaluru are located in Peenya industrial area which is connected with Metro. Without train service, these industries are bound to face staff and labour shortage, he pointed out. “Since these norms have been prepared specially for the Covid conditions, there should not be any hassle for resuming Metro service with strict implementation of them,” said traffic expert Prof MN Srihari. K Sudhakar, medical education minister and member of state Covid-19 taskforce, said: “We’ve requested the Centre to allow us to reopen Metro service, but I think it is taking time to decide on this, considering the situation in other cities. We hope to see Metro chugging after the lockdown ends on May 31.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-not-allow-metro-to-resume-service-ask-experts/articleshow/75837688.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Early birds troop into Bengaluru parks for fresh air||BENGALURU: The immense relief people felt after lockdown relaxation was clearly visible at the city’s two main green lungs on Tuesday. Early risers thronged to Lalbagh and Cubbon Park, forming long lines to get fresh air and exercise, a big part of normal routine that they had been missing for nearly two months. In the morning, parks were open for two hours, 7am to 9am. Lalbagh saw 4,000 visitors, while Cubbon Park welcomed 3,000. They reopened again for two hours in the evening, 5pm to 7pm. “It seems people had been eagerly waiting to visit Lalbagh. We realised this only when we saw the huge crowds at the gate,” said M Jagadeesh, joint director of horticulture, parks and gardens. Officials, who arrived at the west gate around 6.30am, were surprised to see a 1-km queue build up in just half an hour. Citizens stood patiently, observing social distancing. “Every visitor underwent thermal screening and was asked to use sanitiser before entering the park. We formed parallel queues to ensure that people could enter the park easily,” Jagadeesh said. Hand sanitisers were provided to visitors at four gates. Chamarajpet resident Padmini Kallur, who used to walk regularly at Lalbagh before the lockdown, said she was thrilled to be back. “Lalbagh is an emotion. I have been coming here to walk since I was a five-year-old. I am 40 now. The park is an inseparable part of my daily routine,” she said. Sharath Rao, software engineer and resident of Jayanagar, said a stroll in the park gave him much-needed relief. “We are emotionally attached to this space. The long queue was worth it,” Rao said. “People are aware of the Covid-19 situation and want to be checked before entering the premises. They also understand the importance of distancing.” A senior official with the horticulture department said the morning mood was buoyant at Cubbon Park. “As per government orders, we screen everyone and only then allow them in,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalureans-shrug-off-lockdown-blues-with-park-visit/articleshow/75837680.cms||Nithya Mandyam
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||One dead in coal mine collapse||Andal: A labourer died while two were seriously injured in West Burdwan on Monday night when the roof of an ECL coal field collapsed. The deceased was identified as Rituraj Pandey (47). The two injured were admitted to Mission Hospital. After the incident, labourers stopped work, seeking compensation and safety for mine workers. Eastern Coalfields has decided to provide a job to the victim’s kin and and pay Rs 15 lakh compensation. MLA Jitendra Tewari said he would provide another Rs 2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-dead-in-coal-mine-collapse/articleshow/76018602.cms||Mohammad Asif
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Centre tells HC of new team’s visit to Bengal||Kolkata: The Centre on Tuesday informed Calcutta High Court that the ministry of home affairs is keen to send a team to Bengal to probe allegations of mismanagement by the state government and report to the HC. The Bengal government argued in the HC that such a team is not necessary since an IMCT team has already visited the state and submitted a report. State advocate-general Kishore Dutta argued in HC that “any further visit by a central team would, in effect, be a roving enquiry only to find fault with the state administration, if possible”. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee, while directing the state and the Centre to file reports, said in his order: “We clarify that if any team from the Ministry of Home Affairs visits this State, the same shall be on its own volition and not pursuant to any order of this Court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centre-tells-hc-of-new-teams-visit-to-bengal/articleshow/75837196.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kanti Ganguly extends aid to Raidighi residents||KOLKATA: Like on earlier occasions, septuagenarian CPM leader Kanti Ganguly has reached out to people in Raidighi with help hours before super cyclone Amphan is set to make landfall in the Sunderbans. He will be helped in the effort by his team. Ganguly had also stood with locals during natural calamities wrought by Aila, Fani and Bulbul, alerting people and providing them food and drinking water when stretches of the world’s largest mangrove island had got submerged. CPM’s Sujan Chakrabarty pointed to the possibility of a drinking water crisis in the event of a surge in rivers during Amphan. “The work of strengthening embankments along a 700-odd km stretch is pending. I would urge the administration to take extra care in protecting embankments,” he said on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kanti-extends-cyclone-help-to-raidighi-residents/articleshow/75837104.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ranchi||Liquor shops to open today, food apps can deliver in urban areas||Ranchi: After a 59-day run of dry days, parched tipplers in the state will get a taste of their favourite liquor when 1,400 retail liquor stores reopen on Wednesday morning. However, a 25% hike in value added tax (VAT) and the imposition of a 10% special excise duty will increase the prices of liquor by 35%. The state excise and prohibitions department on Tuesday informed the liquor stores that they could open their shops between 7am and 7pm. To make up for the losses in revenue, the excise department has hiked VAT and imposed a special excise duty on each bottle of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). “Now, one bottle of IMFL will be 35% costlier than before the lockdown,” excise secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey told TOI. Notably, the state government had levied a VAT of 50% before the lockdown came into effect. In nine urban centres — Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Deoghar, Ramgarh, Palamu, Giridih and Dumka — liquor can be purchased from online food delivery applications such as Zomato and Swiggy in addition to the stores. “In 15 other district headquarters, consumers can generate an online token by logging into https://jhexcisetoken.nic.in. They will be allotted a time. Once at the store, people with tokens will be given priority over those in queues,” Choubey said. Liquor stores in rural pockets will only operate only on over-the-counter basis. Choubey said deputy commissioners and SPs have been given a three-page list of standard operating procedures to maintain social distancing protocols. “We have asked respective district administration to take measures to avoid overcrowding, which may lead to violation of social distancing norms,” Choubey added. Since the sale of liquor was prohibited after the announcement of the lockdown on March 22, the Jharkhand government has lost Rs 300 crore in terms of revenue from sale and excise duties. On an average, the state generates anywhere between Rs 1,600-1,800 crore annually as revenue from IMFL sales through Jharkhand State Beverage Corporation Limited (JSBCL). BJP’s legislative party leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi, however, criticised the government for its decision to resume liquor sales. “During the ongoing summer, people are in greater need of fans, coolers, air-conditioners and drinking water. Why did CM Hemant Soren not take these into account and allow the shops selling fans and coolers and their spare parts to open instead of liquor shops? The water levels are depleting and many are in need of boring, plumbing items and motors, but the government seems to be ignorant towards that,” Marandi said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/liquor-shops-to-open-today-food-apps-can-deliver-in-urban-areas/articleshow/75835426.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 20, 2020||Ranchi||Masks a must, no smoking or chewing gutka on commercial taxis: Govt||Ranchi: The state transport department on Tuesday came up with the standard operating procedures for resumption of services of commercial taxis for intra and inter-district movement outside containment zones. Taxi services was allowed to resume during Lockdown 4.0 by the state government on Monday. State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar in his guidelines said a valid commercial permit will be deemed as a travel pass and there is no requirement to apply for anything. He clarified that taxi services will only be allowed for end-to-end journeys, which means no vehicle can stop in between to pick up passengers. “Taxis will not be allowed to take bookings on a shared basis,” Kumar said. The department has also fixed the number of passengers allowed depending on the seating capacity of a vehicle. For a five-seater taxi, only two persons apart from the driver will be allowed. In six and seven-seater taxis, three persons, excluding the driver, will be permitted. “All passengers must wear masks and there is a complete ban on smoking or consuming any kind of tobacco or gutka on board,” he said. Among other precautions, he said, vehicles will have to be sanitised every time before a passenger board. The luggage must be kept only in the boot and proper social distancing has to be maintained between people inside the vehicle. Both drivers and passengers must keep a proper record of each other so that government can get the data in case of any requirement of contact tracing. “The driver should maintain records of all passengers in a proper format and keep it safely with him. Similarly, passengers should also have the basic details of the driver,” Kumar said. While transporters welcomed the commencement of the services, they said customers will have to bear the extra cost to avail commercial taxis. Rajiv Kumar, a private cab operator at Station Road, said, “Unlike earlier times, customers will have to pay more due to reduced seating capacity, hike in diesel prices and extra expenses incurred to ensure hygiene inside the vehicles. We also appeal to customers to follow all the safety norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/masks-a-must-no-smoking-or-chewing-gutka-on-commercial-taxis-govt/articleshow/75835320.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi Police walks extra mile to arrange food and transport for migrants||Ranchi: A group of 12 Bihar-bound migrants, who pedalled all their way from Kerala, finally get some food and rest at Booty More on the Ramgarh-Ranchi stretch of NH-33. An hour later, they boarded an open truck bound for Barhi in Hazaribag on the Bihar borders, thanks to Ranchi Police, who worked overtime to help people in need. Police officials said the group was offered water while they took rest under tree shades. The policemen then provided meals from a makeshift counter and hailed empty trucks along the way. After having hot poori sabji, the men loaded their bicycles on an empty truck stopped by the police and were on their way to the nearest transit point for home. Similarly, a group 40 workers, including a few elderly persons who were walking on the same highway with bags, baggage, buckets and utensils, were given shelter and food at a roadside community kitchen centre set up by police near BIT Mesra police station. A migrant worker, who is in early 20s and part of the group told TOI, “We are coming from Mumbai and going to Chakradharpur. We began our journey seven days ago on foot after failing to get any trains or buses and somehow managed to walk this far. At times, we got lifts in empty trucks, but mostly we kept walking almost throughout the days and nights.” His co-traveller added, “We all worked at a construction company but lost our job two months back. With all resources dried up, we decided to walk back home.” Police team at BIT Mesra feed them khichdi before arranging a transport till Hatia. An official said, “Since we don’t have our own resources to hire vehicles, what we did was to stop heavy vehicles that are empty to help the migrants cover some distance at least. Other teams along the route will help them further.” Last week, chief minister Hemant Soren directed state DGP M V Rao and all district authorities to ensure that no migrant travels on foot or bicycle. But scores of migrants continue arrive on foot or bicycles, notwithstanding claims of several states that special trains and interstate buses were plying to ferry them. A Deoghar-bound migrant, who reached Ranchi from Mumbai in a private bus, said that lack of coordination among states have made them risk their lives and spend their savings to return home. He said, “I have lost count the number of times I called helplines of Jharkhand and Maharashtra governments to get information about special trains or bus service but to no avail. I also enrolled on online apps introduced by both the governments but either the registration failed or there was no update. Finally, I decided to come home on my own.” He added, “I paid Rs 5,000 to board a bus from Mumbai and reached Ranchi in six days. Initially, I spent some money to buy a bicycle but was soon stolen. With the remaining money, I managed to get a seat on a Ranchi-bound bus. I will walk till Deoghar if I don’t get any help.” Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said they are trying their best provide transport to all migrants. He said, “All police stations have been asked to walk the extra mile to arrange transportation for migrants in liaison with local BDOs and circle officers. We will also continue to run community kitchens daily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-police-walks-extra-mile-to-arrange-food-and-transport-for-migrants/articleshow/75835347.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Commuters fume at BMTC pass system, call it indirect fare hike||BENGALURU: After a gap of nearly two months, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) restarted bus services for the common public on Tuesday, but its decision to temporarily discontinue regular tickets and sell passes instead made commuting expensive for many. Those travelling short distances were particularly upset, calling the decision an indirect fare hike, while many daily-wage workers could not board buses as they didn’t have enough money. BMTC’s daily, weekly and month passes are priced at Rs 70, Rs 300 and Rs 1,050, respectively. No other passes or tickets can be used for now. “Allowing only pass holders is an unfortunate decision. They are asking us to buy a daily pass of Rs 70 even if we want to travel only 2km. This is more than the autorickshaw fare,” said KR Puram resident Sridhar V. K Gowtham, a mechanic, also criticised the pass move. “Charging Rs 70 for a daily pass is a lot; daily-wage workers like us cannot afford it. With the same money, one could pay the EMI for a low-range two-wheeler. BMTC, it seems, is repeating the mistake it made with Volvo buses?” Gowtham said. BMTC officials said the step to allow only pass holders was taken to minimise cash transactions and discourage people from undertaking unnecessary travel involving long distances till month-end. “More people might travel unnecessarily if the fare is low,” an official said. Under the new health-safety guidelines for maintaining social distancing, each bus can carry only 30 passengers. State-run bus corporations, already reeling from losses, will take a huge financial hit because of reduced capacity. BMTC had said that digital ticketing, through QR code scanning, would be trialled on 75 buses under a plan for cashless and contactless sales. This is among the precautions to prevent the spread of coronavirus, which can survive on surfaces for a number of hours. On Tuesday, TOI found the digital payment facility on only five buses, and many passengers were still buying passes by paying cash to the conductor. “If they are going for cashless, they should have allowed us to buy e-tickets on the BMTC app. They are still accepting and issuing physical passes,” said techie Sudhir S. NGO Prayanikara Vedike demanded that rates be slashed. “Passes are exorbitantly priced right now. It’s the government’s responsibility to subsidise travel and provide free passes to economically vulnerable groups,” it said, adding that controlling crowds based on paying capacity was discriminatory. BMTC, which has a fleet of 6,600 buses, operated 2,100 vehicles between 7am and 7pm on Tuesday. There was no weekday passenger rush. Majestic, one of the busiest bus terminals in the city, wore an almost deserted look. “People are still hesitant to take public transport because of Covid-19 concerns. Most offices and educational institutions are also closed, and many workers have returned to their native place. We hope the ridership will pick up in the coming days,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/commuters-fume-at-bmtc-pass-system-call-it-indirect-fare-hike/articleshow/75837645.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Autos do little business in Bengaluru, commuters allege overcharging||BENGALURU: Autos started plying on city streets again on Tuesday amid complaints by commuters that they were overcharged and laments by drivers, hit hard by the lockdown, that there is hardly any business. Auto drivers refusing trips for fares set by the government and quoting their own rates was an irritant long before the lockdown and the problem resurfaced with resumption of transport services. But drivers say they are struggling to make ends meet after the disruption caused by the coronavirus crisis, and they are yet to get the financial package promised by the state government. Also, it will take time for the demand for autos to pick up. “I had been desperately waiting for the restrictions to be lifted. But on the first day, we didn’t do much business. This might well be the situation for a few months,” said K Manjunath, who was waiting for passengers near Majestic bus station. “We will get more passengers only after interstate train and bus services resume and more offices reopen.” Another auto driver, Mohan K, said the government should not delay transferring Rs 5,000, as announced in the relief package, to each driver’s account. “If they are not giving us the aid now, when will they? We are worried that they will forget their promise,” he said. Commuters said autos were not accepting standard fares. “They are demanding Rs 150 for a trip from Majestic to Shantinagar, a distance of 6km, claiming they won’t get customers on the return journey. The normal rate is Rs 80-100,” said Aswathy S. The state government has allowed autorickshaws to operate, but they can ferry only two passengers at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/autos-do-little-business-in-bengaluru-commuters-allege-overcharging/articleshow/75837661.cms||---
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan alters Shramik Special roster, 2 trains cancelled in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Tropical cyclone Amphan, which is expected to make landfall in Bengal on Wednesday afternoon, has already wreaked havoc with the Shramik Special timetable. While some trains have been cancelled, others scheduled to reach the state in the next 48 hours are being re-routed or diverted to avoid areas that are likely to bear the brunt of the “extremely severe storm”. The number of Shramik Special trains is also expected to reduce over the next couple of days in the aftermath of the cyclone. “So far, trains running from Chennai and Chengalpattu in Tamil Nadu have been cancelled following the cyclone warning,” said Adhir Sharma, DG and IGP of West Bengal Railway Police. Sources said these trains were scheduled to leave originating stations on Tuesday. According to Met reports, the intensity of rainfall will increase gradually and reach maximum level by Wednesday. East and West Midnapore, South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata are likely to be the most affected areas as the cyclone advances. South Eastern Railway (SER) on Tuesday said Shramik Special trains would be “suitably controlled, diverted and will not be allowed to run in the vulnerable section”. “No passenger train will be allowed on the Kharagpur-Bhadrak section. In the wake of a cyclone forecast, Bhubaneswar-New Delhi-Bhubaneswar AC Special Train has been diverted via Angul-Jharsuguda-Rourkela-Tata route, bypassing Bh-ubaneswar-Hijli (Kharagp-ur) route for four days,” an SER spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-alters-shramik-spl-roster-2-trains-cancelled/articleshow/75837062.cms||Rohit Khanna
May 20, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan set to hit West Bengal today||KOLKATA: A state forced into lockdown to staunch the spread of the coronavirus shifted gears on Tuesday to prepare itself for a battering from the Cyclone Amphan, likely to hit the Bengal coastline between Wednesday afternoon and evening with a maximum speed of 185kmph. Weather officials warned that wind speed in Kolkata could hit a maximum of 130kmph when Amphan would make landfall, prompting Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to appeal to citizens to stay indoors from 11am on Wednesday. The Bengal administration shifted around 3 lakh people from coastal areas, around 67% of them from South 24 Parganas and the rest from North 24 Parganas and East and West Midnapore, as the Kolkata Municipal Corporation identified vacant civic schools and community centres to be used as emergency shelters. “You have been facing Covid lockdown all these days but Amphan has added to our problems. I will request all of you to stay home from 11am on Wednesday till the cyclone leaves Bengal on Thursday. Wait for announcements from the administration. Some experts have said Amphan may be worse than Aila,” Banerjee said, referring to the 2009 cyclone that hit the city with a maximum speed of over 90kmph. Kolkata’s last brush with a cyclone was in November 2019, when Bulbul hit the state. Officials warned of waves 4-5 metres high in coastal areas and heavy to very heavy rainfall from Wednesday afternoon, which would intensify as the cyclone approached land and continue through Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon. Communication poles and trees might suffer widespread damage and there could be heavy waterlogging in some areas of the city, they added. Banerjee inspected the 24x7 disaster control room set up at Nabanna after speaking to Union home minister Amit Shah and asking senior state officials to urge the railways and the Union ministry of home affairs to suspend the Bengal-bound Shramik Special trains. The KMC, too, has set up a separate control room and several teams, including those from the Indian Navy, the Coast Guard, the State Disaster Response Force and the National Disaster Response Force, have been deployed in Kolkata and neighbouring districts. KMC chairperson Firhad Hakim later appealed to people staying in structurally vulnerable buildings to shift elsewhere as Kolkata Police personnel moved around neighbourhoods, asking people to shut themselves in on Wednesday after stocking up by Tuesday evening. Commissioner of police Anuj Sharma met senior officers and insisted that five things be prioritised: removal of cranes from under-construction high-rises and “dangerous” hoardings from buildings, monitoring of dilapidated buildings and removal of people staying there to safer places in a short time, evacuation of those living near the Hooghly to government accommodation and coordination with KMC and Disaster Management Group teams. Watch Cyclone Amphan expected to hit Bengal this evening, NDRF teams on ground||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/beast-from-bay-bears-down-on-bengal-at-185kmph-3-lakh-shifted-from-4-dists/articleshow/75837216.cms||---
