May 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Mystery boom in Bengaluru triggers meme fest on social media, and it’s bang on!||Some thought it was an earthquake, while others called it a sonic boom, interpretations were many for the ‘big bang’ that Bengaluru experienced on Wednesday afternoon. At around 1.30 pm, people in many parts of the city, particularly from Whitefield to Electronic City, were taken aback by a loud mystery sound. The impact the so huge that it even rattled windows. So, did the city experience mild tremors? Apparently, not, and the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre was quick to rule that out. They issued a statement saying that “seismometers did not capture any ground vibration”. City police commissioner Bhaskar Rao also that assured that no casualty or damage to property were registered. Although, the mystery remains unravelled, a statement issued by the HQRS Training Command, IAF, Bengaluru, helped to clear the air a bit. It read: “No aircraft of training command was flying in the area. However, ASTE and HAL could have been undertaking their routine test flying, which necessitates going supersonic at times. These are done well beyond the city limits in specified sectors. However, considering the atmospheric conditions and reduced noise levels in the city during these times, the aircraft sound may become clearly audible even if it happened way out from the city.” The loud ‘boom’, however, was enough to spark a fest of memes and witty remarks on social media, as wisecracks indulged in some creativity through the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mystery-boom-in-bengaluru-triggers-meme-fest-on-social-media-and-its-bang-on/articleshow/75854105.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Mystery boom in Bengaluru triggers meme fest on social media, and it’s bang on!||Some thought it was an earthquake, while others called it a sonic boom, interpretations were many for the ‘big bang’ that Bengaluru experienced on Wednesday afternoon. At around 1.30 pm, people in many parts of the city, particularly from Whitefield to Electronic City, were taken aback by a loud mystery sound. The impact the so huge that it even rattled windows. So, did the city experience mild tremors? Apparently, not, and the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre was quick to rule that out. They issued a statement saying that “seismometers did not capture any ground vibration”. City police commissioner Bhaskar Rao also that assured that no casualty or damage to property were registered. Although, the mystery remains unravelled, a statement issued by the HQRS Training Command, IAF, Bengaluru, helped to clear the air a bit. It read: “No aircraft of training command was flying in the area. However, ASTE and HAL could have been undertaking their routine test flying, which necessitates going supersonic at times. These are done well beyond the city limits in specified sectors. However, considering the atmospheric conditions and reduced noise levels in the city during these times, the aircraft sound may become clearly audible even if it happened way out from the city.” The loud ‘boom’, however, was enough to spark a fest of memes and witty remarks on social media, as wisecracks indulged in some creativity through the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mystery-boom-in-bengaluru-triggers-meme-fest-on-social-media-and-its-bang-on/articleshow/75853417.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sriganganagar becomes 32nd district to report Covid-19 case||JAIPUR: Sriganganagar reported its first Covid-19 case on Wednesday, which becomes the 32nd district of Rajasthan to report Covid-19 case. All districts have reported Covid-19 case, except Bundi. Districts which reported Covid-19 cases are Jaipur (25), Dungarpur (22), Jodhpur (18), Nagaur (17), Sikar (12), Jalore (11), Jhunjhunu (9), Pali (8), Rajsamand (8), Ajmer (7), Chittorgarh (7), Kota (6), Sirohi (5), Churu (3), Udaipur (3), Banswara (3), Tonk (2), Jhalawar (1), Sriganganagar (1) Baran (1), and one from other state. Four persons died while 170 persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday bringing tally to 6015. The toll due to Covid-19 stands at 147. Three of the four deaths were reported from Jaipur and one person died from other state. The toll in Jaipur reached to 73. However, 72 persons were discharged from the hospitals in different districts bringing the count of discharged persons to 3,000.  The tally of infected migrants has reached 990 with 102 fresh cases (out of 170 new cases) reported on Wednesday. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that 7.25 lakh migrants, who have entered the state have been home quarantined, while 34,000 others are kept at institutional quarantine facility. Apart from these migrants, Sharma said that there are a lot of migrants who have reached different districts without informing the government, they are the challenge for the authorities. “We have formed committees at village level to find out how many people have reached the villages without informing or after informing the government to keep them in quarantine to ensure others do not get infected with the virus,” said Sharma, while adding that till now the villages were safe from Covid-19 but now with migrants testing positive, the cases are surfacing from rural areas. In Jaipur, five more inmates of district jail were found infected with the virus, two each from Ramganj and Shastri Nagar while one each persons was tested positive for Covid-19 in Mansarovar, Amer, Van Vihar Kachhi Basti, Govindpura, RD hostel, Jagatpura, Bajaj Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Jain Dharamshala, DCM on Ajmer Road, Ambabari, Mahaveer Nagar, Hotel Teej, Hotel Red Fox, PG girls hostel and address of one case is not clear. An 108 ambulance driver, after being tested positive for Covid-19, reached SMS hospital driving his ambulance for getting admitted for his treatment on Tuesday night. The driver was posted at an ambulance at Gandhi Nagar location. Ambulance employee leader Virendra Singh alleged that the driver of the ambulance prepared his own file of admission as no one came to help in his admission from health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-sriganganagar-becomes-32nd-district-to-report-covid-19-case/articleshow/75855944.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Timely action by BSF saves youth's life during Amphan||KOLKATA: Timely action by the company commander of the 107 Battallion, Border Security Force (South Bengal Frontier), saved the life of a 17-year-old youth who attempted to hang himself inside his house even as Cyclone Amphan was about to make landfall on Wednesday evening. This happened at the Gangulia village in Bagdah, North 24-Parganas, close to the Indo-Bangladesh border. "His relatives broke into the room and brought him down by cutting the rope from which he had attempted to hang himself. This happened in the nick of time. The youth was unconscious but breathing with difficulty. Due to the cyclone raging outside, family members couldn't move the youth to a medical facility. They then took him to the BSF camp at Border Outpost Mustafapur. The company commander immediately allotted an ambulance along with guards to move rush the youth to the Bagdah hospital," a senior BSF official said. Senior officials appreciated the quick decision taken by the company commander despite the inclement weather. Doctors at the hospital said that the youth's condition was stable. According to the senior official, the commander displayed his commitment towards the well being of his countrymen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-timely-action-by-bsf-saves-youths-life-during-amphan/articleshow/75855948.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Third Vande Bharat Mission flight from Muscat lands at MIA||MANGALURU: Third Vande Bharat Mission flight carrying 63 expatriates from Muscat/Bengaluru/Mangaluru flight (IX817/IX818) landed at Mangaluru International Airport, on Wednesday evening. The flight landed at 8.05 pm at MIA. It was piloted by Kudla Boy Captain Michael Saldanha. After landing, all passengers have been given health kits, food, mobile SIMs and made arrangements to transfer their currency at the airport. Team of health department screened each passenger and later emigration process was completed. Their throat swabs will be tested for Covid-19 on Thursday. Union fertiliser minister D V Sadananda Gowda tweeted on Wednesday that the next Vande Bharat Mission flight is scheduled on May 22 from Doha to Mangaluru (Flight no - IX 0822). The flight will depart from Doha at 1:30 to Bengaluru and later fly to Mangaluru to reach at 9.55 pm. Another flight and third flight from Dubai to Mangaluru is scheduled on May 23 (Flight no - IX 0384). It will first land at Bengaluru and later fly to Mangaluru. However, there are no flights from Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to Mangaluru announced so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-third-vande-bharat-mission-flight-from-muscat-lands-at-mia/articleshow/75856001.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Two kids drown in Hyderabad lake||HYDERABAD: In a tragic incident, two children who accompanied their brother to a lake in Bandlaguda, drowned in the water body on Wednesday. The victims were, Mohammed Kareem alias Abbas, 4, and his sister Kulsum Fatima, 6. The mishap occurred when both the children along with their elder brother, Mohammed Nawaz, 17, went to Umda Sagar Lake in Bandlaguda of Chandrayangutta at 11.30am on Wednesday. “The elder brother, Mohammed Nawaz went to the lake to wash clothes. Nawaz made his two siblings sit on one rock on the lake’s bank and went to fetch soap. By the time he returned, the younger siblings went missing. After failing to locate them in surrounding places, Nawaz went home and informed his mother,” Chandrayangutta inspector Rudra Bhaskar said. Nawaz along with his mother, Sabiya Khan, a daily wage worker, returned to the lake and again searched for the missing children. Later a local person got into the lake and after scouring the waters, fished out the bodies of the siblings. Based on the complaint of Sabiya Khan, a case was registered under section 174 of CrPC and the bodies were shifted for post mortem examination, the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-kids-drown-in-hyderabad-lake/articleshow/75856037.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Sangrur police constitute special teams to arrest singer Moose Wala||PATIALA: The Sangrur police on Wednesday constituted special teams to carry out raids in order to arrest Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala and eight others including five cops in the case related to the use of fire arms, including an AK 47 weapon, by the singer at Ladda Kothi and Badbar police firing ranges earlier this month. Confirming the development superintendent of police Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Sangrur, Gurmeet Singh said that special teams has been constituted to carry out raids to arrest singer Sidhu Moose wala, five cops and three individuals against whom a case had been registered at Dhuri police station recently after a video showing the singer firing from his personal 9mm pistol at Ladda Kothi police centre firing range in Sangrur district emerged. The state police on intervention by the Punjab and Haryana High Court had recently added sections of the Arms Act to the to the FIRs that had been registered against the singer and 8 others first at the Dhanaula police station in Barnala district and then at Dhuri police station in Sangrur district. The first case was registered against the singer and the others at the Dhanaula police station and the very next day another case had been registered against them at Dhuri police station. The following day the Patiala police had suspended station house officer of Julkan along with a constable as the former had deputed the later along with a Deputy Superintendent of Police at Sangrur, unauthorisedly, who had then sent his staff to Badbar police firing range along with the singer Sidhu Moose Wala where he had fired a few shots from AK 47 automatic weapon. The video of which had gone viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-sangrur-police-constitute-special-teams-to-arrest-singer-moose-wala/articleshow/75856098.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman kills two sons, attempts suicide||HYDERABAD: A woman killed her two children and made a vain attempt to kill herself at Majidpur, Shamirpet on Wednesday. Shamirpet police said that 28-year-old Preeti and her two sons - Gaurav, 4, and Kaushik, 2, consumed food, in which she had already mixed pesticide. This incident that took place at 4pm, came to light after her husband Gopinath returned to home after attending office. He found Preeti and their two children lying on the ground unconsious. "Since children generally have less immunity, Gaurav and Kaushik died and Preeti survived," Shamirpet inspector S Santosham said. "Last night the couple had argument with each other over a petty issued. On Wednesday morning Gopinath left the house to attend his office. By the time he returned, she took the extreme step, and all the three were lying on the floor," police said.  Police have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of IPC. She is presently undergoing treatment and police said that she will be arrested shortly. On knowing about the incident, police rushed to the spot and reconstructed the scene and recorded the statements of few persons, including Gopinath, who works in a private pharmaceutical company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-woman-kills-two-sons-attempts-suicide/articleshow/75856152.cms||Srinath Vudali
May 21, 2020||Guwahati||Assam's Covid-19 cases rising rapidly, growth rate will be more: Himanta||GUWAHATI: Assam government has instructed all districts to demarcate cremation and burial grounds at isolated areas in their areas as Covid-19 cases, increasing at an accelerated rate took just a week to almost double from 79 on May 13 to 157 on May 19. On the contrary, it had taken 44 days for the number cases to reach 79 from one on March 31. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said, “Number of patients will increase with more and more people coming in…there is no way out. But today we have discharged seven patients, including the PG students at GMCH, who have recovered from Guwahati and Silchar.” Apart from total 157 positive cases, four have died, 48 have been discharged, another three have migrated to other states, which leaves 102 active cases as on Wednesday. “Today we have asked all deputy commissioners to set up cremation and burial grounds at isolated areas in their districts to prepare ourselves, in case there are any unfortunate deaths,” he said. During the 33 days period before the inter-state movement was allowed from March 31 when the first case was reported till May 2 there were 42 positive cases, which averages to 1.27 positive cases every day. In the subsequent period after inter-state movement was allowed from May 3, the number of cases have risen faster at an average of 7.18 cases per day. Sarma said, “The count will keep rising, at least for the next months. Our estimate is that there are 12 to 13 lakh Assam citizens outside the region and so far only about 1.5 lakh of them have returned by own or hired cars, cycles, buses and trains and even walked. Therefore, we are expecting at least 10 lakh people.” “The challenges will grow day by day as railways will run trains for one month and from May 25 airlines will start. We have to face the challenges,” Sarma added. He said that number of people coming by road are declining and is expected to end in next few days. “The norms for train travel have changed and now the sending state can requisition trains and send the people to the home state and do not need any approval for the receiving state. Railway ministry has informed that daily 5 five to six trains are likely to enter the state,” he said. Sarma in a tweet said, “In view of rapidly rising number of #COVID19 cases in Assam, govt has decided to keep Sonapur Civil Hospital & Kalapahar Hospital on a standby to accommodate more #COVID + patients. Visited both places with officials & asked administration to ramp up preparations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assams-covid-19-cases-rising-rapidly-growth-rate-will-be-more-himanta/articleshow/75856224.cms||Prabin Kalita
May 21, 2020||India||Data from major centres show large number of migrants still awaiting Shramik Specials for journey home||NEW DELHI/ MUMBAI/BENGALURU: The Shramik Special trains seem to have carried only a fraction of stranded migrant workers who have registered with the states to return home, data from three major centres show. Indian Railways said till Wednesday nearly 1,800 such trains had transported over 23.5 lakh people with a maximum 2.5 lakh taking 200 such trains on Tuesday. Details from Maharashtra show that nearly five lakh out of the 20 lakh stranded migrants registered with the state authorities had taken the SS trains to return to their native place. According to sources in Mumbai police, more than two lakh out of the 3.5 lakh migrants registered with them had left the city in such trains indicating a large number from other cities in the state are still waiting their turn.. Delhi has registered nearly four lakh stranded migrants who want to go back to their native place but around 65,000 had been able to leave as of Wednesday, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said. In the case of Karnataka, more than 5.95 lakh migrant labourers have registered through Seva Sindhu portal to return to their states and till Tuesday evening nearly 1.21 lakh had gone back by the special trains. This means nearly 80% of those who had registered were still waiting for trains to reach home. While in the case of Maharashtra, most of the migrants registered for train journey wanted to return to Bihar and West Bengal, about 2.57 lakh registered with Karnataka government wanted to return to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Sources said considering that ferrying this huge number of migrants who are yet to take train would be a difficult task, the Indian Railways on Tuesday decided to roll out 100 pairs or 200 special trains, particularly to cater to such passengers, though these will also have AC coaches. Unlike the Shramik Special trains where the sending state books bulk tickets, people can book tickets online for these non-AC special trains which will run as per a time table and one can book . This has also indicated how there is no specific number of stranded migrants still waiting to catch a train to return home. “It’s better to have regular service and allowing those who can buy tickets to return home. The certainty of getting a train in near future will reduce the present crisis of thousands tuning up outside stations,” said a government official who did not wish to be named. A sizable chunk of the passengers who traveled in special trains between Delhi and 15 other major cities were migrant workers. This indicated how they were desperate to return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/data-from-major-centres-show-large-number-of-migrants-still-awaiting-shramik-specials-for-journey-home/articleshow/75856281.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Number of Shramik trains operated by South Western Railway crosses 100||BENGALURU: The number of Shramik special trains South Western Railway has run since the first train on May 3, crossed the 100-mark on Wednesday. As many as 104 trains were operated till 9pm on Wednesday and 1.48 lakh passengers ferried. Thirteen trains on Wednesday alone transported people to places like New Jalpaiguri (West Bengal), Bettiah (Bihar), Madhubani (Bihar), Darbhanga (Bihar), Samastipur (Bihar), Purnia (Bihar) and Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh). Trains, which left late in the evening, also transported people to states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Bihar and Rajasthan Besides Malur and Chikkabanavara stations, these trains are now also leaving from Bengaluru Cantonment and KSR Bengaluru City stations. A majority of the workers were bound primarily to two states — Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. This is mainly because more trains have been operated to these two states. “We are ready to operate trains even at a short notice. For instance, we received a request from the state government to run two more trains to Bihar on Tuesday at 5pm. Those trains departed five hours later,” said Ashok Kumar Verma, Bengaluru divisional railway manager. The Karnataka government has been collecting fares from migrant workers to pay for most trains operated from Bengaluru. This is because the states where these workers are travelling to — Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Rajasthan — aren’t bearing the travel expenses for these migrants. However, states like Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh have decided to pay for tickets of passengers hailing from their states, including workers and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/number-of-shramik-trains-operated-by-south-western-railway-crosses-100/articleshow/75856398.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 21, 2020||Allahabad||Board games become popular in the city during lockdown||The lockdown has lead to a record rise in the sale of board games, so much so that they’re out of stock at several stores. Big Bazaar, Snapdeal and Paytm Mall recorded the highest-ever sales of board games once the government allowed sale of non-essential items in some markets. According to The Economic Times, Big Bazaar sold out its stock of board games after selling over 20,000 units of ludo and another 3,000 units of carrom boards. BOARD GAMES KEEP FAMILIES ENTERTAINED, HELP KILL TIME Right now, people are turning to board games to spend time with their family. Stand-up comedian Amit Tandon tells us, “We are at home, and to kill time, my wife, two teenage kids and I are playing board games.” For homemaker Seema Jain, it’s a throwback to her childhood days. She says, “Playing together at home is quite addictive – it feels like we are back to the summer vacations of our childhood. My 19-year-old son told me he spent two days watching videos to understand the key strategies of these games. In fact, since I always win, he was complaining that I didn’t share my game-winning strategies with him! Whatever board games we had were birthday gifts, but now, I’ve bought some more.” ‘DIDN'T WANT MY KIDS PLAYING GAMES ON MOBILE’ Shipra Bhargava, a hospitality industry professional, from Varanasi, says, “ I didn’t want my son to spend the spare time after online classes on mobile to play games. So to reduce his screen time we started playing carrom where the entire family, especially the kids battle it out on the board.” HUGE DEMAND FOR BOARD GAMES Geeta Sachdeva, who runs a general merchant store in Sigra area, says, “The board games are a rage during lockdown. Our entire stock of ludo game was sold out in just a few days. I’ve ordered a fresh stock now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/board-games-become-popular-in-the-city-during-lockdown/articleshow/75853073.cms||Meera Vohra
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||Board games become popular in the city during lockdown||The lockdown has lead to a record rise in the sale of board games, so much so that they’re out of stock at several stores. Big Bazaar, Snapdeal and Paytm Mall recorded the highest-ever sales of board games once the government allowed sale of non-essential items in some markets. According to The Economic Times, Big Bazaar sold out its stock of board games after selling over 20,000 units of ludo and another 3,000 units of carrom boards. BOARD GAMES KEEP FAMILIES ENTERTAINED, HELP KILL TIME Right now, people are turning to board games to spend time with their family. Stand-up comedian Amit Tandon tells us, “We are at home, and to kill time, my wife, two teenage kids and I are playing board games.” For homemaker Seema Jain, it’s a throwback to her childhood days. She says, “Playing together at home is quite addictive – it feels like we are back to the summer vacations of our childhood. My 19-year-old son told me he spent two days watching videos to understand the key strategies of these games. In fact, since I always win, he was complaining that I didn’t share my game-winning strategies with him! Whatever board games we had were birthday gifts, but now, I’ve bought some more.” ‘DIDN'T WANT MY KIDS PLAYING GAMES ON MOBILE’ Shipra Bhargava, a hospitality industry professional, from Varanasi, says, “ I didn’t want my son to spend the spare time after online classes on mobile to play games. So to reduce his screen time we started playing carrom where the entire family, especially the kids battle it out on the board.” HUGE DEMAND FOR BOARD GAMES Geeta Sachdeva, who runs a general merchant store in Sigra area, says, “The board games are a rage during lockdown. Our entire stock of ludo game was sold out in just a few days. I’ve ordered a fresh stock now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/board-games-become-popular-in-the-city-during-lockdown/articleshow/75853188.cms||Meera Vohra
May 21, 2020||Kanpur||Board games become popular in the city during lockdown||The lockdown has lead to a record rise in the sale of board games, so much so that they’re out of stock at several stores. Big Bazaar, Snapdeal and Paytm Mall recorded the highest-ever sales of board games once the government allowed sale of non-essential items in some markets. According to The Economic Times, Big Bazaar sold out its stock of board games after selling over 20,000 units of ludo and another 3,000 units of carrom boards. The lockdown has lead to a record rise in the sale of board games, so much so that they’re out of stock at several stores. Big Bazaar, Snapdeal and Paytm Mall recorded the highest-ever sales of board games once the government allowed sale of non-essential items in some markets. According to The Economic Times, Big Bazaar sold out its stock of board games after selling over 20,000 units of ludo and another 3,000 units of carrom boards. BOARD GAMES KEEP FAMILIES ENTERTAINED, HELP KILL TIME Right now, people are turning to board games to spend time with their family. Stand-up comedian Amit Tandon tells us, “We are at home, and to kill time, my wife, two teenage kids and I are playing board games.” For homemaker Seema Jain, it’s a throwback to her childhood days. She says, “Playing together at home is quite addictive – it feels like we are back to the summer vacations of our childhood. My 19-year-old son told me he spent two days watching videos to understand the key strategies of these games. In fact, since I always win, he was complaining that I didn’t share my game-winning strategies with him! Whatever board games we had were birthday gifts, but now, I’ve bought some more.” ‘DIDN'T WANT MY KIDS PLAYING GAMES ON MOBILE’ Divya Khare, mother of a ten-year old, says, “My daughter was most of the time busy playing games on my mobile phone. So I got out a board game with ludo and chess that had been lying about and now all of us play the games with her. It’s good family time too.” HUGE DEMAND FOR BOARD GAMESKail Singh, who runs a general merchant store in Civil Lines area, says, “The board games are a rage during lockdown. Our entire stock of ludo game was sold out in just a few days. I’ve ordered a fresh stock now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/board-games-become-popular-in-the-city-during-lockdown/articleshow/75853262.cms||Sumit Jha
May 21, 2020||Goa||When a brilliant Sporting Clube fell short at the last hurdle in NFL||PANAJI: It is nobody’s fault that Dempo Sports Club’s first National Football League (NFL) triumph on this day 15 years ago is rarely remembered, or even cherished. They were never meant to become champions in the first place. As Dempo defeated Tollygunge Agragami 2-0 with second half goals from Ranty Martins and RC Prakash, there were only a handful to cheer them at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco. This was Dempo’s first NFL triumph, first double for a Goan club, and the start of a special journey for Goan football. Yet, there was no joy all-around. Instead, there were tears. Less than 30 kilometres away at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, there was unbelievable despair. Players fell to the ground, fans cried, the champagne bottles remained on ice and Queen’s ‘We are the champions, my friends’ could never be played. This was meant to be Sporting Clube de Goa’s greatest moment, one of Indian football’s fairy tale story, only to be spectacularly cut short in the end. That Sporting came so close to winning the NFL in just their second attempt was quite a story. That they lost the title in the last 10 minutes, at home against Mahindra United (1-3), when they needed only a win, quite another. “When the NFL started, nobody really gave us a chance. We were in the NFL for only a year, having qualified from the second division (in 2003). There were no high-profile signings, yet our play charmed so many that when we missed out on the title, everyone rubbed their eyes in disbelief,” said Sporting Clube owner Peter Vaz. So how did a bunch of unwanted players and unknown foreigners combine to provide football of such butterfly beauty? How did Sporting take Indian football by storm, galloping their way to the top, only to lose the concluding league clash against Mahindra United and allow Dempo to run away with the title? “Nothing happened overnight. We built this team brick by brick and it all fell in place for us during the memorable 2004-05 season,” said Vaz. Vaz took over the team from Cidade de Goa in 1999. He was only 28, and having been a former player himself, had a natural eye for talent. They unofficially call him the ‘Scout’ at the club, and it was not a surprise that talented players out of favour elsewhere, found their way to Sporting Clube. A talent search hunt had previously unearthed gems like Nicholas Rodrigues, Nicolau Borges, Luis Barreto, Joseph Pereira and Joe Rodrigues. Goalkeeper Felix D’Souza was there right from inception, while players like the Gomes brothers – Wilton and Felipe – Bibiano Fernandes, Suresh David and Rajesh Meitei prospered here. Then there were the foreigners. Who can forget Dudu Omagbemi? For three successive seasons, the Nigerian striker struggled to find the right partner, until Edeh Chidi walked into the team. They seemed made for each other; Dudu, bulldozing his way, and Chidi, calmness personified with the ball at his feet. Adebayor Adewusi turned out to be a jackpot, as he marshalled the midfield appreciably. Sporting also employed an unconventional formation. Starting with 3-4-1-2, they switched to 3-5-2 and even adopted 3-1-4-2, depending on the opposition. What remained constant was Dudu and Chidi upfront, and it resulted in the Nigerian duo scoring 30 goals between them. “We were the most attacking team,” said Vaz. They were the most feared too, scoring 46 goals in 22 games, 18 more than eventual champions Dempo. When the NFL kicked-off, Sporting had just six points from the first five games. A 4-0 demolition of Dempo then gave them the confidence, and even though it may sound cliched, they never looked back. Of course, there were setbacks along the way like the bus accident in Kolkata that left the team shattered and at least three players with season-ending injuries. But Sporting did well to put that behind them and rise to the occasion. “Because of the accident in Kolkata, we had a backlog of five or six games. We won all of them. That gave us plenty of confidence. The team camaraderie also improved. “A lot of people think we lost the championship against Mahindra in the concluding league clash. For me, we lost the title in Kolkata, when we allowed Tollygunge (Agragami) to draw (2-2) in the last minute,” said Vaz. Until then, Sporting had won plenty of hearts and were the overwhelming favourites for the title. A brace from Dudu had given them the advantage against Tollygunge, but instead of shutting the doors, Sporting – who had won six matches in a row till then -- left it wide open. Vaz remembers making a phone call to his manager Angelo Albuquerque and passing on instructions to field an additional defender. Instead of protecting the 2-1 advantage, the coaching staff did exactly the opposite! The result was disastrous. “Those two points that we dropped against Tollygunge were fateful. It was demoralising, and we never recovered from the setback,” said Vaz. Sporting still had a chance to seal the NFL title with victory against Mahindra at home. It was the concluding game and a packed Nehru stadium added to the excitement. Second-placed Dempo had almost given up – they had a chance only if Sporting faltered at home – but Sporting choked, quite unexpectedly. After a rather tentative start, Flavio de Oliveira’s opening goal for Mahindra was immediately cancelled out by Wilton. In the second half, Sporting went all out for the winner, and with Dempo racing to a 2-0 advantage in Vasco, the pressure was growing with each passing minute at Fatorda. In the last 10 minutes, with the pressure unbearable, Mahindra struck twice, and while Dempo celebrated at Vasco, the rest of Goa was left to mourn. A week later in Kozhikode, there was success in good measure for Sporting as they won the Super Cup with a 3-0 defeat of champions Dempo. Vaz calls his team the “champion of champions” for that season, but for all the hearts that they won that year, they lost the most important one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/when-a-brilliant-sporting-clube-fell-short-at-the-last-hurdle-in-nfl/articleshow/75854908.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Tests delayed as private labs struggle to cope in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Private labs in the city offering Covid-19 test are so stretched that some of them are giving patients two to three days’ time for sample collection — a waiting time that can prove fatal for those who have pre-existing illness and other complications. “My 24-year-old son suffers from kidney failure. Doctors advised him dialysis last week but told us to to get his Covid-19 test done first. I called up two private labs to immediately collect my son’s samples from our home, but both refused, saying it will take up to two days’ time,” said Krishna Devi, a resident of Rohini. She added that finally they contacted someone they knew at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital to get the test done. “The sample was collected on Friday. We are yet to receive the report,” he said. The head of a prominent south Delhi lab which has a capacity to conduct 150 to 200 tests daily told TOI. “If our testing capacity is full, how can we accept more samples? The state government has already threatened action if results aren’t declared within 24 hours of collecting the samples,” he said. Shweta Prasad (name changed), who lives in South Delhi, was diagnosed with early stage of pneumonia – which is a classical symptom of Covid-19, though it can be caused due to other infections also – during a medical examination by a general physician on Tuesday. “The doctor prescribed Covid-19 test. They referred us to a private lab nearby. When we reached there, the staff was initially scared and then they told us to registered online for sample collection which may take two days,” Prasad said. She added: “I have two kids at home. I had to send them to a friend’s place while still waiting and trying to figure out where to get the test done.” The owner of the south Delhi lab said unlike in the case of H1N1 pandemic, where the government had capped the price of tests but left the other issues to be dealt with by the labs concerned, in the case of Covid-19 they have been saddled with lot of paperwork. “We have to send reports to ICMR and Delhi government first, before sending the same to the patient. It requires extra time and manpower,” he said. The head of another lab said the government had issued directives for authorisation of sample collectors from the district authorities which is adding to the delays. “Very few sample collectors have been authorised as yet, which is leading to delay in sample collection from homes,” said an official. Among private labs, Dr Lal Path Lab has the capacity to process maximum 4,000 samples daily. However, the lab chain is able to less than a thousand tests due to the time frame fixed for sending results and other formalities involved. Recently, the government had also ordered an inquiry into the lab’s results. The lab said it has sent clarification to the government in the matter. When asked, a senior official in the Delhi government said not everyone needs to undergo testing for Covid-19. “We have 16 sample collection centres across the city. Those who have Covid-19 symptoms and history of contact with an infected individual can either call helpline number – 1031 – for guidance on how to get the test done or approach these Covid-19 testing centres directly. A physician is also available at these centres to assess the patient’s condition,” the official said. As per government data, 4,235 samples were collected for Covid-19 tests on May 18; 2195 by government centres and 2040 by private centres. Of this, 399 came positive. "In a city like Delhi which has so many Covid-19 cases, sample collection and testing facilities must be scaled up further," epidemiologists say, adding that the case load is likely to increase further in the coming weeks and, therefore, the demand for tests will also rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-tests-delayed-as-private-labs-struggle-to-cope/articleshow/75857348.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Pass confusion causes Gurugram border protests||GURUGRAM : The pass system for the Gurugram-Delhi travel and its accompanying set of regulations once again drew questions on Wednesday as a violent protest erupted in a border village, leaving six policemen injured. Nearly 1,000 people living in Salapur Khera had come out to protest against the border curbs, but the demonstration turned violent when a group began throwing stones at police. While the exasperated villagers said they should be let in because they are carrying official movement passes and cannot afford to lose the day’s wages any longer, police claimed they were following government orders and could not let them in. Some of the protesters alleged cops at the border enforced the rule arbitrary, and that some of them had entered Gurugram using the same pass on earlier occasions. “They stop some of workers and let some go. I stopped going to work around two days back due to daily harassment by the police,” said Komal, who lives in Kapashera and works in Udyog Vihar. This confusion over movement passes continues in Gurugram because of the shifting rules protocols have left many confused. Passes have been issued in three batches, each with its own rules – first, for essential services movement within Gurugram , then inter-state e-passes after the government gave an undertaking in the Delhi high court that it would facilitate cross-border movement of workers involved in essential services, and third, passes for industrial workers that factory owners can now apply for. Additional chief secretary and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority chief VS Kundu clarified there are only two kinds of inter-state passes are being issued currently — one for essential workers with permission for multiple entry and exit, and the other a one-time permit for anyone else who works in the city and lives outside it. Those with the latter can enter the city once but have to stay back. They are not allowed to travel between Gurugram and Delhi. As a result, there are many who have inter-state passes but are confused about the fine print. Some still have the intra-city passes, which were issued as permits to travel within the city during the lockdown and are currently invalid, but continue to produce those at the border. “The passes workers are producing aren’t valid anymore. They need to apply afresh for passes for cross-border movement. However, unless they are engaged in essential services, the pass will not allow multiple entries and exits. Once they cross the border, they will have to stay on the premises itself,” said Kundu. This, however, is not conducive for industries. “While the government has allowed industries to function with 100% strength, it is not feasible because many workers come from Delhi. The government wants us to them up in the premises, but hardly any industrial units have the space to make that arrangement,” said Praveen Yadav of Gurugram Udyog Association. Thus, though the government has tried to fire up the industries with a slew of relaxations, effectively, the revival continues to be slow because of the border restrictions, he added. Asked about allegations of workers that the imposition of the rule at the borders is arbitrary, a policeman posted at the border admitted that with multiple directions and rules coming in, there is some confusion, even among cops. “The information trickles down slowly, and sometimes, by the time it reaches those implementing the orders, the rules have changed again,” said the policeman, who requested not to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pass-confusion-causes-gurgaon-border-protests/articleshow/75857510.cms||Shubra Pant
May 21, 2020||India||Military, diplomatic talks on with China to end stand-off||NEW DELHI: India is trying to resolve the ongoing troop confrontation with China in some stretches along the unresolved border in eastern Ladakh as well as Sikkim, which has become the most serious since the major Doklam face-off in 2017, through both military and diplomatic channels. Sources on Wednesday said “flag meetings” and “military hotline talks” are being held at multiple-levels with the field commanders of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to de-escalate the heightened tensions and rival troop build-ups along the line of actual control (LAC). “There have been a couple of brigadier-level talks at the Chushul-Moldo and Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO)-Tien Wien Dien (TWD) border personnel meeting (BPM) points in eastern Ladakh. Another meeting took place on Tuesday and Wednesday but there does not seem to be any breakthrough as yet. Indian troops continue to maintain their forward posture, with major additional reinforcements from other areas,” said a source. China has taken deep umbrage at India building border infrastructure in terms of roads, defences and advanced landing grounds along the western and eastern sectors of the 3,488-km long LAC in recent times. India’s completion of the 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road last year, which provides access to the Depsang area and Galwan Valley while ending near the Karakoram Pass, in particular, has riled the PLA. “But all our activities, including a couple of new roads, are taking place within our own territory, away from China’s claim lines,” he added. Both India and China pumped in additional troops, built fortifications and pitched tents at a few stretches along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, which include the northern bank of Pangong Tso (Tso means lake), Demchok and Galwan Valley areas, after the tensions brewing since mid-April led to violent clashes on May 5-6, as was earlier reported by TOI. The PLA, for instance, has pitched around 80 to 100 tents near the Galwan river after virtually blocking India’s ongoing construction of a small road in the area, which was a flashpoint even during the 1962 war, while also deploying several vehicles and construction equipment in the Demchok region. China has also increased the number of its armed motorised boats for patrolling in the 134-km long picturesque Pangong Tso, two-thirds of which is controlled by China as it extends from Tibet to India at an altitude of almost 14,000-feet. India has responded by also deploying additional “quick-reaction team (QRT) boats in the lake and troops on its northern bank. While the Indian establishment has so far maintained a studied silence on the bilateral border tensions, China has attacked India through both its foreign affairs ministry and state-controlled media for aggressive patrolling behaviour and “unilateral attempts” to change the status-quo along the LAC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/military-diplomatic-talks-on-with-china-to-end-stand-off/articleshow/75857537.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 21, 2020||India||Covid-19: Deaths in 15 worst-hit nations 83 times more than in India||NEW DELHI: The 15 countries most impacted by Covid-19 have together reported 34 times more cases and 83 times more deaths than India, despite their cumulative population being almost equivalent to that of India, the health ministry said, underlining the fewer number of cases as well as fatalities as “relatively good news”. Around eight persons per lakh population in India are affected by Covid-19, as against a world average of 62 per lakh even as India recorded a second consecutive day of one lakh tests. The death toll rose to 3,303 and the number of cases to 1,06,750, an increase of 140 deaths and a record jump of 5,611 cases in the last 24 hours. Lockdown 4.0: Live updatesOn the positive side, the number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 61,149, whereas 42,298 people have recovered so far. The current recovery rate is near 40% as against 7.1% at the start of the first lockdown, 11.5% at the start of the second and 26.59% at the start of the third lockdown. Besides, only 6.39% of the currently active 61,149 cases were on enhanced hospital care, signalling better clinical management and hospital support. About 2.94% of active Covid-19 cases needed oxygen support, 3% needed ICU and 0.45% required ventilator support. “During lockdown, we have upgraded our hospital infrastructure, including oxygen-supported beds, ICU beds and ventilators. Our efforts give us confidence that we are ready, along with states, to manage Covid cases,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Whereas the global average of cases per one lakh people was 62, the number for India was 7.9. It was 115 for Brazil, 150 for Iran, 374 for Italy and 452 for the US, the health ministry analysis showed. Deaths per one lakh people in India was 0.2 as against 4.2 globally and as high as 59 in Spain, 52 in the UK and 36 in Sweden. “While our deaths are a matter of grief, we find that six countries have reported more than 10,000 Covid-19 deaths. Together with states and citizens, we have been able to manage the situation, though the challenge continues,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-deaths-in-15-worst-hit-nations-83-times-more-than-in-india/articleshow/75857547.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 21, 2020||India||Congress withdraws buses for migrants, hits out at UP govt for ‘drama’||NEW DELHI: Claiming “selfless service” behind the Congress offer to provide buses to ferry migrants in Uttar Pradesh, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the state government’s decision to turn it into a political drama had denied around a lakh migrants the chance to escape the misery of walking the highways and reaching home safely. Shortly before the three-day standoff ended with Congress withdrawing the buses stationed at UP border, Priyanka, in a surprise address on the party’s social media platforms, appealed to UP CM Yogi Adityanath that “it was time to rise above politics” and help migrants who were trudging home in the scorching heat. “If on May 17, the 500 buses provided by us at the Ghaziabad border had plied, at least 20,000 people would have reached home safely. If the 900 buses provided by us yesterday had been allowed, 72,000 people would have reached home safely in two days. But we were stuck in political drama,” she lamented, urging political parties to “understand their responsibility” for the people who are the “backbone of India”. Training her guns at the UP government, Priyanka said the CM had accepted Congress’s offer and sought a list of buses and drivers, but later asked questions which did not allow the issue to move further. “While we are stuck in this political drama and you are issuing strange comments and raising different issues, we could have transported at least 92,000 people home,” she said. Priyanka said Congress has been doing selfless service since the announcement of lockdown, pegging the number of people helped at 67 lakh. Meanwhile, Congress functionary Pankaj Punia’s derogatory remarks against BJP members led to a furore with the saffron party asking Priyanka to explain as if she agreed with the comments. While attacking the UP government over buses for migrant labourers, Punia on Tuesday had tweeted and mentioned Lord Ram to which several people reacted strongly and questioned why Congress had neither taken any action against Punia nor any senior functionary expressed regret over the remarks. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra tweeted a photo of Punia, who is an AICC member, with Rahul Gandhi and said, “Respected Priyanka Gandhi ji, this man is a close associate of your brother. He has inflicted disgusting insult on daughters, Lord Ram and saffron through his tweet. You are also a daughter... do you agree with such remarks? However, it is a known fact that your family hates Lord Ram.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-withdraws-buses-for-migrants-hits-out-at-up-govt-for-drama/articleshow/75857615.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
May 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: One shot dead at Danapur||PATNA: Unidentified armed criminals shot dead one Vikash Kumar (25) near Danapur SDPO office at Mainpura under Danapur police station on Wednesday. Police said the criminals were on foot and shot him dead. SHO Rajesh Kumar Sinha said the reason behind the killing was not known yet. One Dasai Choudhary (50) was also shot at in Biwiganj locality under Danapur police station around 7.30pm on Tuesday. Maoists arrested: The Special Task Force (STF) in separate operations arrested an Maoists Tulsi Yadav from Gangata in Nawada and Mukul Yadav from Alauli in Khagaria district respectively on Wednesday. STF sources said Tulsi had been evading arrest for the last 17 years. Tulsi is an accused in a murder case lodged with Rajauli police station in Nawada on December 20, 2003. Mukul carried a reward of Rs50,000 on his head. He was also involved in the murder for former Morkahi panchayat mukhiya Paduman Lal in Khagaria district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-shot-dead-at-danapur/articleshow/75853097.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Patna||Lockdown spoils BPA’s centenary celebrations||PATNA: The lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic spoiled the Bihar Police Association’s plans to celebrate its centenary celebrations on a grand scale on Wednesday. The association had planned to invite Union home minister Amit Shah, CM Nitish Kumar and several others, its president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh said. The invitation had been sent to Shah, but all plans got cancelled. “We had planned to spend Rs15-20 lakh on the programme during which several police officers and civilians were to be awarded for their exemplary works. Instead, we celebrated it just by lighting candles in the presence of only a few of our officers and office-bearers at the association’s office,” Singh said. He said only Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha had police associations formed in British era. “A meeting of lower-rank police officers was held in Howrah on May 20, 1920 when the British India Police Association was formed,” he said. He said police associations in Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha were originally the parts of British India Police Association official recognized by the British in 1924, but got separated over a period of time with police in Odisha detached from the command of Bengal presidency and then separation of Bihar and Jharkhand in 2000,” he said. Singh said the Bihar association with 20,000 members gives financial assistance of Rs9,000 each per semester to two children of its members for graduation. “We also give assistance of Rs5,000 to Rs50,000 to our members in any medical emergency,” he said, adding the association also donated Rs1.8 crore to CM Relief Fund for Covid-19 recently. Singh said the association of Railway Protection Force is the only police association to get recognition in independent India during AB Vajpayee’s regime. “West Bengal police association was banned by its government and the matter is sub judice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-spoils-bpas-centenary-celebrations/articleshow/75852924.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||Ganga water can help curb corona spread, claims expert||Varanasi: Can Ganga water and its unique antibacterial property due to the presence of various kinds of bacteriophages also help check the spread of novel coronavirus in Gangetic plain? Yes it can, claims eminent river engineer and former professor of civil engineering at IIT (BHU) Prof. U K Choudhary.Choudhary, who is also founder of Ganga Research Centre at IIT (BHU), says judicious use of river technology can help resolve the coronavirus crisis as well as the plight of Ganga. Ganga water contains a significantly higher proportion of bacteriophages — a kind of virus that kill bacteria. “Our ancient scriptures like Vedas, Puranas and Upanishads say that Gangajal is medicinal water. Scientists later found that Ganga water has bacteriophages capable of killing pathogens,” Choudhary said. “Let us analyse the source of bacteriophages. If we take three rivers of Himalayan origin having sources at different heights — the Ganga (Gomukh), Yamuna (Yamunotri) and the Sone river, we find the colours of waters are different. The whitish colour of Gangajal, greenish of Yamuna jal and brownish of Sone water is also indicative. As Gomukh is the highest among the three, the water comes from lowest depth of aquifer as compared to Yamunotri and Sone river origin,” he explained. Thus, the quality of river water is proportional to height of origin point. This defines the genetic character of Gangajal. The balanced flow of this water in entire length of the Ganga defines the medicinal property of Gangajal, he added. The bacteriophages in the Ganga can curb the spread of coronavirus through soil, water and air. “Now, the point is how this can be done under the present conditions to retain the medicinal value of Gangajal and to utilise it to fight with coronavirus,” he said. “At present, this can be done by opening the gates of all the dams and barrages in such a way so that the discharge through each is similar to the water at Gomukh. In this way, the concentration of bacteriophage will be enhanced in Gangajal making it more effective against pathogens,” said Choudhary. “With increasing diffusion of bacteriophages in water and soil, the spread of coronavirus will be impacted and reduced. This methodology and technique can also help maintain the quality of Ganga water later when the problem of coronavirus ends,” said Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ganga-water-can-help-curb-corona-spread-claims-expert/articleshow/75854584.cms||Binay Singh
May 21, 2020||Surat||In one year, bird-hits double at Surat airport||Surat: With around 14 bird-hit incidents reported in the year 2019-2020, Surat airport has entered its name among the top 10 airports in the country having highest number of such incidents. The information was revealed after a citizen sought details under Right to Information (RTI) Act regarding the safety and security of the airport as well as the passengers. In its reply, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) stated that compared to seven bird-hit incidents in 2018-19, incident have doubled at the Surat airport in the last one year. The AAI said that about 275 bird-hit incidents were reported at 60 airports in the country during 2019-20, while it was 234 during 2018-19. Of these airports, Coimbatore airport reported the highest bird hits at 27, followed by 23 in Ahmedabad, 21 at Chennai, and 17 at Varanasi during 2019-20.However, bird hits at Ahmedabad airport dipped marginally in 2019-20 compared to the 26 incidents in 2018-19, the authorities said. Interestingly, the RTI also revealed that two carcasses of jackals were recovered from the runway in 2018-19. These animals may have died after being hit by aircraft during take-off or landing at the runway, AAI reply said. It must be noted that the forest department is regularly carrying out exercises to cage jackals, which have found a new abode at the Surat airport premises since 2018. In the last one year, around three were caged from the operational area of the airport. Sources said that the airport is spread across 317 hectare land which also has a network of many underground drainage lines and culverts. These are used by the small animals to sneak into the airport premises. The airport has permanently installed four iron grill traps to cage any such stray animals. Interestingly, despite the airport having LPG fired automatized zone guns to distract the birds, number of bird hit cases are on the rise.A senior airport officer said, “The presence of shrimp farms in the vicinity of the airport is attracting the birds which lead to incidents of bird hit being reported on a regular basis. That apart, smaller animals easily sneak into the airport premises from the underground drainage lines and holes. Head: Safe & Secure?Major reason for bird hits: Presence of over 2,000 shrimp ponds around airport at Dumas and MagdallaShrimp ponds attract birds in large numbersBesides bird hits, animals on runway also major problemAirport has network of underground drainage lines and culverts. Small animals use it to sneak into airport premises25 flights operate from Surat airport daily4,000 passnengers travel every day1.5L is the monthly passenger traffic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-one-year-bird-hits-double-at-surat-airport/articleshow/75854938.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Seamen threaten hunger strike||Quepem: A group of over 50 seafarers from Quepem once again met deputy chief minister and local MLA Chandrakant Kavalekar at his residence on Wednesday morning reiterating their demand that the government scraps its compulsory paid quarantine decision. Fearful of losing their jobs due to the state government pressurising shipping company owners to pay for the 14-day quarantine, the group further threatened to undertake a chain hunger strike from Friday onwards if the government failed to meet their demand by Wednesday night. They would be joined by seafarers from across the state, they said. “Some shipping companies have already told Goan seafarers that they will not re-employ them as the Goa government is unnecessarily charging quarantine fees. If this happens, will the government provide them jobs?” one seafarer, Sanjeev Borker, said. Francisca Mascarenhas, mother of one seamen, told TOI that her son informed her on phone that his company has decided not to re-employ him. She said the company told her son and his Goan colleagues that since they are spending millions of dollars to drop the seamen at their respective destinations, it is not fair that the state government asks them to also pay the 14-day quarantine fee. Kavalekar later said that he would once again meet chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday evening. “I have also come to the conclusion that the government should waive off the quarantine fee,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seamen-threaten-hunger-strike/articleshow/75857074.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Patna||Jobless migrant workers seek revival of industries in Bihar||PATNA: Thousands of migrant workers, who have returned to Bihar amid the Covid-19 lockdown, are making an appeal to the government to provide job opportunities to them. They are also seeking revival of industries, closed mills, workshops and factories so that they do not have to move to other states to eke out a living. As of now, the returnees are only dependent on manual jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Mahesh Singh Yadav, a migrant worker who reached Vaishali from Bhopal in almost 16 days, hopes to get a job in his hometown. He told this newspaper, “I returned home along with 12 other migrants, who used to work at a leather factory, on May 7. If the Bihar government reopens factories here, we will not have to go to other states.” Given a chance, Mohd Shakir Alam and Mohd Hajrat, who work at an Andheri-based factory in Mumbai, will stay in Bihar and earn money. “We returned to our village in Sitamarhi on May 2 and are now planning to sell vegetables or open a fast food stall in Patna. During our 22-day journey, we only ate biscuits,” they said and urged the government to reopen the sugar mill in Sitamarhi. Another migrant, Deepak Singh, said, “The state government can establish agro-based industries, which will transform the rural economic scenario completely.” Meanwhile, ‘#Industries in Bihar’ is trending on social media as more than 79,000 people have made an appeal to the state government to revive the old mills and factories to generate employment opportunities for migrants coming from other states. Industries minister Shyam Rajak claimed that the government was making a database of all the migrants. “The data are being made available to the industrial units in Bihar which have started operating amid the lockdown. We have, however, not yet taken a decision regarding the revival of old factories or mills. We are focusing on food processing units and trying to promote the production of ‘makhana’ and honey.” Rajak added, “Amid the lockdown, more than 5,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have resumed operations and generated jobs for 37,000 workers. There are about 24,000 MSMEs in Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jobless-migrant-workers-seek-revival-of-industries-in-state/articleshow/75853251.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 21, 2020||Business||Liquidity plan aimed to help NBFCs fails to bring cheer||MUMBAI: The government on Wednesday finalised a special liquidity scheme for non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and widened the scope of its existing guarantee to public sector banks that finance them. In its statement, the government said that the direct financial implication would be only Rs 5 crore, but could go up in future if the finance companies default. Under the Rs 30,000-crore special liquidity scheme, a large public sector bank will float a special purpose vehicle, or SPV. This will issue bonds guaranteed by the government, which will be purchased by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The SPV will use the funds raised from the sale of its bonds to manage a stressed asset fund for purchase of bonds issued by NBFCs that will mature within three months. The Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), however, called for a number of changes in the scheme to make it effective. These include extending the tenure of assistance from three months to three years, and extending the tenure under the partial guarantee scheme to three years from the less than one year announced by the government. The FIDC also called for 20% of the government guarantee to MSME loans to be reserved for those extended by NBFCs. “There are companies which are reasonable in terms of credit quality, but are facing a short-term liquidity issue because a moratorium has been extended to borrowers. At the same time, there is no moratorium on their liabilities. This will help to meet the short-term funding requirement, although it would have been better if the guarantee was extended for instruments maturing up to one year,” said Crisil senior director Krishnan Sitharaman. He pointed out that, although stressed asset funds typically refer to troubled borrowers, here it would be only investment grade (BBB and above) NBFCs facing liquidity stress who are eligible. For finance companies that do not make the cut in terms of credit rating, the government has amended an existing partial credit guarantee scheme of up to Rs 1 lakh crore. This has been done to include a guarantee for a portfolio of bonds or commercial paper purchased from NBFCs. This guarantee is available for only those who have a rating of AA and below, including unrated companies. The RBI has amended the scheme to provide a sovereign portfolio guarantee of up to 20% of first loss for purchase of bonds or commercial papers (CPs) from NBFCs. However, NBFCs are sceptical of this scheme as well. From the earlier partial guarantee scheme, banks have acquired loans amounting to only Rs 16,000 crore, which is not even a fifth of the Rs 1-lakh-crore target. Many banks typically invest only in top-rated bonds of NBFCs and avoid lower-rated paper even if they are investment grade. Bank of Baroda executive director S L Jain said that his bank has been purchasing bonds from NBFCs and has also been extending loan support. “We will be reviewing our policy in terms of the new scheme,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/liquidity-plan-aimed-to-help-nbfcs-fails-to-bring-cheer/articleshow/75855585.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||MSMEs to get 4-year emergency government-guaranteed loans at 9.25%||MUMBAI: Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) can look forward to a four-year loan with a one-year moratorium at 9.25% under a government-guaranteed emergency funding scheme. All small business borrowers with outstanding credit of up to Rs 25 crore as on February 29, 2020, which were not more than 60 days overdue on loans, and with an annual turnover of up to Rs 100 crore, are eligible for this emergency credit. The government on Wednesday cleared an additional funding of up to Rs 3 lakh crore through an emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS), which was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday as part of the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' package. The scheme is expected to be operationalised by lenders soon after guidelines are issued by the finance ministry. The finance minister will hold a video conference meeting with chiefs of public sector banks and of Nabard, Sidbi and the National Housing Bank to review the flow of credit in the wake of the announcement of various schemes by the government. The amount of Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line (GECL) funding to eligible MSME borrowers — either in the form of additional working capital term loans (in case of banks and financial institutions, or FIs), or additional term loans (in case of NBFCs) — would be up to 20% of their entire outstanding credit up to Rs 25 crore as on February 29, 2020. Under the scheme, the government-promoted National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company (NCGTC) will provide 100% credit guarantee to lenders for emergency loans they provide to eligible MSMEs to battle the financial challenges arising out of Covid-19. Interest rates under the scheme have been capped at 9.25% for banks and FIs, and at 14% for NBFCs. The Cabinet approved setting aside a corpus of Rs 41,600 crore, spread over the current and next three fiscals. The guarantees will be available for emergency loans until the notification of the scheme up to October 31, 2020 or till an amount of Rs 3,00,000 crore is sanctioned, whichever is earlier. In an interaction with the Confederation of Indian Industry, Sitharaman said that credit availability for additional term loan and working capital loan was intended to reach all MSMEs, and hence the government has provided a guarantee to banks to overcome hesitation in lending. “When government provides full and partial guarantees with a special purpose vehicle post-lockdown, the bank hesitation has been addressed,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/msmes-to-get-4-year-emergency-govt-guaranteed-loans-at-9-25/articleshow/75855759.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||Quick service restaurants set for hiring strategy overhaul||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Hiring strategy across quick service restaurant (QSR) chains is set for an overhaul with companies focusing on deliveries due to Covid-19. With most restaurants remaining shut and their recovery expected to be slow after lockdown, demand for talent with specific skills such as managing deliveries and customer service with tech skills is expected to increase across fast-food brands from KFC and Pizza Hut to Starbucks and McDonald’s. KFC India, for instance, is piloting a “to your car or bike” service through which food will be delivered to a consumer’s vehicle. “With retail expected to remain slow, instead of frontline staff, we will see a spike in demand for delivery-related people,” said Moksh Chopra, CMO of KFC India. “Post-Covid lockdown, in 4-6 months, the demand for these skills will go up by 30% at least,” said Aditya Mishra, CEO, CIEL HR Services. “We will see a shortage of these staff and hence, aggressive poaching between the brands. We will also see greater variable pay will be offered to these people.” “Rather than hiring attendants to serve and tend to customers, the need is to clearly use delivery agents,” said Rituparna Chakraborty, co-founder & executive VP, TeamLease Services, while adding that delivery agents is a profile that’s most in demand. Demand for such talent, said Chakraborty, would have easily doubled when compared to pre-Covid days. Apart from the skills of delivery boys, HR experts said, the industry will see demand for customer service, digital marketing and business analysts go up by 10-30%, while the requirement for front-end retail staff is expected to remain lukewarm. “Not only front-end, even across kitchens, companies are slashing staff by half due to social distancing protocols,” said Kabir Singh, founder of homegrown burger chain Burger Singh. “The focus is on getting food to people.” Starbucks, which has been saddled with poor sales through the lockdown period, has resumed takeaway and home delivery services across eight cities. India’s largest burger chain McDonald’s, too, that only has a handful of kitchens currently open, has partnered with Swiggy to bolster its home-delivery model. “We were able to serve our customers in times of need by expanding our delivery grid, activating our restaurants, our delivery fleet and tapping into our relationships with the third-party aggregators,” said Saurabh Kalra, senior director (strategy and operations), HRPL, which runs McDonald’s restaurants in South and West India. Kolkata-headquartered fast-food chain Wow! Momo, which has launched ordering service through WhatsApp, is hiring a new line of tech team to build the brand’s omni-channel delivery and takeaway capabilities. “We feel the next era will be maximum operations, minimum operators. Home-grown QSR brands will see a surge in technology in running operations,” said Sagar Daryani, founder & CEO, Wow Momo. (With inputs from Udit Prasanna Mukherji)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/qsrs-set-for-hiring-strategy-overhaul/articleshow/75855531.cms||John Sarkar
May 21, 2020||Patna||Cyclone Amphan: Met forecasts rain, thunderstorm on Thursday||PATNA: The impact of Cyclone Amphan was seen in Bihar with cloud cover at most places in the state on Wednesday. The Patna Meteorological Centre has issued warning for thunderstorm along with lightning and moderate rainfall primarily in eastern parts of the state till Thursday. Thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds with speed 30-40 kmph are likely to lash Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj, Saharsa, Madhepura, Nawada, Katihar, Bhagalpur, Banka, Munger, Khagaria and Jamui districts. Warning for thunderstorm with lightning is also at one or two places in Patna district. The Amphan reduced in intensity and became an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” hours before landfall between Digha coast in West Bengal and Hatiya in Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon. A Patna Meteorological Centre bulletin in the afternoon stated that outer band of low and medium clouds will affect the eastern part of Bihar and north-eastern and south-eastern districts of the state may experience isolated thunderstorm and moderate rainfall activities during the next 48 hours from 5:30pm on Wednesday. “As per the current model projection after its landfall, the system is likely to move in a north, north-easterly direction towards interior Bangladesh and adjoining north-eastern states and weaken gradually … Being outside of core region, Bihar is not likely to be affected by the weather pattern associated with tropical cyclones i.e. gale wind, storm surge and torrential rainfall,” the Patna centre’s bulletin stated. The bulletin further stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at one or two places over north-central and eastern part of Bihar during the last 24 hours. A yellow colour warning has also been issued by the local meteorological centre for thunderstorm with lightning at one or two places in all districts in northeast, northwest and north-central Bihar till Thursday. An official at Patna Meteorological Centre told TOI that eastern districts in the state have been asked to remain on alert for squally winds with speed up to 50-60 kilometres per hour. “Though there is no need to panic in Bihar, certain districts in its north- eastern parts have been asked to remain on alert. Most other districts are likely to witness cloud cover with thunderstorm along with light to moderate rain till Thursday evening, after which the weather system will subside,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cyclone-amphan-met-forecasts-rain-thunderstorm-today/articleshow/75853211.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 21, 2020||Patna||Patna airport gears up to ensure contactless checks||PATNA: As the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport is likely to resume domestic flight operations from May 25, it has prepared fresh standard operating procedures (SOPs) for passenger movement that include contactless frisking and checks. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced on Wednesday that domestic flights would resume in a gradual manner from May 25. “All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operation from May 25. The SOPs for passenger movement are also being separately issued by the ministry of civil aviation,” he wrote on his Twitter handle. Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi told this newspaper that social distancing norms would be strictly followed by all the airlines. “Details about the commencement of flights are still awaited because that decision has to be taken by the airlines. However, we have made all the necessary arrangements,” he said. The airport’s assistant general manager (air traffic management), Santosh Kumar, pointed out that the staff of different airlines and the security personnel at the airport counters and gates would ensure contactless frisking and checks. “As a precautionary measure, all the passengers will be screened outside the terminal building before they take their boarding passes, which will not be issued manually. Markings have been created for the flyers so that they can maintain distance,” Santosh said, adding that sanitizers would be placed at all counters and hand-free soap machines installed at several points. Besides, the passengers’ luggage will be disinfected. Santosh said, “All the airport staff will wear masks and gloves and a movable retail outlet will sell personal protective equipment to the passengers. The terminal building will also be sanitized from time to time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-airport-gears-up-to-ensure-contactless-checks/articleshow/75852718.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 21, 2020||Patna||School turned into quarantine centre for BMP personnel||PATNA: A government secondary high school, which is located on the Bihar Military Police (BMP) campus, has been converted to a quarantine centre for the BMP personnel who tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from this, the entire BMP campus spread over several acres near the Patna airport has been declared as a containment zone. Patna deputy development commissioner Richie Pandey, who is the nodal officer for enforcement of home quarantine said, “The entire campus has been declared as a containment zone on Tuesday with the entry and exit points now strictly regulated.” The campus houses the headquarters of BMP-14, BMP-5 and BMP-10 battalions. Officers’ quarters are also inside the campus. While the first case was that of a retired havildar, who tested positive for coronavirus on May 7, 47 other personnel who live inside the barracks also contracted the virus. An IPS officer, preferring anonymity said, “A list of personnel engaged in essential office work at BMP DIG office, command hospital, state sports office and battalion headquarters on the campus has been prepared for providing passes for movement. No other personnel or any of their family members residing on the campus will be allowed to move out until there is any emergency.” Meanwhile, 35 BMP personnel, who were earlier kept at Hotel Patliputra Ashoka in isolation, were shifted to BAMETI premises on Tuesday night which is nearer to the campus. “These 35 personnel, who are asymptomatic, would now undergo treatment there. A medical team has also been deployed at BAMETI for round-the-clock monitoring of these personnel. If any of them develop any further symptom, they would be immediately shifted to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH),” said an official. He said three companies of Swabhiman battalion and two companies of BMP-10 were shifted out of the campus for required deployment in field before declaring it as containment zone. “While Swabhiman battalion companies are stationed at Kendra Vidyalaya campus on Bailey Road, two companies of BMP-10 were also allocated two government school premises from where they can be roped in for deployment,” the official added .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/school-turned-into-quarantine-centre-for-bmp-personnel/articleshow/75853078.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 21, 2020||Patna||8 out of 11 patients recover in Gaya||GAYA: Altogether eight out of the 11 Covid-19 positive cases in the district have recovered and as of now there are only three positive cases. Among these 11, five are migrant workers. The district has a population of nearly 50lakh (43lakh as per 2011 census), a big achievement more so on account of the fact that being an international tourist destination, Gaya was perceived initially to be more vulnerable to the deadly virus. As per statistics available on Tuesday’s review of the Covid-19 situation in the district, all the three positive have been kept in a Bodh Gaya-based isolation centre. According to an official press statement, it was also stated during the review meet that as on date, besides the three Covid positive cases in the district, 11 suspects awaiting lab report have been kept in isolation as a precautionary measure. All the three positive cases currently kept in isolation at a private hotel are asymptomatic. As per the latest guidelines, asymptomatic cases are not referred to hospitals. Only symptomatic cases have to be referred for level two and level three treatment. According to district magistrate Abhishek Singh, as on Tuesday evening, 40,213 migrant workers were lodged in 512 camps across 24 blocks of the district. “On an average 4,500-5,000 migrant workers are coming everyday. While 2,000 to 2,500 migrant workers come by trains, the rest take the road route. A robust mechanism was developed early in the district which paid dividends, but in view of the high number of migrant workers and chances of several of them being positive, difficult days lie ahead,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-out-of-11-patients-recover-in-gaya/articleshow/75853423.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 21, 2020||Patna||Health dept principal secretary shifted||PATNA: When the governments are fighting against Covid-19 pandemic and Union health secretary Preeti Sudan got 3-month extension in service in April, the Bihar government on Wednesday transferred principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar to tourism department. Uday Singh Kumawat will replace Sanjay. A 1990 batch IAS officer, Sanjay will also hold additional charge of member secretary of state advisory committee. Uday has been relieved of additional charge of vigilance commissioner (GAD) and revenue board additional member, but will hold other additional charges. The single transfer of Sanjay has surprised many, including those in the bureaucracy. Though officials and politicians cited various reasons for his transfer, no one came forward to formally comment on this issue. Sanjay had been active on Twitter, promptly sharing information on Covid-19 status in Bihar. He was also tough against government doctors for abstaining from duty. Sanjay was heading the health department since January 29, 2018 after his transfer from Jharkhand. In Jharkhand, he had served as principal secretary to the then chief minister Raghubar Das for three years. He had also been personal secretary to former Union minister Meira Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/health-dept-principal-secretary-shifted/articleshow/75852844.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Surat||Aarogya Setu must for all units: SMC||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has mandated all units which have restarted in various parts of the city to compulsorily ensure that their workers download Aarogya Setu. “SMC will carry out checking in the coming days in this regard,” warned Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat.While on Wednesday, 35 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the city taking the tally to 1,153, the city also reported one death from the virus. Banuben Pathan, 38, a resident of Limbayat zone, who also had diabetes, succumbed to the infection. With this, death toll due to Covid-19 reached 54 till date. Red zone, Limbayat, reported 16 more Covid-19 cases on Wednesday which took the total number of cases from this zone alone to 437. “As parts of the city have reopened due to the relaxation, I again appeal to the citizens to ensure social distancing and use of masks and hand sanitizers to stay safe. I ask everybody not to take these safety measures lightly,” Pani said. He also added that he is happy to note that many private clinics and hospitals have restarted operations in the city and giving patient details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aarogya-setu-must-for-all-units-smc/articleshow/75854608.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||Kotak, Yes Bank to use video KYC for new a/cs||Mumbai: Kotak Mahindra Bank has started using a video-based customer identification process (V-CIP) — permitted by the RBI — for opening accounts remotely. Yes Bank too is expected to start using the process for acquiring accounts. Before the Supreme Court order restricting the use of Aadhaar for purposes other than distribution of government benefits, banks used Aadhaar-plus-OTP for completing the ‘know your customer’ (KYC) process for opening accounts. After the ban, lenders had to fall back on conventional methods for the KYC process. In January this year, the RBI allowed banks to use V-CIP as a consent-based alternate method of establishing customer identity for on-boarding savings account customers. Kotak Bank had launched its 811 digital savings account after demonetisation. The remote account opening has been restarted using video KYC. “This initiative, currently being launched on a pilot basis for savings accounts, is in line with Kotak’s digital-first strategy and is a start-to-end fully integrated, zero-contact, completely digital and paperless account opening,” the bank said in a statement. With video KYC, verification of documents and recording of the customer’s signature are completed via a video call with the bank. After the video KYC is completed, the customer gets a full-fledged bank account with no restrictions on deposits or account balances. “We must now adapt to the aftermath of Covid-19. In this context, video KYC can prove to be a game changer where customer verification is completed from the comfort of one’s home or office without the need for a physical interaction,” said Shanti Ekambaram, group president (consumer banking), Kotak Mahindra Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-yes-bank-to-use-video-kyc-for-new-a/cs/articleshow/75855868.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||Mumbai bar dancers lodged at Moradabad quarantine demand beer, create ruckus||BAREILLY: Caught on camera, bar dancers and their male associates who had recently returned from Mumbai created a ruckus at a quarantine centre in Moradabad after their demand for liquor was not met by health workers. They had demanded beer and danced on the corridors of a private medical college. Recorded on a mobile, the video is being widely shared on social media. Police said the bar dancers and their associates violated standard operating procedures (SOPs) at the quarantine centre. There are 72 people who had returned from Mumbai five days back, including the bar dancers, in this particular quarantine centre. Of these, five have tested positive for Covid-19. “They danced on the corridors after being denied alcohol and mocked at us and the police personnel on duty. They also told us to let them go to their respective homes, which is not possible until test reports of all the returnees arrive and the quarantine period is completed,” said the health workers at the MIT quarantine centre. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Deepak Bhuker said an FIR under sections 147 (rioting), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 504 (intentional insults), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) has been registered against six of them. Bhuker said that all the 72 people, including 12 kids, 40 women and 20 men, in the quarantine centre had come from Mira Road in Mumbai in a truck. “There are fair chances that they had travelled in the night as the truck was not stopped and checked before reaching Moradabad. We have seized the vehicle and lodged an FIR against the truck owner. Besides, woman constables have been deployed at the facility,” the police officer said. “They were earlier under home quarantine but after the test reports said five of the returnees are Covid positive, we decided to shift them to institutional quarantine,” ASP Bhuker said. The incident has come to light after a dance programme by female dancers was reportedly held at a quarantine facility in Bihar’s Samastipur district on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mumbai-bar-dancers-lodged-at-moradabad-quarantine-demand-beer-create-ruckus/articleshow/75854556.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Jharkhand man drives to Delhi for oral cancer surgery||New Delhi: A 58-year-old man suffering from oral cancer drove 1,400 kilometres—from Ranchi to Delhi—with his son for the surgery. Doctors at Sir Ganga Ram hospital, where the surgery was conducted recently, said Sachidanand Singh from Gumla district in Jharkhand had contacted them on May 11 for surgery after being diagnosed with cancer of the oral cavity, but due to the lockdown, he was asked to wait.“Because trains and flights weren’t available, the patient decided to drive to Delhi with his son to get the surgery done. He arrived at the hospital on May 16 and was operated upon two days later,” Dr Rakesh Koul, chairman, department of surgical oncology at SGRH, said. He added that the patient tested negative for Covid-19.“He had a large tumour which was occupying front part of his oral cavity. We made three teams, one from the department of surgical oncology and others from the department of plastic and re-constructive surgery and anaesthesia, along with 15 OT technicians and nurses, to remove the tumour,” Dr Koul said.The surgery started at 9 am on May 18 and it took nearly 14 hours to complete it due to extra precautions required while operating with Personal Protective Equipment on. The doctors said removing the whole tumour was challenging and it involved surgical removal of lower lip, front part of lower jaw and dissection of the lymph nodes in the neck.According to Dr Anubhav Gupta, senior consultant, department of plastic and reconstructive surgery at the hospital, they re-constructed the patient’s lower jaw, floor of the mouth and skin of the chin by using the calf bone, muscle and skin from mid of his leg bone.Currently the patient is stable. He has been removed from ventilator and has started taking Ryles’ tube feed, Dr Koul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jharkhand-man-drives-to-delhi-for-oral-cancer-surgery/articleshow/75877622.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Amphan fury sweeps away social distancing norms at rescue centres||KOLKATA: While Covid-19 had confined people to their homes, Cyclone Amphan brought hundreds living in slums and temporary homes out in the open as the fierce storm wreaked devastation on the city and fringes, ripping apart polythene sheet roofs, sweeping away corrugated shades and breaking down portions of temporary homes . Even as cops and civic officials tried to bring the homeless and those living in shanties to evacuation centres, social distancing protocols, imposed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, took a back seat for a day. “We realise the importance of social distancing to minimise the chances of the spread of the novel coronavirus, but since saving people from the onslaught of this natural calamity became of utmost priority, we had to ensure everyone was safe under a concrete roof. So, we evacuated those living near the ghats of the Hooghly and shifted them to a rescue centre for a day, till the storm subsides,” said a KMC official outside a community hall in Bagbazar, where close to 200 people were put up on Wednesday. In Salt Lake area, more than 500 people from the slums of Duttabad, Sukanta Nagar and beside EM Bypass, were shifted to local clubs, ward offices, ICDS centres and even subways, under the supervision of local councillors and police. “We have supplied relief materials to the families and also provided them with food and water for the night. We are trying to maintain the social distancing norms but we can’t help it if it is compromised a bit during an emergency like this. But we have asked everyone to wear a mask and maintain as much distance from each other as possible,” said a senior official at Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Kolkata Police said it had transferred around 2,500 people to various community centres, schools and night shelters that had been turned into temporary rescue units. According to sources, among those who were moved belonged to two groups: those residing in dilapidated buildings and those living in low-lying places close to the banks of the Hooghly. The port division alone evacuated 1,000-odd people, mostly from Nadial, Garden Reach, south Port and north Port (Strand Bank Road) areas. But, cops pointed out, they did not shift people out of certain slums. At Jhalar Math in Tollygunge or Phoolbagan slums, residents chose to crowd inside what they presumed the safest place to be: the local clubs and buildings with a permanent shed. “Social distancing norm is definitely important now. But the primary aim is to save lives immediately. We spoke to the KMC and they said that random testing had been completed in some slums. Based on that input, we asked the slum dwellers there to stay safe but decided against relocating them,” said an IPS officer. Police said even at the community centres, it was not always possible to maintain social distancing discipline. “We had arranged something for the night, but as the cyclone raged on, we had more people turning up at some centres. These are people who had initially refused to shift out. We could not have said no to these helpless people. In certain places, we had more people staying for the night than initially planned, while in others, we had fewer evacuees than imagined,” said a Kolkata Police officer of assistant police commissioner rank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-fury-sweeps-away-social-distancing-norms-at-rescue-centres/articleshow/75856555.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 21, 2020||Business||Sebi to companies: Increase Covid disclosures||MUMBAI: To help investors make informed decisions about their holdings of stocks and bonds, markets regulator Sebi on Wednesday asked listed entities to disclose the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on their businesses. Sebi acknowledged that many listed entities have provided disclosures about shutdown of operations due to Covid-19, and some entities have also intimated exchanges about actions taken for sanitation, safety, etc. But Sebi said that disclosures relating to the financial impact were not enough. The disclosures sought include information about shutdown & reopening plans of their operations, expected impact on revenue & profit, debt-servicing capabilities, supply chain, and impact on demand for their products. “To have continuous information about the impact of Covid-19 on operations, listed entities may provide regular updates, as and when there are material developments,” a Sebi circular said. The directions are effective immediately. Listed entities around the world have been making disclosures regarding the impact of the pandemic and “regulators have encouraged timely reporting as well as complete and accurate disclosure of the impact”, Sebi said. “Listed entities (in India) should endeavour to ensure that all investors have access to timely, adequate and updated information. Towards this end, entities are encouraged to evaluate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on their business, performance and financials, both qualitatively and quantitatively, to the extent possible and disseminate the same.” The regulator also warned companies from making selective disclosures. While submitting financial statements under the Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements Regulation, listed companies may specify the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on their finances, to the extent possible, the circular noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-to-cos-increase-covid-disclosures/articleshow/75855853.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Patna||Monitor quarantine centres, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked all the district magistrates (DMs) and superintendents of police (SPs) to do regular monitoring of quarantine centres under their respective jurisdictions. They have also been asked to ensure that no antisocial element try to create nuisance at the quarantine centres where returnee migrant workers have been kept for 14 days to avoid the spread of Covid-19 in the villages. Holding a high-level review meeting with chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials here, the CM further asked the officials to strengthen all necessary arrangements at the block and panchayat-level quarantine centres in the wake of migrant workers returning in large numbers and more to come back in the coming days. “The employees deployed at the quarantine centres should be regularly briefed by their senior officers so that there should be proper arrangements for the migrants kept in quarantine,” the CM said. Nitish also said the state government would have to increase the number of testing facilities for Covid-19 in the wake of large number of migrant workers returning home. “We would also have to increase the number of testings per day,” he said and asked the chief secretary to take necessary action as per the Covid protocol. The CM further directed the officials to expedite the process of issuing new ration cards to all the poor families deprived of this facility so far. He said an amount of Rs1,000 must be transferred in the bank accounts of all those families identified by the members of Jeevika self-help groups as ‘eligible to get ration card’. Nitish asked the officials to take action against the guilty persons in case of any irregularities in distribution of foodgrains among the poor families. “Irregularities in the public distribution system (PDS) will not be tolerated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/monitor-quarantine-centres-says-nitish/articleshow/75853538.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav, Upendra Kushwaha, Jitan Ram Manjhi to interact with Sonia Gandhi on May 22||PATNA: The state opposition party leaders, including RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, will participate in the meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi through virtual medium on May 22 to hold discussions on the coronavirus crisis and the difficulties being faced by the migrant workers. To extend an invitation to the Bihar leaders concerned, Congress senior and Rajya Sabha member Ahmed Patel personally contacted them on their mobile phone numbers. The other opposition leaders to attend the session include Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, TMC chief and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and DMK chief M K Stalin, as well as Sitaram Yechury from the CPM, among others. Patel personally contacted Tejashwi, former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) national chief Upendra Kushwaha, as well as Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) president Mukesh Sahni in Bihar. RJD sources said Tejashwi has given his consent to participate in the May 22 meeting. The other state RJD leaders would not accompany him. “Patel personally called Manjhi ji on phone. They had discussion for a few minutes. Barring the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), leaders of the remaining 20 opposition parties will have session with the Congress president,” HAM(S) spokesman Danish Rizwan said. Similarly, RLSP spokesman Bhola Sharma said Kushwaha has also been invited for the meeting. Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha said the party’s state representative would not participate in the meeting. He added that Sonia already had two rounds of videoconference with the party’s state leaders and district presidents. Besides, he, along with AICC incharge Shakti Sinh Gohil also had a similar session with the party’s district presidents. In the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak and the normative social distancing, the leaders of various political parties have begun to tune themselves and their district and block units to the use of IT-enabled medium. Tejashwi held one such videoconference with the RJD district presidents on Monday, while attempts were being made to link up the block, panchayat and booth level units with the national unit, state RJD spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said. Congress state president said the party had started establishing its IT-enabled units at block level before the coronavirus outbreak. “We have already established IT cells at 75% of our party’s block units,” he said, adding that the added thrust is to extend it to the panchayat and booth levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-kushwaha-manjhi-to-interact-with-sonia-on-may-22/articleshow/75853465.cms||Abhay Singh
May 21, 2020||Patna||Construction work on several projects resumes in Patna||PATNA: Construction work on several ambitious infrastructure projects has resumed with gradual relaxations given by the Centre in the lockdown, road construction department (RCD) minister Nand Kishore Yadav said on Wednesday. Some of the projects include Lohia Path Chakra, Ganga Path, Gandhi Setu bridge and R-Block flyover. TOI takes a look at the pace of development: MAHATMA GANDHI SETU: “The rehabilitation work is going on in full swing and vehicular movement will start on the western flank of the bridge over river Ganga on June 15, Yadav said and added: “Work on the eastern flank will begin soon after vehicular movement starts on the western plank.” KACHCHI DARGAH-BIDUPUR BRIDGE: The construction work on the six-lane bridge between Kachchi Dargah in Patna and Bidupur on Hajipur side over the Ganga is in its initial stages. “It is targeted to be complete by 2021-end. The bridge will also connect two national highways,” the RCD minister said. DIGHA-AIIMS ELEVATED ROAD: It entails an expenditure of Rs1,231.06 crore. Initially targeted to be completed by March 2018, the project got delayed for permission from Railways. “More than 98% of the work on the 11.9km road is over. Hopefully, it will be completed as soon as the issues are resolved,” said a senior official at Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL). R-BLOCK FLYOVER: “Two flanks of the R-block flyover — one on Beerchand Patel Marg and another connecting Bhikhari Thakur rail overbridge (ROB) — are expected to be ready by June-end,” said Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) managing director Surendra Yadav. “The remaining work on the 1.27km-long R-Block flyover, connecting Mithapur ROB to Bhikhari Thakur ROB on Hardinge Road via R-Block will require another six-eight months to complete,” he added. LOHIA PATH CHAKRA PROJECT: Construction work on Lohia Path Chakra project between Lalit Bhavan and Vidyut Bhavan on Bailey Road has recommenced with a reduced number of workers. BRPNNL chairman Jitendra Srivastava said, “The priority now is the safety of the workers because of which we are taking extra precautions at the construction sites.” GANGA PATH PROJECT: RCD minister said work on Ganga Path project is going on at a snail’s pace due to some disputes. NEW TERMINAL BUILDING: The construction of the new terminal building and other auxiliary units at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport has resumed. Airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said around 51% of the work on the cargo complex, technical block, fire station, air traffic control tower and multi-level car parking has been completed. “The auxiliary buildings are likely to be operational by March 2021,” he said. R-BLOCK-DIGHA ROAD: The construction work is likely to be completed by August this year, said RCD minister. “The project got delayed due to the lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/construction-work-on-several-projects-resumes-in-patna/articleshow/75853509.cms||Archi Rani
May 21, 2020||Business||Sebi oks listing units of MFs facing closure||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi has allowed listing of units of mutual fund (MF) schemes that are being closed down. The decision is seen as a move by the regulator to help the over three lakh unit holders of Franklin Templeton MF’s six schemes by giving them the option to exit earlier than the full closure. However, such exits are likely to be at a huge discount to their actual value, industry players said. According to FTMF’s own projections of cash flows in these schemes, during normal course, it could take five years or even more for the investors to realise their full investments in these six funds, aggregating about Rs 24,753 crore as on May 15. The projections indicate that investors in FT’s Income Opportunities Fund could be the worst hit as they may get only up to 55% of their money in the next five years. Sebi rules allow units of MFs to be listed on the bourses. According to the new directive, the units of MF schemes that are in the process of winding-up shall also be listed on the stock exchanges. These would be “subject to compliance with listing formalities as stipulated by the stock exchange”. The regulator clarified that it would not be mandatory for investors to trade in these units on an exchange platform. But this will be “an optional channel to exit provided to them”. It also directed the fund houses, exchanges, depositories and registers to work together to facilitate the listing process of these units. Fund houses and their employees and trustees, and the sponsors are banned from trading in the units of these schemes. “The compliance of the same shall be monitored both by the board of AMC (asset management company, that is the fund house) and the trustee,” Sebi said. The industry trade body, Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi), said the markets regulator’s move to allow listing of units of schemes that are being closed will provide the affected investors another “liquidity option”. In a development unrelated to the Sebi circular, FTMF appointed on Wednesday Kotak Mahindra Bank as the adviser to help it in the winding-up process of its six schemes. On April 23, FTMF announced closure of six of its debt funds and said the illiquidity in the debt market that started after the default by IL&FS in September 2018 and aggravated during the Covid-19 pandemic was one of the reasons for this extreme step. Since then, Sebi, the RBI, Amfi and the fund house have been working together to restore confidence of MF investors in general and also to smoothen the process for the investors stuck in these funds to get their money back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-oks-listing-units-of-mfs-facing-closure/articleshow/75855689.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||Facebook eyes e-commerce with ‘Shops’ initiative||BENGALURU: Amid the pandemic, Facebook is making a push into e-commerce with an initiative named Facebook Shops. The company said this will allow small businesses to set up shops on Facebook and Instagram, where they can upload their catalogue. A user can then complete a transaction within Facebook without the need to go outside of the platform. In a late-night post on Tuesday, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the basic idea of Shops is that any small business can easily start selling things directly across its apps. “If you visit someone’s shop, you’ll be able to see that small business’s story, see their featured products, and buy them in our apps,” he said. Zuckerberg added this will be rolled out on Messenger and WhatsApp soon, without giving a timeline. Incidentally, the Facebook-owned WhatsApp is already at the centre of a commerce initiative with Reliance Jio, named JioMart, which lets one order grocery through the messaging app. It is not clear yet if Facebook Shops will end up competing with JioMart. A Facebook India spokesperson did not respond to TOI’s query on this matter. The company did not comment on when Shops will be launched in India, its largest market for products like Facebook and WhatsApp. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Existing e-commerce majors like Amazon and Flipkart have been also on-boarding local kirana shops in order to widen their offerings here. A serious play by Facebook could impact the current market dynamics. The US-based social media giant is partnering with firms like Shopify, BigCommerce, WooCommerce and Channel Advisor to help small businesses set up stores on Facebook and Instagram. “We’re building a dedicated shopping tab on Instagram and a destination inside Explore where you can find and buy products you might be interested in. Soon, we’ll also be launching new Live shopping features across Facebook and Instagram, which will allow you to shop on Live in real-time,” Zuckerberg added in his post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/facebook-eyes-e-comm-with-shops-initiative/articleshow/75855655.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||Ola to let go of 1/3rd of workforce after business shrinks 95%||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Ride-hailing major Ola is laying off 1,400 of its employees over the next two weeks. The move comes after its revenues fell by 95% over two months and the future of the business remains “unclear and uncertain”. Ola’s layoffs will be the deepest job cut yet by a unicorn (startup valued at over $1 billion) as it is letting go of about one-third of its workforce. Online food delivery unicorns Swiggy and Zomato have reduced their employee base by 13-15% in the last one week. “The world is not going to revert to the pre-Covid era anytime soon...The fallout of the virus has been very tough for our industry in particular. Our revenue has come down 95% over the past two months,” said Ola CEO Bhavish Aggarwal in a mail to employees. He added that there will be no more Covid-19 related cuts after this exercise. The company has also reduced salaries of its top management. Ola had over 4,000 employees and the latest layoffs follow an earlier 15-20% reduction of its workforce in December. The development comes as Ola’s US-headquartered rival Uber has also cut its global workforce by 25% in the last one month after lockdown restrictions crippled the ride-hailing business. Ola said it will offer employees at least three months of fixed salary with an additional payout based on duration served, insurance including policy for parents till the end of the year, relaxing equity vesting rules besides support for placements. “This crisis necessitates the need to conserve cash aggressively so that we are able to invest in opportunities in the future...We are increasing our investments and adding people capabilities in R&D across the group through this crisis to double down on innovation and engineering,” added Aggarwal in his statement. Valued at around $6 billion, Ola had plans to go public in two-three years and to be profitable. But those are likely to be deferred now. This is just the latest development after a slew of startups — including well-funded unicorns — announced layoffs over the last few weeks as the Covid-19 pandemic hit their business. While Swiggy laid off 1,100 earlier this week, Zomato let go of 520 people last week. The biggest layoffs have happened at hospitality major Oyo, which let go of over 5,000 employees before the lockdown, after which it also put a majority of its workforce on leave without pay. Several other startups like furniture rental platform Livspace, social media app ShareChat, and healthcare player Curefit have also cut down on staff, with total layoffs across the ecosystem reaching tens of thousands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ola-to-let-go-of-1/3rd-of-workforce-after-biz-shrinks-95/articleshow/75855594.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 21, 2020||Business||Layoffs at Indiabulls Housing Finance||MUMBAI: Indiabulls Housing Finance is understood to have laid off several hundred employees amid the lockdown. Some of the staff took to social media, alleging they were asked to resign over a WhatsApp call. A company spokesperson in a statement said, “In the normal course of business, every year we see an attrition of about 10-15% in April-May based on performance of the year. This year, we waited to complete the cycle until clarity from the Supreme Court and ministry of home affairs." "It may be recalled that in the first phase of the lockdown, the government had issued an advisory asking businesses not to lay off people during the lockdown period. However, the planned 14-day lockdown got extended to more than two months,” the statement added. Indiabulls Group employs 26,000 people and, within the group, Indiabulls Housing Finance is understood to employ around 6,000. It is learnt that a large number of those laid off were employed in sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/layoffs-at-indiabulls-housing-fin/articleshow/75855552.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: Pending exams likely by June-end, says PPU VC||PATNA: Patliputra University (PPU) is likely to hold the pending postgraduate (PG) semester II and degree Part I examinations by June-end. According to sources, the university may seek permission from the Raj Bhavan in this connection. PPU vice-chancellor (VC) Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal told this newspaper on Wednesday that university officials were consulted in this regard keeping in mind the repeated demands of the students, who were suffering due to the closure of colleges amid the nationwide lockdown. “All PPU colleges will continue online classes in the wake of further extension of lockdown period till May 31,” the VC said, adding, “If the examinations are held as per the proposed plan, the university will make all possible efforts to get answer books evaluated in July and results declared in August.” He said, “The University Grants Commission has already announced that the academic session in each university will begin in September, instead of July this year.” The VC informed that the university also intended to complete pending examinations of the vocational courses at both PG and degree levels. “Besides, the university has decided to start online admission process for degree Part I courses in arts, science and commerce streams after the publication of Class XII results,” he said. Meanwhile, Patliputra University Teachers’ Association (PPUTA) submitted a representation to the VC recently to press for the fulfilment of their demands that included payment of arrears, confirmation of services of the newly appointed teachers, disposal of compassionate ground appointment cases, payment of retiral benefits and pension money to PPU teachers on priority. PPUTA president A K Singh Thakur said, “The association will be forced to take a direct course of action if these demands are not fulfilled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pending-exams-likely-by-june-end-ppu-vc/articleshow/75852946.cms||Kumod Verma
May 21, 2020||Patna||Shops open, but footfall a trickle in Patna||PATNA: After being closed for around two months, many textile, readymade garments, furniture and dry-cleaning shops besides salons opened their shutters in the city on Wednesday. The district administration has allowed such shops to open, except in the containment zones, from 11am to 4pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. “Controlled economic activities have been allowed in the city outside the containment zones. The shopowners have been asked to take care of sanitization and hygiene in the shops and maintain social distancing protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” district magistrate Kumar Ravi said on Wednesday. Eateries have also been allowed home delivery services, said Ravi, who inspected several restaurants and shops in the city in order to check whether they are taking all precautionary measures or not. Shopkeepers, too, were relieved to get back to business after nearly 55 days of lockdown, but many of them also rued the poor footfall on Wednesday. Rajesh Kumar Sindhiya, owner of a furniture shop near Rukanpura, said he hardly received any customer on the first day of reopening the shop. “The response was not up to expectations, but I am still confident of doing good business in the coming days,” he said. Similar was the response at salons and beauty parlours. “We received lukewarm response from the customers as very few booked appointments on Wednesday. The response from customers has gone down to 60% compared to pre-lockdown period, mainly because of the fear of getting infected by the virus,” said Romi Singh, who owns a salon at Saguna-Khagaul Road. Some shopkeepers, on the other hand, demanded permits from the district administration to reopen their shops for longer hours. Shubham Kumar, owner of a garments showroom near Saguna Mor, said he didn’t receive any customer on Wednesday. “The working hours allowed is not the time people prefer shopping, especially in summer. The administration should allow us to open the shops till at least 6pm. If the situation prevails like this, we won’t be able to do any business,” he said. Meanwhile, residents said they are avoiding going out for non-essential services. “Seeing the number of cases, I don’t feel it’s safe to go out. Besides, salon services or buying furniture or garments isn’t a necessity for me at this point of time. Hence, I have restricted myself indoors,” said Sudha Sharma of Boring Road. Mustafapur resident Madhu Singh was, however, happy to receive her clothes from her dry-cleaner after two months. “At least 15 clothes were lying with the dry-cleaner located in Boring Road area. Even though washing the clothes again is required, I am happy to finally get them back,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shops-open-but-footfall-a-trickle/articleshow/75852701.cms||Archi Rani
May 21, 2020||Patna||67,000 people return by 50 special trains in Bihar||PATNA: Nearly 67,000 migrant workers and other people stranded in 11 states, including Delhi, reached different railway stations in Bihar by 50 Shramik special trains on Wednesday. Over five lakh people have come back by altogether 427 Shramik special trains since May 2 . Railways is also running at least 15 other special trains to ferry the migrant workers stranded on the Bihar-UP border for several days. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said four trains from Delhi with 5,100 migrant workers and others reached Biharsharif, Hajipur, Banka and Muzaffarpur on Wednesday, while two special trains from Ongole and Namburu in Andhra Pradesh arived at Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga. Two other trains from Lingampalli in Telangana carrying 2560 migrant workers reached Barauni and Gaya in the morning. Two trains from Chennai and one from Coimbatore reached Barauni, Saharsa and Madhubani, while one special train each from Bengaluru, Belonia in Tripura and Habibganj in Madhaya Pradesh brought about 3,700 passengers to Madhubani, Gaya and Araria. Two more special trains from Dehradun brought 2,300 migrants back to Araria and Khagaria. Similarly, two trains from Mohali and one from Patiala in Punjab carrying 3,700 migrants reached Purnea, Bettiah and Barauni, while two other special trains from Panipat and Ambala in Haryana arrived at Bhagalpur. Four special trains from Surat, one each from Vapi and Viramgam in Gujarat ferried about 7,300 migrants and other stranded people to Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Danapur, Chhapra and Motihari. “At least 15 special trains from Uttar Pradesh carrying stranded migrant workers reached Katihar, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Danapur, Raxaul, Biharsharif, Samastipur, Saharsa, Motihari, Gaya and Araria while three special trains from Barauni, Bettiah and Danapur ferried 3,800 migrant workers to different places in Bihar on Wednesday,” the CPRO said, adding five special trains from Maharashtra carrying about 7,300 migrant workers reached Katihar, Kishanganj, Madhubani, Purnea and Muzaffarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/67000-people-return-by-50-special-trains/articleshow/75853233.cms||Kumod Verma
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||Recovered UK NRI to donate plasma||Vadodara: Kenya-born Vipul Patel, a Delhi-based UK passport holder on Wednesday, became the first individual in central Gujarat to donate plasma for convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients. GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri had recently got nod from Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to start placid trials with the support of Indu Blood Bank. Patel, 58 years, was one of the earliest Covid-19 positive patients at Gotri hospital. After he tested positive on March 27, he was admitted at the hospital from where he was discharged on April 10 after recovery. “We had carried out rapid testing, blood and antibody check-up during which he was found fit to be a donor. Three patients currently undergoing treatment at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri have been identified as recipients,” said Dr Vijay Shah, co-investigator of the project. “We have informed ICMR about the three potential recipients who as subjects fit into their criteria for plasma transmission. ICMR will decide which patient has to be given plasma and which patient to be considered as controlled,” said Shah. Senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao, who has been appointed OSD for Covid-19 in Vadodara, remained present when Patel donated plasma. Convalescent plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from cured Covid-19 patients and injecting them in the blood of sick patients suffering from coronavirus. Several hospitals across the country have been given permission to conduct trials to assess safety and efficacy of this therapy, which has shown some promise in treating moderate to severe cases of coronavirus infection across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/recovered-uk-nri-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/75853375.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Patna||Autos, cabs find few takers on Day 1||PATNA: A day after the state transport department issued a notification allowing certain relaxations in public transport, very few autos, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws were seen plying on city roads on Wednesday. After remaining in confinement for nearly two months, cab and auto drivers came out on the streets with their vehicles and made sure they took all precautionary measures like social distancing, limited number of passengers and disinfection of their vehicles after each ride. However, not many Patnaites used public transport. An auto driver, Ranjay Yadav, who was waiting for passengers near the Income Tax Roundabout, told this newspaper, “There are very few people on the road and are not willing to pay higher fares. Although we are carrying only two people at a time, most of them seem scared.” Another auto wallah near the Patna Junction, Ranjit Kumar, claimed that he had earned only Rs 160 on Wednesday. “I kept waiting for passengers the whole day. Finally, I took a man to Anisabad from here and returned to the Patna Junction,” he said. Gopal Singh, who runs an auto in Gandhi Maidan area, rued, “On an average, I used to earn Rs 800 every day before the Covid-19 lockdown. But, today I earned only Rs 100 because nobody was willing to use public transport.” Bihar State Auto Chalak Sangh’s general secretary, Raj Kumar Jha, pointed out that only 25% of the autos were out on city roads. “The rest of them will resume work once everything related to the fares is clarified. There is still a lot of confusion among the drivers,” he added. The transport department has permitted autos and e-rickshaws to run on an odd-even basis with just two passengers. Cycle rickshaws, on the other hand, have to carry only one passenger. Commuters, on the other hand, had a different story to tell. Ranjan Ram, a sweeper at Bihar Urdu Academy, kept waiting for an auto at Kargil Chowk, but reached the academy on foot. “Since fewer autos are running on the roads, it is difficult to find an empty one,” he said. Banker, Sonam Kumari, tried booking a cab, but could not find one. She complained, “Cabs were unavailable in the morning. It was only after trying 12 times that I was able to book one.” Ashish Pandey, an NGO employee, went out only to check whether it is okay to use public transport now. “I do not have to go to office yet, but I wanted to see if autos are easily available. I found one only after waiting for 45 minutes near Boring Canal Road,” he said. (With inputs from Archi Rani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/autos-cabs-find-few-takers-on-day-1/articleshow/75852888.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 21, 2020||Surat||Odisha migrant's death: Family demands CCTV footages of the spot||Surat: Family members of the 36-year-old Odia migrant worker, Satyawan Swain, whose death has raised suspicion about police action, are demanding CCTV footages of the place where he was allegedly thrashed by cops on May 14 evening. They alleged that even after six days of the incident police are yet to release the CCTV footages. Swain was employed in the textile unit located in plot number 158 to 160 of Anjani Industrial Estate (AIE) I. Three cameras are installed on top of the unit’s entry of while some are installed inside the unit. From all four directions, entrance of the unit is covered by at lesat 10 CCTV cameras. "The footages mysteriously went missing. CCTV recorder was also seized by police. Footages of other cameras installed in the area are not being shared by police," alleged Santosh Kumar, Swain’s elder brother. Based on Santosh complaint last Sunday, the Bhanjanagar police station in Ganjam district of Odisha had lodged a zero FIR, booking unspecified number of Amroli police station cops for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. "If there is no wrongdoing, why are police are not releasing the footages? Those present at the spot say that multiple CCTV cameras have recorded the incident," Santosh added. Manoj Pradhan, the deceased’s brother-in-law, who is also employed in the city, said, "I was not shown the footages and police are not listening to my demands. What was the need to remove the CCTV recorders at the spot?." "There is nothing to hide in the footages. Police have seized couple of CCTV recorders and hard disks to investigate the allegations, but nothing suspicious has been found so far," said Prashant Sumbe, in-charge, deputy commissioner of police, zone IV. Citing preliminary postmortem report, police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt had said that that Swain died of cardiac arrest. However, the final results of postmortem are awaited. Doctors collected the viscera samples from the body and final postmortem report will be submitted to police once the histopathology report is received from the forensic science laboratory (FSL). "Doctor who conducted the autopsy informed that the death could be due to cardiac arrest, but the exact cause will be declared in postmortem after the histopathological report," Sumbe added. Meanwhile, Brahmbhatt has ordered investigation by assistant commissioner of police (ACP) into the allegations. "The man did not die due to police thrashing, but to find out the truth, I have ordered an investigation by ACP," said Brahmbhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/odisha-migrants-death-family-demands-cctv-footages-of-the-spot/articleshow/75854644.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Transit camps in border dists keep migrants safe||Bhubaneswar: Migrant workers and others returning to Odisha have been lodged in transit camps in border districts instead of being allowed to walk, cycle or travel in vehicles to cyclone-hit districts of Odisha and West Bengal to prevent them from coming to harm due to Cyclone Amphan on Wednesday. Ganjam district that shares its border with Andhra Pradesh receives thousands of migrant workers and returnees. The district administration has set up a transit camp at Haladiapadar bus stand, on the outskirts of Berhampur, to provide food and shelter to people coming from other states. “We have provided them food, water and resting place before shifting them to their destinations. More than 30 buses carrying migrant workers and stranded people arrived at the Ganjam border on Wednesday,” said collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange. Kulange said he himself stopped one truck carrying 10 migrant labourers from West Bengal and asked them to stay at the transit camp. “People cross into the district by walking, cycling and other means of transportation. Because of the cyclone in North Odisha and some parts of West Bengal, we are not allowing them to walk or cycle. After the cyclone passes off, we will send them to their destinations,” he added. Bargarh that shares the border with Chhattisgarh is also receiving hundreds of migrant workers and stranded people at its border near Sohela. “We did not allow the people to move on Wednesday because of the cyclone and rain. We have kept them in our transit camp at Sohela. We will start sending them by buses or other vehicles later,” he added. Jharsuguda collector Saroj Kumar Samal said they received migrant workers from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh and most of them were heading towards West Bengal. They will be kept at the transit camp with all facilities, he added. The border check points through which the stranded people can enter the state’s territory by road are Biramitrapur in Sundargarh, Champua in Keonjhar, Chandili in Koraput, Girisola in Ganjam, Jamshola in Mayurbhanj, Kerada in Rayagada, Khariar Road in Nuapada, Laxmannath in Balasore, Loharchoti in Bargarh, Motu in Malkangiri and Sunki in Koraput. The respective district administrations have made arrangements for the returnees coming via road. Around 11,295 Odias returned to Odisha on Wednesday. Since May 3, 2,03,220 Odias have come back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/transit-camps-in-border-dists-keep-migrants-safe/articleshow/75854561.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Surat||Retrenched mill worker from Assam ends life||Surat: A 20-year-old migrant worker from Assam ended life at his rented accommodation in Bhestan area here on Wednesday. The deceased took the extreme step due to family dispute and liquor addiction, preliminary police investigation revealed.Riza Jagan Maheli, who was better known as Sunil in his neighbourhood, was found hanging in his room on Wednesday. A neighbour noticed the body from a window and alerted the building owner. Later police control room was informed, who brought the body down and sent it for postmortem. “Preliminary postmortem report has confirmed that the man died from hanging. He, however, did not leave behind any suicide note,” said Anil Sarvaiya, assistant sub inspector, Pandesara police station. Police found cooked food in the room as well as containers filled with food grains besides around Rs 700 in cash. Maheli was employed in a textile mill and had been rendered jobless by the lockdown. According to the neighbours, the deceased used to make multiple calls to his native in a day and also fought over the phone. They also said he was an alcoholic and was depressed for some time,” said D K Patel, police inspector, Pandesara police station. “He was addicted to liquor and from preliminary questioning, police found that the deceased may have taken the extreme step out of depression due to the addiction. He had no relatives in the city and his brother too had left the city along with other room-mates before the lockdown was enforced," said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/retrenched-mill-worker-from-assam-ends-life/articleshow/75854670.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||Plant-based nutrition, vegan products see traction during Covid times||Chennai: The Covid pandemic has led to an increase in demand for plant-based nutrition and vegan products. “People are moving away from animal-based products and there is a demand for soy and almond milk in our portal,” said Deepti Nambiar, co-founder, GetMokshaa. The company is seeing a 45% jump in demand since the onset of Covid. “We are not able to make everyday delivery possible because of the restrictions in each zone. But are almost sold out of soy milk, almond milk etc and we deliver for 2-3 days a week,” she added. With the threat of animal-based link to Covid infections, veganism and consumption of plant-based products is increasing. In the West, companies such as Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods – that cater to vegans – are seeing a doubling in takers for plant-based meat. Industry players add that India is taking baby steps towards consumption of plant-based nutrition and vegan products. Companies selling vegan products are seeing a 40-60% jump in demand since the onset of Covid. Monica Chopra, founder, Eco Trunk is seeing a demand in vegan energy bars and vegetarian meat that have a greater shelf life. “The demand is because of two broad conceptions in the minds of consumers. One, animal-based products have a greater chance of resulting in weight gain, diabetes and hypertension and patients with these conditions find it harder to recover from coronavirus infections. Second, there is evidence of direct correlation between animals and Covid infections. We also see new sign ups on our platform because of this,” she added. The trend is also seen in the snacks category. “We are seeing a greater focus on foods that focus on nutrition immunity building and something that is natural. We have a range of nachos based on vegetables and pumpkins and beetroot and spinach that is showing more traction than other products. Consumers are thinking about how to keep themselves healthy while staying at home. While nachos as a category is growing at 30%, the vegetable-based ones grew at 50%-60% in April compared to previous months,” said Vikram Agarwal, managing director of Greendot Health Foods, known for its nacho crisps brand Cornitos. Nutraceutical firms are Oziva, a plant based nutraceutical firm is also seeing a demand in its products to the tune of 40%. “Plant protein-based foods and superfoods doing well. For some customers, sourcing healthy vegetables is difficult and superfoods, which have all the nutrients packed are seeing a demand. The other advantage they offer is improved immunity,” said Aarti Gill, co-founder, Oziva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/plant-based-nutrition-vegan-products-see-traction-during-covid-times/articleshow/75855319.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 21, 2020||Surat||Textile traders seek liquidity to re-start business||Surat: Rajnish Lilah, a textile trader is a worried about his future. Even if the government allows the textile market falling in the red zone of Limbayat to resume work, he may not be able to reopen his shop on Ring Road. The reason being that he has to pay Rs 40 lakh to his creditors in the industry, which he may not be able to arrange because his payments the buyers in other state is stuck due to the extended national lockdown. Lilah is not the only one facing liquidity crunch. About 60% of the textile traders fall under the small category having less than Rs 2 crore worth of annual turnover are in dire need of liquidity or working capital to re-start their business. Since the traders are not recognised under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), they won’t be able to avail the collateral-free loan announced by the central government. “The textile traders are in dire need of working capital to resume business activity. We are deprived of the government’s collateral-free loans as we are not given the MSME status,” Champalal Bothra, secretary of Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) told TOI. There are about 175 textile markets, majority in the red zone of Limbayat, housing more than 65,000 textile shops. The daily turnover of the markets pre-Covid-19 was pegged at Rs 110 crore. An estimated Rs 10,000 crore worth of finished fabric stuck in the transport godowns, textile mills and with the buyers in other states that were meant for Ramadan, marriage season and Akha Trij festival. Bhanwarlal Jain, a textile trader said, “Business is now zero and we will have to start from scratch. We need collateral-free loans to operate in such tough times.” Pointer: How the textile chain operates Powerloom units weave raw fabric and supply it to textile traders Raw fabric is then supplied to the textile processing units for dyeing and printing Finished fabric returns to the textile markets in form of saris and dress materials for value addition such embroidery and hand-work including tikki, jari, lace fitting etc. The saris and dress material are then supplied by traders to various wholesale mandis across the country Photo Quotes The government must infuse working capital in the markets or else the MMF sector may not commence operation. Small traders like us require capital to restart business as our payments are stuck. Hiten Uttam Chandani, Textile trader The pandemic has swallowed our entire business season. Even if the markets re-start there will be no sale for the coming few months. Still, we require liquidity to pay our creditors to keep the business cycle rolling. Narendra Premjani, Textile trader||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-traders-seek-liquidity-to-re-start-business/articleshow/75854709.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Surat||Covid patients at Surat’s NCH get special uniforms||Surat: In a first, the Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) have been given specialised Corona uniform for their comfort and easy of identification. The city-based textile design development centre 'Fashionova’ and a non-government organisation (NGO), Seva Foundation, have joined hands to provide the special uniforms for male and female patients undergoing treatment at the NCH free-of-cost. About 250 uniforms have already been supplied till date. A Mumbai-based fashion designer, Saurav Mondal had came up with the idea for designing corona uniform for the Covid-19 positive patients. Mondal, who visited Fashionova institute in March, had to stay back in the city as he could not move out of the city due to lockdown. “There were few cases of Covid-19 positive patients escaping from the isolation ward. In Surat, a patient’s body was recovered from NCH campus. Since I was sitting idle, I decided to design specialised uniform for the Covid-19 patients for their comfort and identification,” Mondal told TOI. “The shirt buttons can be opened easily in a single touch. This will help the hospital staff to maintain distance while dealing with emergency cases. We have given pockets for keeping the personal belongings of the patients including mobile phones, wallets etc,” said Mondal. Following the success of the Covid-19 uniform at NCH, Fashionova is planning to approach other government hospitals in the state and across the country for the supply of uniforms on no-profit-no-loss basis. Anupam Goyal, director of Fashionova told TOI, “We are giving the uniforms free of cost to the patients at NCH with the help of Seva Foundation. However, we are ready to give the uniform in other hospitals in the state and across the country on no-profit-no-loss basis” A senior doctor at the Covid-19 hospital in NCH said, “The uniform for Covid-19 patients is very much comfortable and patients are happy with it. It is easy to identify the patients in the ward” Head: Style with purpose Material: Made out of 100% cotton fabric Colour: Pastel green for women, sky blue for men Size: One size fits all design Design: Adjustable shirt buttons, pockets for personal belongings Cost: Free of cost for Covid patients at NCH||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-patients-at-surats-nch-get-special-uniforms/articleshow/75854758.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||Appu Hotels head claims to stay insolvency process||Chennai: Appu Hotels would cough up Rs 8 crore in 3 weeks to pay up their creditor Tourism Finance Corporation of India, said its chairman Palani G Periyasamy on Wednesday. He added that the company has agreed to settle the Rs 8 crore dues which were stuck due to Covid lockdown. The company is fighting a battle at the National Company Law Tribunal after a creditor moved the forum under CIRP. “If not for Covid, we would have paid up our dues worth Rs 8 crore and there was some delay in obtaining the funds. We have made arrangements and we can repay the money in a week,” said Periyasamy, whose company owns and operates Le Meridien Chennai, Coimbatore and Riverside Spa and Resorts. On May 5, the Chennai bench of the NCLT admitted the petition from the Tourism Finance Corporation of India which called for the commencement of the insolvency process. According to the petition, the debtor ( Appu Hotels) owes its creditors Rs 17. 9 crore ( plus interest). The account has been considered an NPA since September 30, 2019 and Appu Hotels wasn’t in a position to settle dues because of poor market conditions in the real estate sector. The petition also mentioned that the debtor promised to settle dues by selling their property to a developer Casa Grande, but the deal did not materialise. The creditor appointed an interim resolution professional Mukesh Kumar Gupta, to whom the company should submit their claims by May 21, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/appu-hotels-head-claims-to-stay-insolvency-process/articleshow/75855272.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||HC reserves decision on workers’ movement plea||Jodhpur: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday completed hearing of arguments on a petition pertaining to movement of migrant workers and reserved its judgment to be pronounced later. The state government submitted an additional affidavit as sought by the court on the last hearing stating that steps have been taken to facilitate both inbound and outbound movement of migrants. AAG Pankaj Sharma said the petitioner had misinterpreted the guidelines of railways about transportation of migrant workers and hence accused the state government of not arranging enough trains for them, specially inbound migrants. “Guidelines by railways dated May 2 clearly stated that originating state was supposed to send the requisition of train to the state receiving its migrants,” said Sharma. Details about all trains, inbound and outbound, was furnished by Sharma before the court along with the number of migrants travelled in them since the trains started services. He also provided the court with details of buses rolled out by the state for migrants to send them to their respective destinations after receiving them at railway stations. He informed the court that the state government had been putting in every possible effort in this regard and was in touch with all the state governments to expedite the transportation of migrant workers, whether they are from Rajasthan stuck in other states or vice-versa. After completion of the arguments by state, the division bench of justices Sangeet Lodha and Rameshwar Vyas reserved the judgment for future pronouncement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-reserves-decision-on-workers-movement-plea/articleshow/75856551.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||After lockdown, Kolkata to take off with 40 flights||KOLKATA: Authorities at Kolkata airport have their work cut out. In the next four days, the terminal battered by cyclone Amphan has to be repaired and made fit to resume operations as domestic flights that had been grounded for two months take off again on Monday. Around 30-40 flights are expected to take off from Kolkata. The announcement that flight operations would resume came on a day the airport was being hammered by the cyclone. Domestic passenger flights will resume on Monday in a calibrated manner, said civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri. He hinted that the social distancing by keeping the middle passenger seat vacant was unlikely to be part of the SOP for airlines. While the SOP for both airlines and airport operators will be announced on Thursday, sources told TOI a 14-year-old security measure that prohibited passengers from carrying liquids beyond 100ml in the passenger cabin would be junked to enable flyers to carry sanitizer bottles to protect themselves from the novel coronavirus. “Passengers will be allowed to carry up to 350ml of sanitizer with 70% alcohol content. The security may use a chemical analysis machine that will detect traces of explosives to ensure safety,” the source said. However, passengers may not be initially allowed a cabin bag, the only exception being handbags for women and laptop carriers. The ban on carrying liquid was enforced in 2006 in airports worldwide after the liquid bomb plot to blow up transatlantic jets from Heathrow to North America was uncovered in the UK. While the airport had more than 200 domestic flights in operation when flights were grounded across India on March 24, services from the city are expected to resume with only a fifth or even fewer flights initially. The airport operator said all passengers would have to arrive at least two hours before the flight, wear masks and install the Aarogya Setu app on their cellphone. “Flyers will have to show their ID as well as their status on the Aarogya Setu app. They will then undergo a temperature scan,” an airport official said, adding that CISF officers would check the credentials through glass shield. Even entry into the washrooms will be regulated to ensure there is no queue inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-lockdown-kol-to-take-off-with-40-flights/articleshow/75856553.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||Two succumb to Covid, 42 test positive in nine west UP districts||Meerut/Agra/Pilibhit: Two people succumbed to novel coronavirus in Meerut and Agra districts and at least 42 tested positive in nine western Uttar Pradesh districts. The death of a 38-year-old man took the Covid death tally in Meerut to 21 late on Tuesday night. Meanwhile, four people tested positive in Muzaffarnagar, three each in Meerut and Bijnor and one in Hapur. With the fresh cases, the tally reached 349 (including one found in Kanpur) in Meerut, 32 in Muzaffarnagar,61 (including three found in Kanpur) in Bijnor and 88 in Hapur (as one person who had tested positive at a private lab on Tuesday turned out to be negative on Wednesday). “A 38-year-old Covid-19 positive person from Shakur Nagar in Meerut died late on Tuesday night, taking the death toll to 21. He was diabetic and had hypertension,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer (CMO). Meanwhile, a Covid-19 positive patient from Etah, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, died on Wednesday morning, taking the Covid death toll in Agra district to 29. The patient had complained about the breathing problem and was on the ventilator. Besides, at least eight new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 830. The new cases include two women who delivered two children at Lady Lyall hospital and a one-year-old child. The remaining patients are the contacts of the people who have already been tested positive. At least 15 fresh cases of novel coronavirus were reported from Mathura, Mainpuri and Aligarh districts on Wednesday. While six of a family in Mathura tested positive for the disease, six migrant workers who had returned from other states, including Gujarat and Maharashtra, were also found to be infected. Meanwhile, three fresh cases were reported in Aligarh. The new patients took the tally of positive cases to 57 in Mathura, 26 in Mainpuri and 103 in Aligarh. With eight more people testing positive for Covid-19, the tally in Pilibhit district, which was declared corona-free last month, reached 28. Health officials had sent the samples of as many as 29 people to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) on May 15, of which eight — all migrants — were tested positive. Meanwhile, 20 Covid patients were discharged in Agra on Wednesday. Out of the 830 cases reported in Agra district, 79.42% have been declared cured and discharged. On Wednesday, the number of active Covid cases dropped to 143 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-succumb-to-covid-42-test-positive-in-nine-west-up-districts/articleshow/75854564.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||Short distance trains for migrants reaching Varanasi, nearby dists||Varanasi: In view of continuous arrival of a large number of migrant labourers and problems in arrangement of buses, Varanasi diivision of North Eastern Railways (NER) has introduced short distance Shramik Special trains to transport migrants reaching Varanasi and surrounding districts to their destinations. Divisional railway manager (NER) VK Panjiar said, “On the request of east UP officials, trains for Ballia-Prayagraj, Ballia-Varanasi, Ghazipur-Prayagraj and Varanasi-Gorakhpur routes have been introduced in the last three days.” NER Varanasi division spokesman Ashok Kumar informed that 11 Shramik Special trains have brought 1.18 lakh migrants from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and other states till Wednesday morning. Apart from officials of east UP districts, Bihar government had also requested to introduce trains from Jalalpur railway station in Jaunpur to take migrants to districts of Bihar after their arrival from other states. In the past five days, as many as 19 interstate short distance Shramik Special trains ferried 10,315 migrants to their destinations. NER officials said that they were ready to introduce more trains if the same is requested by officials. Varanasi DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said that in the past four days, the frequency of the arrival of Shramik trains from western states had increased. “Almost 10 Shramik trains from those states terminate in Varanasi. On an average, 1000 migrants reach here everyday by those trains. Apart from this, tackling the migrants moving on foot on highways or travelling on trucks was also proving a difficult task.”“Initially, all migrants were being sent to their destinations by buses. But, with their increased inflow, arranging buses for all arriving migrants started proving to be difficult. That is why we requested NER and NR to introduce trains to further transport migrants of Deoria, Gorakhpur, Ballia, Ghazipur and other nearby destinations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/short-distance-trains-for-migrants-reaching-varanasi-nearby-dists/articleshow/75854627.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata, districts plunge into darkness as power utilities switch off supply; mobile, internet snap||KOLKATA: The worst cyclone that Kolkata has faced in recent memory literally turned into the city’s darkest calamity with power utilities switching off supply to large swathes of the city, adjoining Salt Lake as well as the rest of North 24 Parganas district, South 24 Parganas, parts of Howrah, Hooghly and West Midnapore. While it is a common practice for utilities to shut supply to localities served by overhead lines to prevent flashovers, short-circuits and electrocution, it was the first time that power in large parts of Kolkata that has an underground cable network was also closed. However, supply in these areas were restored after a couple of hours later, when the eye of the storm led to a 45-minute lull. In Kolkata, lamp posts and traffic signals lay uprooted across the city. In the Tollygunge-Garia belt and Behala-Haridevpur, which is served by overhead supply, snapped power lines were reported from multiple localities. CESC officials said restoration work would begin only once the cyclone had passed and winds and rain subsided. Though the utility has kept nearly 5,000 workers on reserve for the emergency, they remained stranded as movement was virtually impossible amid high-velocity winds and torrential downpour. Power disruption was the most widespread in the suburbs and districts, where swirling winds uprooted transmission towers for high-tension power lines, electric poles for low-tension supply lines to homes and ravaged sub-stations. Officials at state-owned utility WBSEDCL said it would take days to restore supply. “Our distribution network has been devastated. The damage to supply lines has been extensive in the districts through which the cyclone passed. In some areas, supply may return in four-five days. In others, it may take even longer,” an official said. The cyclone also played havoc with cellphone, internet and cable connections with many unable to access the services during the storm. Alliance Broadband that offers internet services reported 99% disruption. So did CitiCable and other MSOs that offer both cable TV and internet services. Mobile service providers blamed it on snapping of power supply. “There was no typical problem in the network. Almost all signal-emission tower sites in the city exhausted their backup power for the long hours of load-shedding. The cyclonic weather did not allow us to back them up with extra generator sets,” said a senior official of a tower infrastructure outfit in the city. In a statement, Vodafone Idea said it was ensuring sufficient fuel supply to the sites in key locations. Additionally, all cellular operators arranged for mobile DGs and critical equipment spares at key locations and set up 24x7 monitoring chambers. “We have also initiated ICR with other operators and will work closely with partners and government agencies to ensure stable telecom connectivity,” Vodafone Idea added. “This has been the fiercest storm and disruption has been massive. Over the next few days, there will be restoration activity everywhere. If the weather turns fair , it will hasten the process,” said Alliance regional head Joy Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-districts-plunge-into-darkness-as-power-utilities-switch-off-supply-mobile-internet-snap/articleshow/75856567.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||131 booked under Gangsters Act for cow slaughter & illicit liquor in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: The Shahjahanpur SSP on Wednesday booked 131 people accused in 37 cases of cow slaughter under the Gangsters Act. He has also ordered that property owned by these accused be identified and seized under Section 14(1) of the Seizure Act. Four of the accused have also been booked under NSA, as they have been caught slaughtering cows on numerous occasions. The state government had run a campaign against cow smugglers and liquor mafia between May 1 and May 15, but Shahjahanpur SSP Shivasimpi Channappa extended the campaign in his jurisdiction beyond May 15, to ensure cow slaughter is ended completely, by following up on every tip-off received from informers. As part of the operation, police increased patrolling and raids in rural areas during the night. As a result, many of the accused were caught red-handed while slaughtering cattle inside their houses. A senior cop told TOI, “The cow has been an easy target of illegal slaughter, as many are found straying on roads and there is no count of total number of cows in the district. Many of the accused used four-wheelers to pick up these cows from roadsides and later slaughtered them for meat, easily earning around Rs 10,000 per healthy cow, without investing anything. It has become an easy way of making money.” Channappa said, “We will continue to take action against cow slaughterers and liquor mafia, and ensure their networks in Shahjahanpur are completely demolished. We are ensuring that properties accrued by accused through such criminal activities are also seized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/131-booked-under-gangsters-act-for-cow-slaughter-illicit-liquor-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75854590.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 21, 2020||Salem||Mettur dam maintains 100ft water level for 281 days||Salem/Dharmapuri: The Stanley reservoir in Mettur in the district has maintained water level above 100 ft for nearly 281 days (including Wednesday). PWD officials said that the dam has water level above 100 ft since August 13, 2019.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has ordered PWD officials to release water from Mettur on June 12, the traditional date of water release for ‘kuruvai’ cultivation in delta districts.“Usually, we release water from the dam whenever it has the satisfactory water level of above 90 ft,” said a senior PWD official. Water will be released from the dam on June 12 after nine years, he said.On Wednesday evening, water level in the dam stood at 64.84 tmc. The inflow to the dam was marked 1186 cusecs on the same morning and increased to 1336 cusecs in the evening. “Water inflow to Hogenakkal in Dharmapuri district suddenly increased to 5000 cusecs on Wednesday following continuous rain in catchment areas across the river’s pathways,” the official added. The PWD officials have released 1000 cusecs of water from the dam for drinking water purposes.Following the water release announcement, PWD officials started maintenance works in the dam site area. The officials checked the dam shutters and its condition, in a bid to ready it by June 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/mettur-dam-maintains-100ft-water-level-for-281-days/articleshow/75856562.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||Leopard found dead||Madikeri: A leopard was found dead in a private estate near Nanjarayapatna in Kodagu district on Wednesday. The carcass of the leopard, which is estimated to be a six-year-old male, was found lying inside the estate owned by Muthanna Cariappa of Nanjarayapatna. “The leopard is suspected to have died after it got caught in a snare, which may have been set up to stop wild boars from entering the estate. However, the snare was removed when we visited the spot. We have booked a case against an unidentified person, under the Wildlife Protection Act,” confirmed RFO Ananya Kumar. An autopsy was conducted on the leopard by Dr Sanjeeva Reddy, and the carcass was later buried in the estate premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-found-dead/articleshow/75854580.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Mohangarh still tense after two group rivalry||Jaisalmer: Mohangarh town is still tense following violence between two groups from different villages that claimed the life of a youth on Monday night. Relatives of the deceased had set shops and cattle of the other group on fire late on Tuesday night. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang visited the spot on Wednesday to assess the situation. So far, 12 people have been arrested for disturbing peace. After a person tested positive in the town, the district administration had imposed curfew in this area and a watch was being kept on the situation. Additional police forces have been deployed in the town. Sources said the reason of dispute between the two groups was a love affair which resulted in the death of a youth. Police said relatives of deceased Tayar Khan had set fire to a shop of suspects Albachaya and his father Ismail at Dudi Chowraha. Items kept in shops and fodder for cattle kept behind the shop were gutted. Soon after getting information, SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi reached the spot. Brother of accused Albachaya has lodged case for setting fire to the shop. Police are calling influential people to persuade them to restore peace. Additional police forces have also been deployed so that no further incident takes place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mohangarh-still-tense-after-two-group-rivalry/articleshow/75856559.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||From today, Delhi HC to work with full strength of judges||NEW DELHI: From Friday onwards, the Delhi high court will operate with its full strength of judges to take up urgent cases via videoconferencing. Chief Justice D N Patel and senior judges decided that from Friday all high court judges will sit everyday to take up “urgent matters of all kinds” via videoconferencing, after an analysis showed that due to restricted functioning, the high court and the lower courts together have taken up 20,726 urgent matters during the lockdown from March 24 till May 19. “As per the latest initiative taken by the chief justice, now, w.e.f. May 22, all the division benches and all the single-judge benches will take up urgent matters of all kinds, through videoconferencing, during the suspended functioning of the court. All such benches will sit daily on all the working days,” said a note, issued by high court registrar general Manoj Jain. Till now, urgent matters were being taken up by two division benches and 10 single-judge benches, but the judges of these benches were sitting on rotation basis. As per the latest decision all judges will sit simultaneously like before when high court was functioning before lockdown. At present, there are seven division benches and 19 single-judge benches in the high court. The note further said that the roster benches will also take up the matters which are at the stage of final arguments and in which consent has been received from both the sides agreeing for disposal of case on the basis of written submissions alone. “Non-urgent matters will be taken up by the roster benches on resumption of regular hearings,” the note further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-today-hc-to-work-with-full-strength-of-judges/articleshow/75877669.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Covid hosp to have 200+ bed capacity||Margao: Mattresses and pillows were moved to the Covid-19 hospital in Margao on Wednesday as part of efforts to increase the capacity to 200-plus beds from the present 170-bed capacity. “Now the beds only need to be assembled,” an official said. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said the plan is to increase the bed capacity to 220. At the moment 170 beds are already ready, she said. Emphasis is also being laid on increasing sufficient number of oxygen beds. Covid-19 patients who are serious will have to be given oxygen first and only if that option fails, will they be shifted to ventilator support, she said. The hospital has a paediatric ward and paediatric ICU besides the adult ICU. At present, symptomatic and asymptomatic patients have been placed in different wards, on different floors. The hospital’s capacity was increased from 100 to 170 on Tuesday after the weekend saw a huge spurt in cases from those who entered by road. The Rajdhani trains that came in over the weekend itself brought in 23 positive patients. Contact tracing is still on to test more of those who came into contact with these positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hosp-to-have-200-bed-capacity/articleshow/75857082.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan migrants arrive by two trains from southern states||JAISALMER: As many as 1,650 migrant labourers, who belong to different districts of the state, arrived from south India by two Shramik Express trains in Jalore on Wednesday at 6am and 7.30am respectively. As per the directions of district collector Himanshu Gupta, these labourers were brought to Shah Punjaji Genaji stadium maintaining social distance. After screening and health check up, they were sent to their destinations to different districts of the state. A couple, Sanoj and Sannu Devi, residents of Alwar who make clay toys in Andhra Pradesh, said that after the lockdown, it became difficult for them to make the ends meet, and hence they had to return. Narpat from Kawatra, who has a mobile business in Vijaywada, said being with one’s family in times of crisis gives happiness and relief. Another migrant, a resident of Garh Siwana (Barmer), who has a small garment business in Vijaywada, has returned with his family and thanked the state government and district administration for it. Jalore depot manager Ashok Sankhla said that after screening, all were sent to their destinations by roadways buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-migrants-arrive-by-two-trains-from-southern-states/articleshow/75856577.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown air as clean as it was in 2006||Nagpur: You are breathing air as clean as it was 14 years back, reveals the first peer-reviewed analysis of the drop in carbon emissions during the Covid-19 lockdown. Published recently in the UK-headquartered scientific journal Nature Climate Change, the research shows that daily emissions decreased by 17%, or 17 million tonnes of carbon dioxide globally, during the peak of the confinement on April 7, dropping to levels last observed in 2006. In India, the maximum emissions drop was 26%. “Government policies during the Covid-19 pandemic have drastically altered patterns of energy demand around the world. Many international borders were closed and populations were confined to their homes, which reduced transport and changed consumption patterns,” the research states. The decrease in activities led to a significant drop in daily CO2 emissions from different sectors. While emissions from surface transport accounted for almost half (43%) of the decrease in global emissions, those from industry and power together accounted for a further 43% of the decrease in daily global emissions. Aviation sector is the most impacted by the confinement, but its emissions account for only 3% of global emissions, or 10% of the decrease in global emissions during the pandemic. According to the analysis, the impact of confinement on annual emissions in 2020 is likely to lead to the largest single annual decrease in absolute emissions since the end of World War II. However as per the authors, the decrease in emissions this year will not do much to impact climate change as the reduction is “extremely small compared to the emissions accumulated so far and compared to the emissions cuts needed to tackle climate change.” The authors warn that the rush for economic stimulus packages must not make future emissions higher by delaying new green deals or weakening emissions standards. Lead author Prof Corinne Le Quéré, of the University of East Anglia (Norfolk, UK)), says, “Population confinement has led to drastic changes in energy use and CO2 emissions. These extreme decreases are likely to be temporary though as they do not reflect structural changes in the economic, transport, or energy systems. The extent to which world leaders consider climate change when planning their economic responses post Covid-19 will influence the global CO2 emissions paths for decades to come.” IN A NUTSHELL * Daily emissions of CO2 decreased by 17% * Maximum emissions drop in India | 26% * Emissions from surface transport accounted for 43% decrease in global emissions * Industry and power together accounted for 43% decrease * Aviation sector saw 10% decrease||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-air-as-clean-as-it-was-in-2006/articleshow/75856766.cms||Manka Behl
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Conduct staggered board exams: MHA||KOLKATA: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued guidelines to all states over conducting the board examinations suspended midway due to the Covid pandemic. The MHA, while granting permission, asked the states to plan a “staggered examination” schedule following the social distancing protocol. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, in a letter to chief secretaries on Wednesday, set five conditions for holding board examinations in Bengal, mostly slated from June-end. It states that no examination centre will be allowed in containment zones. Bhalla’s letter also asks states to ensure that teachers, staff and students at examination centres need to wear masks and use hand sanitizers during entry and exit. States will also have to arrange for thermal screening of those entering the exam halls. “Special buses may be arranged for transportation of students to centres,” the letter says. The letter comes days after education minister Partha Chatterjee announced a staggered examination schedule for students under the West Bengal Higher Secondary Council, beginning June 29 and ending on July 9. CBSE has, meanwhile, announced a staggered schedule from July 1 to 15. Boards may have some difficulty in setting up examination centres in Kolkata, which has 205 containment zones till date. “Board examinations have been slotted from June-end. We will get enough time to set up centres in the city. We hope that areas in zones B and C (buffer zones and clean areas) will increase in a month,” Chatterjee said. He also pointed out that the number of board examinees across the state won’t be more than 7.5 lakh because the majority have already taken the tests. Responding to the MHA advisory on arranging transportation of students, he said, “Buses, including inter-state ones, will resume operations. We will make special arrangements in case of exigencies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/conduct-staggered-board-exams-mha/articleshow/75856572.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Locals protest quarantine centre in residential area||JAISALMER: Amid preparations to quarantine more than 500 non-resident Rajasthanis coming from Gulf to Jaisalmer, the Hajuri community has protested against using their Seva Sadan as quarantine centre for the returnees. A large number of people residing near the Hajuri Samaj Seva Sadan gathered and protested on Tuesday night. They said the building cannot be made a quarantine centre as it is a residential area and the locals could get infected, as there are heart and cancer patients in the area. The community members submitted a memorandum to the district collector. Former municipal council commissioner Ashok Tanwar said that the building was given for corona warriors so that people can stay here, and that in nearby areas, there are a large number of people suffering from heart ailments and cancer, and there could be a risk of infection. The community, in its memorandum to district administration, has said that Hajuri Samaj Seva sadan at Talaria Pada in Jaisalmer has been made a quarantine centre for corona suspects, while the residential area is just 10 feet away from the building. A big part of the population of the city resides here and there are two RO plants near this building from where water is supplied to the entire city and this highly increases the possibility of infection. In this area, there are 11 banks, electricity and PHED offices, which are open even during the lockdown, due to which the danger of infection increases. Therefore, it has been requested to immediately cancel the decision. Meanwhile, a meeting was held with hotel owners on Tuesday regarding non-resident Rajasthanis being brought here from abroad, wherein hotel owners were imparted training on precautions to be taken, using PPE kits etc. Collector Namit Mehta informed about food, other arrangements at the hotels, and instructed about the necessary security standards. UIT secretary Anurag Bhargava informed about the arrival of these people at the airport, their reaching the hotels and their quarantine period etc. in detail. Jaisalmer block CMO Dr Lal Chand Devanda talked about using PPE kits and other precautions, and replied to the queries of the hoteliers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locals-protest-quarantine-centre-in-residential-area/articleshow/75856565.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Budget airline Fly Dubai to start cargo flights from city||Coimbatore: Industrialists and traders in the city have been persistently demanding air connectivity to Dubai. Their dreams could turn into a reality by the end of this month. Budget airline Fly Dubai has proposed launching cargo flight services between Dubai and Coimbatore, twice or thrice a week depending on patronage. Apart from industrialists, the move will help agriculture sector in the district by giving farmers and traders an alternative market and better prices.Officials at Coimbatore International Airport confirmed that the airline had applied for permission to start cargo flight operations. Officials said the airline proposes to start operations by May-end. “They will be using a passenger flight to carry cargo,” said an official.Even if Fly Dubai operates two flights a week, they will carry around 120 tonnes of cargo in addition to the existing 300 to 400 tonnes that was flying out of Coimbatore airport before the lockdown. Officials and industrialists say that the flights which are expected to primarily carry perishables, mostly flowers and vegetables, is expected to help the agriculture industry. “With our farmers already struggling with falling prices for their crops and vegetables, we believe that exports will fetch them a better price. This will improve the area under acreage and bring more people into farming,” said R Raveendran of Residents Awareness Associations of Coimbatore.Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam treasurer Karthik Krishnakumar said he welcomed the development but believed it could benefit traders rather than farmers. “We hope the government steps in and directly buys vegetables or tender coconut from farmers and export it to Dubai, so farmers enjoy the benefits of the export pricing. It would also be beneficial for farmers if the government directly connects us to export agencies, so we reduce the number of middlemen in this endeavour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/budget-airline-fly-dubai-to-start-cargo-flights-from-city/articleshow/75856571.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur shops reopen on alternate-day basis||Gorakhpur: Various shops in Gorakhpur reopened on Wednesday and will continue to run on an alternate-day basis, informed DM Vijyendra Pandiyan Shops selling groceries, agricultural items and utensils shops will resume sale from Wednesday. Home delivery of mutton, fish, eggs, medicines, courier, sweets and other bakery items is allowed everyday between 9 am to 4 pm. Cinema halls, shopping malls, gyms, parks, theatres, bars and worship places will remain shut. No social, political, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious or any community programmes are allowed. Processions are also prohibited. Restaurants, sweet shops, bakery shops, garment shops, salons will also remain shut. Stationery shops will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 11 am to 6 pm. Shops selling agricultural machines, medicines, seeds, and fertilizers will remain open on all days from11 am to 6 pm except Sunday. Battery/tyre/tube shops will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 11 am to 6 pm and printing press offices will opened from 11 am to 6 pm on all days except Sunday. Spectacle and mobile phone shops (including repair shops) will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 11 am to 6 pm. Shops of construction material, hardware and furniture will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 4 pm to 8 pm. Shops of automobile parts and motor repair work will be open on all days from 11 am to 6 pm except Sunday. Shops of electric appliances, utensils, LPG burners (including repair shops) will open on Monday, Wednesday and Saturday from 11 am to 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-shops-reopen-on-alternate-day-basis/articleshow/75855168.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Mute ‘Tea Day’ for Nilgiris’ small tea growers as they wait in limbo||UDHAGAMANDALAM: On the eve of ‘International Tea Day’, small tea growers in the Nilgiris have rued they haven’t received a fair price for their produce, apart from their long pending demand for minimum support price for green leaf tea not being fulfilled. The ‘International Tea Day’, adopted by United Nations in 2019 and observed on May 21 every year, aims to draw the attention of governments and tea lovers to the impact of the global tea trade on small tea growers and estate workers, “We are not aware of the ‘International Tea Day’. Nilgiris tea is world famous for its colour and strength. But small tea growers like us still struggle to get a fair price”, said A Bellie, a tea farmer from Ketti. In Nilgiris, 70% of its tea is produced by small farmers while corporate companies produce the rest. Small tea growers have been fighting for a ‘minimum support price’ for their produce for the past decade but in vain. “Given the prevailing price for green leaf tea – standing between Rs 14/kg and Rs 15/kg – we are finding it difficult even to meet our wages”, said J Rajesh, another small tea grower from Coonoor. The tea growers had filed a PIL in the Madras high court in 2008. The court in 2013 had issued an order directing the central government to fix a minimum price. However, the case is still pending with the court. B Kumaran, vice-chairman, Tea Board of India, told TOI, “There is no meaning in observing the International Tea Day when the small tea farmers are not given their dues. Tea Board, in its last sitting, passed a resolution for fixing minimum support price for green leaf tea and sent it to the commerce ministry for further action”. According to him, around 50% of green leaf tea produced in the country is by small tea farmers. At least Rs 30/kg should be fixed as minimum support price for green leaf tea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mute-tea-day-for-nilgiris-small-tea-growers-as-they-wait-in-limbo/articleshow/75856579.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||6 test positive in Gorakhpur, 5 in Sant Kabir Nagar||Gorakhpur: Six people of Gorakhpur and five people of Sant Kabir Nagar tested positive on Wednesday taking the tally of Gorakhpur to 27 and of Sant Kabir Nagar to 48. Gorakhpur CMO Srikant Tiwari confirmed, “On Wednesday, 29 samples were tested among which six people of the district were found corona positive—two each from Campierganj and Pipraich, one each from Jharna Tola and Chargawan. All the six were quarantined at a college in GIDA area. Five of them returned from Mumbai and the one of Jharna Tola is a tenant of an infected person who tested positive four days ago. Now they will be shifted to BRD Medical College for treatment.”“There are 22 active cases in Gorakhpur now. Two had died and three were discharged after treatment,” added Tiwari.Sant Kabir Nagar additional CMO Dr Mohan Jha told TOI that the swab samples were sent to Gorakhpur, and on Wednesday, five of the district were found infected with novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/6-test-positive-in-gorakhpur-5-in-sant-kabir-nagar/articleshow/75855188.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||17 begin arduous journey to Nepal||HYDERABAD: At last, 17 migrants embarked on a long journey to Nepal. From Balapur to Gulmi in Himalayan country, these men will also have to endure a hard trek of 165 kilometres by foot. But they are unperturbed as they boarded the bus arranged by an NGO. Nali Magar (35) and his colleagues, who used to work at various food courts in Balapur, lost their jobs due to lockdown. “We were working for various Chinese food courts in Balapur but after the lockdown we barely survived. The food court owner abandoned us and no food or shelter was provided,” said Magar from Gulmi District, Nepal. Magar was left with just Rs 500 after they pooled in money every day to fend themselves. “The NGO has arranged the bus till Nagpur, from there we will travel to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Then we would walk to Nepal. We may have to walk over 12 hours,” said Magar. Though they are clueless on whether they would be allowed to cross the Indo-Nepal border, they appeared determined to walk around 165 km. “Here we can’t survive without money. I was earning Rs 20,000 in a food court but we used to send home most of that. After the lockdown, with no money and food we faced a torrid time,” said Ramesh Karki (20), who also hails from Gulmi. According to police, several NGOs are arranging food for the migrant workers travelling in buses. “Some of these people packed food for us, so that we have enough for our journey,” said Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/17-begin-arduous-journey-to-nepal/articleshow/75856585.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Paddy, veggies destroyed but stock ready for four months||KOLKATA: Cyclone Amphan left a trail of destruction in its wake, causing extensive damage to crops—paddy as well as vegetables—that could not yet be harvested owing to manpower shortage during the lockdown. Officials, however, pointed out that this devastation did not pose any immediate threat to the supply of foodgrain like rice, wheat, pulses and oil seeds. The current reserve at government warehouses and wholesale hubs and with retailers was enough to feed the state’s entire populace for the next three to four month, an official said. Going by the preliminary report by agriculture department, paddy on 30,000 hectares of land in East Burdwan, 10,000 hectares in Hooghly and 10,000 in West Midnapore is feared to have been destroyed. The damage wreaked on vegetables is apparently even greater. This is the time, when farmers grow vegetables like, parwal, brinjal, ridged gourd and pumpkin on machaan, raised horizontal scaffolding. But the intense storm that lashed Bengal on Wednesday evening reportedly blew away the scaffolding, complete with the vegetables. “We tried to secure the structures by tying them down to tree trunks, but the gust of the storm was so strong that it blew everything away. Extensive damage was reported from the four major vegetable producing districts of South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly,” said Pradeep Mazumdar, agriculture advisor to the government of Bengal. “However, it is very early to estimate the extent of damage. The real assessment can be made only after things settle down. After the sun rises, farmers will examine the scene on their fields and we will get to know the extent of damage.” According to vendors, this year witnessed a bumper crop, but the novel coronavirus pandemic dealt a big blow to farming, as not enough labourers could be found during the initial phases of lockdown. “The easing of the restrictions offered some relief to farmers, but Cyclone Amphan hit the land, proving to be a bigger crisis. Apart from vegetables, groundnuts and sesame were also devastated. Farmlands have been inundated,” said Kamaal Dey, president of West Bengal Vendors’ Association. Experts pointed out that though there was no immediate concern over supply of essentials, the damage will have its effect later. “So far, there has not been any problem over the supply of foodgrain to wholesale markets in Kolkata. The consignments have been coming by trucks or goods trains. Supply of oil has also been steady. But given the Amphan’s impact, supply of agricultural produce and essentials will be affected later,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary, Posta Merchants’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/krish-food-grains-2005/articleshow/75856581.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||Deoria hospital quarantine centre head beaten, 2 held||Gorakhpur: The in-charge of the quarantine centre of Deoria district hospital was beaten and threatened to vacate the rented house in Kotwali area by his landlord, ward corporator’s husband and others who fear spread of Covid-19 due to his presence in the area. “On the written complaint of the quarantine centre in charge Dr Rajiv Ranjan, his landlord Dilip Paswan and ward corporator’s husband Nanhe Nishad were arrested. Case was registered against three more people,” informed Deoria SP Sri Pati Mishra. As per reports, on Tuesday evening Paswan and Nishad, along with three others, asked Dr Ranjan to vacate the house because they feared the spread of coronavirus in the area due to his presence. When the doctor refused to do so, they started beating him. . The case was egistered against the five accused under Sections 323(punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal Intimidation), 333(voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269(negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, 51B of Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoria-hospital-quarantine-centre-head-beaten-2-held/articleshow/75854725.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Cops arrange vehicle for 2 blind men to go home in UP||HARIDWAR: Two blind men who were walking to their homes in Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh were stopped by police and arranged a private vehicle to ferry them home. Haridwar circle officer Abhay Singh told TOI, “Rukeem (56) and Surdas (52) were walking home to UP along with a woman, Vimla (52). They lived on the bank of the Ganga in Haridwar. We arranged a vehicle at our own expense and sent them to their homes in Hardaoi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-arrange-vehicle-for-2-blind-men-to-go-home-in-up/articleshow/75854597.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||'No-contact' evaulation for JU Arts final semester||KOLKATA: The Arts faculty council of Jadavpur University has decided to evaluate students for the terminal semester through non-contact modes. It was decided at a meeting on Tuesday to fix the modalities of conducting the examinations after the lockdown. The individual departments will now discuss the possibilities and finalize a draft on ways to conduct the exams. “ The JU Arts faculty is examining the proposals of evaluating students based on home assignments, mini projects, term papers and holding viva-voce over phone,” a senior JU official said. The heads of departments are unanimous over not holding written examinations. “We will also formulate the weightage for each category of evaluation,” the official added. It is not only the Arts faculty. The science faculties in JU are also exploring options to hold the final semester examinations ‘without the physical presence of students’. “In the engineering faculty, an examination model — which was proposed at National Institute of Technology, Durgapur — has been tabled for approval. But in the other two faculties, if hostel accommodation is not available and trains are not back on the tracks, we shall also have to make alternative arrangements for evaluation through internal assessments, viva-voce over the telephone and CGPA. Even hosting online tests is unlikely since many students do not have access to stable high-speed internet,” said a source in JU. The other two faculties will hold their respective academic council meetings over this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/somdatta-ju-2005/articleshow/75856582.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||8 new Covid-19 cases come up in Varanasi, 9 in Mau||Varanasi: Eight new cases of Covid-19 came to light in Varanasi while nine infected persons were detected in Mau district on Wednesday. Total number of hotspots in the district reached 55. Alarming for Varanasi was to see that a jaggery trader of Visheshwarganj wholesale market and a fruit vendor of Madhopur also turned infected but their contact history could not be known. District magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “We received 40 reports from BHU lab in which eight had been found positive. With it total tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached to 123. Discharging of six patients increased the figures of cured patients to 70 while four had died. Now, active cases in the district are 49.” A 50-year-old jaggery wholesaler of Visheshwarganj market, who dwells in Habibpura Pishachmochan area of Chetganj, and a 36-year-old fruit vendor of Madhopur Sigra, who sells fruit near Bharat Sevashram Ashram in Sigra area, had been tested positive without having travel history, he said adding that efforts were on to detect their contact history. Apart from these two, he said, a 22-year-old person of Narainpur (Chaubeypur) ,who had returned from Mumbai by train, was also tested positive. Four migrants including 40-year-old motor mechanic of Kurauna (Jansa), a 20-year-old fruit vendor of Chhatauna (Chaubeypur), 18-year-old bangle maker of Khevasipur (Lohta) and 18-year-old artificial jewellery artist of Maidagin, were also tested positive. They all had returned home from Mumbai in trucks, he added. A 61-year-old autorickshaw driver of Khargipur (Chaubeypur), who had returned home from Ahmadabad by bus, was also found infected, said Sharma. Following detection of new cases Madhopur (Sigra), Narainpur and Khargipur of Chaubeypur, Habibpura in Chetganj, Dulahigadhi in Maidagin, Kurauna of Jansa and Khevasipur of Lohta also became hotspots. Total number of hotspots in the district reached 55. District magistrate Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi said that six members of a family of Fatehpur in Madao block, who had returned from Mumbai by train four days ago, had been tested positive. Besides, a 9-year-old girl of Chitbisao village, and two persons of Ahilad and Khedachavar villages had also been found infected, he said adding, they all were in contact of previously detected Covid-19 positive cases. With the detection of nine more infected persons the number of total Covid-19 positive cases has reached to 13, he said adding, one persons had become cured and now 12 active cases are there in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/8-new-covid-19-cases-come-up-in-varanasi-9-in-mau/articleshow/75854698.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Varanasi||Court rejects ex-MPDhananjay’s bail plea||Varanasi: The court of additional district judge-I of Jaunpur on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of mafia don-turned-politician and former BSP MP Dhananjay Singh in a case of kidnapping and threatening the project manager of a company executing the sewage management project in the district. The additional district government counsel (criminal) Anup Shukla confirmed that the court heard the bail plea of Dhananjay and rejected it. He said the complainant Abhinav Singhal, who had given an application in chief judicial magistrate court for withdrawal of his complaint, but it was not accepted, did not present his plea before ADJ-I court due to which hearing took place on Dhananjay’s bail plea. Dhananjay and his close aide had been arrested on May 10 by Line Bazar police in Jaunpur district after Singhal had lodged an FIR under Sections 364 (kidnapping), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. Police had also seized his luxury SUV, which was used to kidnap the project manager. Both were produced before the court of remand magistrate on May 11 and sent to district jail in 14-day judicial custody. The criminal-turned- politician, who has 37 criminal cases against him and has been booked under Gangsters Act four times, had come on radar when in his complaint Singhal alleged that Dhananjay was forcing his firm and UP Jal Nigam officials to take sand from him despite rejection due to poor quality in past. He alleged he was threatened repeatedly by Dhananjay’s goons, kidnapped and taken to his residence where he was threatened at gun point. Dhananjay had won 2002 assembly elections as an independent from Rari seat in Jaunpur and retained the seat in 2007 as JD(U) candidate. In 2009, he joined Bahujan Samaj Party and won the parliamentary election from Jaunpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/court-rejects-ex-mpdhananjays-bail-plea/articleshow/75854678.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Explosion of Covid-19 cases in Kutch||RAJKOT: Kutch district, which had become Covid-19 free on April 30, is seeing a sudden explosion in number of positive cases again. The district, which had recorded just six cases before April 30, has 57 Covid patients at present. Of these, 21 tested positive on Tuesday alone. While five out of the six cases earlier were only Madhapar taluka alone, the spread of virus this time in several talukas. Officials said the spike is mainly due to influx of people from other cities including Mumbai. Kutch district development officer DDO, Prabhav Joshi said, “All those who tested positive in the last two weeks have entered Kutch from outside, mostly Mumbai. Nearly 50,000 people entered in these weeks and we are providing them institutional quarantine facility as far as possible.” Riled at ‘outsiders’ bringing in coronavirus to Kutch again, a group of people have also started a twitter campaign with hashtag ‘Savekutch’, urging those coming here to take proper precautions and asking the district administration to screen them for virus infection before entry. The campaign was trending among the top 10 in Gujarat. Parikshit Thacker a businessman in Bhuj, said, “Those coming to Kutch are sons of the soil. We don’t want to oppose their entry, but the administration should screen them for Covid-19 before allowing their entry.” Many even mooted complete ban on people coming from red zone Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/explosion-of-covid-19-cases-in-kutch/articleshow/75854572.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 21, 2020||Goa||100 persons on train with Covid+ to be retested today||Margao: Doctors on Thursday will retest around 100-odd passengers who travelled on the Sunday Rajdhani train to Goa, and who either came in contact with or travelled in the same compartments as the 12 who tested positive. The train arrived with passengers from Delhi and Maharashtra. The 100-odd contacts, who will be tested, are presently under institutional quarantine. Doctors will take their throat swab samples again for TruNat testing following which they will be stamped for 14-day home quarantine if they test negative. If they test positive, their swabs — this time nasopharyngeal — will have to be taken in Margao itself and sent to GMC for the confirmatory PCR test only after which will they be labelled Covid-19 positive and admitted to the Margao hospital. Contact tracing was carried out on Tuesday during which around 100 contacts, who travelled in the same compartments as the nine who tested positive on the Delhi-Goa Rajdhani Express, were tested. Two contacts of the 100-odd tested were detected positive and were admitted to the Covid-19 hospital on Wednesday. Should positive cases be detected among air travellers, those who sat besides them as well as those who occupied seats in the three rows ahead of them and three rows behind them will also be quarantined and retested after 72 hours, an official said. The same procedure is likely to be followed for those who travel by bus and test positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/100-persons-on-train-with-covid-to-be-retested-today/articleshow/75857100.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 21, 2020||Allahabad||14 new cases take city’s coronavirus tally to 57||Prayagraj: With 14 more residents testing positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the district, Prayagraj’s tally reached 57 cases on Wednesday. All those who tested positive for the infection were migrants and had arrived in the city from other states including Maharastra. The new cases included the son of a village head in trans-Ganga area of the city. Besides, three members of a family — a couple and their minor son — who had recently returned from Mumbai also tested positive for novel coronavirus. The three had returned from Mumbai on May 12 and were isolated at a quarantine centre. They later tested positive for the disease. All patients were admitted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa and Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital for treatment. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “14 persons were diagnosed with novel coronavirus in the city in the past 24 hours.” Till now, three patients have died of Covid-19 in Prayagraj and 14 have recovered. Officials said that details of over 42,000 migrants have been updated on the health department’s official website. The administration has appealed to all migrants returning from other states to their native towns that they should quarantine themselves for 21 days at home. They have also been asked not to spit in public places and those who are suffering from cough, fever and running nose could contact health department officials for getting themselves tested for novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/14-new-cases-take-citys-coronavirus-tally-to-57/articleshow/75856138.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri breathes easy as storm causes mininal damage||Bhubaneswar: With the trauma caused by Cyclone Fani still fresh in people’s minds, Puri on Wednesday heaved a sigh of relief as Cyclone Amphan blew past the coastal district without causing much damage. Heavy rain accompanied by strong winds caused some concern among the residents of the district in the early hours of Wednesday, but that soon subsided by afternoon. Tuesday night was fraught with anxiety for most people in Puri as they feared the worst, given the massive destruction caused by Cyclone Fani on May 3, 2019. Their apprehensions seem to have come true on Wednesday morning, when the wind started blowing at a speed of nearly 60-70 kmph, gusting up to 90 kmph. “We were not worried about the rain. The winds are more dangerous. Strong winds in the wake of Fani had damaged my house last year. When the wind gathered speed on Wednesday morning, we prayed for divine intervention,” said Kishore Chandra Mohanty, a resident of Puri town. The marine fishermen of Penthakota slum on Puri beach remained awake throughout Tuesday night and kept an eye on their boats. “Fani had caused massive damage to our boats. With that fear still in mind, we tied our boats with iron chains this time. The sea was rough but luckily it was not as ferocious as it was when Fani made landfall,” said Kamarao Reddy, a fisherman. The Puri administration made elaborate preparations to brace itself for the cyclone’s impact. Altogether 10,238 people were moved from vulnerable locations to safer places. At least 27 pregnant women were moved to hospitals between Tuesday and Wednesday. “We have not received report of any casualty in the cyclone. Those who were evacuated are back in their homes. Some roads have been blocked by uprooted trees, and they have been cleared. Crop and house damage is being assessed,” Puri collector Balwant Singh said. The cyclone did not cause any damage to the semi-constructed chariots for the June 23 Rath Yatra. “We suspended the work on Wednesday and will resume it again on Thursday. The cloth walls around the Ratha Khala (chariot workplace) have been torn by the strong winds but the chariot parts are safe,” a carpenter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-breathes-easy-as-storm-causes-mininal-damage/articleshow/75854639.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 21, 2020||Goa||20 Lisa contact tracing of Sunday train with 12 positive, to be carried out on Thursday, contacts to be retested||Graphic Saturday Special Rajdhani Express from Delhi-Goa Passengers 350+ Tested positive-9 Contacts retested- 100 Tested positive after contact tracing- 2 Margao: Doctors on Thursday will re-test around 100-odd passengers of the Rajdhani train to Goa (that arrived on Sunday with passengers from Delhi and Maharashtra) who came into contact and who travelled in the same compartments as the 12 who tested positive. The 100 odd contacts who will be tested are presently under institutional quarantine. Doctors will take their throat swab samples again for Trunat testing following which they will be stamped with a 14-day home quarantine stamp if they test negative and sent home. If they test positive, their swabs- this time nasopharyngeal swabs- will have to be taken in Margao itself and sent to GMC for the confirmatory PCR test only after which they will be labeled COVID-19 positive and then admitted to the COVID-19 hospital in Margao. Contact tracing was carried out on Tuesday where around 100 contacts who travelled in the same compartments as nine who tested positive on the Delhi-Goa Rajdhani Express, were tested. Two contacts of the 100-odd tested were detected positive and were admitted to the COVID-19 hospital on Wednesday. Should positive cases be detected among the air travelers, those who sat besides them as well as those who occupied seats in the three rows ahead of them and three rows behind them will also be quarantined and retested after 72 hours, an official said. The same procedure is likely to be followed for those who travel by bus and test positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/20-lisa-contact-tracing-of-sunday-train-with-12-positive-to-be-carried-out-on-thursday-contacts-to-be-retested/articleshow/75857094.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Traders pin hopes on weekend business before Eid||KOLKATA: The trading community is eyeing the Eid weekend to salvage some losses after they open their establishments on Thursday for the first time in almost two months. Most shop owners TOI spoke to said they were only expecting a trickle on the first day due to the aftermath of Amphan, but are pinning their hopes on the weekend. The state has allowed standalone shops outside containment zones to reopen from Thursday if they comply with all social distancing guidelines. “I have never waited for anything so eagerly,” said Arshad Hussain, who sells traditional wear for women on Rabindra Sarani. “The business has been nil for the past two months, but I am paying salaries to my employees and the electricity bill. I am praying for some good business this weekend so I can arrange for some funds to may my employees and other needy people before Eid,” said Hussain. Shops selling traditional wear, Eid delicacies and other non-essential items in pockets of Zakaria Street, Rabindra Sarani, Lindsay Street, Bertram Street and Beckbagan are also expecting some business so they can at least manage expenses for salaries. “Given the current scenario, there won’t be too much euphoria around the festival. People are going to stay at home. But still people will buy clothes to give to charity and ingredients to prepare traditional deserts on Eid,” said Anil Jhajhar, who sells spices, dry fruits and sherbets on MG Road. There are more than 3 lakh shops in Kolkata involved in wholesale and retail, and a majority of these deal in non-essential items. “We have put safety as our top priority. But at the same time, we have a commitment to our customers and employees,” said Sushil Poddar, president, Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations. “It is good that we are opening mid-week and ahead of Eid. We will get an idea about demand and stock, and can prepare for full-fledged operation from Tuesday or Wednesday,” said Arghya Kashyapi, who runs a big textile shop on Madan Street. However, most traders feel it will take a few days to instil confidence among employees and customers. “The fear of infection is still high, but that cannot throw life out of gear. We have to comply with regulations, but we must bounce back to trade and commerce,”said Aveek Kedia, a major electric goods trader on Ezra Street. “We have distributed guidelines to be followed. In the first week, we have asked traders to operate on a low scale,” said Poddar. “So far, we are well stocked. But in the long run, it will need to be replenished. Because of the labourer migration, the manufacturing industry may be affected,” said Gouranga Karmakar of a Tollygunge hardware shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traders-pin-hopes-on-weekend-biz-before-eid/articleshow/75856587.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||11 new Covid-19 cases found, Uttarakhand tally reaches 122||DEHRADUN: The number of coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand has jumped to 122 with 11 new patients being reported from the state. With this, Uttarakhand has now become the third Himalayan state with most number of coronavirus cases. Among the Himalayan states, Jammu & Kashmir has the maximum cases (around 1,400), followed by Assam (142), according to health ministry’s website. Among the new cases reported on Wednesday, four are from Udham Singh Nagar, two each from Nainital and Uttarkashi, and one each from Almora, Haridwar, and Tehri Garhwal. Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary (health), informed that the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state became 10.3 days on May 20, dropping to half of what it was on May 15. On May 11, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state was 45 days. “On May 15, our doubling rate was 21 days which reduced to 10.3 days on Wednesday. The recovery rate of the state has also dropped to 44.17% which was over 63% five days ago,” said Pant, while adding that all the new cases reported on Wednesday had travelling history from red zone states like Delhi, Gurugram, and Mumbai. With addition of Tehri Garhwal, as many as 10 districts across Uttarakhand have now reported Covid-19 cases. No case has yet been reported from Pithoragarh, Champawat, and Rudraprayag districts till now. The state at present has 66 active cases as one patient was discharged from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital on the day. And with 754 new samples being sent for testing on Wednesday, the state is now awaiting 1,538 samples, according to the 2 pm health bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/11-new-covid-19-cases-found-ukhand-tally-reaches-122/articleshow/75854622.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||IIT study tracks northward movement of cyclones||KOLKATA: A group of geoscientists from IIT Kharagpur have been studying Amphan right from the time it started seeding over Bay of Bengal as a depression on May 16. The study is examining how pre-monsoon cyclones move towards higher latitudes for a landfall and why such quick intensification typically happens around April-May. The team is studying all cyclones and their trends from 1891 to 2018 to establish trends and patterns. Similar, studies are being done with the Odisha supercyclone of 1999 and the recent Fani. “Since Amphan travelled longer over the Bay of Bengal, it got time to gather muscle. Amphan followed a track away from the east coast while Fani moved along the coast after its formation,” the geoscientists have found. The tropical heat circulation assisted Amphan in becoming a super cyclone. These geoscientists belong to the institute’s Centre for Ocean, Rivers, Atmosphere and Land Sciences (CORAL) that was formed to assist the ministry of earth sciences to draw inferences from natural calamities. The studies will supplement the readings provided by the IMD. The research is being headed by N V Satyanarayana, a senior faculty member at Coral. Initially Amphan’s wind speed was just 46kmph. The next 48 hours were crucial as it gradually changed into a very severe cyclone and then into a supercyclone. The windspeed rose to up to 222kmph over the sea, which reduced to 175kmph at landfall. Along with the IMD, CORAL scientists have tracked Amphan’s movement and change in direction . “Amphan’s uniqueness lies in its quick conversion from depression to super cyclone in a quick succession. Our experience shows that Amphan has followed the trend of pre-monsoon cyclones’ direction. There has also been a substantial decrease in wind speed till landfall,” explained Satyanarayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-study-tracks-northward-movement-of-cyclones/articleshow/75856592.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Despite Covid-19 threat, pangolin hunted for meat||Nagpur: At a time when various international studies have pointed out that Covid-19 outbreak may have originated from pangolins, those living on the forest fringes have failed to understand seriousness of the issue and are still hunting these scaly-anteaters for bushmeat. Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), Maharashtra, officials on Tuesday arrested two poachers from Kirangisarra who had killed a pangolin and were in the process of cooking its meat for consumption. The accused have been identified as Radheshyam Odgu Aahake and Kawdu Udaram Dhurve. Both were cooking the pangolin in an utensil in the farm of Raju Ramji Dhurve. The rare mammal was hunted from compartment number 554 in Chorbahuli range. Dhurve is said to be president of eco-development committee (EDC), which is set up in wildlife areas as part of people’s participatory management practice. Both the accused will be produced before Ramtek judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) on Wednesday. Owing to the lockdown, patrolling has been intensified and during this period the foresters got a tip-off that some persons had hunted a pangolin. The officials zeroed in on the two accused and arrested them. Pangolins are listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and same sections, which are applicable for poaching tigers and leopards, apply for pangolins. Kirangisarra is an obscure village on Pench fringe. Technically speaking, the village is outside the reserve but has no way out rather than use the tiger reserve area to move in or out. This village needs to be included in Pench and relocated later for long-term conservation of tigers and wildlife. Pangolins are targeted for their scales used in traditional Chinese medicines and meat consumed as a delicacy in many Asian countries. A study by global NGO TRAFFIC for a period 2009-2017 had found that nearly 6,000 pangolins are killed in illegal wildlife trade in India. However, this was a conservative estimate as only a fraction of illegal wildlife trade is detected and the actual numbers are likely to be higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-covid-19-threat-pangolin-hunted-for-meat/articleshow/75873955.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 21, 2020||Goa||‘Five more flights to bring seafarers’||Panaji: Five more chartered flights with returning seafarers are expected next week and about 280 seafarers are expected to come via ship to MPT, secretary for ports P.S Reddy informed the state executive committee (SEC). The first three flights with seafarers landed on Wednesday with 416 passengers from Italy. Anthony DeSouza, the nodal officer for NRls, informed the SEC that he is yet to receive details of 68 persons of Goan origin who are expected to come in a flight to Mumbai from South Africa with other stranded Indians, perhaps on May 22. The SEC reiterated that after receiving the details, if required, he may tie up with Kadamba Transport Corporation to bring these persons directly from Mumbai Airport to Goa. The SEC also noted that the registration process has picked up and the department has registered 56 documents and 15 marriages on Tuesday. The secretary for panchayat informed the SEC that 95% pre-monsoon works have been completed. The SEC asked the principal secretary to monitor the work in municipal areas to expedite the progress. The Konkan Railway Corporation has requested the SEC for permission to bring back their stranded staff from Maharashtra and Karnataka, as these employees are required to operate the increasing number of Shramik special trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-more-flights-to-bring-seafarers/articleshow/75857113.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||Crowds swell in Vadodara’s phone and accessories hub||Vadodara: On Tuesday even before mobile phone accessories and repairing shops opened after two months at Marimata No Khancho here, customers had lined up to either buy new phones and accessories or to get their phones repaired. As crowds continued to swell on Wednesday too, police officials had to warn shop owners to follow odd-even system and other guidelines.Senior police officials and cops from Raopura police station visited the market in Marimata No Khancho on Rajmahal Road on Wednesday as social distancing norms were not being followed by people. Police officials said all shops were open and many shops did not even have hand sanitizers. Shop owners and traders were asked to come for a meeting where they were told to follow odd-even system, social distancing norms between customers and keep hand sanitizers in their shops among other things.“We have served notices to more than five shop owners who did not follow any of the guidelines. If they do not heed to our warning then we will register offences and take appropriate legal action against them,” said assistant commissioner of police Megha Tevar. The traders’ association later held their meeting to decide on the odd-even system. Tevar added that the shop owners have also been asked to make markings outside their shops so that two customers maintain distance between them. “We have also told them to keep one employee outside the shop only to ensure that customers stand at a distance from each other and vehicles are parked properly,” she said. Police are also deliberating on parking of vehicles of those visiting the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crowds-swell-in-vadodaras-phone-and-accessories-hub/articleshow/75853394.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrants given footwear, food for journey||Hyderabad: A doctor, along with several other organisations helped the migrant workers boarding buses back home from Medchal, since Tuesday, by distributing footwear and food packets for the journey. Dr Srikanth Manda, a paediatrician along with his colleagues and other volunteers distributed over 200 slippers to the migrant workers who were found walking on the Outer Ring Road, Medchal. “Some were walking barefoot. My colleague arranged slippers for around 200 of them. I, along with volunteers set up a medical camp in one of a shelter home for 150 people in the area and distributed free medicines and masksfor the workers. We also distributed Electral and ORS packets for the children,” said Dr Srikanth. “There are NGOs distributing food packets, water packets to them for the long journey,” said a volunteer. Another group of doctors prepared food at home packed and distributed among 300 people travelling from Medchal on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-given-footwear-food-for-journey/articleshow/75856601.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Screening centres the new hotspots?||NEW DELHI: With migrant families all desperate to go back to their home states, controlling the crowds at screening centres has become a challenge for Delhi’s district officials. Hundreds of people throng these centres to get their names listed for Shramik Special trains and to undergo a basic health check-up that makes them eligible to board the trains. Officials said if immediate measures were not taken to deter the crowds, the centres could become Covid-19 hotspots. Delhi government has set up 30 screening centres in the 11 districts where the migrant workers and their families who have applied on the government portal to return to their home states gather before boarding the Shramik Special trains. The danger of such gatherings can be gauged from the random sampling of arrivals from Delhi in Bihar, where every fourth person was detected to be infected with the novel coronavirus. According to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, at least 1.9 lakh residents of Bihar and 1.8 lakh of Uttar Pradesh, among others, have registered so far to return to their villages. Though Delhi government sends a text message only to each registered migrant with information about the date and time of their train and the location of the screening centre, hordes of unregistered migrants also reach the places. “However best we try, we cannot maintain social distancing at the screening centres,” conceded a government official. “Hundreds arrive every day with children and mingle in the crowd. Even if we somehow manage social distancing, the common toilets are the risk points.” Another official suggested that with public transport now open, the central government should ask the migrant workers to come directly to the railway station, where they can be screened before boarding the train. “It’s because of the faulty government policy that huge crowds gather at the screening centres,” he said. “The migrant daily-wage earners should book tickets on IRCTC’s website and those with confirmed tickets should be allowed to enter the railway station and be screened. This will save unnecessary crowding at screening centres.” On Tuesday, there were hundreds milling around at Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University on Mehrauli-Badarpur Road in south Delhi. The two queues at the screening centre extended from the Khanpur traffic junction to Mandir Marg — a distance of over a kilometre. They had received messages late on Monday to report at the university gate, from where DTC buses would take them to the departing railway stations. Many people arrived as early as 5am. “The government is sending us home now, but they could have easily done it two months ago. I could have been with my family in Azamgarh during the lockdown and avoided the ignominy of lining up for free meals,” said Sujeet Kumar, 43, an embroidery worker. As the day progressed, the aspirants, especially women and children, suffered in the sun as the queue moved at glacial pace. Policemen and government officials tried to enforce social distancing, which resulted in the migrants being allowed into the screening centre only in small batches, thus creating a long queue outside. “Yes, I’m not shelling out money to return home, but it is humiliating to travel like this,” grumbled tailor Santosh Pal. “I wish I had enough money to travel by an AC special, but I spent all my savings in surviving the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/screening-centres-the-new-hotspots/articleshow/75856607.cms||Atul Mathur
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Woman gives birth inside fire brigade van in Kendrapada||BHUBANESWAR: Cyclone Amphan could not have come at a worse time for Janaki Sethi, a pregnant woman of Jhanhara village in Kendrapada district. As nature unleashed its fury, she gave birth to a baby girl on Wednesday. The delivery neither happened in any labour room of a hospital nor at her home. The baby came into the world inside a fire brigade van that came to her rescue amid the bad weather condition. Janaki, 20, went into labour in the early hours of Wednesday amid heavy rainfall accompanied by strong winds. Though her family members dialled 108 for ambulance service, the vehicle could not reach their home as the road to her village was blocked by uprooted trees. “We were very tensed on seeing my wife in such excruciating pain. We were desperately looking for a vehicle to take her to the hospital. I then dialled 101 fire service for help. They reached in time and saved my wife and baby,” her husband Hatin Sethi, a small-time trader of the locality, said with tears welling up in his eyes. The fire service personnel said reaching their village in the torrential rain was not an easy task. “Our personnel cleared 22 fallen trees from the road by using power saws. Seeing the condition of the pregnant woman, the fire service personnel swung into action, removed the trees and drove to her village. She was immediately shifted to the fire brigade vehicle and taken to a nearby community health centre at Mahakalpada. Utmost care was taken to ensure her comfort and dignity in the vehicle. Midway to the hospital, she gave birth to a baby girl,” inspector general of police (fire service) Asheet Panigrahi said. A senior fire officer said the mother and the baby are fine. Apprehending hostile weather, the state government had alerted all hospitals to be prepared to handle critical patients during this period. “We have asked ambulance service providers to contact police and fire service for any assistance,” a health official said. Praising the fire personnel, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, “I congratulate the fire service personnel and wish well-being of the baby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/woman-gives-birth-inside-fire-brigade-van-in-kendrapada/articleshow/75854682.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Thief digs 12-foot-deep tunnel to loot house||RUDRAPUR: In a heist attempt that could be mistaken for a movie plot, a man dug a 12-foot-deep underground tunnel to loot a house in Rudrapur’s Seer Gotiya colony. However, the locals spotted the mud-stained man before he could loot the house and informed police on Tuesday evening. BC Joshi, senior sub-inspector of Rudrapur police station, told TOI that the accused has been identified as a resident of Baheri in Uttar Pradesh. “We are trying to find involvement of anyone else in the crime. Upon investigation, it was revealed that Bablu wanted to steal valuables the house. He used an abandoned building adjacent to the house and it took him five days to dig a tunnel,However, he was apprehended before he could decamp with valuables,” added Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thief-digs-12-foot-deep-tunnel-to-loot-house/articleshow/75854659.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Don’t let down guard in lockdown 4.0||BHOPAL: Monday in the state capital seemed like from a time before March 23 — the first day of the lockdown. The streets were abuzz with activity and vehicles could be seen on the road since morning on the first day of lockdown 4.0 which came into effect with a few relaxations in Bhopal — which has seen over 1,000 coronavirus cases and 40 deaths so far. It appeared as if people, somehow, had got the impression that the lockdown restrictions have been lifted. As the traffic swelled on the roads, police and administration swung into action, additional police force was deployed, pickets were strengthened and residents were told to remain indoors and explained that the lockdown has not been lifted but extended. Collector Tarun Pithode has said many a times that people can only get an early “freedom” from lockdown restrictions if they follow the guidelines properly, practice social distancing and avoid going out unless absolutely necessary.“ Bhopal will shed its red zone status and get green only when new Coronavirus cases stop coming but as of now it’s not happening”, he said, while talking to TOI on the eve of the lockdown 4.0 “Earlier we used to blame residents of Jehangirabad or Aishbagh for not listening to the administration and perpetuating the Coronavirus infection but it’s now happening everywhere. At times, you can see jam on the road particularly near the police pickets as the area for vehicles to pass get reduced”, said a policeman guarding one such picket on Kolar Road. Station house officer, Hanumanganj, Mahendra Singh Thakur, however, had a different take on the issue. “On the first day of the lockdown 4.0, there was indeed heavy traffic on the road initially but it was more because of confusion. People, somehow, got the message that all offices and shops can open in this phase of the lockdown but after they were persuaded and told that the restrictions were still in place, they returned home”, he said. People on the other hand, seem to suggest that except for early morning or for a brief period in the evening, some people may venture out of their houses for the sake of it but otherwise, they are largely sticking to the lockdown rules except when it’s necessary to go out for some urgent work. However, TOI spotted locals moving on the road at Bagh Sewaniya area at around 4pm. Most of them were either wearing masks or covering their faces with scarfs, but they were not only out on the roads but were also flouting the orders of administration allowing only one person on the two-wheelers. When one of them, Mukesh Pandit, was asked why he was roaming around despite the lockdown in the city, he said “I understand it is necessary to protect ourselves, so I have covered my face with this scarf. As far as use of motorcycle is concerned with a pillion rider, I was not aware that pillion riding on motorcycle is not allowed in the lockdown”. When asked why he had come out of his house, he replied “To buy vegetables”. There is also an “irony” in the whole situation as it unfolds during the lockdown 4, when the district administration has allowed opening of private offices with 33 % attendance, construction works both by the government agencies and the private builders and also the stand-alone shops and shops in residential complexes to operate. While those with no work are roaming around on the road giving “excuses” if stopped by the police at any point, those who have offices or construction work to carry out are either wary to open their offices or not getting wherewithal to start construction. Vicky, a contractor has sanctioned work of the BMC water works department, but no truck owner is prepared to unload building material at his site lest their truck is seized. “Sand and cement, you are getting everything in black. I am ready to purchase it on whatever rate it is available but they are asking me to hire a truck on my own because if their truck is seized by the police, they would have problems getting it back.” “Why don’t you wait for another 10 days, they ask me while the company I work for is after me to start work”, he said. Similarly, Pankaj Sharma, who has an office in GTB Complex, has not bothered to find out whether the office can be opened under relaxations offered under the lockdown 4.0. “I don’t know. I was reading in a local newspaper that SDM’s order would be required to open the office. Who would get into all this? It’s better to wait for some more days”, he said. When TOI tried to find out from the district administration whether a private office located at GTB complex can be opened, district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, said “Yes but with 33 % attendance”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopalis-lower-guard-in-lockdown-4-as-coronavirus-threat-looms/articleshow/75855699.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 21, 2020||Goa||Cyclone: KTC bus ferrying migrants to Odisha cancelled||Panaji: Two Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) buses that were scheduled to leave for Odisha on Wednesday was cancelled owing to the cyclone Amphan. The buses were to ferry 50 migrant labourers from Odisha stranded in Goa, back to their native place. “We will operate the buses to Odisha only after the cyclone has passed. Currently, it is not safe to undertake a journey by road. Only after the roads clear, we can resume the process of transporting them. We will wait till May 24,” KTC general manager Sanjay Ghate said. The India meteorological department said that cyclone Amphan would largely affect the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal. Goa only saw a mild effect of the weather phenomenon which is prevailing over the Bay of Bengal. TOI had earlier reported that Goa experienced windy weather on Monday owing to the cyclone. With the buses having been withheld for now, the corporation officials are contemplating sending the passengers by train. “After the cyclone passes, if the state government schedules a train to West Bengal, then the 50 people from Odisha who are stranded here can travel by railways. Even if there is a train to Bihar, it can go via Chhattisgarh and make a stop at Odisha,” Ghate said. The appeal, however, must come from the travellers. The KTC officials have therefore advised the travellers to contact their state government so that they can coordinate with the Goa government to schedule a train to their hometown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyclone-ktc-bus-ferrying-migrants-to-odisha-cancelled/articleshow/75857115.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Allahabad||Kaushambi man kills wife with shovel||Prayagraj: A man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing his wife in Kaushambi district after the couple had an argument. Police said the accused was identified as Sewan Kumar and is a resident of Ratgaha village, under the limits of Charwa police station, in Kaushambi. According to reports, Sewan and his wife Sunita Devi (45) reportedly fought after the latter had gone out to graze the goats on Tuesday despite her husband telling her not to do so in view of the lockdown. Deputy SP (Chail) Krishna Gopal Singh said, “Sewan earns his livelihood by repairing radio\ television sets and has six siblings. He had instructed all his family members to not step outside their home during the lockdown.” On Tuesday, Sunita went out graze her herd of goats. When her husband came to know about it, he argued with her and later attacked Sunita on her neck with a shovel in a fit of rage. When she fainted, Sewan climbed a tree. On Wednesday morning, when local residents spotted Sunita lying in a pool of blood, they informed police. Police later arrested the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kaushambi-man-kills-wife-with-shovel/articleshow/75856166.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad sizzles at 43.8°C, likely to touch 44°C today||AHMEDABAD: The city on Wednesday experienced heat wave along with Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Gandhinagar, Mehsana, Patan, Rajkot, Amreli, Surendranagar and Kutch along with union territory of Diu. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature touched 43.8°C. India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast mentioned that the temperature is likely to touch 44°C on Thursday. All the districts that experienced heat wave on Wednesday are likely to face similar conditions on Thursday as well. The maximum temperature of 43.8°C in Ahmedabad was 1.9°C higher than normal whereas minimum temperature of 28.7°C was 1.6°C higher than normal, said IMD officials. Deesa and Surendranagar recorded maximum temperature of 44.4°C each, highest in Gujarat, followed by 44.2°C in Bhuj, 43.8°C in Ahmedabad, 43.5°C in Gandhinagar, 43.2°C in V V Nagar and Rajkot and 43°C in Amreli. Health experts cautioned against venturing out during afternoon hours if not necessary. “Avoid direct heat between 12 noon and 4pm. Wear open, light-coloured clothes for better ventilation and take light food to avoid gastric trouble. Even when out, wear goggles and cover your head and face,” said a city-based physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-sizzles-at-43-8c-likely-to-touch-44c-on-thursday/articleshow/75855715.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||Offer counselling for SSLC students, say experts||Mysuru: Within 24 hours after the announcement of SSLC timetable, Old Mysuru region witnessed two student suicides. Pointing at these tragic incidents, experts have urged KSEEB to start a helpline for SSLC students and offer counselling. A 15-year-old girl committed suicide in Kollegal on Tuesday night after her parents asked her to stop excessive use of cellphone, gaming and prepare for the exam. Upset by this, she locked herself inside her room. Nearly an hour after when her parents knocked on the door, there was no response. When they checked through the widow, she was found hanging, said police. In another case, a 15-year-old boy studying at a local private high school in Somwarpet’s Kajur ended his life by hanging at his residence. Kodagu SP SP Suman D Pennekar confirmed that the boy committed suicide due to examination fever. Meanwhile, experts have urged the state government and KSEEB to launch a helpline and counselling facility at the earliest as students were inside their homes for a long time due to lockdown and are under pressure. According to child rights activist Nagasimha G Rao, who is the convener of the child helpline, as students were confined to their homes for a long time and there was uncertainty over exams, they might be having psychological issues. “Counselling can help them. We have appealed to the state government in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/offer-counselling-for-sslc-students-say-experts/articleshow/75854693.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Odd-even rule for traffic called off, citing practical issues||DEHRADUN: The state government has called off the odd-even traffic formula which it had earlier announced for seven cities of Uttarakhand. Officials said on Wednesday that keeping in mind the ‘practical problems’ involved in the endeavour, the decision was taken by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat to suspend the move. Day one of the odd-even traffic rule on Wednesday had witnessed several violations as many commuters claimed that they were unaware of the norm. Police teams were seen carrying out awareness drives near Clock Tower and other areas as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/odd-even-rule-for-traffic-called-off-citing-practical-issues/articleshow/75854679.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Traffic signals start again as Bhopal switches gears||BHOPAL: The ‘relaxed’ lockdown 4.0 has led to an increase in traffic movement in the state capital. To make commute easier and reduce risk of accidents, traffic signals have started working again during peak working hours in Bhopal. Many offices have begun operation in lockdown 4.0. Over the last few days, around half a dozen minor accidents have been reported near some major crossings. Three accidents took place at Vyapam Square in MP Nagar. Traffic police said, in most cases it was found that people drove fast on empty roads and to take short cuts entered the wrong lane. After complaints of unregulated traffic movement from different parts of the city, traffic signals were made operational again. ASP (Traffic) Pradeep Singh Chouhan said, “Since the traffic volume has increased owing to relaxations in lockdown, traffic signals have been started. Many offices have started operations due to which the traffic has increased during the peak hours. A few accidents have also taken place in the past few days in which the police stations concerned like MP Nagar found that the main reason behind the accidents was rash driving.” The rise in traffic was witnessed from Monday, the first day of ‘Lockdown 4.0’. ASP Chouhan said that the traffic signals are being fully operated during peak office hours from 9 am to 12 am and 4 pm to 7.30 pm. In the remaining time, blinkers are switched on at the signals to guide vehicle drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/traffic-signals-start-again-as-bhopal-switches-gears/articleshow/75855720.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctor stuck in Mumbai during lockdown, house burgled||Ahmedabad: A resident of the Bodakdev area of city on Wednesday filed a complaint with Vastrapur police stating that his house had been burgled while he was stuck in Mumbai due to lockdown. In his FIR with Vastrapur police, Amit Benjamin, 45, a dentist having his clinic at the Judges Bungalow Crossroads, said that he along with his family had locked his house on March 9 when leaving for Mumbai. Benjamin was stuck in Mumbai till May 13 when he was allowed to travel back the city. When he reached his house on May 13 night, he found that main door of his house untouched. But as he entered the house, he found the interiors vandalized. He detected burglars had broken into his house from a door on the terrace after cutting its grill. Benjamin seached his house and found that his wife Ami’s earrings worth Rs 42,000 and her wristwatch worth Rs 15,000 had been stolen. He later approached Vastrapur police and filed a complaint of burglary and criminal trespassing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-stuck-in-mumbai-during-lockdown-house-burgled/articleshow/75855725.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||At 79, Vid sees highest single-day surge, Covid cases cross 1,000||Nagpur: Total 79 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from eight out of the 11 districts of Vidarbha on Wednesday, which is highest single-day surge so far. With this, the number of cases in Vidarbha has crossed 1,000-mark. Akola recorded 29 cases in a day, followed by 19 from Amravati — which is the highest single-day jump for the city. Nagpur reported 13 cases, including 5 SRPF jawans while nine samples from remote villages in Yavatmal district tested positive late in the evening. Wardha and Gadchiroli recorded three new cases each for the second consecutive day. New cases were also reported from Buldhana (2) and Chandrapur (1) — after almost eight days of no new cases in both the districts. In all, 79 cases were added into Vidarbha’s tally. On the other hand, 23 patients recovered from Akola and 11 from Nagpur. One each from Chandrapur and Buldhana also recovered taking day’s tally of recoveries to 36. Now, Vidarbha has total 1,012 cases, with 655 recoveries and 43 deaths. The recovery rate of the region is almost 65%, which is higher than state and national recovery rate. In a matter of grave concern for citizens and the administration in Amravati, the city posted highest number of 19 positive cases to take the Covid toll of the district to 135. Masanganj, the veritable hotspot of the city, contributed seven of the 19 cases today with five coming from a single family, all in institutional quarantine as contacts of a youth who had tested positive three days ago. The 19 positive cases include 11 women and eight men. While the youngest is a 10-year-old girl from Patipura locality, the oldest is 84-year-old woman from Masanganj, which has uptil now reported 20 cases to its credit to date, highest from any of the 32 localities in the city with positive cases. Chandrapur: While one of the positive patients from Chandrapur was declared cured, another person was detected Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Thus, the Covid-19 tally still stands at two in Chandrapur. Civil surgeon Dr CS Rathod said a family of five had returned to neighbouring Durgapur village from Hyderabad on May 12. They all were placed under institutional quarantine on the following day. Their swab samples were collected on May 18 and three of their test reports came on Wednesday. Dr Rathod claimed that a 55-year-old male has been found Covid positive, while two others — a 20-year-old girl and a two-and-a-half-year-old — have tested negative. Reports of two other family members are awaited, he added. First of the two positive patients from Chandrapur, a security guard, was declared cured of Covid-19 infection after his two consecutive swab samples taken after 14 days tested negative. He belonged to Krishna Nagar and was found positive on May 1. Yavatmal: The possibility of the district coming out of red zone on Friday has dimmed after nine new Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the number of active positive cases in Yavatmal to 16. According to sources, the new cases have been reported from Digras (4) (Isapur 3 and Rui Talav 1), Pusad (4) and Malkini village in Mahagaon (1). All those tested positive are Mumbai returnees. All these persons had travelled together from Vasai in Palghar district near Mumbai in a Matador. Two of them, from Hudi village in Pusad tehsil, had already tested positive and are in the isolation ward of GMCH. Of the 17 swab samples taken from the high risk contacts, nine (seven males and two females) have tested Covid positive while six came negative and two reports are awaited. Gadchiroli: Another three Mumbai-returnee migrant labourers tested positive in Gadchiroli taking the total number of cases to nine. Two of them are in their mid-20s while one is 45-year-old man. All are admitted in the isolation ward of general hospital. Wardha: Three reports of close contacts of a 21-year-old girl from Dhamangaon, who is undergoing treatment at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi hospital, tested positive. All three are women and undergoing treatment at the same hospital. Wardha now has nine cases, including 1 death. Hudi village in panic: Meanwhile, reports of the 52-year-old man from Hudi village, stamped Home Quarantined in Ahmednagar two weeks ago, who died on road while returning from Pusad hospital came negative for Covid infection. The man was reported to be suffering from cough, fever and breathing difficulties. His body was lying on the roadside for over three hours unattended. The man along with his wife had returned from Ahmednagar two weeks ago. However, they were forced to stay in a farm as local police patil allegedly prevented them from entering the village. The man’s death, however, raises question as to how home quarantined persons were allowed to move on their own without any monitoring by the authorities. A 25-year-old woman from Hudi had died late on Tuesday night. Health workers have taken her body into their custody and kept it in the mortuary. Her sample was sent for testing and the report is awaited, informed district collector MD Singh. Residents are in a panic now after detection of coronavirus patients in their villages. Moreover, those who returned from Mumbai and other places are seen flouting the home quarantine rules and often move in the villages. The villagers are demanding strictest action against those violating the quarantine rules. Now, Yavatmal has containment areas in the city and also in Ner, Digras, Pusad and Umarkhed tehsils. … At 79, Vid records highest single day surge, surpass 1000 Covid-19 cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-79-vid-sees-highest-single-day-surge-covid-cases-cross-1000/articleshow/75856697.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 21, 2020||Goa||Bus with sailors meets with protest||Panaji: There was tension in Candolim on Wednesday night when a bus came in with seafarers to be lodged in a quarantine facility there. Residents gathered outside the facility and demanded a copy of the order issued by the magistrate about hotels designated as quarantine facilities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bus-with-sailors-meets-with-protest/articleshow/75857121.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Near-perfect IMD prediction gives teeth to govt evacuation strategy||Bhubaneswar: The India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s prediction of Cyclone Amphan’s path and intensity turned out to be flawless, making the state government’s strategy to keep evacuations lower than usual a sound one. “The cyclone moved precisely on the path predicted by the IMD. Landfall was close to the Sundarbans as was forecast by us. We have been predicting this from the very beginning, on May 13. We had predicted wind speed of 100kmph to 110 kmph, gusting up to 125 kmph in northern Odisha. The highest wind speed recorded was 106 kmph in Paradip,” IMD DG Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said. Rainfall and damage to property were most intense in the northern Odisha districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapada, just as the IMD had predicted. While thatched roofs were blown away, many trees and electric poles were uprooted. The cyclone — the most ferocious in the past 20 years in the Bay of Bengal — moved parallel to the Odisha coast at a distance of around 100 to 120 km between Puri and Balasore, before making landfall close to the Sundarbans as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, inflicting massive damage in the South and the North 24 Parganas, besides East and West Midnapore as was predicted by the IMD. “The eye of the cyclone moved out of the influence zone in Odisha by 2 pm. The prediction was nearly 100% accurate,” said H R Biswas, director of IMD Bhubaneswar. Sources in the Met department said apart from analysing research-based weather models, the IMD tracks the movement of cyclones using Doppler weather radars at Visakhapatnam, Gopalpur, Paradip and Kolkata. The IMD has been fairly accurate in past cyclone predictions, too. “The accuracy really helped us. The worst is over for Odisha. The government will estimate the damages caused by Cyclone Amphan. Restoration work has already started,” said special relief commissioner, Pradeep Kumar Jena. For tropical cyclones in the Bay of Bengal, the IMD prediction has been near-accurate in the case of Fani (May 2019), Hudhud (October 2014) and Phailin (October 2013). However, Cyclone Titli (October 2018) had caused massive damage in certain areas in Odisha, which had taken the state by surprise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/near-perfect-imd-prediction-gives-teeth-to-govt-evacuation-strategy/articleshow/75854738.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop hits man helping doctor find an address||Ahmedabad: A resident of Ghansiram ni Pol in the Sarangpur area of the city was allegedly beaten by personnel of Khadia police on Wednesday morning, after which he took on Twitter and tagged Ahmedabad police while narrating his ordeal. Kalpesh Modi, 54, a freelance journalist who worked temporarily with the information bureau of the Gujarat government, alleged that four cops hit him with sticks when he came out of his house to help a doctor. “A doctor in a PPE kit came outside my house and asked for an address. I went out of my house and showed him the place. Meanwhile, four D-staff cops of Khadia police came on two motorcycles and started abusing me,” said Modi. He said that the one of the four cops hit him a stick, causing him injuries to his back or shoulder. Modi said that when he tried to click their pictures, they threatened him. He alleged that people in the area have been constantly harassed by cops in the name of the lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-hits-man-helping-doctor-find-an-address/articleshow/75855749.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Allahabad||Shops open after 8 weeks, but Covid fears keep buyers away||Prayagraj: Prayagraj residents preferred to stay indoors rather than thronging markets in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic even as shops in Civil Lines, Katra and Sulem Sarai re-opened on Wednesday, after an eight-week gap because of the lockdown. Ruing the low turnout, traders claimed that the sales recorded for the day were barely 25% of the regular levels. On Wednesday, shops in Mundera, Preetam Nagar and Dhoomanganj opened under the roster system. Shops selling mobile phones, utensils, crockery, sports items, gift items and, printing presses and dry cleaners were open on Wednesday, as lockdown norms were relaxed. These shops will now open again on Friday. Shops selling computers, IT products, readymade garments and sarees would open on Thursday. President of Civil Lines Vyapaar Mandal Sushil Kharbanda said, “Most shops saw lukewarm business on Wednesday, despite opening after eight weeks. The sales in shops in Civil Lines were not even half of what we see on regular days. Despite the precautions being taken by shopkeepers, buyers still seem to be hesitant in going to stores.” The number of customers spotted in Katra and Sulemsarai shops was more than that compared to Civil Lines. “Compared to Civil Lines, there was more rush in Katra market in the afternoon as most shops in the area were open. There were some who were not supposed to open their shops, but they still did,” said a trader from Katra. Ravi Kumar, a customer spotted in a mobile phone shop, said, “Rather than allowing only some shops to open, it’s a better idea to let stores in different markets open on alternate days, so that people are able to get what they want and there is no unnecessary rush.” Another buyer Vinay said, “I am relieved that shops have now re-opened. However, more markets should be made accessible to residents so that people are not deprived of goods.” On Tuesday, the district administration had announced that no trials and exchange facility would be offered at shops selling readymade garments and spectacles. While medical stores and grocery shops will remain open on all seven days of the week, home delivery of fruits, vegetables and milk is will be available throughout the entire week. Even restaurants will offer home delivery service. Police removed barricading on some of the routes located in an around these three markets. As part of their efforts to contain the spread of novel coronavirus in the city, police had announced that officials of above inspector rank would issue challan against any person found not wearing mask or gamchha/ handkerchief or scarf or found spitting at any public place or outside his/her house and punish him/her accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/shops-open-after-8-weeks-but-covid-fears-keep-buyers-away/articleshow/75856187.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 creeps into new areas; Bhopal count 1088||BHOPAL: Fresh Covid-19 cases reported from Jatkhedi and Misrod on Wednesday. This adds a new dimension to the Covid-19 spread in the state capital. As of now, most of the Covid-19 cases were reported from Old Bhopal, but now it seems to be spreading in new areas. Forty two people tested positive for the infection in Bhopal on Wednesday, taking the city’s corona count to 1,088. Eight cases were reported from Jatkhedi and Misrod on Wednesday. According to reports, health department has set up a special team to assist in IDSP surveillance to contain the spread in new Bhopal. As many as 38 people were discharged on Wednesday. Covid-19 positive patients are undergoing treatment at Gandhi Medical College (GMC), Chirayu medical college and AIIMS Bhopal. AS of now, 55 people are under-going treatment for Covid-19 in AIIMS Bhopal. Three of them are said to be in critical care ICU. Five Covid-19 patients from Bhopal on Wednesday, according to the premier institute bulletin. It included one nursing officer of AIIMS Bhopal along with his seven-month old infant son. Another girl, aged 7, was also declared recovered from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-creeps-into-new-areas-city-count-1088/articleshow/75855730.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kanpur||One more tests positive for Covid-19, city tally now 317||Kanpur: One more person tested positive for Covid-19 in city on Wednesday, taking the number of virus cases in the district to 317. The latest case is from Phool Wali Gali, Anwarganj. The patient has been admitted to the Covid 19 Hospital. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old corona positive patient undergoing treatment at Rama Medical college in Mandhana died on late Tuesday evening taking the death tally to 9. The deceased was taken to ICU of Neuro Science Centre at LLR, but he succumbed before his admission. “The man was undergoing treatment since the past 15 days at Rama Medical college in Mandhana. It was on Tuesday morning, when his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to Kanshiram Trauma Centre in Rama Devi, from where he was later referred to Neuro Science Centre of LLR hospital, where he died prior to his admission at the hospital on late Tuesday evening. The deceased belonged to hotspot Colonelganj area. He was tested positive on May 5,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. “One more person was tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Total number of 11 patients were discharged from separate Covid -19 hospitals on Wednesday. So far, 288 patients have been discharged from various Covid hospital, leaving 20 active cases in the district,” said Dr Shukla further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-city-tally-now-317/articleshow/75856539.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Infant mortality rate in Gujarat fell by two points in 2018||AHMEDABAD: The infant mortality rate (IMR) for the year 2018 released by the Centre’s Sample Registration System (SRS) in May 2020 states that the IMR in the state had come down by two points as compared to 2017. The IMR for 2018 declared this month is 28 which was 30 in 2017. IMR is the number of infant deaths every 1,000 live births. According to the SRS bulletin, the IMR in Gujarat was higher for births of boys as compared to births of girls. In Gujarat, the mean IMR was 28 as the IMR for births of boys was 29 and that for the births of girls was 27. In rural areas, the IMR was 33 with 34 IMR among births of boys and 32 for births of girls. In urban areas, mean IMR was 20 which was 21 for boys and 19 for girls. These figures had been 20 for boys and 23 for girls in 2017. The SRS figures reveal a gap of 13 deaths per 1,000 births between rural and urban Gujarat. Government officials pointed out that the rural-urban divide in infant mortality has reduced by one death per 1,000 as compared to 2017. In urban areas infant mortality for boys has increased by one per 1,000 live births. Though the increase of one IMR was a worrying factor, said officials, the state government has come up with various schemes for medical treatment also covering infants. Infant deaths came recently in the news when at least 522 infant deaths were reported from two major civil hospitals of Rajkot and Ahmedabad between October and December 2019. Between October and December, 269 children had died in the hospital in Rajkot, while 253 infants died in the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. Even in the state assembly in March this year, the government had admitted that in Ahmedabad city, on an average 16 infant deaths have been reported daily from state government-run hospitals. In two years 11,758 deaths were reported from government hospitals in the city. Of these deaths, the government had said 1,014 deaths were of babies delivered by residents of other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infant-mortality-rate-in-state-fell-by-2-points-in-2018/articleshow/75855985.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu coronavirus count touches 13,191; new testing plan for Chennai||CHENNAI: Nearly two months into the lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19, Tamil Nadu’s case count touched 13,191 on Wednesday, second highest in the country after Maharashtra. While more passengers from abroad and other states continuing to test positive, old problems such as poor living conditions in containment zones and spillover from the Koyambedu market cluster were also contributing to the daily rise in hotspot Chennai, which now has a case tally of 8,228. The toll rose to 87 after three more people died. Of the 743 new infections reported on Wednesday, 83 were people who had travelled back to 13 districts from Maharashtra by road. While 21 were tested at checkposts in Thoothukudi, 16 were screened in Tirunelveli and 11 in Tiruvannamalai. Of the remaining 660 cases, 557 were from Chennai and 58 from neighbouring Chengalpet. Tiruvallur reported 23 cases and Kancheepuram had four. In the central region, Pudukottai, which had no new cases since May 15, reported six cases — five from Maharashtra. All cases reported in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri and Madurai were from Maharashtra. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state has launched a micro plan for 33 containment areas in Chennai city Namma Chennai Corona Thaduppu Thittam – where more than 500 newly appointed health inspectors will fan out for a door-to-door screening of patients with influenza-like symptoms. The screening will begin in Royapuram, where we have maximum number of cases with 156 health inspectors. “We will chase the virus now,” Vijayabaskar said. “If they have flu, a mobile unit will also do a chest X-ray to see if they have chest congestion, a symptom of respiratory infection. We have deployed 14 mobile X-ray machines for this. Tests will be done on people with fever or congestion,” he said. Besides a spillover from the Koyambedu cluster, poor living conditions in Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Pulianthope areas have contributed to the spike in cases. “Many people live in less than 100sqft row houses. They share drinking water and toilet facilities. Transmission is rapid despite preventive measures,” he said launching a “robot” autorickshaw, which will spray disinfectants in the area. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, doctors started the clinical trial for plasma therapy with one of their patients as a part of the national trial, while officials from the state health department were drawing up protocols for the vulnerable populations such as the elderly, people with diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney failure under the guidance of 11 sub-committees. In the last 24 hours, the state has screened 11,441 people for the viral infection. While RT-PCR tests have been completed for all 2,139 international air passengers except one, reports are awaited for 1,308 of the 3,891 passengers who came from other states by train. There were 54 people in airport quarantine. These passengers reported positive after first screening. Eighteen other passengers who tested negative on arrival turned positive during the exit screening after a week. Three people were in railway quarantine. There were 7,466 patients in hospital isolation, Covid-19 care centres and home isolation. A 44-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday, while a 70-year-old woman with heart disease died at the Covid-19 ward in Stanley Medical College Hospital the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-virus-count-touches-13191-new-testing-plan-for-chennai/articleshow/75856618.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||From 2-yr-olds to 80-yr-olds, migrant labourers from UP and Bihar with families, line up outside post offices from 3 am hoping to get financial help from govt||Dehradun: Migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar with their family members, including 80-year-olds and two-year-olds, were seen queuing up at various post offices across the district since 3am to get their accounts opened in the hope that the chief ministers of their state would put some money in them to tide over the difficult times. Post offices in Dehradun and Haridwar have collectively opened over 15,000 accounts in the past one month. Mukesh Kumar, a migrant labourer from Samastipur who is living in Dehradun from past five years had arrived at the post office at the city’s Clock Tower on Wednesday with his two-year-old son to get an account opened after hearing that the Bihar government was depositing money in accounts. Mahasundari, 80, who hails from Patna but is in Dehradun for the past 20 years, was also in the queue but had no idea what was it all about. " It will be good if some money comes in my account. Since everybody was standing in the line, I too joined," she said. Anjali Devi from Darbhanga who works as a maid couldn’t enter the post office till 1 pm even though she was in line since 3 am. "I went out of the line to drink water and by the time I came back, the line was almost a km-long," she said, adding that this is the third time she is visiting the GPO as earlier, she didn’t have the documents that were required. Suraj Singh, 13, also from Darbhanga was in the queue to get a first-hand account of the process after which his parents and three siblings would also come to get their accounts opened. While most of the new account openers are from Bihar, some are also from eastern Uttar Pradesh. The queue also had maids and labourers from Uttarakhand who have the line with a similar expectation. Ansuya Prasad, senior superintendent of post office in Dehradun, told TOI that migrants have started opening post office accounts from April 22 and till May 19, they have collectively opened 15,200 accounts of people from UP, Bihar and even of Uttarakhand. "We were initially opening accounts in Dehradun district only but now even Haridwar has started witnessing a spurt in those wanting to open GPO accounts after the PM’s announcement of relief package. They think that the PM will transfer money into their accounts," he said, adding that for savings account of India Post Payment bank, people can have zero balance accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/from-2-yr-olds-to-80-yr-olds-migrant-labourers-from-up-and-bihar-with-families-line-up-outside-post-offices-from-3-am-hoping-to-get-financial-help-from-govt/articleshow/75854718.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 21, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu coronavirus count touches 13,191; new testing plan for Chennai||CHENNAI: Nearly two months into the lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19, Tamil Nadu’s case count touched 13,191 on Wednesday, second highest in the country after Maharashtra. While more passengers from abroad and other states continuing to test positive, old problems such as poor living conditions in containment zones and spillover from the Koyambedu market cluster were also contributing to the daily rise in hotspot Chennai, which now has a case tally of 8,228. The toll rose to 87 after three more people died. Of the 743 new infections reported on Wednesday, 83 were people who had travelled back to 13 districts from Maharashtra by road. While 21 were tested at checkposts in Thoothukudi, 16 were screened in Tirunelveli and 11 in Tiruvannamalai. Of the remaining 660 cases, 557 were from Chennai and 58 from neighbouring Chengalpet. Tiruvallur reported 23 cases and Kancheepuram had four. In the central region, Pudukottai, which had no new cases since May 15, reported six cases — five from Maharashtra. All cases reported in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri and Madurai were from Maharashtra. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state has launched a micro plan for 33 containment areas in Chennai city Namma Chennai Corona Thaduppu Thittam – where more than 500 newly appointed health inspectors will fan out for a door-to-door screening of patients with influenza-like symptoms. The screening will begin in Royapuram, where we have maximum number of cases with 156 health inspectors. “We will chase the virus now,” Vijayabaskar said. “If they have flu, a mobile unit will also do a chest X-ray to see if they have chest congestion, a symptom of respiratory infection. We have deployed 14 mobile X-ray machines for this. Tests will be done on people with fever or congestion,” he said. Besides a spillover from the Koyambedu cluster, poor living conditions in Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Pulianthope areas have contributed to the spike in cases. “Many people live in less than 100sqft row houses. They share drinking water and toilet facilities. Transmission is rapid despite preventive measures,” he said launching a “robot” autorickshaw, which will spray disinfectants in the area. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, doctors started the clinical trial for plasma therapy with one of their patients as a part of the national trial, while officials from the state health department were drawing up protocols for the vulnerable populations such as the elderly, people with diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney failure under the guidance of 11 sub-committees. In the last 24 hours, the state has screened 11,441 people for the viral infection. While RT-PCR tests have been completed for all 2,139 international air passengers except one, reports are awaited for 1,308 of the 3,891 passengers who came from other states by train. There were 54 people in airport quarantine. These passengers reported positive after first screening. Eighteen other passengers who tested negative on arrival turned positive during the exit screening after a week. Three people were in railway quarantine. There were 7,466 patients in hospital isolation, Covid-19 care centres and home isolation. A 44-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday, while a 70-year-old woman with heart disease died at the Covid-19 ward in Stanley Medical College Hospital the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-virus-count-touches-13191-new-testing-plan-for-chennai/articleshow/75864859.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Skin crawler in MP's Bhind: 123 cobras turn home into nest||BHOPAL: A family in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh is spending sleepless nights for over a week with 123 cobras slithering about the house in Ron village, and more creeping in every night. Unable to take it any more and puzzled by where the cobras are coming from, most of the family has fled for another village. There is panic and curiosity in Kon in equal measure, with many wondering if it’s an ill omen. House owner Jeevan Singh Kushwah has stayed behind to guard the home – not that any thief would step into the house with so many hissing cobras around. He spends his nights sitting up on a chair lest he fall asleep and his legs dangle over. “There are these young cobras inside my house and coronavirus outside. Where do I go?” Kushwah asked. As soon as night falls, the snakes start crawling out. The forest department is trying to locate the nests. A cobra lays 20-40 eggs at a time, so there may be an entire colony of the serpents under the house. The venom of baby cobras is just as toxic, and in fact deadlier as the young ones haven’t yet learnt to conserve venom and delivery full loads of poison. Officials say the cobras seem to be two to three days old and crawl up from the under the floor of his house. “Hundreds of baby cobras were found bundled up under the floor. We tried catching them, and caught 51in one day. Five to six snakes are coming out every day. We haven’t slept properly for the past week. One of us sits on a chair to keep watch on these baby cobras,” Kushwah said. He and some friends try to catch the cobras and release them at faraway place. The local administration is also trying rescue the snakes with the help of forest department, said sources. A few years ago a farmer and his family in Satna district killed over two dozen young cobras that slithered into their home, one after the other. Some villagers suggested it was a sign of hidden treasure and encouraged him to dig a pit. He did so, only to find 20 more cobra eggs, which he destroyed. It turned out to be a crime since cobra is a protected species. In Ron village, at least, no one has yet thought of digging for treasure. Watch Panicked MP family flees 'snake house' after 123 cobras seized over a week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/skin-crawler-in-bhind-123-cobras-turn-home-into-nest/articleshow/75855766.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||SC foils woman’s plan to usurp property||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court saw through a woman’s attempt to create her mother’s will to usurp a big house in upscale Defence Colony and deprive her elder sister and brother of any share in the property on the specious ground of “mother’s special affection towards her youngest daughter”. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said a mother could resort to unfair division if her relationship with her children had either soured or she was ill-treated. In the absence of any such evidence, the court refused to probate the purported will, finding that the mother had inexplicably denied fair share of the property to her elder widowed daughter, who was living in the house with her and who took her for regular medical check-ups, and son whom she was fond of. In a 96-page judgment ripping apart the crafty “special affection” alibi behind the will produced for probate by the youngest daughter of a retired Army officer, the judges said, “The appellant has suggested that the parents had special affection towards her. Even if this suggestion is taken on face value, it is difficult to assume that the alleged special affection towards one child should necessarily correspond to repugnance towards the other children by the same mother.” Justice Maheshwari, who penned the judgment, said, “Even if the parents had special liking and affection towards the appellant, as could be argued with reference to the gift made by the father in her favour of the ground floor of the property in question, it would be too far stretched and unnatural to assume that by the reason of such special affection towards appellant, the mother drifted far away from the other children, including the widowed daughter who was residing on the upper floor of the same house and who was taking care of her "In the ordinary and natural course, a person could be expected to be more inclined towards the child taking his/her care; and it would be too unrealistic to assume that special love and affection towards one, maybe blue-eyed, child would also result in a person leaving the serving and needy child in the lurch. As noticed, an unfair disposition of property or an unjust exclusion of the legal heirs, particularly the dependants, is regarded as a suspicious circumstance. The appellant has failed to assign even a wee bit reason for which the testatrix (mother) would have thought it proper to leave her widowed daughter in the heap of uncertainty as emanating from the will in question." The bench said it was difficult to be satisfied that what was literally coming out of the document in question had been the last wish and desire of the testatrix as regards succession of her estate. Dismissing the youngest daughter’s appeal against the concurrent findings of the trial court and Delhi high court, the bench imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on her with a direction that it will be divided equally between her elder sister and brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-foils-womans-plan-to-usurp-property/articleshow/75856646.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to take over one private hospital in every ward, doctors sitting at home face FIRs||MUMBAI: BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday asked ward officers to file police case against general practitioners, nursing homes and polyclinics that fail to stay open to handle regular patients who otherwise head to overloaded civic hospitals. The BMC chief also authorized ward officers in each of the 24 wards in the city to take over one private hospital with 50 to 100 beds (including at least 10 ICU beds) by paying government charges. Such hospitals would be used to treat emergency patients at the local level instead of making them rush to major hospitals located far away. The previous commissioner had also issued a similar order, but only a few wards had implemented it. Explaining the BMC warning, officials said doctors were earlier asked to help BMC manage civic hospitals and quarantine facilities, but many didn’t respond to the call. While BMC had marked 250 private doctors on fortnight-long duty at Covid care centres, only 100 turned up. Immediate past president of Indian Medical Association (state chapter), Dr Hozie Kapadia, said BMC was within its rights to make such rules in times of a pandemic, but it must ensure the safety of doctors as well by providing them with personal protection equipment (PPE). BMC officials said they would provide two PPEs daily at each doctor’s clinic to ensure their safety in case a Covid-19 patient visits them accidently. At a virtual meeting between the commissioner and ward officers on Wednesday, it was decided that errant doctors and clinics would face action. After the lockdown was announced in the last week of March, many nursing homes and doctors closed their clinics. The BMC has now warned them to keep their clinics and nursing homes open or face action under Section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-take-over-1-pvt-hosp-in-every-ward-docs-sitting-at-home-face-firs/articleshow/75857145.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man duped of Rs 1 lakh by cyber cheats||AHMEDABAD: A man from Naranpura on Tuesday filed a complaint with Ghatlodia police alleging that some cyber cheats duped him of Rs 1 lakh in garb of updating KYC (Know Your Customer) details of his Paytm account. In his FIR with Ghatlodia police, Pradeep Vora, 62, a resident of Pushpak Apartment, stated that he received a message on May 15 from an unknown number which read that he must urgently update his KYC details of Paytm. Vora called up that number and the man at the other end told him that if he does not update his KYC details, his account would be blocked. The man, later, sent a link to Vora telling him to download an application named quick support on his cellphone. As Vora download that application, he received a passcode on his cellphone which he gave to the man on his insistence. Vora said that thus the man got access of his cellphone. The man told Vora to transfer Rs 10 from his Paytm application. As Vora did it, suddenly money began debiting from his account. Vora said that Rs 99,678 were debited from his account in ten transactions. When he called up that man again, he told Vora that the money was debited mistakenly and he would return Vora’s money. But as Vora realized that he was cheated by some cyber fraudster, he called up police control room and informed cops about the cheating. Vora then contacted cyber police station and got a token number to register his complaint. He later approached Ghatlodia police and filed his complaint. Ghatlodia police registered a complaint of cheating and breach of trust under the Indian Penal Code along with charges of Information technology act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-duped-of-rs-1l-by-cyber-cheats/articleshow/75855773.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Allahabad||Decades-old land dispute spurs bloody clash, 3 dead||Prayagraj: Three members of a family were allegedly beaten to death by their neighbours over a land dispute in Nischintpur village, under the limits of Koraon police station, on Wednesday afternoon. 10 persons including four women have been arrested in connection with the attack. According to police, the dispute over a piece of land had been going on since the past three decades and had reportedly led to the killings. The deceased were identified as Indra Bahadur (50), Raviendra Bahadur (42) and Ram Ji Yadav (38) and were brothers. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “The two families had been at loggerheads over a property dispute since years. On Wednesday afternoon, the rival groups — one led by Indra Bahadur and the other lead by Shiv Narayan — started arguing over the same issue. Things took a turn for worse when the two groups attacked each other with lathis, leaving one dead on the spot and four others injured.” Local villagers alerted the police who rushed to the spot and managed to break up the fight. Police said that while Indra Bahadur died on spot, while his brothers Raviendra and Ram Ji passed away during treatment. Police said that a court case filed in connection with the land dispute had been pending and the two groups had also clashed over the same issue in 2014 as well, leaving one dead. Following the attack, heavy police were deployed in the village to diffuse the tension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/decades-old-land-dispute-spurs-bloody-clash-3-dead/articleshow/75856225.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe urges govt to keep city in red zone till May 31||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has sent a letter to chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, requesting permission to continue city in red zone till May 31. He said putting city in non-red zone category would lead to entry and movement of large number of people, which may lead to transmission of Covid-19. Mehta will take a final decision on Thursday, as new guidelines are supposed to come into effect from Friday. TOI had reported Mundhe was likely to approach the government over its decision to remove the city from red zone category. The government notification issued on Tuesday placed only 10 districts, including Akola and Amravati, in red zone and others, including Nagpur and Yavatmal, in non-red zone. Switching over to non-red zone means major relaxations in lockdown norms. Mundhe’s letter explained the city does not fit into non-red zone category as per three of six parameters set by the central government. One of the parameters is ‘no case in last 21 days’, since city has registered 238 cases. Two more parameters in which city does not qualify for non-red zone are ‘positivity rate’ and ‘case fatality rate’. Sample positivity rate should be less than 2% and Mundhe said it is over 6% in the city. Case fatality rate should be less than 1% and Mundhe calculated it at about 2% in the city. Another reason cited by Mundhe is increase in SARI positive patients, that too from new areas. “These cases are of silent hypoxia. So it is likely that such SARI cases may increase in coming days,” he said. Mundhe said reports of 1,392 of total 2,105 persons in institutional quarantine are awaited and may further increase the number of positive cases. “NMC has 10 administrative zones and Covid-19 positive cases were found in eight zones and from 19 containment zones. Thus, Covid-19 positive cases are found in almost all areas of the city. Some 222 of total 372 positive cases turned out to be positive in current lockdown period from May 4 till date, which is about 60% of total cases,” he said. Mundhe also said, “The city is centrally located in India and well connected to almost all parts through rail and road routes. Non-red zone would lead to sudden influx of people, which may spread virus. Hence, to break the chain of spread of coronavirus, it is necessary to continue strict measures of lockdown during the extended period of lockdown up to May 31.” Mundhe has requested that city be categorized as red zone for Covid-19 to effectively control spread of the virus and implement strict measures during extended lockdown period. “In the interest of safety of life of the people at large, NMC region being central part of India should also be categorized as red zone and activities permissible in red zone should only be allowed in NMC limits,” he said. Mundhe did not mention entire district in his two-page letter. He has been time and again saying he would bring city into green zone with effective measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-urges-govt-to-keep-city-in-red-zone-till-may-31/articleshow/75856686.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 21, 2020||Goa||‘Only Rly Board can cancel halt at Margao station’||Margao: Notwithstanding the announcement made by chief minister Pramod Sawant about his request to the Centre not to allow Rajdhani trains to have Margao as a destination station, highly placed sources in the Konkan Railway said that as bookings for the Rajdhani trains are open until May 25, they will run as per the original schedule. Two Rajdhani trains — one from Thiruvananthapuram to Delhi, and the other from Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram — stopped at the Margao railway station on Wednesday to allow passengers to embark and disembark. Forty-four passengers alighted and 109 boarded the Thiruvananthapuram-Delhi express at Margao, while 16 alighted and 22 boarded the Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram express. “The railway ministry is yet to issue any notification with regards to cancellation of Margao as a stop or destination for the Rajdhani trains. The booking is open for special trains until May 25, and they are likely to run as per schedule. We have the last Rajdhani to arrive at Margao on May 24,” a senior official told TOI. “It’s for the Railway Board to take a decision about the request for cancellation of Margao station. Bookings for trains beyond May 25 haven’t been opened yet.” Sources said that while Sawant had requested the Centre for cancellation of Delhi-Margao Rajdhani trains, he was of the view that the state could manage those alighting from Delh-Thiruvananthapuram-Delhi trains as the arrivals are relatively few. All 60 who alighted from both the trains were ferried to the new district hospital, Margao, for their Covid -19 tests. Every day migrants renew hope of journey home Times News Network Margao: Of the over 7,000 migrants who converged at the Margao railway station through the day on Wednesday to board the two trains to Uttar Pradesh, over a half of them who “missed” boarding the trains after they got packed to capacity had to spend one more night in the open — on roadsides, besides railway tracks, in the fields, and on any available space to lie down — before the break of the next dawn that would renew their hopes of a homebound journey. Many of them have been queuing up at the railway station for the last few days in the hope of getting to board a train home, and then spending nights under the starry sky after failing to pass the scrutiny by the railway and administrative officials at the gates of the Konkan Railway station at Margao. The first train that left Margao around 2.30pm accommodated residents of districts around Kanpur, while the second train that left around 7pm, was boarded by residents of districts around Lucknow. While 1,464 passengers boarded the first train, the second carried 1,520 passengers. Sources said that a large number of migrants, who were left out, were later accommodated in the shelter home at the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium, Navelim, where arrangements were made for their meals as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-rly-board-can-cancel-halt-at-margao-station/articleshow/75857171.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC says finish quarantine, gives a month’s bail extension||AHMEDABAD: Whether to remain in quarantine as a suspected Covid-19 spreader or to surrender at jail upon completion of his bail period and breach provisions of the Disaster Management Act? This was a question posed before the Gujarat high court by a prisoner while seeking extension of bail period. Looking at the peculiar situation, Justice R P Dholaria granted one more month to the prisoner to surrender before the jail authorities by allowing his request for late surrender.  The case involves a murder accused from Gondal, Nikunj Donga. He suffers from oral cancer and had obtained temporary bail form the high court for check up and treatment. He had to obtain bail because the police escort from jail to hospital often got cancelled due to police officials’ continuous duty in the lockdown. After his release on temporary bail, he went to Surat for the purpose of biopsy. Due to the lockdown and curtailed medical services, Donga had to be content with ayurvedic medicines. Upon his return home in Gondal, the local authority ordered him to remain home quarantined on suspicion of being a Covid-19 spreader looking at his travel history. He has been confined to four walls since then. But he was required to surrender at jail because the bail period of one month was to complete. He requested the HC for bail extension through advocate Hedu Sudarshan. It was submitted that Donga had no means to find out his Covid-19 status because private laboratories are not permitted to conduct RT-PCR tests and the government has stopped performing tests on asking on the mere basis of suspicion. It was also submitted that it would be a violation of the Disaster Management Act by breaching the quarantine orders, if he leaves his house and goes to prison. Moreover, due to the quarantine orders, his cancer treatment was also getting delayed, the lawyer submitted. Meanwhile, the HC has issued express orders to jail authorities not to allow any prisoner inside jail without ascertaining that he is Covid-19 negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ill-convicts-dilemma-flout-quarantine-or-jail-orders/articleshow/75855807.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Amphan batters coastal pockets of Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur||Kendrapada: Packing in gusty winds, Cyclone Amphan hit the coastal districts of Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur on Wednesday, triggering massive tidal flooding in low-lying seaside regions. The tidal waves churned up by the ingress of winds battered the shores wreaking havoc at many places. While the saline embankments caved in at many places, they are on the verge of collapse elsewhere, leaving the seaside villages exposed to high tides and further catastrophic flooding. Cyclone Amphan buffeted the low-lying coastal areas forcing many thousands into emergency cyclone shelters. Hundreds of mud-walled thatched houses were destroyed, trees uprooted in the torrential rainfall that lashed both the districts. The devastating Amphan also swept away the electric poles, wires and other infrastructure, plunging several areas into darkness. The downpour that began in the early hours of Wednesday left many low-lying areas under knee-deep water and paralysed normal life. Panic gripped the seaside villages of Satabhaya, Gupti, Pentha Jamboo, Batighar, Suniti, Kansarbadadandua, Ramanagar, Baulakani and other villages in Kendrapada district owing to the overflow of saline water. “The district administration had shifted many seaside villagers to cyclone shelters on Tuesday,” Sambeet Satapathy, the district emergency officer of Kendrapada, said. “The ingress of tidal waves in Dahibara, Ambiki Balitutha, Chatua, Japa, Krushnachandrapur, Padmapur and other seaside villages in Jagatsinghpur district caused extensive damage to agricultural land and houses. Amphan led to copious amounts of rainfall as it hit the coastal pockets. Water entered the villages close to the shore following a high tide owing to the cyclonic storm,” Kanhu Charan Dhir, the additional district magistrate (ADM) of Paradip, said. The tidal waves also transgressed the weak saline embankments at many strategic points inundating the crop areas in several villages like Praharajpur, Olasahi, Sasanapeta, Naukana, Gupti, Bheda, Talachua, Rangani, Suniti, Amarabati, Gumara, Rajendranagar, Pravati, Banipala, Batighar, Badatubi, Sanatubi and others in Kendrapada district. According to reports, more than 4,000 hectares of agriculture fields were inundated with saline water in Kansarbadadandua, Jamboo, Pertachena, Kandarapatia villages in Kendrapada district. Similar ingress of seawater was reported in parts of Pentha, Tantiapala. Abhinandan Manna of the seaside village of Kansarabadadandua said, “Many trees were uprooted in our village. We are not staying in a cyclone shelter.” Three cement benches meant for the tourists and a portion of causirina forest were devoured by the sea in the Siali village of Padmapur gram panchayat under Earasama block in Jagatsinghpur district on Wednesday. “About 45 sluice gates and a major portion of the saline embankments in the seaside villages of Rajnagar and Mahakalapada blocks of Kendrapada district are on the verge of collapse. But the authorities have yet to repair it,” alleged Jagabandhu Nayak, the former chairman of Rajnagar block. “Prawn farm owners have been illegally damaging the saline embankments to allow the flow of saline water into their farms in the seaside villages to breed shrimps, but the authorities are not taking any action against them,” Bijaya Sahoo of Kandarapatia village said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/amphan-batters-coastal-pockets-of-kendrapada-jagatsinghpur/articleshow/75854784.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanitizer production up in Kandla SEZ||Ahmedabad: With continuous growth in demand for masks and hand sanitizers amid Covid-19 outbreak, more companies in Kandla Special Economic Zone are venturing into production of these personal protection products. The unit approval committee of Kandla SEZ recently granted permission to two existing firms — Kandla Polyplast (India) Private Ltd and Hwatsi Chemical Private Ltd — to manufacture masks and hand sanitizers in the SEZ. Kandla Polyplast has received Kandla SEZ development commissioner’s nod to set up a new unit for making surgical masks and hand sanitizers. Hwatsi Chemical has got approval to make hand sanitizers in bulk and retail packings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanitizer-production-up-in-kandla-sez/articleshow/75855976.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Power consumption at 78% of normal, signals revival||GANDHINAGAR: Power consumption by industries and other users has touched 78.7% of the normal power consumption in the state, signalling the resumption of economic activity on a large scale in the state even as Lockdown 4.0 is being enforced. Going by the trend, in two or three days, the state government expects an increase in power consumption across the state as compared to the same period last year. This, even as many industries and commercial establishments are ready to begin operations in the next few days. Manoj Das, the principal secretary to the chief minister and in charge PS industry & mines department, said that after registering a sharp fall since the lockdown was enforced in the last week of March this year, power consumption has now shot up and is close to normal consumption. “In normal times, power consumption from state owned GUVNL plus captive power remains around 215 million units per day. It has now touched 169.2 million units per day, which is 78.7 percent of normal.” The official added that with permission granted to industries in Ahmedabad and other cities which are out of containment zones to function from Wednesday, power consumption will further increase. “We expect power consumption to increase beyond the figure at this time of the year last year. This is a key indicator that industrial and commercial activity in the state is fast returning to normal,” Das said. He added that before the relaxations offered in Lockdown 4.0, a total of 96,469 units in different districts had resumed work in which 10.76 lakh workers got employment. “We expect a major jump in these numbers within a week. We are ensuring that industries operate with strict social distancing guidelines and other safeguards to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” Das said. On May 19 last year, Gujarat’s total power consumption was 16,176MW, while on May 19, 2020, the total power consumption stood at 14,242MW, which is 1,934MW lesser. According to senior government officials, this gap is likely to reduce further over the next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-consumption-at-78-of-normal-signals-revival/articleshow/75855980.cms||Kapil Dave
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Parents, midday meal workers oppose teachers’ proposal to offer foodgrains to students||MYSURU: The flagship midday meal scheme offered at all government and state-aided schools has turned into a bone of contention between parents and teachers, much ahead of educational institutions resuming operations. The meals are provided to all students from class I to X. In light of the Covid-19 outbreak, the teachers had petitioned the government against offering meals to the children at school, considering the health risks involved in preparing and distribution of food on the premises. They suggested that each student could instead be provided with a ration of foodgrains. The suggestion, which the parents have pointed out defeats the very purpose of the scheme, is also being opposed by the midday meal workers, who fear losing their livelihood as a result. Furthermore, teachers’ proposal to have the government distribute bottles to all students, which they can then use to get water from homes, has upset parents. In its letter to primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar, the Karnataka State Primary Schools’ Teachers’ Association have pointed to the hazards of children eating together in a common area. “This will increase the chances of the infection spreading among the students,” read the letter, signed by association president AM Narayana Swamy and general secretary Chandrashekhar Nuggi among other officebearers. Nuggi said that, children were unlikely to maintain a safe distance between themselves even at the best of times. “Midday meals is a mass programme, and children are bound to be seated closely. Instead, if a proportional amount of foodgrains is distributed to the children, they can be used to prepare meals at home,” said the teachers’ association secretary. Former education minister Adagooru H Vishwanath batted for the teachers’ proposal. He opined that maintaining hygiene being the key to arresting the spread of Covid-19, preparation of meals on the premises would undercut those efforts. “The midday meal scheme was launched to ensure no child went hungry since many of them did not bring their lunch with them. It would indeed be better for foodgrains to be distributed to students under the current circumstances,” said Vishwanath. Deputy director of public instruction Panduranga said that the state government would be the deciding authority. “The scheme was launched after it came to our attention that many students were not getting lunch to school. It has nothing to do with the availability or lack thereof foodgrains at their homes,” Panduranga said. Parents are understandably upset with the proposal. “Teachers can enforce social distancing, and ensure maintenance of hygiene at school. Distribution of foodgrains to students will, in no way, ensure that the child will be fed. This may lead to malnutrition and related problems,” feared Vasanth H, a parent at Hosabandikeri in Mysuru. Sujatha RS, a midday worker in Lakshmipuram in Mysuru city, also voiced her opposition against the teachers’ proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/parents-midday-meal-workers-oppose-teachers-proposal-to-offer-foodgrains-to-students/articleshow/75854781.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Dressed in PPE, fraudster cons hapless students & migrants||Bhopal: A conman clad in PPE allegedly introduced himself as a senior railway official and duped several people, including migrant labourers and students waiting to board Bihar-bound trains outside Habibganj railway station on Tuesday. The accused sold tokens at the rate of Rs 1000 per person, claiming that the token included train fare of Rs 660 with assurance of seat availability in the train. He remained at the spot for around eight hours and stood near officials due to which people believed him to be a senior railway officer. When three Patna-based engineering students failed to get a seat in the train, they tried to contact the accused on his mobile phone, but it was unreachable. Subsequently, they filed a complaint at Habibganj police station. CSP Habibganj, Bhupendra Singh, said that complainant Avinash Kumar Shah, 22, hails from Patna, Bihar, and in Bhopal he stays in Misrod locality. He is a student of BE at a private engineering college in Bangrasia. He told cops that his college and coaching institute has been closed during lockdown, so he and his friends decided to go to his hometown by a special train going to Bihar on Tuesday. He along with his friends - Vishal and Ashutosh - reached Habibganj railway station around 9 am. Avinash told police that a man approached them and introduced himself as Rajesh Rai, a senior railway officer. He lured them to purchase tokens from him claiming that the ticket fare was included in the token and they will get seats in the coach. As he was dressed in a PPE and talking to other officials involved in arrangement, Avinash and his friends believed him and purchased tokens from him. When the train arrived and Avinash and his friends entered the station, they could not get a seat and the train departed. When they tried calling on Rai’s number, it was switched off. They contacted railway officials and enquired about Rai and came to know that no such person worked there. Realising that they were duped, they reported the matter to police. Police registered a case against the fraudster and tracked him. The accused has been identified as Rajesh Rai, 32, who hails from Betul and resides at Rachna Nagar. He had duped many other people too; further investigations are going on. He told cops that he had purchased the PPE from a medical store, informed Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dressed-in-ppe-fraudster-cons-hapless-students-migrants/articleshow/75855813.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur court likely to open from May 26||Kanpur: The Allahabad high court has directed district courts to open from May 22, 2020 if they are not in containment zone, but Kanpur court is not going to open before May 25, 2020. In fact, the court may open after May 26 when the district magistrate gives certificate to the district judge that Kanpur court is not in containment zone, said Ashok Kumar Singh (IIIrd) district judge Kanpur nagar. Talking to TOI, the district judge said, “Since Kanpur court is in containment zone, it would not open on May 22 as directed by the Registrar of Allahabad high court.”Since May 23 is fourth Satu rday of month courts remain closed, May 24 is Sunday and Eid festival is likely on May 25, the district judge added. “The district magistrate has to issue a certificate declaring Kanpur court is not in containment zone. Then I will get court premises sanitized. The court would open thereafter,” he said. As per directions, only parent session court, courts of special ADJs dealing with special jurisdiction and chief metropolitan magistrate would open, he added. Registrar, Allahabad high court, had on Wednesday issued guidelines to all district judges to open their court. Besides, there were special instructions for districts in red zone where judicial officers will take up regular bail, anticipatory bail and deliver pending orders if arguments have already completed, through video conferencing. Only those advocates whose case is listed would be permitted to enter court premises. Litigants will not be allowed in premises. The judicial officials would hold proceedings through video conferencing from his chamber by using laptop while advocates would plead from the virtual court room. The judges have been instructed to ensure minimum entry of staff, which shall not be more than 10%, in court premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-court-likely-to-open-from-may-26/articleshow/75856542.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 2,250 Covid-19 cases & 65 deaths, Mumbai 1,372 & 41||MUMBAI: For the fourth day in a row, Maharashtra on Wednesday added over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases (2,250), its second highest single-day count, taking the total cases close to the 40,000 mark (39,297). The state also reported 65 fatalities, its third highest toll for a day, taking the total deaths to 1,390. Mumbai, which too has added over 1,000 in the past four days, continues to be the major contributor of the cases. On Wednesday, 60% or 1,372 cases were reported from the city. The total cases in Mumbai now stand at 24,118, having breached the 24,000 mark and making up almost 25% of the country’s tally. The city’s toll too rose by 41 – the joint second highest number of deaths recorded in a day – to reach 841, accounting for 25% of the country’s toll. However, civic officials said the 41 deaths included 15 that occurred between May 13 and 15. Even the daily tally of 1,372 cases includes 150 that tested positive between May 17 and 18. “These additions depend on time taken to complete death-related paperwork and the time we get Covid-19 reports from laboratories,” said a civic official. In 20 days of May, Mumbai has reported 551 deaths or 65% of its total deaths so far, which is an average of 27 deaths each day. The BMC update on Wednesday said 29 of the 41 dead were men and 12 women. While one of the victims was below 40 years of age, 18 were between 40 and 60 years old and the rest were over 60 years old. Most victims (32) had comorbidities. “We found people who are over 60 and have comorbidities are the most vulnerable. In fact, we found almost 25% of victims had both diabetes and hypertension,” said BMC’s deputy executive health officer Dr Daksha Shah. Dr Shah said the city’s Covid graph looks steady. “We have a doubling rate of 13 days that has improved from 7 days in early April,” she said. Many international cities saw an exponential rise in cases and deaths in the 8th or 9th week of the outbreak. Regarding the high number of deaths in May, a senior civic hospital doctor said it was the nature of the outbreak. “The virus is highly contagious. The deaths could be because of virulence of the strain or because some of them had heavy viral load,” said the doctor. Many victims were brought to hospital in a serious condition with high blood sugar levels. “Some came with a diabetes complication called diabetic acidosis,” said the doctor. Dharavi recorded 25 new cases, and officials said it was a sign of relief, apart from the low mortality rate there. Dharavi has reported 1,378 cases, with a mortality rate is around 4%. Thane recorded 110 cases, its highest single-day count so far, and 3 deaths. Those positive included 11 nurses from the state-run Thane civil hospital. Thane’s tally stands at 1,463 and the toll is 57. Kalyan recorded 3 deaths in 24 hours and 24 cases, taking the tally to 594, including 15 deaths. The case fatalities in the state and city saw a marginal dip and were 3.53% and 3.48% respectively. Out of 65 dead, 46 were men and 19 women. 32 of them were aged over 60 years, 31 were from the age- group 40-59 and 2 were aged less than 40 years. 48 out of 65 patients (74%) had high-risk co-morbidities. On Wednesday, 679 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 10,318. Maharashtra as on Wednesday had a discharge rate of 26%, much lower than the national average of 39%. Pune reported 13 deaths, 3 were reported in Navi Mumbai, and 2 each from Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Ulhasnagar and Aurangabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-adds-2250-cases-65-deaths-city-1372-41/articleshow/75857191.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Amphan brings back trauma of Aila after 11 years||Aila had struck Sunderbans on a Monday in 2009. No warnings had been sounded. The weather had deteriorated since the early hours and the howling winds kept us awake all night. By dawn, the wind speed had increased considerably, but at least you could see what was happening. Around 10am, a section of the embankment in Gosaba was breached. The high-tide set in around 11am and water gushed in, inundating the fields. Some water would flow out during low tide, but it would rush back when the tide turned. I had taken shelter in a school with several others, but there were many who had to spend the day in the open, desperately clinging on to life while being battered by the incessant rain. Most of the homes were flattened and thousands were rendered homeless. Though people managed to stay alive, their possessions were washed away. For days, people lived on embankments, both because the homes had been flooded and also because relief material was being distributed there. The true import of the destruction became apparent after the winds died and the sea calmed. The inundation remained for weeks. The saline water ruined the farmlands. With farming ruled out for two-three years, Aila triggered large-scale migration. Villages were emptied of able-bodied men who migrated to work as labourers. For at least two months, women, children and the elderly left behind survived on relief material. From the build-up of cyclone Amphan, it appears to be a lot stronger. The winds are fierce several hours before the cyclone made landfall. Since the morning, birds have been flying around frantically. Usually, one finds fish near the surface in ponds, but they are nowhere to be seen on Wednesday, perhaps seeking safety in the depths. Also, this storm appears more frightening because its fury will be felt after dark. Hopefully, lives will not be lost. But I think it will be more difficult to pick up the pieces this time around because it isn’t clear if relief and compassion, which had poured in during Aila, will do so now given the Covid crisis. What’s changed from 11 years ago is the early warning and evacuation. Men, women, children and cattle have been shifted to cyclone shelters that had been built after Aila. Some families, though, have stayed back because they did not wish to go into the cyclone shelters being used as quarantine facilities for migrants who have returned. ( Giri, a Gosaba resident and owner of a nursery that grows mangroves and other plants, spoke to Subhro Niyogi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-brings-back-trauma-of-aila-after-11-yrs/articleshow/75856580.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||6-ft croc rescued from pond in Vadodara||Vadodara: A six-foot-long crocodile was rescued from a pond in Kelanpur village located about 11km from the city on Wednesday. Locals said that over last one month, 4-5 crocodiles migrated to the pond and have been staying in it. These reptiles have killed two goats and a dog following which the villagers got scared and contacted Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) volunteers. The WRT set up cages near the pond and rescued a crocodile that was later handed over to the forest department. A five-feet-long crocodile was rescued from the pond some days ago. WRT volunteers said that crocodiles usually migrate in search for food to new ponds in summers if the water bodies they have been staying in dry up. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/6-ft-croc-rescued-from-pond-in-vadodara/articleshow/75853440.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: 150kmph wind fells trees, blows off roofs in Digha||DIGHA: People in the coastal town of Digha, touted as Bengal’s Goa, had been on tenterhooks since Wednesday morning. Cyclone Amphan made landfall along the coastline from 2.30pm and the process lasted till about 6.30pm. The cyclone then moved towards the Sunderbans and Kolkata. Heavy rain and strong winds hit Digha and the rest of East Midnapore on Wednesday afternoon. With the landfall, rooftops of several hundred houses were blown off in Nandigram, Haldia and Digha. With winds blowing at 150km per hour, trees were uprooted and electric posts fell on the roads. Throughout the day, the sea was rough with the water rising way above the Digha guard wall. Apprehending large-scale devastation, the East Midnapore administration had shifted 89,000 villagers residing along the Digha-Mandarmoni coastline to various cyclone shelters. Though masks and sanitizers were given to those housed in these shelters, the administration officials admitted that the huge number made it impossible to ensure social distancing norms were being followed. Four teams each from the National Disaster Response Force ( NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force ( SDRF) were on standby to rescue people left behind in the villages. The administration deployed staff and volunteers who kept appealing to people over microphones against venturing out.  The public generally heeded these appeals, and the absence of tourists, courtesy of the lockdown for Covid-19, somewhat eased the administration’s task. East Midnapore DM Partha Ghosh said, “Connectivity to different parts of the district remains disrupted. So we haven’t assessed the extent of devastation yet. We are taking all steps to bring relief to affected people.” Senior sate minister and Haldia Development Authority chairperson Subhendu Adhikary monitored the situation from the irrigation department guest house in Digha and kept Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee informed about all developments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sujay-digha/articleshow/75856573.cms||Sujay Khanra
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||5-month-old boy, five SRPF personnel among 13 test +ve||Nagpur: A five-month-old boy from Gaddigodam containment zone tested positive for Covid-19, the youngest so far from the district, while his parents and elder sister tested negative. His mother has been forced to get admitted with him at the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Wednesday. Five SRPF personnel, a nine-year-old girl from Kondhali in Nagpur Rural, and six persons from Mominpura containment zone also tested positive, for a total of 13, taking the district’s tally to 387. Also, 11 corona positive patients were discharged from GMCH as per new guidelines, taking total number of discharged persons to 301. With seven deaths, now number of active cases undergoing treatment at IGGMCH and GMCH is 79. The five-month-old boy probably contracted the virus from the housemaid, who tested positive on May 18. He and four members of his family were among 408 persons quarantined on Monday night. Around 607 people from this area in West Nagpur were quarantined following the death of 65-year-old person with comorbidities who tested corona positive on May 16. The baby’s father and mother went to GMCH with him at around 3.30pm. But GMCH allowed only the mother to remain with the child in isolation ward. The father pleaded till night to be kept with the two in a separate ward as his wife had tested negative. Still, GMCH administration has reportedly kept the mother and child along with other positive patients in a ward. The number of cases from Gaddigodam increased to 13, making it city’s third hotspot after Mominpura and Satranjipura. TOI had reported a woman who was negative, and was shifted to isolation ward of IGGMCH with her daughter (positive), tested positive at the time of discharge of the girl. She had contacted the virus in 14-day stay in isolation ward. After a SRPF personnel and two policemen deployed in Mominpura containment zone tested positive on May 16, 59 police personnel, including 37 policemen and 22 SRPF men, were quarantined at RPTS. On Wednesday, reports of five SRPF personnel, of which three are residents of SRPF Colony, Hingna, and two are residents of Vaishali Nagar came positive. Number of SRPF personnel who have tested positive increased to six. A nine-year-old girl from Kondhali was among five members of her family quarantined at MLA Hostel. The woman along with her three children was in Nagpur during lockdown. She returned to Kondhali on May 13 and entire family was asked to follow home quarantine norms. Following violations, the family was reportedly shifted to institutional quarantine. Reports of the girl came positive on Wednesday. She was reportedly accompanied by her mother to the isolation ward of GMCH. Both were reportedly admitted in a ward with other positive persons. The latest case is the third from Nagpur rural, with earlier two cases from Kamptee and Kanhan. Of remaining six positive persons, five are from Timki, Golibar Chowk, and one from Choody Gully in Mominpura containment zone. Number of cases from Mominpura containment zone, city’s second hotspot, has reached 207. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday notified Shabri Mata Nagar, Gorewada, as a containment zone. This is the 18th containment zone in existence in the city. One of two policemen who tested positive on May 16 was a resident of Shabri Mata Nagar. The containment zone will be boundaries at house of Rajesh Chaungle, house of Gautam, Tiwari flour mill, and Dilip Raut’s house. SRPF Colony and part of Bhilgaon are yet to be notified as containment zones, where SRPF personnel and other policeman were residents. The two areas fall in Nagpur Rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-month-old-boy-five-srpf-personnel-among-13-test-ve/articleshow/75855844.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Some relaxation at last: Shops in parts of eastern Ahmedabad to open||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal corporation has decided to give permission to start shops and other establishments in non-containment areas in the eastern part of the city. On Tuesday, the AMC had announced that in the eastern part of the city no relaxation will be given and only medical, grocery and fruits and vegetable vendors will be permitted even in areas not declared as containment zone. However, that decision was changed. Establishments in the 10 containment areas in the eastern part including Khadia, Jamalpur, Dariapur, Danilimda, Behrampura, Shahpur, Saraspur, Gomtipur, Maninagar and Asarwa will not be allowed to resume. Only essential services shops can operate in the containment areas. The only containment area in western part is Gulbai Tekra. Rajiv Gupta, ACS forest and environment who has been appointed as overall in-charge of activities to control further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad, said business operations in the eastern parts of city will also begin in line with those in the western part. Gupta said that the relaxations in the city will be given in accordance with the guidelines and standard operating procedure issued by the industries department. A senior officer said the guidelines issued for opening establishments in western part of the city will also be applicable to those in the eastern part. He said that shops with odd numbers in a shopping complex will open on one day while those with even numbers will open on the next. Also, the association of the complex will be responsible for maintaining the odd and even arrangements. From Tuesday, after nearly two months of lockdown, manufacturing units at industrial estates in the city resumed operations with limited staff. While only a few could start production, most had begun cleaning and maintenance of machinery and their premises to restart production and fulfil pending orders. Anticipating relaxation in eastern parts of city factories in Vatva, Naroda, Odhav and Narol industrial estates opened on Tuesday as they will need one or two days for cleaning and maintenance of the units before commencing operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/some-relaxation-at-last-shops-in-parts-of-eastern-city-to-open/articleshow/75855975.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Crops lost, jobs gone as storm hits Sunderbans||KOLKATA/SOUTH 24 PARGANAS: For Sunderbans dwellers, life changed on Sunday afternoon when cyclone Amphan — whose wind speed beat that of Aila in 2009 and Bulbul in 2019 — made landfall. According to the DM of South 24 Parganas, P Ulganatgan, they evacuated over 3.5 lakh people to shelters. Subrara Mondal of Khan Sahiber Abad in Sagar Island said they had shifted to his uncle’s home before the storm. The youth in his mid 20s, who works as a waiter in a south Kolkata club, said that he had gone home to help his parents shift out of their house which they had rebuilt after it was wrecked by Bulbul. “Our uncle has provided shelter to 60 people in his two-storey house. However, social distancing is not fe-asible in such a situation,” said Mondal. Mondal recalled how tough it was to get the compensation for the loss of crop and damage to the house last year. They had to untie the cows once the storm started and only a few calves and goats were kept inside the courtyard of the house. Wednesday’s storm has caused extensive damage to Sagar Island and Bakkhali Gangasagar Development Authority vice-chairman Shakti Mondal said they will start to assess the loss of crops and houses from Thursday if things normalize. Mondal said there had been breaches along the embankments at various points and a lot of crops have been lost. He said the irrigation department was trying to plug the breaches. Uday Sardar’s home was washed away by the cyclone at Pakhiralay in Gosaba. Sardar managed to save some fish by netting them out of his pond, which is located close to the embankment. Sardar, who used to run a home-stay facility, is now unsure how to make a living. Saiful Sk of Mousuni Island, who runs a hotel, said that since noon on Wednesday, the cyclone started causing havoc. From trees to makeshift rooms of asbestos — everything was damaged. The Burishol area was completely inundated by afternoon and his family took refuge in a flood shelter. For Amalendu and Radharani Das, an elderly couple, it is a distressing time. They have had to turn to the state administration for help after their home on Ghoramara Island — the most vulnerable island of Sunderbans — was destroyed by the storm. Their son failed to come to their aid ahead of the cyclone because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crops-lost-jobs-gone-as-storm-hits-sunderbans/articleshow/75856561.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Amphan batters northen Odisha, wrecks havoc in Bengal||Bhubaneswar: Extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan blew past the state, triggering memories of Cyclone Fani but caused far less damage than the cyclone last year. Major swathes of the state were spared, but Amphan did affect the northern districts before it moved towards the Sunderbans to wreak havoc in Kolkata and its adjoining areas. Several trees were uprooted, roofs of kutcha houses blown away and power infrastructure suffered minor damage in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapada districts as maximum wind speed crossed 100 kilometres per hour (kmph) in many places in these districts, reports said. Standing paddy crop suffered massive damage in these areas. The Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur, off the coast of Balasore district, survived the storm. “All our assets are safe and secure. Some trees were uprooted, which we are clearing,” ITR Chandipur director Binay Kumar Das said. “The worst is over for the state,” special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Kumar Jena announced. What would have come as a greater relief for the state government, whose cyclone evacuation drill was made difficult by the need to maintain social distancing norms, is that there has been no official report of casualty so far. Unlike previous instances, the government decided not to evacuate people en masse as that would have compromised with social distancing norms during a time the state has been witnessing a spurt in the novel coronavirus cases. There were, however, two deaths in the state but the government is yet to confirm whether they happened due to the cyclone. “We have information about the death of a child in Bhadrak district. But we are still verifying if it was due to the cyclone,” Jena added even as Bhadrak collector Gyana Ranjan Das said, “Prima facie the death doesn’t seem to be related to the cyclone.” In Balasore, 55-year-old Sumitra Singh allegedly died after she fell into a drain at Achyutpur. She was on her way home from a cyclone centre. Remuna tehsildar Charles Nayak said, “The cause of her death will be known after postmortem.” There were some injuries though. In one instance, a couple, aged 46 and 42, in Baliapal block of Balasore district suffered head injuries when a tree fell on their house. They have been admitted to Balasore medical college and hospital and are said to be out of danger. Three members of a family in Soro area of Balasore suffered minor injuries when branches of a tree fell on their asbestos house. Puri, which bore the brunt of Cyclone Fani, heaved a sigh of relief as Amphan left with barely a trace. The situation was more or less similar in state capital Bhubaneswar and in Cuttack, which witnessed some waterlogging. Bhubaneswar, Puri and Cuttack experienced moderate to heavy rainfall but there was no report of any damage to infrastructure as the wind speed remained below 55 km per hour. According to preliminary assessment, around 65 power feeder units were damaged, affecting supply to 19 lakh families in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajapur, Mayurbhanj, Jagatsinghpur and Ganjam districts. About 90% of the telecom infrastructure is intact. Soon after the cyclone passed, telecom service providers were at work to restore damaged equipment, a government statement said. Safety personnel were engaged in restoration work, cutting branches of trees that fell on roads. Around 20 NDRF and 16 ODRAF units and 231 fire service teams, besides 100 units of Odisha Forest Development Corporation, were involved in road clearance work. “Restoration work is on in full swing. The collectors have been asked to submit damage reports within 48 hours,” Jena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/amphan-batters-northen-odisha-wrecks-havoc-in-bengal/articleshow/75854815.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||TikToker arrested for lockdown video, gets bail||Ahmedabad: Twenty-one-year-old Sonu Nayak, a resident of Kundaliyavas in Isanpur who is prominent on the sharing app TikTok, was arrested by Isanpur police for filming a TikTok video on the Isanpur Bridge at about 9pm on Monday, during the lockdown. The video had gone viral on social media and had reached the police. The cops identified Nayak and lodged a complaint against her on Wednesday, and arrested her on charges of violation of lockdown. She was released on bail from the police station. Sonu Nayak, is a nurse at a private hospital and is famous for her TikTok videos. The said video of her on the streets came out at a time when the city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia and Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha are emphasizing enforcement of the lockdown in the city, . “She went to Isanpur Bridge at about 9pm and recorded a video in which she says “This our Isanpur Bridge. Modiji open the lockdown (than laughs) or lie on the bridge once the lockdown open”.  Nayak also posted another video TikTok,” said inspector J M Solanki of Isanpur police station. Solanki added that the videos were shot at about 9pm in the night and were thus a violation of the lockdown. They arrested Nayak on Wednesday. “She was bailed out from the police station,” added Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tiktoker-arrested-for-lockdown-video-gets-bail/articleshow/75855836.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Bihar migrants threaten suicide as train ‘cancelled’||Nagpur: Two floors of a half-built structure opposite Yashodhara Nagar police station in north Nagpur were full of occupants. Some of them were also seen resting under the shade of trucks parked across the road. Peeping out of the unfinished walls, they hoped for some help. Workers from Bihar, they had gathered at the police station after getting news that the train to their home state will take off on Wednesday. More than 400 workers had reached the police station hoping that they would be taken to board the train to Bihar. However, they were told that the train was cancelled and the next one was scheduled on Thursday. This ended their patience and the workers stood protesting in front of the police station as some of them also threatened to commit suicide. The workers claimed that they had got a phone call from Yashodhara Nagar police station a day ago, that the train will depart on Wednesday. As they reported at the police station following the instructions, they were told that the train was cancelled, the workers told TOI. Thrilled by the news that they can finally go home, the workers had rushed to the police station paying off rents of the small rooms where they stayed in groups of 4 to 5. Now with no train, the workers claimed they have nowhere to go. The police kept over 200 of them at the underconstruction building, as some also managed to go back to their places where they lived on rent to wait for one more day. Police inspector Deepak Shakre, in-charge of Yashodhara Nagar police station, said 823 persons are planned to be sent to Bihar on Thursday. However, there was some misinformation among the workers and they reached the police station on Wednesday. The police arranged food and temporary shelter for them. The group included women and children and as they occupied the building, the women folk complained of not having drinking water or access to toilets. Meanwhile, Central Railway spokesperson also confirmed that no train was cancelled on Wednesday. Three trains — two each to Lucknow and one to Katihar on Bihar-Bengal border — were scheduled for Wednesday. The plan for Thursday had not reached till now, he said when TOI called up the office at 8pm. Coming from places like Darbhanga, Madhubani and Sitamarhi in Bihar, the workers were engaged in tiny garment-making units spread across Yashodhara Nagar, a low income pocket in north Nagpur. “In the morning, the police also asked us to stand in a queue. Even as we hoped boarding a bus going to the railway station, we were told that the train was cancelled,” said one from the crowd. “We have been getting messages from nearly a week. First, they asked us to keep our medical certificates ready and then kept saying the train will run in a day or two. It was frustrating, weakened I finally broke the roza (fast) too,” says Mohamed Shamsh Alam from Sitamarhi. “The homes where we stayed have been locked by the landlords. We had left after settling the dues,” said Yusuf Mohammed from Darbhanga. They say there is a train tomorrow, but is there guarantee? The workers said they were engaged by businessmen from their state. Theirs is a cottage industry. Their employers also provided them accommodation and the rent is adjusted against their wages. Meanwhile, as the train to UP was scheduled to Wednesday, some workers from the state, waiting at the same place, said, their name was not in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bihar-migrants-threaten-suicide-as-train-cancelled/articleshow/75856681.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: SSLC students prefer to write exam in the district where they studied||MANGALURU: Though Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board has given an option to SSLC students to write the examination wherever they wish to, officials at the department of public instruction claim that 90% of those who studied in Dakshina Kannada want to return to the district from their respective home towns to appear for the examination. According to DPI, Dakshina Kannada has 1,500 SSLC students from other districts, majority from North Karnataka and about 400 students from bordering state-Kerala. “Majority of them have expressed that they want to return to DK and appear for the examination at various centres here. The only concern they have raised is the availability of transportation facility,” said Malleswamy, DDPI, Dakshina Kannada. He said that any student who wishes to change his/her examination centre has to approach the educational institution head and request for the same. When asked why a candidate would not prefer the examination close to his/her home and come back to the place where they studied, an official said, “It is mostly because of the psychological fear as they are adjusted to the environment here and have carried out studies along with their friends.” The management of a private school in Moodbidri, which has about 600 students from other districts said they are reaching out to each of them. “So far students have expressed their desire to come back and write the exams here. However, their decision is likely to be influenced their parents, who might not allow them travel to Moodbidri,” said the management. As many as 30,556 students in Dakshina Kannada district will appear for the SSLC exams, which will commence on June 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sslc-students-prefer-to-write-exam-in-the-district-where-they-studied/articleshow/75854829.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune airport expects 50 flights a day from May 25||PUNE: Close to 50 flight movements in the domestic circuit are expected from the city airport from May 25, Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials stated on Wednesday. A clearer picture would emerge after the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) readied the standard operating procedures (SOPs), an AAI official said. Minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday tweeted, “Domestic civil aviation operations will recommence in a calibrated manner from Monday 25th May 2020. All airports & air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May. SOPs for passenger movement are also being separately issued by the MoCA.” “Around 30% flights will begin from all the airports, including Pune, once the domestic services resume. There will be regulations and SOPs regarding several factors in flights and the airports,” the AAI official said. The Pune airport authorities released a series of tweets in the late evening . “The domestic flight operations are likely to resume from May 25. We are committed to ensure a safe and hygienic passage for all our passengers. Regular cleaning and disinfection protocols have been implemented at the airport. However, the success of our efforts is largely dependent on adoption of safe physical distancing norms by our passengers,” some of them read. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI, “”We will get more information on the issue by Thursday and share them then.” Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the Pune airport witnessed around 170 fight movements a day. An official said services at the airport were likely to resume with around 25 departing and 25 in-bound fights. Sources said Pune was likely to have connections to cities such as Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Chennai in the first phase of domestic service resumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-airport-expects-50-flights-a-day-from-may-25/articleshow/75856658.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19 cases in Odisha breach 1,000-mark, death toll touches 6||BHUBANESWAR: With 85 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Odisha in the past 24 hours, the total number of persons who have tested positive for the virus in the state crossed the 1,000 mark on Wednesday. The state has recorded 1,063 Covid-19 positive cases so far with Malkangiri district reporting its first two cases, taking the number of affected districts to 24. At the same time, the death toll in the state rose to six, with a 70-year-old Covid-19 patient in Khurda succumbing to the virus. “The man had a history of hypertension and was admitted to the AIIMS emergency section on Tuesday with respiratory distress. He tested positive for Covid-19,” informed the health and family welfare department. Apart from the two new cases detected in Malkangiri, the highest number of 28 cases has been reported from Boudh, followed by 11 each in Puri and Kalahandi, nine in Cuttack, seven from Khurda, six each in Ganjam and Jajpur, two from Kendrapada and one each in Balasore, Dhenkanal and Kandhamal districts. With this, the total number of active cases in the state is now 714. Of the total 85 new patients, 82 had returned from other states like West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and were lodged in different quarantine centres. The three persons infected locally are from Khurda, Ganjam and Kalahandi districts. The local infected with the virus in Kalahandi has been a supervisor at a quarantine centre, sources said. Ganjam district has reported the highest number of 313 cases so far, of which 109 have recovered while 202 are active cases. Jajpur and Balasore followed Ganjam with 174 and 122 positive cases, respectively. There has been a sudden jump in Covid-19 cases after the return of migrants to the state. A month ago on April 20, Odisha had reported 79 positive cases, while on May 5 the number of cases in the state was 177. But by May 20 (Wednesday), the figure shot up to 1,063. As many as 2,03,220 migrants have returned to the state by trains and buses till Wednesday while 11,295 returned to the state on Wednesday alone, officials said. Odisha has conducted a record 5,612 Covid-19 tests in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested to 1,05,914.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-19-cases-in-odisha-breach-1000-mark-death-toll-touches-6/articleshow/75854839.cms||Minati Singha
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||Elusive tiger captured in south Kodagu||Mysuru/ Madikeri: A tiger which had killed several cattle heads over the few weeks in South Kodagu was captured by forest department officials at Belluru village on Wednesday. This comes within 24 hours of capturing a four-year-old tiger in Bandipur. Both the tigers are now undergoing treatment at the Mysuru zoo. A team led by the Virajpet forest division incharge DCF Roshni and Thithimathi ACF Sripathi succeeded in capturing the tiger that gave sleepless nights to villagers in Tuchamakeri, Ballyamanduru, Nadikeri, Beguru, T Shettigeri and surrounding areas in South Kodagu. The tiger, supected to have ventured out of the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, was sighted outside the forest area several times and the foresters launched the drive to nab it days ago with the help of veterinarians Dr Sanath and Ranjan Devaiah. The tiger was tracked to an estate in the village where it had left its kill. The foresters waited for it to get back to the spot and tranquilised the big cat.What came in handy was night vision binoculars that were donated to the department. “The tiger is believed to be six years old and has minor injury on its left jaw. It is, however, healthy,” said the officials. The National Tiger Conservation Authority had given a green signal to Karnataka government’s proposal to nab the tiger in February. Treatment at Mysuru zoo The two tigers, one captured from Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Chamarajanagar and another from Kodagu, were shifted to the Chamundi Animal Conservation, Rescue and Rehabilitation on Wednesday morning. Mysuru zoo director Ajit M Kulkarni told TOI, “Both have injuries. We have kept the tigers in separate enclosures to allow them to relax and calm,” he said. Kulkarni said that no staff or officer has been allowed to venture near the enclosure as the tigers may get irritated by the sight of the humans. “There are chances the irritated tigers might bite or scratch the iron bars of the cage in anger and receive injuries on their canines and claws. After the tigers calm down, we will sedate them to inspect the injuries and start medical treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/elusive-tiger-captured-in-south-kodagu/articleshow/75853567.cms||G RAJENDRA
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Battered by husband, 25-year-old kills self||Ahmedabad: A 25-year-old woman, Jyoti Vanzara, committed suicide in Amraiwadi on Tuesday, fed up with the beatings of her alcoholic husband. Jyoti and Nandkishore got married in 2013. Amraiwadi police registered a case against Nandkishore and his mother Geeta for abetting her suicide. According to the complaint lodged by Ganpat Vanzara, 48, in July 2013, his daughter Jyoti had married Nandkishore Vanzara. According to the FIR, the families did not talk to each other but after some time they arrived at a compromise and accepted the marriage. The FIR states that in 2015, Jyoti gave birth to a daughter. This was when Nandkishore started drinking alcohol and beating Jyoti. “Jyoti’s complaints to Geeta fell on deaf ears and she too quarrelled with her,” said a police official. According to police, in 2018, Jyoti went to live with her parents with her daughter. Later, with the intervention of others, Nandkishore promised to quit alcohol and not mistreat his wife. He stated this in writing. However, Nandkishore started drinking and beating Jyoti again. She committed suicide on Tuesday. Jyoti’s father lodged a complaint against her husband and mother-in-law,” said a senior police official of Amraiwadi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/battered-by-husband-25-year-old-kills-self/articleshow/75855972.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Cuttack||Covid-19 cases in Odisha breach 1,000-mark, death toll touches 6||BHUBANESWAR: With 85 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Odisha in the past 24 hours, the total number of persons who have tested positive for the virus in the state crossed the 1,000 mark on Wednesday. The state has recorded 1,063 Covid-19 positive cases so far with Malkangiri district reporting its first two cases, taking the number of affected districts to 24. At the same time, the death toll in the state rose to six, with a 70-year-old Covid-19 patient in Khurda succumbing to the virus. “The man had a history of hypertension and was admitted to the AIIMS emergency section on Tuesday with respiratory distress. He tested positive for Covid-19,” informed the health and family welfare department. Apart from the two new cases detected in Malkangiri, the highest number of 28 cases has been reported from Boudh, followed by 11 each in Puri and Kalahandi, nine in Cuttack, seven from Khurda, six each in Ganjam and Jajpur, two from Kendrapada and one each in Balasore, Dhenkanal and Kandhamal districts. With this, the total number of active cases in the state is now 714. Of the total 85 new patients, 82 had returned from other states like West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and were lodged in different quarantine centres. The three persons infected locally are from Khurda, Ganjam and Kalahandi districts. The local infected with the virus in Kalahandi has been a supervisor at a quarantine centre, sources said. Ganjam district has reported the highest number of 313 cases so far, of which 109 have recovered while 202 are active cases. Jajpur and Balasore followed Ganjam with 174 and 122 positive cases, respectively. There has been a sudden jump in Covid-19 cases after the return of migrants to the state. A month ago on April 20, Odisha had reported 79 positive cases, while on May 5 the number of cases in the state was 177. But by May 20 (Wednesday), the figure shot up to 1,063. As many as 2,03,220 migrants have returned to the state by trains and buses till Wednesday while 11,295 returned to the state on Wednesday alone, officials said. Odisha has conducted a record 5,612 Covid-19 tests in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested to 1,05,914.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/covid-19-cases-in-odisha-breach-1000-mark-death-toll-touches-6/articleshow/75865202.cms||Minati Singha
May 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Posers on extension of Covid-19 impact period in realty sector||PUNE: The Mumbai Grahak Panchayat has sought modification of the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority’s (MahaRERA) order extending the Covid-19 impact period to September 14 from the earlier March 14 as force majeure under the provisions of the Real Estate Regulation and Development Act. The consumer protection organisation representatives have reached out to the authority stating that “force majeure” should not be mistaken with blanket amnesty scheme for defaulting builders. Shirish Deshpande, the chairman of Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), told TOI on Wednesday that the MahaRERA order of May 18 giving concessions to builders might be legally unsustainable. The force majeure clause provides temporary reprieve from performing obligations under a contract. MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu on Monday issued an order stating that the pandemic and nationwide lockdown had triggered a reverse migration of workers, breaking the supply chain of construction material and impacting construction activities. It stated, “The possession dates mentioned in a registered agreement for sale should be deemed to be extended till the force majeure period was over. The authority said any refund due during the force majeure period would be allowed to be executed within a month after the force majeure period ended. Similarly, any amount to be recovered under Section 40 of RERA should be recovered after the force majeure period was over, the circular stated. Deshpande said, “There is no doubt that Covid-19 pandemic is a force majeure and MahaRERA is fully justified in automatically extending the validity period of registration of projects by six months, up to September 2020. The extension of the date of possession in the lockdown period by six months is also understandable. But hundreds of real estate projects were virtually at a standstill before March 22, 2020.” The Mumbai Grahak Panchayat stated that these projects were at standstill not because of lockdown but because of builders’ own failures. It would make a representation to take necessary corrective steps so that citizens did not suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/posers-on-extension-of-covid-19-impact-period-in-realty-sector/articleshow/75856651.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 21, 2020||Pune||Fares take passengers by surprise||PUNE: The relatively average fares quoted by airlines for travel from Pune to different destinations have left many people surprised. Though civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday that domestic flight operation would recommence from May 25, travel portals and airline websites displayed flight schedule from June 1 onwards. “Since the decision has come only hours back, we are figuring out how to go about it,” an airline official told TOI. A random sampling of fares of various airlines showed the price of one-way Pune-Delhi ticket on June 1 varying between Rs4,500 and Rs5,500. For Pune to Kolkata, the price was between Rs5,000 and Rs6,500. Nilesh Bhansali, director, Travel Agents Association of Pune, said, “We are yet to get any kind of updates from the airlines or from any other agency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fares-take-passengers-by-surprise/articleshow/75856663.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 21, 2020||Pune||Finally, 16 people from Maharashtra stuck in Bihar may be able to return home||PUNE: A group of 16 Mumbai residents are expected to return home from Bihar after waiting for nearly two months and seeing as many as 64 train and airline tickets get cancelled. The group, including women and senior citizens, had been stuck in Bihar’s Rohtas district since March 19. The local district administration provided them assistance for their road trip from Dehri On Sone city to Mughal- sarai in Uttar Pradesh. From UP, the group will board a train to Delhi and then take the Rajdhani Express to Mumbai Central. “We have got confirmed tickets to board the Rajdhani Express on Tuesday,” said A Kanajaraj, who lives in Bhandup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/finally-16-people-from-state-stuck-in-bihar-may-be-able-to-return-home/articleshow/75856671.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 400 Rajgurunagar students wait for passage to home||PUNE: About 400 students from all over the country who had come to Rajgurunagar for coaching for the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) have been unable to return home because of the lockdown. The Kadus, Rajgurunagar residential centre of Dakshana Foundation selects underprivileged students from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and other government schools across the country and coaches them for medical entrance examinations. Students from Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan left last week. Head of the migrant workers’ cell, additional chief secretary Nitin Kareer, said if the students are not in the containment zone, the administration will have to arrange for their travel permissions. Kiran Kumar Sahu from Odisha said, “I have changed my NEET centre to Angul in Odisha. My parents keep asking me when I will return.” Sharmila Pai from Dakshana foundation said they have 494 students. “We could send the students from Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan back. We arranged for buses to UP on Wednesday. But long-distance trains would have helped. We have students from Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Jharkhand too. If the administration arranges, they can reach home safely,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/400-rajgurunagar-pupils-wait-for-passage-to-home/articleshow/75856668.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: A year on, toilet blocks at Sernabatim beach yet to be made operational||COLVA: Three toilet blocks and one portable unit purchased in May last year and kept at the Sernabatim beach are yet to be made operational, with government officials now blaming the lockdown for the delay. Last November, GTDC managing director Nikhil Desai had told TOI that they had received permission from the Coastal Regulation Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) and the toilet blocks would be installed and made functional by the first week of December 2019. However, six months later, when TOI contacted the Goa Tourism Development Corporation’s (GTDC) executive engineer Kirankumar Naik on Monday, he confirmed that although the approval from the coastal body was granted in November last year, and the order issued in December 2019, the toilet blocks had not been made functional. “After we got the order, GTDC procured the septic tanks to make toilet blocks operational, and a maintenance agency was appointed. However, the contractor is stuck in Delhi because of the lockdown. This is a time-bound project and we need to complete it,” Naik said. In May 2019, the two new toilet blocks and one portable unit, costing Rs 12.5 lakh each, were brought to be installed at the Sernabatim beach in order to alleviate the problems faced by tourists and locals visiting the beach. Colva panchayat member Pio Furtado, who was instrumental in getting the panchayat to adopt a resolution urging GTDC to provide toilet blocks for the beach, said, “A year down the line these toilet blocks are more like ornamental pieces on the Sernabatim beach.” In November 2019, one of the toilets was damaged by miscreants, which has since been patched up with plastic. Now, laterite stones and construction sand have been dumped next to the toilet blocks. When the GTDC engineer was asked whether the construction material belonged to the corporation, he said he is not aware and will have to check with his subordinates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-year-on-toilet-blocks-at-sernabatim-beach-yet-to-be-made-operational/articleshow/75856683.cms||Nisser Dias
May 21, 2020||India||Chhattisgarh cash support scheme set to power Congress' ‘Nyay’ plank||NEW DELHI: Congress is set to use a scheme from its stable to amplify its demand that the Modi government provide cash support to citizens to overcome the economic crisis wrought by the coronavirus pandemic. Rahul Gandhi will launch the Chhattisgarh government’s novel scheme of cash support for farmers on Thursday, coinciding with death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The party says the scheme’s launch has been timed with the shift in national focus from nationwide lockdown to corona relief package. Conceived by Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, the scheme, Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, will provide up to Rs 10,000 per acre support to farmers growing paddy and maize. Similar monetary support will be provided to cane growers. The scheme has a budget of Rs 5,700 crore for this year and will cater to 19 lakh farmers. Baghel said, “The farmers of the country are the most distressed lot. With this scheme, we intend to help them get the just price for their hard labour. Through this scheme, the farmers will receive cash directly into their account over and above the MSP. After coming to power, we provided assistance to farmers by waiving off their loans and outstanding taxes. The effect of our initiatives helped us in controlling the recession in the state and boost the economy. In near future, we intend to extend this scheme for the benefit of the landless labourers also.” As Rahul launches the scheme amid his push for financial support to poor and middle classes, sources said he will in coming days make an example of the scheme to argue that Congress believes in its demand that the Centre’s relief package be heavy on direct stimulus to people. “The word ‘nyay’ in the scheme is meant to drive home the message that the demand is party’s belief and not about politics,” a senior party member said, referring to the term that was Congress’s 2019 election promise of cash support to the poor. Congress has been critical of the Centre’s corona relief package, saying that the stimulus forms barely 1% of GDP contrary to the government’s claim that it amounted to Rs 20 lakh crore or 10% of GDP. Rahul Gandhi has led the attack by arguing that only cash support can revive demand in the economy. “Nyay” and “Migrants” have emerged the twin planks of Congress’s critique of the Centre’s handling of the corona crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chhattisgarh-cash-support-scheme-set-to-power-congress-nyay-plank/articleshow/75857649.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
May 21, 2020||Pune||9 hrs to find an ICU bed. Covid kin say they were turned away||Pune: Harrowing accounts are emerging from citizens who said loved ones with suspected Covid-19 symptoms were turned away by private hospitals in the city. One BT Kawade Road resident, whose mother developed breathlessness, said he spent at least nine hours trying to get her emergency care. The first hospital they approached directed them to Naidu hospital fearing the woman could be a Covid-19 patient. But doctors at Naidu, following an examination, cited a lack of ICU beds and directed them to another hospital. After reaching the third hospital — an empanelled one that's duty-bound to care for Covid patients — the desperate family were again told there were no available ICU beds. By now four hours had passed and the woman's condition had worsened. They then approached Sassoon general, which turned them down as well — again claiming "no available ICU beds". “I started to lose all hope. My mother was finally admitted at Symbiosis hospital. Doctors there noted her severe condition and immediately started treatment in the ICU," the son told TOI. The issue of patients being denied beds was brought up recently during a discussion between empanelled private hospitals and divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, who has started investigating hospitals that have allegedly failed to prove they turned patients away because of exceeded capacity. Reports have also come in of private hospitals — that have signed an agreement of care with PMC — turning down people with Covid symptoms. A Kondhwa resident said his brother, who vomited blood, was turned away by two private hospitals in the city. "He was finally admitted at a hospital near the Bund Garden Road," he told TOI. Mhaisekar admitted the problem exists. “We now have a software that will give us the exact situation in each hospital." He added that the software will help create a public dashboard, which will help people pick a hospital before leaving their homes. This dashboard, Mhaiskar said, will provide category-wise details: availability of beds for Covid and non-Covid patients and availability of ventilators and oxygen systems. “But there will be a thorough investigation of private hospitals that have been accused of turning away patients. They may face action if it's found they turned people away despite having free beds.” There are 650 private hospitals within Pune city limits; 18 are empaneled to treat Covid-19 patients. From the 18, six have been declared 'Covid-19 hospitals', where the maximum number of infected patients, including those who are critically ill, are being treated. The rest are called Covid-19 care centres, which will care for non-critical Covid patients and those with other ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-hrs-to-find-an-icu-bed-covid-kin-say-they-were-turned-away/articleshow/75836562.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Exam blues for kids from outside K’taka||Mangaluru: Announcement of SSLC exams followed by release of timetable has ended a two-month uncertainty for over 8.4 lakh students going to appear for the board exams. However, the wait is not yet over for SSLC candidates from outside the state, who have registered to appear for the exams in Karnataka as the KSEEB is yet to spell out an action plan for them. Admitting that the question of these students still hangs in balance, education minister S Suresh Kumar told TOI that the board will take a call around June 10. To help KSEEB formulate an action plan, the minister has directed deputy directors, department of public instruction, to do a headcount of such students, mainly in Kasaragod, Kolar and districts in Kalyana Karnataka and Mumbai-Karnataka regions. Allaying fears that these students will be left in the lurch, the minister said a lot more relaxations in lockdown restrictions including inter-state travel are expected to be in place by then. Former minister UT Khader had batted for cause of students appearing for SSLC examination from outside the state, demanding that the uncertainty for them to be resolved while announcing dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/exam-blues-for-kids-from-outside-ktaka/articleshow/75854877.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Small kids vulnerable to Covid-19, but mostly asymptomatic: Doctor||Nagpur: It came as a shock for entire family of a 5-month-old baby boy from Gaddigodam (Nagpur) when only he tested positive for Covid-19 from the family. Eventually, it was revealed that the baby got infected by a maid servant who had earlier tested positive. Now, the baby along with his mother is admitted in Covid Hospital at GMCH. Doctors said that infants, kids are vulnerable for coronavirus infection and they need to be protected. “The 5-month-old baby boy is city’s youngest Covid-19 case. As per guidelines, mother is allowed to stay with the baby in isolation hospital. We will take care to keep both of them away from other admitted patients as per protocol,” said Dr Avinash Gawande, medical superintendent of the GMCH. Dr Gawande himself being a paediatrician said that infants and newborns needed special care. “We must follow hand hygiene and Covid distancing from the infants. Their immunity is already low and they have all the chances of getting infected,” he said. The baby boy will be roomed-in with his mother until he recovers from the Covid-19. He will be exclusively breastfed and expert doctors will provide necessary medication to him. As per Perinatal-Neonatal Management of Covid-19 guidelines issued by Indian Academy of Paediatrics, nurses trained in newborn care and lactation management should be provided to the baby. A healthy asymptomatic willing family member who is not positive for Covid-19 and has not been in direct contact with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 person may be allowed to provide support for mother and the baby. However, as the baby is 5-month-old, his mother is capable of providing all care and probably there will be no need of someone else’s help. Studies have shown the elderly as well as children have an increased risk of contracting Covid-19. More worrisome fact is that a significant number of kids are asymptomatic even when they are infected. “Children who are symptomatic may have mild flu like symptoms like fever, cough and cold. Most are asymptomatic. Interestingly, even if children get affected, a majority of them recover very well,” said Dr Gawande adding that the newborns as well as infants have been affected by Covid-19 earlier too and all have done very well. In Vidarbha, a 3.5-month old baby boy was detected as Covid-19 positive in Buldhana in March. The boy and his family-members also recovered and were discharged in 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/small-kids-vulnerable-to-covid-19-but-mostly-asymptomatic-doctor/articleshow/75855859.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 21, 2020||Mumbai||Come June 1, 23 trains to start from Mumbai||MUMBAI: Of the 200 scheduled train services that will resume from June 1 across the country, 23 pairs of long-distance trains will originate from and arrive at the Central Railway and Western Railway stations here. Booking for the combined AC and non-AC trains will start from 10 am on May 21. Only online e-ticketing will be available through the IRCTC website or mobile app. No tickets will be sold at reservation counters at any station. The advance reservation period will be maximum 30 days. According to the list issued by the Railway Board, daily services from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh include the Kushinagar Express, Kamayani Express, Mahanagari Express, BDTS-Gazipur, Gorakhpur-LTT, BDTS-Gorakhpur Awadh Express and Pushpak Express. Train to and from Bihar are Darbhanga Express, LTT-Patna, BDTS-Muzzafarpur Awadh Express and LTT-Patliputra Express. Heading towards south India will be the CSMT-Gadag Express, Udayan Express to Bengaluru, Hussain Sagar Express to Hyderabad and Nethravati to Thiruvananthapuram. WR will run Karnavati Express, Jaipur Express and Suryanagari to Gujarat and Rajasthan. Paschim Express and Golden Temple Express are for Punjab. For eastern India, the trains are Konark Express, Howrah-Mumbai Mail and LTT-Guwahati Express. Only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the station, and undergo screening. Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the trains. There will be no unreserved coaches in the trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/come-june-1-23-trains-to-start-from-mumbai/articleshow/75857203.cms||Manthank Mehta
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||AI flight from KL to land on Friday instead of Wednesday||Bhubaneswar: In view of Cyclone Amphan, the Air India special flight, which was supposed to bring Odias stranded in Kuala Lumpur back to Bhubaneswar on Wednesday, has been rescheduled for Friday. However, the flight from Dubai will land as expected on Wednesday night. “We have been intimated that the special flight from Kuala Lumpur will not come as scheduled at 6.15pm on Wednesday. It will land here on Friday instead. However, there is no disruption of the operational readiness of the airport owing to the cyclone,” airport director V V Rao said. Airport sources said though the wind speed (50km/ph) in Bhubaneswar would not hamper the plane’s landing, it was up to the airline to take a call on the matter. In case of inclement weather, airlines can suspend operations, reschedule or cancel flights. The airport sources said the air traffic control (ATC) here has the schedule of flights landing from Kuala Lumpur so that it can guide them to land safely. “Visibility should not be an issue as the rain has receded,” an airport officer said. The flights from Kuala Lumpur will mostly bring tourists and businessmen who were stuck there owing to the sudden imposition of the lockdown to prevent the novel coronavirus on March 24. The airport has suspended all operations since the nationwide lockdown. Apart from unscheduled flights and helicopters, which are operating as part of relief work, cargo transportation and emergency services, no other flights are operating from here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ai-flight-from-kl-to-land-on-friday-instead-of-wednesday/articleshow/75854886.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Complaint filed over SRP tweets||Ahmedabad: The city cyber police station has registered an offence against the Twitter account @SRP_Gujarat for posts that allegedly aim to stir disaffection in the ranks of the State Reserve Police (SRP), on Tuesday. Cyber police station sources said that Sunil Chaudhary, a sub-inspector who handles social media accounts on the instructions of additional DGP of armed units, has lodged a complaint. “According to the FIR, the account tweeted that the SRP was being discriminated against. The user asked why the SRP is given black belts while unarmed units are given dark red belts,” said a cyber police station official. “We have written to the service providers to obtain the IP address of the device on which the Twitter handle was created,” a senior cyber police station official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complaint-filed-over-srp-tweets/articleshow/75855966.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Migrant family finds lost bag with cop help||PUNE: Timely action by two police constables helped a migrant couple recover their bag, containing gold ornaments, cash and clothes, which they had left behind in a PMPML bus in their hurry to catch a UP-bound Shramik special train on Tuesday night. They boarded a PMPML bus from Hadapsar to travel to the Pune railway station. However, in their hurry to disembark from the bus, the couple forgot to collect the bag. Senior inspector Milind Gaikwad and police constables Mahendra Dhapse and Kiran Barade spotted the couple crying and asked them what had happened. The couple then told them that they had left behind their bag in the bus. Constable Barade stayed back with the family, while Dhapse drove all the way to the PMPML depot at Hadapsar to trace the bus. He then drove back with the bag and handed it over to the couple barely 30 minutes before the train started on its journey at 10pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migrant-family-finds-lost-bag-with-cop-help/articleshow/75856677.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Quit BJP in February, says ex-Ujjain MP Premchand Guddu||BHOPAL: Former Ujjain MP Premchand Guddu launched a scathing attack on BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesdsay. He responded to a BJP notice stating that he had already quit the party in February. However, BJP state president V D Sharma said that he did not receive Guddu’s resignation till date. Guddu hit the headlines on Tuesday when he openly criticised Scindia and his close confidant Tulsiram Silawat in Indore. The former Congress MP who joined BJP in 2018, was also served a showcause notice by the Indore district BJP president, Rajesh Sonkar for his alleged antiparty activities. Replying to the notice, he said that he had already quit BJP on February 9, when the party was not in power in Madhya Pradesh. Continuing his tirade against Scindia and Silawat, Guddu, is trying to build bridges with Congress and is seeking a party ticket for the upcoming assembly bypoll from Sanwer in Indore district from where Silawat will possibly contest on a BJP ticket. “I had resigned from BJP on February 9 when the government was not formed in the state. The coronavirus had attacked the country but BJP was busy in ‘Operation Lotus’ to topple the state government. It was clear that BJP’s aim was to attain power by any means and that is why I decided to quit the party,” read the reply by Guddu to the BJP chief. Targeting Scindia and his family members, Guddu called them conspirators. He questioned why the former Union minister was not taking up farmers’ issues as he did when Congress was in power. “My fight is against feudalism. I had raised issues against Scindia who betrayed the public. The voters from Sanwer will teach Silawat a lesson. He is bound to lose the bypoll and, by extension, it will be Scindia’s defeat,” Guddu said. “Guddu has been slapped notice for indiscipline. We have not received his resignation letter till date, said BJP state president Sharma. Guddu’s attack has come ah ead of the impending bypolls to 24 seats that will decide the fate of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/quit-bjp-in-feb-says-ex-ujjain-mp-guddu/articleshow/75855849.cms||Rajendra Sharma
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Atmanirbhar Rs 1L loan: Forms out||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government will start the distribution of application forms from Thursday for those who want to avail the guarantee-free loan of Rs 1 lakh under the state government’s Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay Yojna (AGSY). The forms will be distributed through more than 9,000 outlets across the state, an official said.  Under this scheme, people running small businesses and those from the lower-middle-income group can avail guarantee-free loans of up to Rs 1 lakh from banks at 2% annual interest. The scheme has been announced for those whose livelihoods have been disrupted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “From Thursday, cooperative banks will begin the distribution of forms,” Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister, said. The government had launched the scheme last week, under which the state government will be paying the remaining six per cent interest on loan to the banks. The tenure of such loans will be three years and re-payment of principal and interest will start after six months of sanction, the official said. Loans will be provided on the basis of application where no guarantee will be required, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atmanirbhar-rs-1l-loan-forms-out/articleshow/75855964.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra forms panel to assist doctors in handling dengue, swine flu cases||PUNE: A committee headed by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta will coordinate with private doctors for reopening their hospitals and clinics to handle rain-related illnesses. “The monsoon is near. Apart from Covid-19, private doctors from non-red zones should be able to open their hospitals and clinics for treating patients with other diseases. A coordination committee has been formed at the state level under the chief secretary and the collector at the district level to assist them,” health minister Rajesh Tope said. Subhash Salunke, the state government’s technical advisor on pandemics, told TOI that they would also have to plan for dengue, malaria and swine flu cases which go up between June and October. “Cases of Covid-19 are expected to go up with the large movement of people. There are already severe acute respiratory infection cases being reported. We have to consider other seasonal viruses like H1N1 and vector-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria in the monsoon,” Salunkhe told TOI. According to the national vector-borne disease control programme, Maharashtra has reported a steady rise in dengue since 2015 from 4,936 cases to 12,374 cases till November 2019. Maharashtra reported 244 deaths due to H1N1 in 2019 till December 20, while there were 462 deaths due to the influenza in 2018. The monsoon is also the period of annual vaccinations and influenza shots which have to be administered to high-risk groups following all protocols which hospitals and health infrastructure must be ready to handle. “It is a real test for the public health services. There have been discussions on bed strength, search and surveillance and implementation of routine health programmes,” Salukhe said. During his address on Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had told people in the state to stay put so that the health infrastructure in the rural parts does not feel the burden of handling Covid-19 and other diseases. He had said it was important to contain Covid-19 before the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-forms-panel-to-assist-doctors-in-handling-dengue-swine-flu-cases/articleshow/75856692.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath criticises CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan for his ‘learn from MP’ tweet||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday hit back at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for his tweet asking AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi to “learn” how to help labourers from Madhya Pradesh. Nath said Chouhan should be “ashamed” of speaking such a lie and making mockery of the current situation of migrant labourers. “It is a fact that you haven’t even gone to see the situation of migrant workers, so how will you even know the truth?” The veteran Congress leader claimed that the borders of the state and highways are still crowded with thousands of migrant labourers travelling towards their villages – some barefoot, others with blisters on their feet, some on carts, some on bicycles, some moving on autos and others in trucks. “Many migrant labourers have become accident victims and died, many have perished because of hunger, thirst and the scorching sun. Several pregnant women have given birth on the roadside,” Nath said. “People of MP are seeing these sights on a regular basis. Perhaps you are blind and cannot see these pictures of truth,” Nath added. The senior Congress leader said that NGOs and Congress party workers are feeding these labourers on thoroughfares, providing footwear, drinking water and even taking them to their homes. “There are no arrangements by the state government,” Nath alleged. He accused the state government of assaulting hungry migrant labourers when they asked for food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-criticises-cm-for-his-learn-from-mp-tweet/articleshow/75855862.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandhi hosp’s Covid-19 exclusivity tough pill to swallow for doctors||Hyderabad: Doctors at the nodal Gandhi Hospital are finding it increasingly hard to digest the prolonged use of the hospital only for Covid-19 treatment. The doctors have been at the forefront in the fight against novel coronavirus for two months now. Several medicos have even represented to the government that their academic cycle has taken a beating as the entire hospital has only Covid-19 wards now. “PG doctors have their exams and they need to learn from various faculties the treatment of various ailments. But that’s not happening now,” a medico pointed out. Senior doctors are also upset as the hospital has been reduced to treating only Covid-19 patients. “Poor patients from various parts of the state come to Gandhi for free treatment. But, they are forced to go to other hospitals now,” a doctor explained. Gandhi Hospital has been designated as the nodal Covid-19 hospital in Telangana to treat at least 1,000 coronavirus patients. Though King Koti, Nature Cure and four other hospitals are also treating Covid-19 patients, Gandhi has been in the forefront in the battle against the pandemic. The medical and health authorities have been saying that the government is firm that only after the bed capacity gets exhausted at Gandhi, doctors can refer Covid-19 patients to other hospitals and those attached to private medical colleges. But, this has not gone down well with the doctors at Gandhi. Not just doctors from Gandhi, even those in other government and private hospitals are in a tight spot on the prolonged treatment to the infected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-hosps-covid-19-exclusivity-tough-pill-to-swallow-for-doctors/articleshow/75855866.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 21, 2020||Pune||PMC begins preparations for monsoon in advance||PUNE: After last year’s disastrous monsoon, the civic administration has started preparation for rains in advance this year. A control room is expected to be commissioned from June 1 for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits to keep track of rainfall activity, water release, flooding and rescue operation. The administration has asked all department heads to prepare a list of staffers who will be deployed at the control room, which will work round the clock. An order issued by additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goel said that the flood control room will start operating from June 1 morning or even earlier as per the requirements. The control room will continue to function till end of December 2020. The staffers at the control room will work in three shifts of eight hours each. The administration has allotted the slots to each department. The heads of departments are expected to deploy the staff according to shift timings and submit the details of staffers to the administration and disaster management cell by May 25. The city had suffered largescale damages last year during the monsoon due to release of water from dams in large quantum and unexpected flooding of Ambil Odha, which led to loss of human lives and damages to residential buildings. In another order issued recently, the zonal offices and commissioners have been asked to visit civic schools and establishments identified for rescue, relief and temporary shifting of people from flood-hit areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-begins-preparations-for-monsoon-in-advance/articleshow/75856701.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid effect: No arrest unless offence serious||Ahmedabad: To stay safe from Covid-19, and to reduce spread by avoiding unnecessary overcrowding in lock-ups, Bapunagar cops are not making arrests in cases where the offence calls for a punishment less than seven years. Instead, they are serving the accused a notice under Section 41(1)(d) to be present before a court on a given date, said inspector N K Vyas of Bapunagar police station. Vyas said besides the safety of policemen, they have taken the step also for the safety of the accused where unknowingly Covid-negative and Covid-positive persons may have to spend time in close proximity in the lock-up. “This can lead to the danger of getting infected by Covid-19. We are just handing notices to accused in any offence which is punishable with a sentence of less than seven years. In serious offences we make arrests and first send the person for Covid-19 test before taking him into custody,” added Vyas. On Tuesday. Bapunagar police registered five cases of violation lockdown norms and notification and all were let off after registering the cases. “They have been given notices to remain present in the court on given dates. We have to work with care while dealing with the accused in such times,” Vyas said. Out of the five cases, in one case Babu Maheriya, 32, of Shaherkotda was booked for violation of Section 144 and lockdown norms from near Chandabhai Chawl in Bapunagar. “He was booked under Section 188 of IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act and was handed a notice to appear in court on a particular date” said a police source. In another case, a man named Bharat Solani was also let off after being booked and handed a notice. “In the other three cases of similar procedure was applied to keep the accused and the policemen both safe,” Vyas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-effect-no-arrest-unless-offence-serious/articleshow/75855962.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 families booked for breaching quarantine||Ahmedabad: Two persons who were home quarantined along with their families in Isanpur fled by locking their homes on Tuesday early morning. Isanpur police have lodged a case against the duo and their families. According to Isanpur police, Kamlesh Rana tested Covid-19 positive and he was told to quarantine himself along with his family at his home. During the course of investigation it was found that two persons Dinesh Rajput and Ghanshyam Sharma also had come into contact with Rana and hence their families were also quarantined till June 2. Police sources said that on Tuesday morning it was found that Rajput and Sharma had fled after locking their houses. Residents of the same society immediately informed Isanpur police. Cops found both houses locked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-families-booked-for-breaching-quarantine/articleshow/75855961.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘Corona anxiety’ sparks health issues across ages||By: Anjali.Jhangiani PUNE: Sherry David, 60, has stocked up on rations and medicines and made sure she took precaution whenever she stepped out of her house. She thought that she was dealing with the lockdown pretty well, until her blood pressure shot up to 180/120. Doctors attributed the spike in her blood pressure to “Coronavirus anxiety”. “My son lives in Mumbai because of his work and the situation there is pretty bad. I am worried for him but there is nothing we can do right now and this has been making me anxious,” she said. Like David, many others who have high blood pressure, hypertension and diabetes have been struggling with anxiety. Doctors said the anxiety made it even tougher for people to keep a check on blood pressure, hypertension and diabetes. Anxiety is not only affecting seniors, but hitting young people just as much. Neha Ullal, 18, who had hoped to start her undergraduate course in biochemistry in the US, is struggling to keep her blood sugar in check. “I am eating right, exercising and taking my insulin as prescribed. But my sugar level is still in the range of 190-230 (fasting) everyday. My diabetologist explained that my sugar levels fluctuate because of stress. I don’t know if I will be able to join college in September, most probably not because the borders will be sealed,” Ullal said. Kishore Gavali, 40, who runs a fast food joint in the city, is also struggling to keep his blood pressure under control with a lean diet and rest. “The hospitality industry has taken a big hit, and small businessmen like me are the worst-hit. My staffers have gone back to their hometowns and the restaurant has been locked for a month now. Though I have had no income, I have to pay rent and other bills. I get tensed thinking all this and my blood pressure fluctuates,” he said. Explaining how anxiety is linked to physical conditions, city-based psychologist Shweta Saxena said, “Lots of people are finding it difficult to deal with the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. Anxiety caused by this situation may have physical symptoms like high blood pressure and increased level of blood sugar. It also affects one’s daily routine activities and performances.” Saxena said, “During the current pandemic and lockdown, it is extremely essential to keep a close check on how your anxiety is affecting your health as it can go unnoticed because of denial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corona-anxiety-sparks-health-issues-across-ages/articleshow/75856707.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kochi||Keralites in the UK stranded as flight leaves them behind||KOCHI: More than 50 Keralites in the United Kingdom who received confirmation from the high commission of India (HCI) in the UK regarding the first repatriation flight from London to Kochi were left frustrated as they missed the boarding after the airlines failed to confirm their tickets. The Keralites, who were shortlisted for the travel by the HCI, said they did not receive any intimation from the airline regarding the tickets and waited hopefully at Heathrow Airport till the flight took off without them on Tuesday noon. Passengers, including elderly, pregnant women and sick people, had to return home after waiting for hours with the hope of flying home as directed by the authorities. The Air India (AI) flight from London via Mumbai reached Kochi on Wednesday at 7:30am with 188 passengers. According to those who missed the flight, despite confirmation from HCI about their names being shortlisted for the travel, Air India did not call them. They alleged that Air India made a separate list without considering the one provided by HCI. Though they tried to enquire with the high commission and the airlines, it is understood that no proper explanation was given. There was a separate queue at the airport for those who had an email from the HCI but never had confirmation from Air India. A WhatsApp group created by the stranded Keralites titled ‘Malayalees Stranded in the UK’ has decided to escalate the issue further and they demanded an investigation by authorities in India. “This morning (Wednesday), my sister in Kerala received a call from the state health officials as part of the protocol and enquired whether Binu Thomas (I) reached Kerala. My sister corrected them and said he never got a ticket. They said ‘we got his name in passengers’ list from the high commission’. We doubt if the airline has made another list excluding many of us who received the email from the government,” said Binu Thomas, who missed the flight. “My father Antony Kumbackal (65), who is under high medication for various ailments, got calls and email from HCI on Sunday assuring that AI will call us to book tickets. We kept our phone idle so that we won’t miss the AI call. As we did not get any call, we tried calling AI and they replied that if the passenger’s name was in the list the ticket will be secured. But nothing happened and we don’t know why the names of many like my father were not in the AI list,” said Sanju Anto. The Union of UK Malayalee Associations (UUKMA) has written a complaint to Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan regarding this and requested another repatriation flight. “The HCI has a responsibility to reassure these people as it stands for the welfare of their citizens here in the UK,” UUKMA national president Manojkumar Pillai told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralites-in-the-uk-stranded-as-flight-leaves-them-behind/articleshow/75854953.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||Over 150 WB fishermen stuck in Narmada||Vadodara: They arrived in the tribal belt of Gujarat in January this year with the hopes of earning good money. But these 150 fishermen from West Bengal never thought that they would get stuck for months on the banks of Tapi River in Sagbara taluka of Narmada district. They are not in regular touch with their families back home nor are they able to seek help from the West Bengal government. “Hundreds of fishermen arrive in the state every year and stay here for few months. They are hired by the local cooperative societies that are into fishing business. The societies get contract from the government for fishing in the river and hence they need labourers,” said Kanti Kothari, general secretary, Sagbara Taluka Matysaudyog Sahakari Mandali Ltd. “We hire them to fish in Tapi River. This year, though, we didn’t get the contract as water level in the dam was high. But the fishermen arrived in January and when they didn’t get work, they decided to stay here for a couple of months to look for some other work. Before they could return, the lockdown was announced,” Kothari told TOI. Over last two months, the fishermen have been staying in hutments on the banks of Tapi River in Motidevrupan village. When they began running out of food, local villagers provided them groceries for a few days before the administration stepped in. “We have been providing them with food and some NGOs too have supported these fishermen. We have made all the arrangements for their return to West Bengal but we have to wait till their state government gives permission to run the train,” said H K Vyas, deputy collector, Narmada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-150-wb-fishermen-stuck-in-narmada/articleshow/75853470.cms||Tushar Tere
May 21, 2020||Rajkot||Three loot elderly woman’s jewellery, arrested||Rajkot: Three persons including a couple were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly robbing an old woman of her gold jewellery worth Rs 1.4 lakh in Umednagar Colony of Bhuj on Monday. Police said the accused had rendered 74-year-old Damyanti Solanki unconscious after dabbing her mouth with a kerchief laced with sedative liquid before committing the loot. Cops have arrested Chirag Makwana, his wife Krupa Makwana and Dharya Parmar, for the theft of jewellery. “Solanki’s son pinned his suspicion on Makwana and the co-accused for the crime. Following this, we rounded up the trio. During interrogation, the accused confessed to their crime,” said M R Gondalia, inspector with Bhuj local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-loot-elderly-womans-jewellery-arrested/articleshow/75855872.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||ISB: Need for rapid ramp-up of Covid-19 testing capabilities||Hyderabad: The existing rate of onboarding of labs testing Covid-19 samples is not sufficient to meet the testing volume requirement in most of the states and will have to be scaled up rapidly, said a paper authored by faculty and analysts at ISB’s Max Institute of Healthcare Management (MIHM).  As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data, there are 391 government and 164 private labs testing Covid-19 samples. “…Maharashtra, which contributes highest number of cases, would need to add more than 450% of its testing capacity. On the other hand, Haryana, which currently has smaller number of reported cases but extremely limited capacity, will need to add more than 600% capacity. Kerala is one of the few states that may be equipped to handle its projected testing volume with current capacity as its reported cases have been demonstrating a decreasing trend,” the paper titled `Testing capacity for Covid-19 – How ready are we for the battle?’ --- co-authored by Sarang Deo, executive director, MIHM, along with analysts Aman Kabra and Hemanshu Das, said. The paper pointed out that it may not be possible to ramp up capacity to a level where each state is self-sufficient. Therefore, in some cases adding capacity to existing labs may be a faster and more economical way.  It also rooted for leveraging other parts of the health system to accelerate the pace of testing. For instance, tests for HIV and TB are conducted on machines such as Cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test, which have the same underlying technology required for Covid-19 testing. The only major tweak required is the shift to Covid-19 specific testing reagents and cartridges, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/isb-need-for-rapid-ramp-up-of-covid-19-testing-capabilities/articleshow/75855884.cms||Swati Rathor
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Akola races to 300 cases in 43 days, fastest in Vidarbha||Nagpur: With 29 new confirmed positive cases of Covid-19, Akola surpassed the 300 mark on Wednesday. Akola had reported its first case on April 7 and first death on April 15. Within 43 days, the city has reported 308 cases and 20 deaths, including one suicide. Akola’s population is one-third that of Nagpur, and it’s second highest in Vidarbha when it comes to Covid-19 cases. Akola is headquarters of health service division and has its own Covid-19 testing facility at the local GMCH. Despite series of contamination drives, strict lockdowns, curfews and odd-even schemes, number of cases has kept growing in Akola. In last six days, Akola has recorded 122 new cases and six deaths. With returnees coming from other hotspot zones, there is no chance of respite from Covid-19 cases in near future for the town. “In Akola, we have 308 total cases, but our recovery rate is also good. Till date, 167 patients have recovered and been discharged. We have 121 active cases at present, and many of them are recovering fast,” said resident deputy collector of Akola Sanjay Khadse. Akola has seen the highest number of deaths in Vidarbha. The only suicide in Vidarbha region has also happened in Akola. Out of the 19 deaths in Akola, nine have happened inside the isolation ward with the patient undergoing treatment. Doctors at GMCH blame comorbidities of patients for these deaths. A senior doctor said most patients who died in treatment had severe cardiovascular problems, diabetes or respiratory illnesses like TB and SARI. Another alarming fact in Akola is that the novel coronavirus is widespread in city. Unlike Nagpur and Amravati, where two or three localities are hotspots and most cases are emerging from there, Akola reports cases from many localities. Initially, cases were detected from Baidpura and Akot File localities, but now at least 14 localities have significant number of patients, and have become contamination zones. Akola district also has significant number of cases from towns like Murtizapur, Patur and Akot. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar had introduced first-of-its kind ‘odd-even’ formula for district earlier this month. The plan was to keep shops and markets open on odd dates and observe complete curfew on even dates. But residents opposed this plan and the collector had to withdraw it. On May 21, Akola guardian minister Bachchu Kadu will be in town to take stock of the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-races-to-300-cases-in-43-days-fastest-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75855878.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 21, 2020||Business||Dr Reddy’s Q4FY20 PAT jumps 76%||Hyderabad: Pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories on Wednesday said it has posted a 76% jump in consolidated profit after tax for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2020, at Rs 764 crore as against Rs 434 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. This was on a 10% rise in consolidated revenues for Q4FY20 at Rs 4432 crore as compared to Rs 4017 crore. However, for the financial year 2019-20, the drug maker has posted a 4% rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 1950 crore from Rs 1880 crore in FY19, which was on a 13% jump in consolidated revenues for FY20 at Rs 17,460 crore as against Rs 15,385 crore in FY19. The company said its profitability for the quarter and fiscal was boosted “majorly due to recognition of MAT credit and creation of deferred tax assets, in line with the requirements of accounting standards” as well as growth in global generics sales. While Rs 146.6 crore was the deferred tax during FY20, during the fourth quarter it was Rs 50 crore. Even as the revenue from global generics rose 12% to Rs 13812 crore during FY20 as compared to Rs 12290 crore in FY19, that for Q4FY20 went up 20% to Rs 3640 crore from Rs 3038 crore in Q4FY19. While PSAI (pharmaceutical services & active ingredients) business rose 6% in Q4FY20 to Rs 719.5 crore from Rs 676.5 crore in FY19, for FY20 it went up 7% to Rs 2547.7 crore from Rs 2414 crore in FY19. On the other hand, the proprietary products revenues fell 7.6% in Q4FY19 to Rs 72.5 crore from Rs 301.7 crore in Q4FY19, while for FY20 it jumped 58% to Rs 1073 crore from Rs 680.8 crore in FY19. Pointing out that it has been a very positive year for the company on the performance and regulatory front, GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, said: “Progress made during the year includes VAI status for CTO 6, healthy product pipeline build-up, productivity improvement, and strong financial performance across our businesses.” On the Covid-19 front he said: “We are looking at working with other companies for developing products that are around Covid-19. We are going to develop Hydroxychloroquine. We have already soft launched those products into the Indian market as part of CSR but we are looking at other opportunities also as they come.” The company also informed the bourses that it has received an Establishment Inspection Report (EIR) from the USFDA for its formulations manufacturing plant-3 at Bachupally, indicating closure of the audit of the facility. It also said its board has recommended a final dividend of Rs 25 (500%) per equity share of Rs 5 face value for FY20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dr-reddys-q4fy20-pat-jumps-76/articleshow/75855921.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees first patient recover after plasma therapy||HYDERABAD: A critically ill Covid-19 patient from the city has fully recovered after receiving the convalescent plasma therapy approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The patient will shortly be discharged from Gandhi Hospital, where he was admitted for the last 15 days and had been receving plasma therapy for 10 days. While another patient is currently receiving plasma therapy at the hospital, state health department has sought ICMR’s approval for providing the therapy to 10 more people. The state-run Gandhi hospital began its plasma therapy trials 10 days back. The ongoing trial is being carried out on two critically ill Covid-19 patients. “The patients are selected based on prescribed criteria for trail of the plasma therapy and are the ones who are almost on the deathbed. So, one such patient the first one on plasma trial has recovered. He will be discharged in a day or two,” said a senior official from state health department. A male patient, also from Hyderabad and receiving the therapy, is stable but under observation. He was severely affected from Covid-19, in addition to a infection in the brain. Meanwhile, there is a need for more plasma donors, said authorities. Although there is a list of over 40 people who have recovered and are ready to donate plasma, so far only six have come forward. “For each patient, two units of plasma is required, which means we need two donors per patient. We are waiting for more donors. The donation is likely to speed up after the Ramzan as many people might be on fast currently,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-first-patient-recover-after-plasma-therapy/articleshow/75855904.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Wine dealers seek 45-day relief in licence tax, say sales down by 50%||HYDERABAD: After an initial ‘high’, liquor stores in Telangana have hit a dry patch with sales dropping by close to 50 per cent over the last few days. Concerned, dealers have now written to the authorities seeking relief in payment of licence tax, due in June. With all outlets shut for 45 days — during the lockdown — and revenues still running low, dealers have appealed to the government to waive off the tax for all the days that they were closed. Telangana currently has 2,230 wine shops. As per norm, every store has to pay between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 in licence tax per day — adding up to Rs 1.10 crore per year in several cases. This is collected quarterly, at the beginning of the three-month period. The payment for the June to September quarter is due in a few weeks. “We earnestly request you to consider adjustment of license tax, relating to closure period of 45 days during the lockdown, from the instalment of license tax payable by us in June, and collect the balance amount only,” read the letter sent to the commissioner of prohibition and excise, by the Telangana Wine Dealers’ Association stressing how their investments have gone up substantially owing to a special excise cess levied by the government. “As lockdown conditions are still continuing and shops have to be closed at 6 pm, we are put to great financial hardship in meeting our sales revenues,” the letter added. But realising its contribution to the state coffers, dealers have made another appeal: to extend the license period for 2019-2021 by 45 days. “Our first hope is that the government will not collect taxes for the 45 days when we didn’t make any money. But in case it feels that it will be a huge revenue loss, we urge them to extend our license period and collect proportionate licence tax for the extended period at that time,” said D Venkateshwara Rao, president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wine-dealers-seek-45-day-relief-in-licence-tax-say-sales-down-by-50/articleshow/75855942.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Satna couple digs up a well during lockdown||BHOPAL: In Majhgawan area of Satna district, which usually battles water shortage during summer months, a tribal couple has used the lockdown period to dig up a well that is around 12 feet deep. And now this well is being used by the couple and their neighbours for irrigating their kitchen gardens. The well has been dug on government land in Barha Mawan village under Majhgawan janpad. A tribal couple - Chhotu Mawasi and his wife Rajlalli - have dug this well in 20 days, working for more than seven hours a day. Now government officials have decided to help the couple by ensuring that their well is cemented and dug deeper. Sources said that on March 30, the Mawasi couple who were rendered jobless due to Covid lockdown, decided to dig a well. Diligently working from 6 am to 11 am and 3 pm to 5 pm every day for 20 days, they finally dug the well, said sources. Chief executive officer of Majhgawan Janpad Panchayat, Ashok Tiwari, said, “There is water in the well created by the tribal couple; it is approximately 4 metre deep and 3 metre wide. There was a patch of government land in the backyard of their house where they have dug up this well, all by themselves. Though there is water in the well, we want the well to be dug deeper and get it cemented. We are trying to get these works done under the MGNREGS. The well would then be useful for all the villagers.” “There is water scarcity in some parts of the Majhgawan, but recently we had undertaken many projects under MGNREGS and other government initiatives to recharge the water table and there has been a significant improvement,” Tiwari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/satna-couple-digs-up-a-well-during-lockdown/articleshow/75855901.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Three murders in three days, liquor the binding element||PUNE: Three murder cases have been registered with the Pimpri Chinchwad police since Sunday with liquor emerging as the common thread.  An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said, “After the government allowed the liquor shops to operate during the lockdown, there has been an increase in cases like body offences and even domestic violence.” He said the three murders, too, happened after consumption of liquor. “We have detected all the three cases,” he said. On Monday, a 35-year-old man’s body was found stuffed in a gunny bag in the Indrayani river at Dehu Road. The man was later identified as Sunil Marajkole of Yavatmal. He worked at a farm near Dehu Road. The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday arrested Marajkole’s three friends, about to leave the city. The probe revealed that the trio bludgeoned him to death after consuming liquor and dumped the body into the river. On Monday, the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch arrested a criminal on the police records for bludgeoning another criminal, Manoj alias Dingrya Dhakoliya of Dehu Road, to death. The duo had consumed liquor and had entered into a brawl. The suspect, Adam Khan, later smashed Dhakoliya’s head with a big stone and killed him. On Sunday, Santosh Kulkarni (43) was murdered after a quarrel over Rs125. Kulkarni and the suspect, Ganesh Thorat, had consumed liquor together before the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-murders-in-3-days-liquor-the-binding-element/articleshow/75856723.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 21, 2020||Pune||PCMC starts smart city projects amid shortage of workers||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has got going with its Rs320 crore smart city project in some areas after a hiatus of nearly two months. Officials, however, said labour shortage was a major worry for them to start the work following some relaxations in the lockdown announced following the outbreak of Covid-19. An official said an estimated one lakh labourers have left Pune in the past three weeks for their hometowns. While most of the work was related to complete the pre-monsoon tasks, some new projects have been undertaken. “We are facing labour shortage and cannot say how much work has begun. Our primary goal is to complete all pre-monsoon work,” said Vijay Bhojane, joint city engineer. He said a lot of work was behind schedule because of the lockdown and the labour shortage has made the task more difficult. The PCMC is implementing the smart city project across 5.08 sqkm of the 181 sqkm twin townships. The two sub-areas selected for transformation are Pimple Gurav and Pimple Saudagar. Pimple Saudagar Road The work on the much-awaited alternative road parallel to the existing Kunal Icon road started on Monday. However, only 900m stretch of the over 2km road has been sanctioned. Though there seems to be no issue with the Army authorities, with which the area shares a boundary, there are some structures in the way that need to be cleared if the entire road has to be completed. “There are some houses and buildings along the 18m wide road. We hope to get them to move by the time the 900m stretch is complete,” Chinchwad legislator Laxman Jagtap said. Since the Kate Wasti to Rakshak Chowk road closed after a court battle in October 2015, thousands in the area have to take a 5km detour to reach a spot that was barely 700m away. Nearly 40,000 residents felt that full connection of the alternative road was also important because the Kunal Icon road was likely to get more due to the smart city components like wider pavements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-starts-smart-city-projects-amid-shortage-of-workers/articleshow/75856718.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 600 NRTs return home from UK, Gulf||Vijayawada/Visakhapatnam: A total of 143 Non-Resident Telugus (NRTs) from the United Kingdom arrived at Vijayawada international airport on Wednesday. All foreign returnees underwent Covid-19 protocols and were shifted to their hometowns in special buses arranged by the state government. The flight, which was expected to land at around 06:35 am on Wednesday, was delayed and reached Vijayawada at 08:15 am. Authorities of Krishna district administration welcomed the passengers. “Passengers were very happy with the arrangements made at the airport. The very first passenger completed the formalities within 40 minutes of arrival and boarded the bus to reach home. Our staff worked hard to process the movement smoothly,” said G Madhusudan Rao, Vijayawada airport director. Authorities of Andhra Pradesh Non-Resident Telugus Society (APNRTS) and district administration collected the address, contact number and other details from the foreign returnees at specially arranged counters. The state government provided refreshments and breakfast for the NRTs. Passengers who opted for paid quarantine at star hotels in Vijayawada city were shifted by Krishna district authorities. Thirteen buses were were arranged to shift people. Revenue officials from each district were arranged as special officers to coordinate with the passengers. APNRTS said that special flights carrying migrant workers from Kuwait will arrive at Vijayawada, Tirupati, and Vishakapatnam on Thursday. Meanwhile, after 56 days of lockdown, Vizag airport came to life with people landing in the city from foreign nations, late at night on Tuesday and Wednesday. Two flights from Abu Dhabi and Manila reached Vizag late a night on Tuesday with 312 stranded people—166 of which were from Manila in the Phillipines. Another flight with 152 passengers from Doha also landed in at the city airport at 7:35 pm, airport director Raj Kishore said. All passengers were received by district joint collector M Venugopala Reddy. “After the arrival of the passengers, we conducted a series of examinations. We kept an ambulance ready for the passengers as a precautionary measure if anybody tested positive,” the joint collector said. According to sources, the foreign returnees underwent digital screening first where eight persons were posted, then immigration clearance and customs clearance. The district administration provided them an Indian SIM and helped them download the Arogya Setu app. Passengers were separated on the basis of their destination. Two persons belonging to Hyderabad in Telangana were also among the passengers from Manila. The joint collector said that they were sent to quarantine centres and tests would be conducted. Eighty-eight of the passengers who returned belong to Vizag. The majority of them came in Abu Dáhabi flight and preferred to stay in government quarantine. Initially, the authorities informed the district administration that four flights with 750 passengers would reach Vizag on Tuesday. The district administration had arranged 35 buses. But two flights were cancelled on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-600-nrts-return-home-from-uk-gulf/articleshow/75854986.cms||Venu Lanka
May 21, 2020||Rajkot||Eight injured in clash over quarantine||Rajkot: Eight people were injured in a clash that erupted after one faction asked the other to stay in home quarantine as they had come from outside. The members, interestingly, belong to the same family in Bheemnath village of Barwala taluka in Botad district on Wednesday morning, said cops. “Ghanshyam Vekaria along with his three family members had come to Bheemnath village from Surat. On Wednesday morning, his cousin Uka asked him and his family members to remain under the mandatory home quarantine. This angered Vekaria, triggering off the clash,” said S Y Zala, sub-inspector with Barwala police station. “Members from both the families attacked each other with iron pipes, matchettes and bats. Five members from both the groups have been booked for the crime,” said Zala, adding that the injured were admitted to Dhandhuka Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-injured-in-clash-over-quarantine/articleshow/75855930.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kochi||Olympian Shiny among those who crossover at Kumily||Kottayam: Four-time Olympian Shiny Wilson was among those who crossed the border from Tamil Nadu and entered the state via Kumily in Idukki district on Wednesday. Shiny arrived accompanied by her sister at the checkpost in Kumily from Chennai after she secured the online entry pass of the state government. The retired athlete underwent a routine medical check-up at the border before proceeding to her home at Karimban in the Idukki district. Shiny, who is presently working as a general manager with the Food Corporation of India in Chennai, had to rush to her native place after her father fell ill. Shiny's father was under treatment for liver cancer and is now admitted to a private hospital in Thodupuzha. Speaking to TOI, Shiny, who drove from Chennai, said that a Covid test was done after she had insisted. However, she along with her sister have been advised to go on home quarantine till the results come. The 55-year-old was a champion athlete in her prime and has an Asian Games gold medal to her credit, besides representing the country in numerous international competitions. She was the flagbearer of the Indian contingent at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. Meanwhile, a total of 375 had crossed at the Kumily check post till 5 pm on Wednesday. This includes 206 men and 141 women, in addition to 28 children. The majority of them had arrived from Tamil Nadu (156) followed by Karnataka (125).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/olympian-shiny-among-those-who-crossover-at-kumily/articleshow/75854991.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nine lakh migrant workers sent back||Gandhinagar: The state government on Wednesday said that 9.18 lakh migrant workers will be sent back by midnight on May 20 to their respective states through Shramik Special trains. Providing details of the same, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “The state government has operated 562 labour trains to ensure the safe return of 8.08 lakh migrant workers until midnight on May 19. Of these, 393 trains have been operated for UP, 69 for Bihar, 40 for Odisha, 24 for MP, 18 for Jharkhand, 7 for Chhattisgarh, 11 for Uttarakhand, and Jammu Kashmir. Out of the total 1,770 Shramik Special trains in the country, one-third i.e. 562 trains have left from Gujarat.” Kumar added that 72 trains will be operated until midnight on Wednesday to send back 1.10 lakh migrant workers to UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and other states. Out of these, 46 will be for UP, 23 for Bihar, 2 for Jharkhand and 1 for Tamil Nadu.  All necessary safety protocols are being observed in the Shramik Special trains in addition to the provision of food and potable water for the labourers, Kumar claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-lakh-migrant-workers-sent-back/articleshow/75855957.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||4 workers injured in mishap||Hyderabad: Four construction workers were injured near Yadadri temple in Telangana on Wednesday.  Officials said that the workers were injured while they were laying slabs at a construction site and the scaffolding fell on them. Yadadri police said that the workers were shifted to a private hospital in LB Nagar. “Doctors have said that the condition of the workers is stable, only one of the four workers sustained grievous injuries,” Yadadri inspector K Panduranga Reddy said. No case was registered by the police as no plaint was lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-workers-injured-in-mishap/articleshow/75855915.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||CITY TRACED LEAST CONTACTS PER PATIENT||Ahmedabad: Contact tracing — the process of identifying, assessing, and managing or isolating people who have been exposed to any Covid-19 patient — has been the pillar of infection control to stop further spread of the virus. But Ahmedabad, which today stands as the second-most worst Covid-19 affected city in the country, has the lowest number of contacts traced per Covid-19 patient at just six in the state. Vadodara too falls in the same bracket. Also there are 1,397 contacts of Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad, whose details have not been entered or are yet to be traced, which also poses a serious risk. No other district or city has such high number of untraced contacts in the state. In all, Ahmedabad district, which includes the city, has traced 56,800 contacts till date. Apart from the low contact tracing, one other reason why Ahmedabad had high Covid-19 numbers was poor Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) surveillance. A senior state health official told TOI that Ahmedabad’s door-to-door health surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) covered merely 14 % in some of the worst-affected areas till May 4 and now has been scaled to more than 60% only now. “Within AMC limits we have stopped contact sampling of asymptomatic patients, as it’s next to impossible to keep track of them with the existing staff and machinery. It should have been done in earlier stages of the disease. We are now aggressively concentrating on contact sampling of symptomatic patients,” said an AMC urban health centre (UHC) doctor who refused to be identified.Another major flaw that was responsible for the high number of deaths being registered of patients with co-morbidities was that soon after a Ambli-based hospital in late March was asked to down shutters after a Covid-19 patient had visited the hospital, the municipal corporation had asked all clinics and hospitals to shut operations.This put many people needing treatment for kidney, diabetes and heart diseases at risk. “Also, since all fever OPDs in these hospitals and clinics were closed there was no way of tracking SARI and ILI patients. It is only now that the AMC forced many hospitals and clinics to function,” said the health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-traced-least-contacts-per-patient/articleshow/75856129.cms||Paul John
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||3 held for death of 75-yr-old inside ambulance||Tirupati: Tirupati urban police arrested three persons on Wednesday in connection with the untimely death of a 75-year-old patient at the SVRR hospital in Tirupati on Wednesday. Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy told reporters the three — identified as David, Prabhu and Krishna — were arrested in connection with the incident which resulted in the death of the senior citizen. It may be recalled that the local ambulance mafia, which has been involved in many incidents related to fleecing of poor patients at the SVRR hospital, had on Tuesday stopped an ambulance from outside which was ferrying an elderly patient discharged form the hospital to his native place. Amid the tussle between the driver of the outside vehicle and the local ambulance mafia, the elderly patient got stuck for nearly 30 minutes and passed away in the ambulance itself due to shortage of oyygen. Reddy, who also spoke to SVRR hospital superintendent Dr T Bharati and other doctors and staff, said the police wing would set up a pre-paid ambulance counter at the hospital premises soon for the convenience of patients. “Tuesday’s incident was really unfortunate and unpardonable. We have arrested the culprits and will ensure that such incidents do not repeat in the future, not only here but at other government hospitals in the city too. We will soon set up a pre-paid ambulance counter which will ensure that patients are not fleeced or harassed by local ambulance mafia,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-held-for-death-of-75-yr-old-inside-ambulance/articleshow/75854996.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Unilateral projects not done: Board to T||Hyderabad: Authorities at the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) have shot off a letter to the Telangana government, saying it cannot take up new projects unliterally, and asked their views on a complaint lodged by Andhra Pradesh. GRMB member PS Kutiyal in a letter to Telangana irrigation department principal secretary Rajat Kumar urged him to immediately furnish the views of Telangana government on the complaint lodged by AP and also furnish copies of the detailed project reports (DPRs) and details of the projects.“This may please be treated on priority. This has been issued with the approval of chairman, GRMB,” Kutiyal wrote. Telangana principal secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar told TOI that the matter is being examined by the government and a detailed response will be given in due course of time. However, as per preliminary examination, none of the projects mentioned by AP are in violation of GRMB stipulations, he said. “The projects taken by erstwhile government and the present government on both Krishna and Godavari are aimed at utilisation of water as per allocations to Telangana,” Rajat Kumar said. The bonhomie between the two Telugu states over water sharing has now turned into a bitter battle, after Telangana lodged a complaint with Krishna River Management Board against AP for issuing a G.O. to enhance Pothireddypadu water drawal capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unilateral-projects-not-done-board-to-t/articleshow/75855945.cms||Roushan Ali
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Maoists torch 4 vehicles in Gadchiroli to protest cadre’s killing||Nagpur: Maoists set four vehicles, including three ferrying sand, on fire near Kulbhatti and Gajamendhi villages in Dhanora tehsil in north Gadchiroli on Tuesday protesting the encounter death of their senior cadre Sujanakka on May 2. The Maoists, who had called ‘Bandh’ in the district on Wednesday protesting Sujanakka’s death, have now extended the period of agitation till May 22. The arson attack disrupted movement of the heavy vehicles between Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh as the incident took place around four-and-half kilometres from state border. The Maoists, claiming to be from North Gadchiroli division committee of their party, had put up banners across the road hailing the ‘martyrdom’ of Sujanakka who was divisional committee member and commander of Kasnasur dalam. It is learnt hordes of villagers from Gajamendhi village had marched to Sawargaon police post on Wednesday to protest the incident. The Maoists had earlier felled trees to block the road connecting Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. They intercepted the vehicles and asked the drivers to leave the place. One of the drivers tried to flee by reversing his vehicle but was caught and thrashed by the Maoists. SP Shailesh Balkawade said the residents of the adjoining villages where the Maoists had triggered the arson have expressed their anger before the police against such violence. “People were miffed with the Maoists for their violence which is blocking development. Later, the villagers spontaneously took out the Maoists’ banners and removed pamphlets from the scene,” he said. “In the night, the Maoists had asked the villagers at gunpoint to march with them to the arson site against their wishes,” said the SP. Police have released a press communication stating the Maoists were appealing to people to observe ‘Bandh’ for a dreaded cadre like Sujanakka who was behind 144 offences including 34 murders in the district. In some places in both north and south Gadchiroli, Maoists banners were spotted with appeal for supporting the ‘bandh’ . In an unrelated incident, a forest wood depot on Alapalli-Etapalli road caught fire. Police claimed there was no Maoist hand behind it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maoists-torch-4-vehicles-in-gadchiroli-to-protest-cadres-killing/articleshow/75856751.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala government sanctions 2,900 posts to fight Covid-19||THIRUVANANTHPURAM: The government created 2,948 posts through national health mission as part of intensifying Covid-19 prevention steps, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday. This is in addition to the 3,770 posts created for Covid-19 prevention activities recently. This has taken the total number of temporary posts in the health department to 6,700. The additional posts were created in the wake of recent influx of citizens from abroad and other states. Those who would be appointed in these posts will serve in first-line care centres, Covid care centres and Covid hospitals. These include 38 doctors, 15 specialists, 20 dental surgeons, 72 staff nurses, 169 nursing assistants, 1,259 junior health inspectors, 741 junior public health nurses and 358 cleaning staff. Earlier, 276 doctors were appointed through public service commission. Also, 273 posts were created for Kasaragod medical college. As many as 8,229 posts were created in the past three months. While, the government has created the posts in health department, it is looking to cut down posts in other departments.  The government recently abolished 52 posts of junior typists in Kerala Water Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-sanctions-2900-posts-to-fight-covid/articleshow/75855013.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||With no permit rooms,liquor sales take big hit||Hyderabad: Though liquor shops have reopened and recorded bumper sales in the first few days, the euphoria was short-lived. With the excise authorities clamping down on permit rooms, the sales, especially that of beer, have taken a hit. Liquor shop owners depend heavily on the permit room collections to cover their licence fee costs and taxes as otherwise their business becomes unviable. “Even though our sale volumes and prices do not support the excise tax and licence fee costs we need to pay to the government, permit rooms provide us cushion,” revealed a liquor shop owner. Permit rooms are those attached to the liquor shops where guzzlers are allowed to buy liquor and consume it there The government, when it eased the lockdown guidelines, did not allow the permit rooms along with bars and restaurants to function. With a majority of consumers being private firm, salaried and middle class employees who buy liquor brands in the price range of Rs 600 to Rs 1,000 and use the permit rooms, the liquor shops have lost this business. “Also, with employees not getting their full salaries, the liquor business took a dip for the worse,” a market analyst said. Another reason for drop is that not many migrant labourers are queuing up in front of shops now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-permit-roomsliquor-sales-take-big-hit/articleshow/75855988.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt allows 5 pvt varsities in state||Hyderabad: In a first for the state, Telangana government on Wednesday issued an order permitting establishment of five private universities. The state has amended the Telangana State Private Universities (Establishment and Regulation) Act, 2018, and issued an ordinance ‘Telangana State Private Universities (Establishment and Regulation) (Amendment) Ordinance’ to include Mahindra University, Mallareddy University and Anurag University, the three in Medchal-Malkajgiri district, Woxsen University, Sangareddy, and SR University, Warangal, as private universities. An ordinance was said to be issued since the State Assembly was not in session. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan signed the order and it came into force with immediate effect. As per the government order (GO) 16 issued by the law department, the Telangana State Private Universities, 2020, would be published in the Telangana Gazette in English, Telugu, and Urdu languages as Telangana Ordinance No.1 of 2020. This ordinance paved the way for creating separate Acts for each private university that would be established in the state. The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE), which has called in applications for the establishment of private universities in the state, received about 12 applications from institutes such as Radcliffe University, Amity University, to set up their shops in the state and existing colleges to convert their institutions into private varsities. After thorough scrutiny by an expert committee and upon satisfying the norms, nine private institutions were given letters of intent by the state government. Of these nine institutes, an order was passed for the establishment of five private universities. According to the officials of TSCHE, these private universities would not begin academic session from 2020-21 as they need time to set up the infrastructure and other facilities. More private universities will likely be permitted if they meet the necessary requirements. The private universities are divided into two categories—greenfield (new ones) and brownfield (existing institutions). Greenfield universities would have full autonomy to decide fee, curriculum, and other aspects, while brownfield ones must follow existing norms. The private universities are divided into two categories—greenfield (new ones that will have full autonomy) and brownfield (existing institutions that will have to follow existing norms)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-allows-5-pvt-varsities-in-state/articleshow/75855986.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD chairman helps cop get aid from CM’s relief fund||Tirupati: TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy reached out to a police constable in distress and helped him receive money from the CM’s relief fund for the treatment of his triplet children who were born premature. The wife of Kolakaluri Ankaiah, who works as constable at Ongole II town police station, had delivered triplets — two girls and a boy — at a private hospital in Ongole on May 3. As it was a premature delivery in the seventh month of pregnancy, the newborns developed complications and had to be admitted to a leading private hospital in Vijayawada. Though the police welfare association pooled in Rs 2.10 lakh, it was not sufficient to meet the spiralling medical expenses for the emergency care of the newborns. Ankaiah then met the TTD chairman and asked for help, who took the issue to the notice of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The CM immediately sanctioned Rs 7 lakh to meet the medical expenses of the triplets. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-chairman-helps-cop-get-aid-from-cms-relief-fund/articleshow/75855001.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Two dead, 27 new Covid cases in T||Hyderabad: Two more persons with co-morbid conditions died from coronavirus on Wednesday as 27 new positive cases were reported in Telangana. While the overall Covid-19 caseload reached 1661, the 691 patients undergoing treatment are all responding well to medication, authorities said. Two more patients recovered from the virus, while two persons with co-morbid conditions died, raising the death toll to 40. A 61-year-old patient from Moinagar and a 81-year-old man from Chandrayangutta were among the dead. Among the 27 new cases, greater Hyderbaad reported 15 cases and the remaining were migrants from Jagityal and Janagaon. So far, 89 migrants from other states have tested positive. Telangana has stopped issuing passes to its migrant labourers seeking to come back from Maharashtra, Gujarat and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, as its tried to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state. On the directions of the government as a precautionary measure, the government took the step as incidence of Covid-19 positive cases are still very high in these three states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-dead-27-new-covid-cases-in-t/articleshow/75855947.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR, Jagan killing power projs: Cong||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy on Wednesday alleged that private power producers’ lobby is strongly behind the conspiracy to close existing power projects on Krishna and start new projects. “People of Telangana have neither got neellu (water), nidhulu (funds) nor niamakalu (jobs) for which the statehood was achieved ,” he added. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is not strongly opposing GO 203 issued by Andhra Pradesh to enhance water drawal capacity,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-jagan-killing-power-projs-cong/articleshow/75855958.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Activist writes to CM, demands interest-free loans for middle class||VISAKHAPATNAM: A city-based advocate and political activist has written to the chief minister to provide financial assistance in the form of interest-free personal loans for the middle and lower middle class, who are not beneficiaries of any government schemes and are having a hard time in the present pandemic situation. In his letter to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, advocate IM Ahmed, AP state president of Welfare Party of India, requested the state to grant interest-free personal loans up to Rs 5 lakhs to middle class and lower middle class families so they could ‘lead a dignified and safe life’. Those who fall under this category include private employees, private school or college teachers, journalists, advocates, young private doctors and legal professionals with few years of experience, petty businessmen or traders, artists, musicians, writers or creative people. Due to the lockdown, jobs, private practices or businesses of all these people have suffered badly and many of them have no income or job, the activist saids. “Lakhs of middle and lower middle class families, are undergoing a very tough time with a lack of income during the Covid-19 crisis. They are not protected by any government welfare schemes. These people do not even have access to health schemes like Arogyasri and have to bear huge medical expenditure for any treatment. No political party, financial institutions or NGOs take care of them,” he said. The advocate suggested that the government for a minimum period or six months to one year, personal loans of up to Rs 5 lakh be granted to them. The proof of documents asked by the banks as surety should be hassle-free.  The banks can retain 5-10 % of the process charges at the time of releasing the personal loans. The families can get the cash in hand, which will enhance their purchasing capacity and in turn money circulation in the economy can be smoothly maintained, Ahmed stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/activist-writes-to-cm-demands-interest-free-loans-for-middle-class/articleshow/75855011.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jal Yatra on June 5 to be low-key affair in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Ahmedabad, usually a grand celebration with lakhs of devotees participating, is likely to be a low-key event this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The 143rd edition of the Yatra is slated to be held on June 23. A preliminary meeting of temple trustees including Mahant Dilipdas Maharaj was to be held on May 20. However, many members of the temple committee could not attend due to the lockdown situation which restricts movement of people in containment zones, said sources. Mahendra Jha, one of the trustees of the Jagannathji Mandir Trust, said the meeting will now be held after May 31, when Lockdown 4.0 ends. He said that the Jal Yatra will be held on June 5. It will be a low-profile event with only a few people including Mahant Maharaj and the temple priests participating, he added. After the Jal Yatra, the main Rath Yatra is to be held on June 23. A decision on this will be taken at the meeting after May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jal-yatra-on-june-5-to-be-low-key-affair/articleshow/75855955.cms||---
May 21, 2020||India||Cases with mild symptoms & no fever can’t spread infection: Government||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases which are either pre-symptomatic or are with mild or moderate symptoms and do not have fever before discharge from hospital cannot spread the infection, the health ministry said, clarifying that there is evidence to support it. The comment came in the wake of concerns over the latest revision in the discharge policy by the government. The health ministry recently said mild and moderate cases of Covid-19 do not need to be tested prior to discharge from hospital. “Mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic cases admitted will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and if there is no fever for 3 days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow home isolation for further 7 days,” the revised discharge policy said. Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said while there is evidence to suggest that the risk of transmission from such people after 10 days is not there, as a precaution these people are advised to stay in home quarantine for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cases-with-mild-symptoms-no-fever-cant-spread-infection-government/articleshow/75857656.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Community library, only ray of sunshine for tribal kids in Gadchiroli village||Nagpur: Graduate student Shashi Madawi hastens to unlock the Devrai Gram Granthalaya (village library) door because she knows the dozen-odd kids standing behind, are getting restless. Small heads in the queue keeping bobbing up and sideways trying to check the progress she’s made, getting their feet ready like launch pads, since grabbing the prized story book depends on who gets to it first. This is Koyanguda, a blink-and-you-miss-it village located a few kilometres off the main road in Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli district. With school closed since lockdown in March, and no smartphones or OTT platforms, the village’s library is the only ‘happening’ place for these kids from poor tribal families. The library was started in an abandoned Gotul (village community hall constructed by government) this March, but its glory was cut short quickly due to the lockdown. But by then the children had been exposed to a world they had never known. With no end in sight to the lockdown, parents reached out to principal Vinit Padmawar, currently in his native village, asking for the locks to be opened. He consented after varsity student Madawi volunteered to handle everything. The library now daily hosts all 23 students of the only zilla parishad school in the village plus half a dozen university students who are now back due to lockdown. Over 800 books of varying topics ensure that there’s something for all age groups. The school’s principal Vinit Padmawar, who helped start the library said, “This proves that children’s zeal to learn and gain knowledge does not need online teaching and hi-tech gadgets. For every book they read, kids prepare a one-page synopsis. This way, it just won’t be about turning pages but also about comprehending the treasure that lies within them,” said Padmawar. The library too, is truly a labour of love. The Gotul was cleaned up, painted, fitted with electric appliances all through community contributions plus efforts of social worker Dr Aniket Prakash Amte. “A businessman from Satara donated hundreds of books. Many others came through similar route and finally our dream of building a library became a reality,” said Padmawar. And with young children queuing up everyday to make the most of it, Padmawar knows all the efforts were worth it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/community-library-only-ray-of-sunshine-for-tribal-kids-in-gadchiroli-village/articleshow/75856017.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tourism min dares Naidu for debate on LG Polymers issue||Visakhapatnam: Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday challenged former CM and TDP president Nara Chandrababu Naidu to come for an open debate on the LG Polymers issue. It may be recalled that 12 people died and hundreds were hospitalised due to leakage of styrene vapour from the storage tank of the plant on May 7. Accusing Naidu of making statements by sitting in Hyderabad, Rao dared him to come to Amaravati or Vizag for a debate. “We will show him who gave permissions to LG Polymers for modification and renewals,” he said. “Since it started operations in 1967, the plant’s licenses were renewed every year. A permanent license was issued on Sept 18, 2000. Around 16 permissions were granted to the factory from 1999 to 2009 to carry out modifications. And most of the permissions were given by the TDP government.” On the Covid situation in Vizag, the minister said 82 positive cases have been reported in the district, of which 56 were discharged after a series of tests came negative. “As of now, 25 people are under treatment and are recovering. Around 59 lakh masks have been distributed in the rural areas while 28 lakh have been distributed in GVMC limits. Around 64,000 PPE kits are available with the district administration,” he said. Meanwhile, district collector V Vinay Chand said the complaint by junior doctors of Andhra Medical College against principal Dr P Sudhakar would be enquired by joint collector Arun Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tourism-min-dares-naidu-for-debate-on-lg-polymers-issue/articleshow/75855021.cms||Siva G
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Two kids drown in Umdasagar||Hyderabad: Two children, who accompanied their brother to a lake in Bandlaguda drowned in the water body on Wednesday. The victims were identified as Mohammed Kareem alias Abbas, 4, and his sister Kulsum Fatima, 6. The mishap occurred when the children along with their elder brother, Mohammed Nawaz, 17, went to Umdasagar in Bandlaguda of Chandrayangutta at 11.30am. “Mohammed Nawaz went to the lake to wash clothes. Nawaz went to fetch a soap. By the time he returned, the younger siblings went missing. After failing to locate them in surrounding areas, Nawaz went home and informed his mother,” Chandrayangutta inspector Rudra Bhaskar said. Nawaz along with his mother, Sabiya Khan, a daily-wage worker, returned to the lake and again searched for the missing children. Later, a local person fished out the bodies of the siblings. Based on the complaint of Sabiya Khan, a case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC, the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-kids-drown-in-umdasagar/articleshow/75856780.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||14 patients die of Covid-19, highest in a day for Pune||PUNE: A record 14 people succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, taking the casualty count in the area to 235 so far. Besides, 174 people tested positive for the contagion in the PMR on Wednesday, pushing the total case count to 4,544. Of the 14 deceased, nine were aged above 60 years. Eight casualties were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 69-year-old man from Kalyaninagar, a 60-year-old man from the Pune Camp area, a 74-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth, a 61-year-old man from the Pune Camp area, a 37-year-old man from the Kharadi area, a 57-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman from Parvati, and an 80-year-old man from the Tadiwala Road area. A 71-year-old man succumbed to the contagion at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital, while five died at private hospital. These include two men aged 50 and 74 from the Parvati area, a 44-year-man from the Gutlekdi area, a 76-year-old woman from Kothrud and a 69-year-old woman from Shirur taluka. Of the 174 new cases, 150 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, seven in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas and 17 in the rural parts of the district. The PMC health officials said the condition of 165 patients was critical and they were admitted at various hospitals in the city. Of these, 43 were put on ventilator support. Daily swab collection in PMC areas continued to remain over 1,000 on Wednesday. A total of 1,507 swabs were collected, the officials said. In PCMC limits, 84 patients are still undergoing treatment in various hospitals, while 138 patients have been discharged till now. Over 27,000 people are in isolation, either at home or hospital, in PMR, of which over 21,000 are from PMC limits alone. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-patients-die-of-covid-19-highest-in-a-day-for-pune/articleshow/75856777.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 21, 2020||Agra||24 primary teachers with ‘fake’ papers dismissed from service||Agra: At least 24 teachers on duty at the state government primary schools have been dismissed from service. The academic documents used by them to get appointed as assistant teacher were found to be "fake". Their names were mentioned in the list of fake B.Ed degrees of session 2004-05 issued by Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University. A special investigation team (SIT) appointed by the Allahabad high court is investigating the alleged Agra university B.Ed scam. Last year, the SIT had forwarded a list of over 2,800 applicants with fake or tampered B.Ed degree certificates of Agra University. Out of these, 249 had allegedly managed to get appointment as assistant teachers in the state government's primary schools. Rajeev Kumar, Basic Shiksha Adhikari of Agra district, said, “In the first phase, 24 applicants who had managed to get jobs as teachers in the primary schools of the district have been dismissed from service. Soon, FIR will be registered against them and procedure for recovery of salary received by them will be initiated."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/24-primary-teachers-with-fake-papers-dismissed-from-service/articleshow/75853743.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Agra||Congress workers protest against arrest of party’s UP chief||Agra: Congress workers on Wednesday gathered outside Agra Police Lines and staged a protest demanding release of state party president Ajay Lallu. Congress leader Pradeep Mathur said that Lallu and two other leaders were granted bail on Wednesday. But police instead of releasing the state president took him to Lucknow from the court as another FIR was registered against him there. “All the buses parked at UP-Rajasthan border returned as the UP government was reluctant to take help from the opposition party. Their intentions were not good and their double standards reflected in the letters sent by top UP government officials,” said Mathur. The Congress had earlier asserted that workers along with the fleet of buses will stay put at the UP border till 4pm on Wednesday and wait for the state government’s nod to move ahead. In a letter to additional chief secretary home, Awanish Awasthi, Priyanka Gandhi’s personal secretary Sandeep Singh said, “We are at Uttar Pradesh border since the morning of May 19 and have not received any response from the government. When we tried to move towards Noida and Ghaziabad, we were stopped by the Police at Agra border. We will remain here till 4pm on May 20.” A day earlier, Agra police had registered an FIR against Congress leaders including Lallu and AICC secretary Vivek Bansal and half dozen other under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC along with section 3, 4 of Epidemic and Diseases Act, stating that they did not wear masks and had also violated social distance norms. They were arrested while protesting against UP government’s decision of not allowing buses sent by the party for migrant workers to enter the state from Rajasthan border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/congress-workers-protest-against-arrest-of-partys-up-chief/articleshow/75853735.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kochi||Weary of Internet blackouts, Kashmiris with school kids opts to stay back||Kochi: Absence of a train to get back to their homestate was a heartburn for Kashmiris settled in the state and on Wednesday, their wish came true when a special train began its journey to Udhampur from Thiruvananthapuram. None of them would have to pay for tickets as the Jammu & Kashmir government has agreed to bear the cost. But around 20 Kashmiri families in Fort Kochi with school-going kids have decided to stay back because of frequent internet blackouts there. Nasir Khat, a curio shopowner, decided not to join his cousins and shop employees who are taking the trip because he expects online classes of schools to start soon. “In Kashmir there is no internet facility we can trust. On Tuesday, something happened and they have stopped it. We don’t know what will happen tomorrow; so rather than taking the risk we thought we would stay here,” said Khat. His children — 10-year-old Zainab Nasir and 6-year-old Mohammed Dayyan — are studying in Gregorian Public School, Maradu. Sajid Hussain Khatai, president, Kashmiri Traders’ Welfare Association, said he himself chose not to go because he has a kid studying in Choice School. “Around 20 families have taken such a decision because you cannot rely on internet connectivity in Kashmir and they don’t want the academic year to be disrupted,” Sajid said. According to reports, Jammu & Kashmir government has so far brought back 74,218 residents stranded in other states due to lockdown. The Shramik train, which began journey on Wednesday, carried around 945 passengers. Of this, 540 passengers boarded the train from Ernakulam South. Kifayat Hussain, one of the passengers in the train, said the train was allotted because of the help from state government and Ernakulam district administration. “Kashmir govt arranged this train totally for free. We don’t even have to pay for food. From Udhampur, we would be taken to Srinagar in bus. CPM arranged the buses for us and we didn’t even have to pay for it. I want to thank the Kerala government for this,” said Hussain. Back home, apart from the solace of being with your near ones many of them would not have to bother about paying rents. Though the lockdown has been relaxed, their businesses have taken a huge hit because it is intrinsically linked to tourism, one of the most impacted sectors. Kashmiris are spread in tourism zones of Kerala like Kovalam, Varkala, Kumarakom and Fort Kochi and Mattancherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/weary-of-internet-blackouts-kashmiris-with-school-kids-opts-to-stay-back/articleshow/75855045.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||More areas in Covid-19 map now||Vadodara: Covid-19 cases were reported from new areas in the city and district since Tuesday night. With 20 fresh cases, the total number of Covid-19 infected persons in the city went up to 750. The new cases were reported from the Ambedkar Nagar in Samta area where a father-son duo was found positive for Covid-19. Other new areas affected by the disease include Navayard, Nizampura, Payal Park in Karelibaug, Dashrath village in Vadodara taluka and Nanapura village of Savli Taluka. Sources in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that cases from several new areas had direct or indirect links to the Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH). No major lacunae were, however, found in the functioning of the isolation ward of the hospital. North zone in the city remained the worst affected in the city with nine of the 20 new cases coming from this area. This was followed by three cases each in the east and west zone as well as two each in the south zone and Vadodara rural. One of the cases was also from Ahmedabad. Of the 250 live Covid-19 cases in the city eight were on oxygen while six were breathing with the help of BIPAP machines or ventilators. Twelve more patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the total number of discharged patients up to 465. The 12 patients who were discharged include a doctor couple working at BAGH. The number of persons who were advised home quarantine stood at 1,324 on Wednesday. Also, 23 persons were in quarantine at private facilities in the city. The VMC removed six areas from the list of its 90 red zones released on Monday. But with addition of eight new areas, the list now includes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-areas-in-covid-19-map-now/articleshow/75853504.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Cops to inbox notices on social media abuse||Nagpur: Social media users will now have to exercise caution while posting messages or audio-visual contents as Maharashtra cyber security cell may directly send a caution notice in your mailbox under Section 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Different units of police across the state have registered 400 offences till May 19 for social media misuse. The issuance of notice, which is the newly added strategy to tackle the rising misuse of social media against the backdrop of Covid-19 outbreak, would be followed with legal action or registration of offence leading to imprisonment extending to even life in case of terrorism or fine which could go up to Rs10 lakh based on the gravity of the offence. The decision was taken during a meeting headed by State home minister Anil Deshmukh, water resources minister Jayant Patil and attended by the senior cyber cops like IG, Maharashtra cyber cell, Yashasvi Yadav, DIG Harish Baijal and others. IG Yadav said any misuse of social media to defame, degrade, denounce or use derogatory remarks and language against any representatives of government, political party, heads of the institutions and others with an intention to spread hatred and cause rift would be seriously dealt with from now on. “The decision has been taken to book a person if he or she fails to comply with the precautionary message sent in the inbox. Either they follow the instructions and delete the post or else legal action would follow,” said Yadav. Yadav said most social media misuses are being done by white collar criminals or citizens unaware about the legal fallout. “We feel there would be a curb in the misuse with our direct notices,” he said. Maharashtra cyber cell informed that Nagpur city police have so far registered nine offences while their rural counterpart had taken four legal actions. In the state, the maximum cyber offences have been registered at Beed district followed by Pune (31) and Mumbai (21). Across the state, around 213 persons have been arrested for their alleged social media misuse till May 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-to-inbox-notices-on-social-media-abuse/articleshow/75855999.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||AP HC gets new asst solicitor-gen||Hyderabad: The central government on Wednesday appointed Hyderabad advocate N Harinath as assistant solicitor- general at AP high court. He will defend the central government and its agencies at the high court for three years. He was elected as member of state bar council and was also a standing counsel for the high court and also for enforcement directorate etc in the past. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-hc-gets-new-asst-solicitor-gen/articleshow/75856004.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Toilet at home must for early discharge||PUNE: The civic administration will not release Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms after 10 days of isolation, as advised by the Union government, if they lack toilet-bathroom facilities at home. Such patients will have to mandatorily stay at isolation centres for 14 days. “Delaying the discharge of people without toilets at homes is a precautionary step. It is in favour of these patients to ensure that they are not exposed to contagion till the end of recovery period of two weeks. We are asking the people if they have toilet facility at home, based on which the authorities are deciding their discharge plan,” Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner of PMC, said. A civic official said the administration was also conducting the awareness sessions for patients on how they should maintain hygiene and cleanliness at homes. “These sessions are being held at the time of discharge. The administration has already initiated steps for continuous cleaning of community toilets at slums and dense areas,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toilet-at-home-must-for-early-discharge/articleshow/75856787.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: HC allows SSC exams from today after Centre gives nod||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Wednesday cleared the decks for Goa to conduct the SSC exam after the state government submitted a communication from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) granting the state an exemption from the lockdown to hold the exam. Thus, the exam will begin from Thursday. On Tuesday, the court had sought an urgent clarification from the MHA after the petitioners claimed that its (MHA) May 17 order of lockdown extension placed an embargo on the conduct of the exam. On Wednesday Justice Mahesh Sonak observed that the MHA’s May 20 communication creates “at least a prima facie impression” that the May 17 order did impose an embargo on the conduct of examinations. However, he noted that “the MHA, taking into consideration the peculiar position presented by the state and Goa board, has taken a decision to exempt the state of Goa from application of the embargo.” Sonak further noted that considering the MHA’s communication coupled with various assurances by the state government and Goa board pertaining to safety measures, it would not be possible for the HC to either stay or interfere with the decision of holding the SSC examinations. Meanwhile, the court directed the state government and board to strictly comply with all assurances and undertakings given by them to the court so that the issue of health, safety and well-being of the students and personnel involved in the exercise of holding examinations is not in any manner compromised. The high court also ordered the state and board to continuously monitor the situation and take suitable decisions depending on how the situation develops on a day-to-day basis. The court’s decision on Wednesday is the culmination of a long, protracted public debate on the conduct of exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. TOI has reported extensively how students, teachers, and experts had appealed to the government to cancel the exam. Politicians too joined the bandwagon, with leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Tuesday asking the ruling BJP if it would take responsibility is any untoward incident happens during the exam. Earlier in May, prominent educationists had said that the uncertainty of the exam might have an adverse psychological impact on children, and made the case for evaluating students based on internal marks. “I feel sorry for the students,” said former Goa board chairpersons Jose Remedios Rebello. “Children of migrant workers are really in a fix.” Another former board chairman, P R Nadkarni, was also straightforward. “The board need not conduct the exam at all,” he had said. When the case first came up before the high court on May 15, the bench declined to stay it, stating that it wasn’t a violation of the order issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). “The holding of such examination is not the same thing as conduct of regular activities in schools, colleges, etc,” Sonak had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-allows-ssc-exams-from-today-after-centre-gives-nod/articleshow/75857256.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 21, 2020||Agra||Palm civet finds ‘home’ at private college in Mathura||Agra: With the institutions shut and most people staying indoors owing to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, an Asian Palm Civet was found inside a private college in Mathura’s Farah. When the housekeeping staff opened the college for routine cleaning on Tuesday, they found the animal roaming on the campus. The staff raised an alarm. The college authorities informed the NGO Wildlife SOS. A two-member team from the NGO arrived at the location and carried out the rescue operation. After a 30-minute rescue operation, the civet, which had climbed atop the ceiling ledge, was safely moved into a transport box and later released to its natural habitat after a health check-up. Co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS Kartick Satyanarayan said, “The lockdown has given wild animals the opportunity to tread beyond the comforts of their homes in forests. The restricted movement of vehicles has only made the roads more accessible for animals to navigate. Pollution has decreased, public places are deserted and reduced human movement has made it easy for them to roam more freely. This is a lesson for us to respect nature and its creatures.” “The lockdown has kept us extremely busy. We are grateful to people for bringing such incidents to our knowledge. Wildlife SOS is trying its best to ensure no rescue call goes unanswered during this time. We need public support to continue our efforts and we invite food and grain donations,” director of Conservation Projects Wildlife SOS Baiju Raj MV said. The Asian Palm Civet (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus) is a mongoose-like mammal which survives in a wide range of habitats. Often seen in urban environments, but they are shy and wary of humans. They are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/palm-civet-finds-home-at-private-college-in-mathura/articleshow/75853771.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Bharat Biotech to develop Covid-19 vaccine candidate with US varsity||HYDERABAD: City-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said it has signed an exclusive deal with Thomas Jefferson University of Philadelphia for the development of a new vaccine candidate for Covid-19. The vaccine was invented by infectious diseases expert Professor Matthias Schnell’s lab at the university in January this year. Bharat Biotech aims to get into human trials for the vaccine as early as December 2020 with support from the Department of Biotechnology. The vaccine, which has recently completed preliminary tests in animal models and uses a deactivated rabies vaccine, showed a strong antibody response in mice. “Our partnership with Bharat Biotech will accelerate the development of our vaccine candidate. We will be able to complete animal testing and move to phase 1 clinical trial rapidly,” said ProSchnell, a coronavirus expert who directs The Jefferson Vaccine Institute and chairs Jefferson’s Department of Microbiology and Immunology. Bharat Biotech CEO Dr Krishna Mohan said, “The basic proof of concept has been established while using it for other pandemic infectious diseases. Bharat Biotech is committed to global public health and will be involved in an end-to-end development of the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-with-us-varsity/articleshow/75856025.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: 2 brothers killed over panchayat elections, cricket||MEERUT: Two brothers were shot dead on Tuesday night in Meerut’s Mundali area over a dispute related to Panchayat elections and cricket. Two groups got into a fight over a cricket match on Tuesday. With an old enmity over panchayat elections, the Tuesday’s fight added fuel to fire – after which the two brothers were shot dead while they were standing outside their house. The incident took place in Jisaura village wherein Ajwar and former pradhan Niyaaz – who had an old enmity over panchayat elections – confronted each other again after their children fought over a cricket match. On Tuesday night, Ajwar’s two sons, Khaaliq and Maajid, were standing outside their house, when some people with Niyaaz started firing shots. While Khaaliq died at the spot, Maajid succumbed on way to the hospital. Meerut SP rural Avinash Pandey said, “There was an old enmity between the two groups. Two brothers died during the firing done by the group of people on Niyaaz’s side. Two accused Niyaaz Ahmed and Abu Bakar have been arrested and sent to jail. Efforts are on to arrest others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-brothers-killed-over-panchayat-elections-cricket/articleshow/75856784.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||5 Pimpri Chinchwad cops infected||Pune: Five Pimpri Chinchwad police personnel, including an inspector, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally of infected up to seven. “After an assistant inspector tested positive on Monda, we immediately quarantined the police personnel who had come in his contact,” an officer said, adding that the entire commissionerate too was immediately disinfected. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-pimpri-chinchwad-cops-infected/articleshow/75856781.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Face-saver at midnight spares Goa the blushes||Panaji: It was a midnight face-saver for the Goa government. At 12.19am on Wednesday, the Union ministry of home affairs conveyed to the state its approval to hold the SSC exam after the state hurriedly sought an exemption from the lockdown guidelines. The case before the high court of Bombay at Goa revealed that only after the petitions were filed did the Goa government — late on May 19 — seek the MHA’s exemption. During the hearing that morning (May19), the petitioners had contended that there was an MHA embargo on conduct of exams in view of the lockdown extension. tnn “The matter has been examined in MHA taking into consideration the factual position mentioned in your letter that Goa does not have a single local active case of Covid infection (except the 39 of people travelling from outside),” stated the MHA communication, which also noted the state government’s position that Goa would find it difficult to hold the examinations during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/face-saver-at-midnight-spares-goa-the-blushes/articleshow/75857260.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Agra||Covid patient dies in Agra, eight new cases take dist tally to 830||Agra: A Covid-19 positive patient from Etah, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, died on Wednesday morning, taking the Covid death toll in Agra district to 29. The patient had complained about the breathing problem and was put on the ventilator. Meanwhile, at least eight new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 830. The new cases include two women who delivered two children at Lady Lyall hospital and a one-year-old child. The remaining patients are the contacts of the people who have already been tested positive. Meanwhile, 20 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. Out of the 830 cases reported in the district, 79.42% have been declared cured and discharged. On Wednesday, the number of active Covid cases dropped to 143 in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 660 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-patient-dies-in-agra-eight-new-cases-take-dist-tally-to-830/articleshow/75853754.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||After HC rap, NMC agrees to allow online garments & mobile sale||Nagpur: After severe censuring from the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) agreed to allow ready-made garments and mobile selling shops to start online delivery of products. The civic body earlier allowed only mobile repairing and hosiery shops to function while prohibiting mobile selling and ready-made garments’ stores. Questioning the logic behind such decisions, justice Rohit Deo orally blasted its top officials for such “absurd and illogical” decisions. “If someone wanted to buy a shirt or trouser or his/her mobile handset is damaged, where they will go. How can hosiery be separated from clothes store or repairing from mobile stores? Who had advised the NMC chief for permitting specific shops? From where does he get the advice?” the judge tersely asked NMC counsels — Sudhir Puranik and AM Qazi. He also sought to know if liquor delivery could be permitted online for the revenue, why not other products like clothes and mobile. The NMC lawyers had to repeatedly seek instructions from its top brass to answer HC’s volley of queries. The government’s notification in the evening that removed Nagpur from the red zone saved their day. The civic body in its earlier reply stated that the NMC commissioner took feedback from the assistant commissioners of ten zones before taking a decision to allow hosiery and mobile repairing shops to function. “The youngsters usually thronged mobile shops and families in garments store. Hence to avoid crowding, those were not permitted to open,” they said. Justice Deo warned that though the court wouldn’t venture into executive’s decision making powers, it wouldn’t ignore efforts to use it arbitrarily. The HC’s flaying came while hearing a bunch of petitions, including one by four lawyers — Shreerang Bhandarkar, Prakash Jaiswal, Kalmal Satuja and Manoj Sable — challenging the NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe’s decision to extend the lockdown in city while allegedly ignoring the centre and state government’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-hc-rap-nmc-agrees-to-allow-online-garments-mobile-sale/articleshow/75856040.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 21, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Murder suspect escapes from police custody, nabbed four hours later||MEERUT: A rape and murder suspect who had allegedly bludgeoned a woman to death had escaped from police custody in Saharanpur while he was being taken to the district hospital for medical examination. A 40-year-old woman's body with her face battered with a brick was found in Chapreri village On Tuesday. Her daughter had named three men including a local Ravinder in the FIR and all three were arrested. While two others were produced before the court, Ravinder escaped while he was being taken for medical examination. He was nabbed after four hours of massive manhunt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/murder-suspect-escapes-from-police-custody-nabbed-four-hours-later/articleshow/75856786.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Meerut||On son's birthday, migrant labourer dials UP police for cake, cops oblige||MEERUT: At a time when Devideen, 34, a migrant labourer was brooding over an uncertain future and a long journey ahead, his son Ashish made a rather unexpected demand. It was Ashish's 11th birthday on Tuesday and all he wanted was a cake. 'Stuck' in a shelter home near Garh Mukteshwar in Hapur district, Devideen had little resources to fulfill his son's wish. And, he ended up dialling police emergency response number 112. Devideen who had travelled on foot with his son and wife from Delhi and intended to walk all the way to his hometown in Azamgarh - 700 km from Garh - had little idea what his phone call may achieve. In a short while, Hapur's additional SP accompanied by several cops landed at the shelter. They had not only brought a cake, but even candles were lit and a cap was donned on Ashish. "It was my best birthday ever," Ashish said, overjoyed. Hapur's additional SP Sarvesh Mishra said, "On Tuesday, senior administrative and police staff were on inspection to camps based at Brijghat in Garh Mukteshwar when a police van received a message about a father's desire to celebrate his son's birthday. The information reached us and we arranged for a cake and reached the camp and celebrated the child's birthday. It was indeed a joyful moment for the child and at the same time we also wished to spread a message that UP police is with every migrant labourer." Devideen, who was equally delighted, said, "Honestly speaking, I had dialled the number only to satisfy my son so that he could feel that his father at least tried, but it was a pleasant surprise for me to see the cops actually bring a cake. I am, indeed, thankful to UP police."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/on-sons-birthday-migrant-labourerdials-up-police-for-cake-cops-oblige/articleshow/75856788.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 21, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19: Meerut death toll goes up to 21; three new cases in Meerut & Bijnor, four in Muzzaffarnagar||MEERUT: The death of a 38-year-old man took the Covid death tally in Meerut to 21 late on Tuesday night. Meanwhile, four people tested positive in Muzaffarnagar, three each in Meerut and Bijnor and one in Hapur. With the fresh cases, the tally reached 349 (including one found in Kanpur) in Meerut, 32 in Muzaffarnagar,61 (including three found in Kanpur) in Bijnor and 88 in Hapur (as one person who had tested positive at a private lab on Tuesday turned out to be negative on Wednesday). “A 38-year-old Covid-19 positive person from Shakur Nagar in Meerut died late on Tuesday night, taking the death toll to 21. He was diabetic and had hypertension. At least three people tested positive in Meerut on Wednesday. All of them are family members of the PAC jawan who had tested positive earlier,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer (CMO). Muzaffarnagar additional district magistrate Amit Singh said, “As many as four people tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the tally to 32.” Bijnor CMO Vijay Kumar said, “Three people tested positive from Papsara village in Bijnor’s Nehtaur. They had travelled to Mumbai.” Hapur district magistrate Aditi Singh said, “One person tested positive on Wednesday. He had returned from Maharashtra recently. He has been shifted from quarantine centre to the hospital. Meanwhile, a Shakar Kui woman, who had tested positive at a private lab, tested negative on Wednesday, following which her locality was unsealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-death-toll-goes-up-to-21-three-new-cases-in-meerut-bijnor-four-in-muzzaffarnagar/articleshow/75856785.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 21, 2020||Agra||RPF constable on Shramik Spl duty tests +ve for Covid-19 in Agra||Agra: A 51-year-old Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable posted at Agra Fort station to facilitate the movement of migrant workers in Shramik Special trains tested positive for Covid-19. The infected constable has been shifted to SNMC's isolation facility, while his eight colleagues have been quarantined. Senior commandant RPF Agra division, Prakash Kumar Panda, said, “The constable was found ill with fever on Monday, after which his sample was collected. On Tuesday, his sample was tested positive. I had a video call with the patient. He is responding well and will recover soon.” “Also, all those in close touch with the person have been quarantined, especially the cops of RPF barrack, where the corona patient was putting up after duty,” the senior commandant said on Wednesday. “Till now, we don’t know from where the cop got infected, as he along with other RPF cops have not left railway station duty for the past two months. It is quite possible that he may have caught the infection while on Shramik Special duty for migrant workers,” he added. According to police sources, till second week of May, 48 personnel of Uttar Pradesh police were found positive, out of which two succumbed in Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rpf-constable-on-shramik-spl-duty-tests-ve-for-covid-19-in-agra/articleshow/75853784.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Hundreds in Dubai wait for government to start flights to Maharashtra||PUNE: A 20-week pregnant woman with medical complications, a man who was told to leave when he could not pay the rent, another who has been jobless for two months with a family of four to support, are among the hundreds of people from Maharashtra living in Dubai who have appealed to the government to start flights so that they can come home. No flight operations to Mumbai, Pune or Nagpur airports have started from Dubai. The Indian embassy ‘s reply to a person who had enquired on Twitter about flights to Mumbai or Pune, said, “We have been consistently recommending flights to Mumbai from Dubai. However, the same has not yet been approved.” Stranded NRIs in UAE from Maharashtra said the state government has ignored their pleas when southern states have rescued their citizens via multiple flights not only from the region but also from the US, the UK and other places. Shubhangi Saka, a Dubai resident, who has started social media groups of Maharashtrians stranded in Dubai, pegged the number of people from Maharashtra in Dubai in hundreds. There are 36 pregnant women who need to reach home. “All my social media groups put together, I have about 800 people from the state waiting to go home. Yesterday, we had a Mumbai person who was told to leave his house because he could not give the rent. Many people have lost their jobs ,” Saka said. Sunil, who went to Dubai looking for a job, but found none in the lockdown. “When the forms were being filled up by the embassy, I had put Mumbai as my nearest airport. Later on, when I came to know that there are no flights to Mumbai, I wrote to the embassy saying that any place in India was fine. However, I was told that I cannot apply for flights to any other place,” he said. The mother of 18-month-old twins had come to Dubai in search of a job to support her family is also waiting to come back. “If no flights were landing in Mumbai, we would have understood. Even if no flights were taking off from Dubai, we would have realised their inability to help us. But now, except for the people from Maharashtra, everybody else seems to be getting help,” a resident from Pune, who is currently in Dubai, said. A pregnant lady has developed medical complications and needs an abortion done in India, but she is stuck here ,” the Puneite added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hundreds-in-dubai-wait-for-govt-to-start-flights-to-maha/articleshow/75856791.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa Covid count hits half-century mark, set to rise further||Panaji: Goa’s active Covid-19 tally rose to 43 on Wednesday after four persons — all with travel history — were detected with the novel coronavirus. While one of these came from Delhi by train, the other three, all from Maharashtra, came by road, train, and sea. With this, Goa’s cumulative Covid count hit the half-century mark — 50 — and looked set to rise further. Seven of the 50 have been cured and discharged. By late evening, two more persons — a seafarer who arrived on Wednesday, and a rail passener — also tested positive for Covid-19 via the screening test. However, their confirmatory test results were awaited on Wednesday night. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa said that all those who tested positive are under treatment at the Covid hospital in Margao, and their condition is stable. Apart from Tuesday’s four positives, the day saw 539 persons test negative, with 52 reports still awaited. Meanwhile, health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters that the state has stepped up its efforts to screen people entering its borders by any mode of transport. She also said that no rapid tests are being conducted. “We are not using rapid kits, as directed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). We haven’t used a single kit since the beginning of the crisis.” People who enter the state in North Goa are taken for the screening test to Asilo hospital, Mapusa, and those who come in from the South Goa borders are taken to sub-district hospital, Ponda, or Hospicio, Margao. “Their swabs are taken and they’re immediately moved to a quarantine centre. If they test positive on TrueNat (the screening test), a fresh sample is taken for the confirmatory RT-PCR test,” she said. The state follows the testing protocol issued by the ICMR. Explaining how it works, she said, “The screening test is the TrueNat test, and the confirmatory one is the RT-PCT test”. While TrueNat tests are done at in the laboratories of two district and two sub-district hospitals, the confirmatory test is done at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital’s virology laboratory. “Only if the RT-PCR test is positive is a patient declared a Covid-19 patient,” she said, adding that all labs function 24x7. The state government has ordered 500 face shields to protect its staff posted as border checkposts, railway stations, and at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-covid-count-hits-half-century-mark-set-to-rise-further/articleshow/75857274.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||No plan for Eid shopping, Muslims to opt for charity||SLUG: Message of goodwill Nagpur: Amid indications that shops might open just two days before the Eid-ul-Fitr, which falls on Saturday for Dawood Bohras and subsequently for rest of the Muslim community, members from across sects have decided to shun traditional shopping of clothes and home furnishing items. Calls have been given to spend the money saved on these items to the needy as well as migrants passing through the city. On Wednesday, intellectuals, businessmen, doctors, and netas from city released a video appealing to Muslims to not venture out for Eid shopping to prevent spread of coronavirus. Instead spend on charity as the holy month of Ramzan comes to an end, they said. Clerics too have asked the believers to abstain from buying new clothes, footwear or home decors even if these are now available. Hamid Qureshi, secretary of Jamiat Islahul Muslemeen, said that during Ramzan Muslims sacrificed their routine religious activities to stay indoors. “Now, in the last leg of the holy month, the Ramzan festivities conclude with Eid namaz. As we changed our schedule, I feel except for essential items, no other purchasing is necessary now. We can spend the saved money to feed the poor in our neighbourhood, town and city,” he said. Zafar Ahmed Khan, founder president of School Headmasters Charitable Association, said that it is the responsibility of Muslims to help the poor, irrespective of caste and religion. “The livelihood of daily wagers, rickshaw pullers and other such people has been destroyed. So, it is our responsibility to help them overcome this situation. Islam also propagates the thought that when such a crisis hits a section of citizens, others must help them. This will send a good message of brotherhood to the world,” he said. The Dawoodi Bohra community, which will observe Eid on Saturday, has been ordained by their spiritual head, the Syedna, to not to step out of home for any religious activity amid the pandemic. Malikul Ashter Fidvi, an office bearer of Dawood Bohra community, said that strict day-to-day guidelines have been issued by Syedna. “It clearly mentioned that no one should step out for unnecessary activities. Essential supplies needed for Eid too have been home delivered to all,” he said. “We will not go for shopping. The saving from the shopping will be spent on charity. We will wear the best clothes we already have,” said Huned Shirpurwala, a resident of Shanti Nagar. Maulana Tauqeer Ahmed, office-bearer of Madrassa Madinatul Uloom, said Eid is an occasion to celebrate but right now there is no reason for it. “Several messages are being circulated to inform community members that when there is no Eid namaz, then what is the shopping for? We are advising them to spend on charity for labourers, migrants, daily wagers as many Muslims groups are already doing for last two months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-plan-for-eid-shopping-muslims-to-opt-for-charity/articleshow/75856800.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyient joins Emergent Alliance to work on economic recovery||Hyderabad: Global engineering and technology solutions player Cyient on Wednesday said it has signed a statement of intent with the Europe-based Emergent Alliance to use their combined data knowledge for providing insights and practical applications to the global Covid-19 response. As part of the alliance, the company will work closely with global industry leaders to unlock actionable data insights and speed up economic recovery from the impact of Covid-19. Cyient said it will be working alongside some of the world's largest organizations, data specialists, and governments to support future decision-making on regional and global economic challenges that will get people back to work and help businesses thrive post-pandemic. The alliance will analyse a broad set of economic, behavioural, and sentiment data to provide insights and practical applications to aid in the rebuilding of economies and understand the impact of a “new normal”. This will be done with a sharp focus on privacy and security, using industry best practices for data sharing and robust governance, the company said. Anand Parameswaran, senior VP and A&D business unit head, Cyient, said: “As we face today’s unprecedented challenges, the Emergent Alliance is an opportunity to use our skills and expertise to help solve the most significant challenge of the 21st century. We look forward to leveraging our experience and knowledge in resolving the global crisis rapidly and responsibly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyient-joins-emergent-alliance-to-work-on-economic-recovery/articleshow/75856148.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||IT continues WFH despite relaxation||Hyderabad: Despite the Telangana government giving companies the go-ahead to ramp up office operations to 100% earlier this week, a cautious IT & ITeS sector is not yet ready to scale down work from home (WFH) and bring back their workforce to office given the challenges with public transport as well as social distancing and sanitation. Industry sources said most IT hubs in the city like Raheja Mindspace are witnessing very thin employee turnout (below 10%) as most of the larger players continue with their extensive WFH policy. This despite most companies already sanitising their premises and some even briefing employees about office readiness and giving those with personal vehicles the option to work from office. “The employee turnout at office has not even reached 10% as of now due to factors like lack of public transport and night curfew. Many employees are also stuck in Andhra Pradesh are waiting for interstate bus services to resume to return to Hyderabad and resume office,” said former HYSEA president and ZenQ CEO Murali Bollu. “We are going to take a very cautious approach to ensure the safety of our employees. We will continue to work from home until we have clarity on how lockdown relaxation will have an impact on the outspread. We will only bring back the staff when we are fully confident of the safety,” said Suman Reddy Eadunuri, managing director, Pegasystems India. Ranvijay Lamba, managing director and country head, Arcesium India said the company is monitoring the situation and despite relaxation of the norms it continues with full WFH as “employee safety and wellbeing is paramount”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-continues-wfh-despite-relaxation/articleshow/75856830.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar: Not able to pay rent, pregnant woman, husband thrown out||HARIDWAR: An eight-month pregnant woman and her husband – who works as a daily wager – have alleged that they were thrown out of their rented accommodation in Haridwar after they failed to pay rent for two consecutive months as the man has lost his job because of the lockdown. For the past four days, they have been waiting at the Bhalla College ground, where other migrant workers have been kept. The couple, originally hailing from Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, said they want to somehow reach their native place. Not just them, several migrant workers stuck in Haridwar are desperately trying to go back home – some hope they would be allowed to walk the distance while some are hoping they get a lift in a goods truck. Ajeet Kumar, 28, the husband of the pregnant woman, said that he worked as a daily wager in SIDCUL area and lived in a rented accommodation. He lost his job due to the lockdown and was not able to pay room rent for two months, which is Rs 5,000, following which the landlord forced him to leave. He said his 26-year-old wife is eight months pregnant and the expected delivery date is June 7-8. When TOI spoke to circle officer (CO) Abhay Singh about the plight of the couple, he said, “We have limited buses to transport all the migrant workers. As per availability of buses, we are sending them home. We are telling them to have some patience and wait for their turn. Food is being provided to them by the administration.” Haridwar’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Saroj Naithani meanwhile said that “the health department is ready to admit the woman in the district women’s hospital but her husband is adamant to return to his native place.” Meanwhile, police officials said on Wednesday that two men, said to be blind from birth, hailing from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh who were going on foot to their home, were sent to their home in a vehicle arranged by police. According to CO Abhay Singh, the duo lived at the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar. “Seeing their plight, we arranged a vehicle at our own expense and sent them to their home in Hardoi safely,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-able-to-pay-room-rent-of-rs-2-5k-for-2-months-pregnant-woman-her-husband-thrown-out/articleshow/75853800.cms||MS Nawaz
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda Covid patient cured, another tests +ve||Chandrapur: While one of the positive patients from Chandrapur was declared cured, another person was detected Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Thus, the Covid-19 tally still stands at two in Chandrapur. Civil surgeon Dr CS Rathod said a family of five had returned to neighbouring Durgapur village from Hyderabad on May 12. They all were placed under institutional quarantine on the following day. Their swab samples were collected on May 18 and three of their test reports came on Wednesday. Dr Rathod claimed that a 55-year-old male has been found Covid positive, while two others — a 20-year-old girl and a two-and-a-half-year-old — have tested negative. Reports of two other family members are awaited, he added. First of the two positive patients from Chandrapur, a security guard, was declared cured of Covid-19 infection after his two consecutive swab samples taken after 14 days tested negative. He belonged to Krishna Nagar and was found positive on May 1. Krishna Nagar and two other localities were declared containment zone and over 8,200 residents in these areas were monitored for 14 days. The security guard’s family and all close contacts had tested negative to Covid-19. He is being treated at GMCH Nagpur for ailments other than Covid-19. Condition of the other positive patient — 23-year-old girl — is stable, officials told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-covid-patient-cured-another-tests-ve/articleshow/75856807.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: More Shramik special trains||PUNE: The number of Shramik special trains, operated by the Pune rail division, is likely to increase following fresh guidelines to operate them. Sources said that on May 21, a total of 115 special trains will leave for various destinations from the Pune division. Of the 200 trains announced from June 1 , the Pune division has got just one train. The train will leave Pune daily at 9pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-shramik-special-trains/articleshow/75856796.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 21, 2020||Pune||Bidding dad final goodbye on video||PUNE: When Ganesh Somwanshi’s sister called him last month, he thought it was a regular phone to check on the health of their mother visiting him in Singapore. Instead, he was told that his father, Shivaji, who was alone at home in Pune then, had suddenly taken ill. His sister, Gauri Londhe, a resident of Kondhwa, rushed her father to their regular hospital, but he had a fatal cardiac arrest. The next few hours were tough — from material to letting go of social and traditional rituals for the final rites. Only six people atteded the last rites. “My father was cremated in the cloth the hospital wrapped him in,” Ganesh said, adding that they they had to watch the last rites on video. “Saying goodbye to my father on video was tough,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bidding-dad-final-goodbye-on-video/articleshow/75856802.cms||Swatee Kher
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Drunk man being taken for quarantine creates ruckus||Nagpur: A drunk man created ruckus at Tehsil police station as he and his family, along with several others, were being taken by Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) officials for institutional quarantine. The accused identified as Mahesh Devgone also abused NMC’s assistant commissioner Ashok Patil and several cops. He has been booked for obstructing government officials from discharging duty. According to police, NMC officials were taking around 40 residents from Timki area to quarantine facilities after some positive Covid-19 cases emerged from the area. Officials had sent the residents towards several different buses, including the family of Devgone. The accused was angry about his family being taken to quarantine and started abusing NMC officials. The accused continued to create ruckus even after the buses started. He also abused cops posted at nakabandi near Golibar Chowk. The bus was then taken to Tehsil police station where the accused was taken off. Sources said the accused smashed his head several times on a wall at Tehsil police station. He was later booked and arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/drunk-man-being-taken-for-quarantine-creates-ruckus/articleshow/75856081.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Put people coming from red zones in quarantine centres on state borders: Uttarakhand HC to government||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state government to establish quarantine centres at the borders of Uttarakhand and keep each migrant coming from red zones at these centres for a week. The HC further directed the state government to also test each quarantined migrant showing symptoms of novel coronavirus. The directions came from the division bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani while hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) that put forth that mere thermal screening of people entering the state is not enough since most of the Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic. “At each border point, the state government shall make every possible effort to establish and make functional quarantine centres. All such returnees who are coming from red zones shall be kept in these quarantine centres for a period of one week. Out of these quarantined persons, those who have necessary symptoms, as per the guidelines of ICMR, shall be tested for RT-PCR,” the court said in its order. The bench further directed the state government to “immediately procure the rapid testing kits and start testing people at borders.” The court also said that the ICMR-approved ELISA tests should be done across the state, adding though that both these tests should be done for surveillance purposes. “The rapid antibody test has not been approved by ICMR for diagnostic purposes, but since the result of this test is available in much less time, such tests can be used for surveillance purposes alone. At least it would be a better surveillance than the surveillance by thermal screening... the rapid test kit be procured immediately and testing be done by this method, on experiment basis at the border points. We have also been informed that ICMR has approved a testing kit… such tests have already been performed in district Pauri Garhwal of Uttarakhand. Let it be done for surveillance purposes in other districts as well,” the court order read. These directions from the HC come just a day after a division bench headed by Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan had declared the migrants’ right to return to Uttarakhand as “a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21” and obligated both the state and Centre to “make every effort to bring each willing migrant back to the state.” The HC on Wednesday reiterated that the migrants have the right to come back to their native state but there must be proper screening. “We are not against the arrival of the people. They have every right to come. Our only concern is that in these difficult times, there must be proper screening at the borders.” The court also said that the discovery of coronavirus cases in interior areas of the Himalayan state like Betal Ghat in Nainital as well as Uttarkashi, Tehri and Almora was “absolutely alarming”. The state government through its Advocate General (AG) has been directed to file a progress report by June 2 when the case will be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/put-people-coming-from-red-zones-in-quarantine-centres-on-state-borders-ukhand-hc-to-govt/articleshow/75853811.cms||Prashant Jha
May 21, 2020||Bhopal||Amid Covid links, pangolins bear brunt of human greed||BHOPAL: Pangolins may be the prime suspect to have passed coronavirus from bats to humans; but in Madhya Pradesh, people continue poaching this threatened species for consumption.  If that is not enough, they are also subjected to extreme cruelty as they are thrown alive in boiling water for removing scales to be sold in the black market to global syndicates. On Tuesday, MP forest department arrested three people with 15 kg pangolin scales in coordination with wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB). WCCB and special task force (STF) Jabalpur seized 15.70 kilo of pangolin scales that were being carried in a scooty and a motorcycle. Accused Nauman Rangrez, Mohammed Naeem Quraisi of Budhar and Alok Singh of Umaria district were arrested from near a bus stand in Shahdol district. Alok Singh is said to be linked with other people involved in the trade. Rangrez and Naeem used to collect scales from poachers directly. Officials say more people involved are on their radar. Special task force (STF) of the wildlife wing of Madhya Pradesh forest department has arrested nearly 200 people cracking the biggest international network with arrests from faraway states. Interpol’s help was also being sought in many cases. Pangolin scales which are a rage in China for its aphrodisiac properties are now hot property in party circuits of America. Officials claim there are two smuggling routes to China — Nepal through north Bengal and Myanmar through Manipur. Local poachers are paid Rs 6,000 for scales of an ant-eater, which weighs around 1.3 to 2 kg. It is resold for Rs 15,000 to middlemen and Rs 30,000 to those who export the animal. In international market, it fetches 30 times more than poachers get as their cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/amid-covid-links-pangolins-bear-brunt-of-human-greed/articleshow/76049050.cms||P Naveen
May 21, 2020||Meerut||6 newborns with Covid-19 exposure discharged from LLRM, docs relieved||MEERUT: Facing toughest challenge of their careers thrown by pandemic, paediatricians in Meerut’s LLRM Medical College have successfully taken care of seven new-borns who were either Covid-19 positive or their mothers were infected with the highly-contagious disease. Six of them have been discharged while the remaining one will be relieved soon. Of them, three infants were tested positive for novel coronavirus after birth, while four were born to Covid-19 positive mothers but tested negative. Six infants have been handed over to the families, who are now dropping in thank you notes for the staff. One of the attendants, whose sister-in-law had tested positive, said in a series of tweets to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, “I would like to inform you that my sister-in-law was Covid-19 positive and she was admitted to LLRM medical college, Meerut on May 4 as she was pregnant. On May 12, she delivered a baby girl. The baby was immediately handed over to the paediatric department under Dr Vijay Jaiswal (HOD) and Dr Navrtan Gupta supervision. “The way they took care of our baby is highly appreciable. Special thanks to Dr Shashank who monitored the infant with all possible care and performed timely Covid-19 testing and immunization. Heartily appreciate and big thanks to the whole paediatric staff for taking care of our baby in this pandemic situation. Our baby is tested negative and she is at home now. Thank you.” This comes as a relief for the doctors who say their efforts are not being recognised. Several deaths were attributed to negligence of doctors at LLRM hospital, a charge denied be the administration. A resident of Rajban, whose Covid-19 positive sister-in-law gave birth to a baby in April end, said, “The baby had tested negative and he was handed over to the family members. The hospital staffers were in contact with us and called at least twice every day to tell us about the baby’s health.” Dr Vijay Jaiswal, head of the paediatrics department at LLRM, said, “Currently, one infant is under our care, whose parents tested negative but he is positive. The family has a travel history to Maharashtra and the mother is staying inside the Covid-19 ward along with the child. We are providing all the necessary care to the kids.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/6-newborns-with-covid-19-exposure-discharged-from-llrm-docs-relieved/articleshow/75856813.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 21, 2020||Goa||Left with nothing, migrants lose hope as Goa flounders||PANAJI: Nandakumar Yadav is one of hundreds who line up at Mapusa’s Peddem ground every day. The ground, used in its heyday for sports, now functions as a camp for migrant labourers. It’s also where registrations for Shramik Special trains are accepted. Like clockwork every morning, crowds of migrants, with no work, no money, and no information crowd near its gates, desperate to get home, or at least some news of when. Many of those lined up have been coming here for days. One group told TOI that they registered to go home over a month ago, and they have received no news since. For those who live on a daily wage, a month is a long time to survive. “I have no work and no money, so I can’t pay rent,” said Yadav. “The contractor has not even paid me for the work I’ve done. We haven’t even eaten for more than a day. The officers say that unless the collector issues a letter, we will not able to go home,” he said. They walk from pillar to post for infoHe isn’t alone. Another labourer from Odisha, too, said that he received no help from the government. “We are not even allowed to enter the gates (to the Peddem ground),” he said. As migrant workers like him and Yadav walk in the scorching sun from pillar to post in search of information, the full extent of the mismanagement of the crisis is now becoming apparent. While the state government regularly releases numbers of workers sent home, and photos of officials waving them goodbye, the thousands who didn’t get on those trains are left to fend for themselves. Just like in Peddem, labourer camps and government offices around the state designated for registration see hundreds of labourers line up everyday. On most days, it’s bad news, or worse, no news at all. On Monday, over 300 congregated at the North Goa collectorate demanding either that the government provides them transport, or they be allowed to make their own arrangements. With patience running thin and driven by desperation, some occasionally snap. A few days ago, an agitated group of labourers pelted stones at police personnel in South Goa. These crises are a culmination of the administration’s failure to foresee the consequences of the lockdown, say experts. “Labourers ought to have been explained in their local language the reasons for delay in arranging transport for them,” said Mahesh Rane, a lawyer. “Labourers are intelligent enough to understand logistical problems when great crises happen. But there is no proper channel of information. Desperate to reach their home states, they start walking.” Cleofato Coutinho, another lawyer, said that this is a direct consequence of imposing an unplanned lockdown. “Workers are allowed to travel when the rate of infection is high,” he said. “If the movement of labourers was permitted before the lockdown, this would not have been the case.” Coutinho said that two days ago, he saw several workers walking from Shiroda to Margao to catch a train. “They could not (get the train),” he said. “Later, we had the incident of some labourers pelting stones at the police. The government has not understood the problem.” Coutinho said that several officials have admitted to him in private that they had no clue that so many labourers would want to go home. Rane, meanwhile, said that if the government had proper data about labourers, some of today’s problems could have been avoided. Also, he said that in the early days of the lockdown in March and early April, enthusiastic state officials, welfare organisations and public-spirited individuals rose to the occasion and helped migrants, but this number has dwindled. “There are few people now doing charity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/left-with-nothing-migrants-lose-hope-as-state-flounders-mismanages-crisis/articleshow/75857283.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 21, 2020||Meerut||Floating on tubes, 2,000 migrants cross Yamuna every night||MEERUT: Under thick cover of darkness near Saharanpur, over 2,000 migrant workers -- women and children included— have for the past two weeks been jumping into the Yamuna holding rubber tubes to stay afloat in their attempt to cross over quietly into UP from Haryana. Yamuna doubles up as the border between the two states on a 70km-stretch in Saharanpur. The river also marks UP’s border with Haryana in Shamli and Baghpat districts. Divisional commissioner (Saharanpur) Sanjay Kumar told TOI that “some 3,000 people could be doing this every night, at great risk to themselves and their families. They pay between Rs 200 and 300 to use the worn-out tubes, which are already in bad shape and may burst anytime putting the lives of those holding it in the middle of river in jeopardy. Saharanpur police recently arrested three persons for allegedly facilitating the migrants’ crossover in lieu of money. “We have strict instructions to allow entry to only those workers who have been medically screened by the Haryana government. But there are thousands of them who have not undergone the mandatory process and are trying every means to cross over even if it is life threatening. Facilitators are providing them rubber tubes for Rs 200-300. It is dangerous as the river’s water level keeps fluctuating and to man such a long water border is very difficult,” said Dinesh Kumar P, SSP, Saharanpur. “The magnitude of the influx is unimaginable,” said Kumar. “Every day we are taking in 12,000 to 15,000 migrant workers, out of which 70% are coming through official channels in 150 to 200 buses being sent by Haryana. So, perhaps 4,500 workers do make it to Saharanpur via river and through the forested areas. We may not be able to stop their influx entirely but we know which roads they eventually take after crossing over. And our forces are present there. They are quarantining them.” Bordering Haryana and Uttarakhand, the movement of migrants in Saharanpur is high. Many from states like Punjab and even Kashmir take this route. One of the labourers that TOI, “We have only one goal and that is to reach our home. We will cross any river, any hill and go any distance. If government helps us it’s good, if not then we are on our own.” A big lot of workers which crossed the river recently was from Panipat. They worked in wholesale vegetable markets and were forced to leave after their employer stopped giving them food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/floating-on-tubes-2000-migrants-cross-yamuna-every-night/articleshow/75856803.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||T govt planning new agri policy||Hyderabad: A new agriculture policy is being shaped up to make nutritious food available to all, said Telangana agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy. Addressing media after interacting with experts and officials on a new cropping method on Wednesday, the minister said Telangana farmers will adopt new changes better than farmers of other states. Criticising the opposition for objecting to the reforms, he said farmer suicides dropped after TRS came to power. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-planning-new-agri-policy/articleshow/75856086.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||Asha worker among two test positive in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: Two new cases of coronavirus were reported from Chhota Udepur on Wednesday, while the health department has acknowledged only one case as the other patient was tested in Vadodara and is being treated here. The case which has not been added to the count of cases in Chhota Udepur district is that of a male cancer patient from Dhamasiya village in Naswadi taluka and the other case is of a female accredited social health activist (ASHA) worker from Bahadarpur village in Sankheda taluka. Sources said that the patient from Naswadi was admitted at a trust-run cancer hospital in Waghodia taluka, a few days ago. The hospital had collected his samples in accordance with the protocols before performing a surgery which was deferred as his report arrived positive. The man, a dairy farmer, was admitted to GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri. He was asymptomatic. The medical bulletin released by Vadodara Municipal Corporation on Wednesday evening did not mention about him. “We have not yet counted him as our district’s case as his test was performed in Vadodara and he has been admitted there. We will decide on it soon,” said a health department official. Health department staff, police, mamlatdar and taluka development officer visited the patient’s home, but he does not have a family. Health department officials said that the ASHA worker had not travelled anywhere. “She would have contracted the virus during survey of migrants who had recently returned to their native places in Chhota Udepur in large numbers,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/asha-worker-among-two-test-positive-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/75853553.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Check-up bus in PCMC limits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Usha alias Mai Dhore inaugurated a mobile health check-up unit, operating out of a bus, that would facilitate early detection of Covid-19 patients. Dhore said, “Around 400 to 500 people will be examined free of cost by the unit every day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/check-up-bus-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/75856806.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Cops send 93 back to Mumbai after travel e-passes from agent fail scan||KOLHAPUR/PUNE: Around 93 people from Mumbai travelling to different places in Kolhapur in minibuses were sent back by the police from a checkpoint near Sangli after their travel e-passes, secured from an agent, could not be scanned. Police suspect the agent could have given the travellers fake passes. The travellers were in a group of 103, including senior citizens and children, going in different minibuses. “They had hired the vehicles in Mumbai and an agent had organised all the formalities for their travel. However, the e-passes of only 10 travellers could be scanned and they were allowed to proceed,” said police inspector Dattatreya Kadam of Kokrud village. The checkpoint is near the village on the Sangli-Kolhapur border. Kadam, who was at the checkpoint, told TOI that the 93 travellers were sent back to Mumbai after their e-passes could not be verified even after four hours. In the meantime, the police arranged for snacks and food for the travellers. The police revealed that each traveller had paid Rs 2,500 to the agent. The Union government has set up a single-point access website (http://serviceonline.gov.in/epass/) where people can request for an e-pass. The service is presently being offered in 17 states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra has launched its own website (http://covid19.mhpolice.in/ ) for issuing e-passes for travel within and outside the state only in case of emergencies. It is using the national portal only for issuing passes for goods transport. Citizens from Pune are paying agents anything between Rs 1,500 for an e-pass and between Rs 13 and Rs 30 per km for air-conditioned travel by car to destinations outside Maharashtra. People heading to the same destination are made to share vehicles. The agents are offering medical certificates, e-passes and car services to people wanting to move out of cities like Pune and Mumbai hit by Covid-19, all at a hefty price. Reshma Purohit, a resident of Magarpatta City, put up a query on social media regarding a travel e-pass to go to her parents’ home in Indore, 600km away. Her roommate wanted to travel with her. Purohit was then contacted by around eight people who had offered to arrange her travel. “Some had packages to offer, which included medical certificates, e-passes and also travelling expenses. The agents were quoting close to Rs 10,000 per head to travel by a small cab. My roommate and I would have had to pay around Rs 20,000 for the journey. Usually, a private bus ticket to Indore costs around Rs 2,000,” she said, adding that she has not finalised her travel plans. Nidhi Jain, a management trainee from Vimannagar, similarly put up a query on social media for travel to New Delhi. Agents who contacted her quoted a package of Rs 25,000, which she accepted. Jain said, “I took the risk but reached Delhi safely with the cab provided by the agent. I had to share the cab with five others and no traveller knew the other.” Riwaz Shaikh, a cab operator from Hadapsar, said, “We send our driver’s medical fitness certificate to the traveller along with his Aadhaar card number. The e-pass has details of the traveller and driver. For destinations outside Maharashtra, the charges are higher than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-send-93-back-to-mumbai-after-travel-e-passes-from-agent-fail-scan/articleshow/75858350.cms||Satyajit Joshi
May 21, 2020||Chennai||3,000 tonnes cargo airlifted to Chennai||CHENNAI: More than 3,000 tonnes of cargo and 200 tonnes of medical equipment were brought to the city by flights during shutdown. Though passenger operations were limited to rescue flights, the cargo terminal has been buzzing as demand for medical equipment to fight coronavirus and need to move essential goods including perishables and non-perishables saw more planes landing at the city airport. In addition to freighters, almost all airlines including SpiceJet, Indigo, Air India are using their passenger flights, most of them B737 and A320, to move parcels in the cargo hold and also on seats. Statistics from Airports Authority of India (AAI) show that between March 25 and May 5, flights brought in 178.30 tonnes of medical equipment and pharma products, most of which were essential to fight Covid-19. In the same period, flights brought in 3275.41 tonnes of general cargo. The numbers have increased as the airport receives one or two flights bearing cargo every day. The most recent were SpiceJet flights bringing in cancer care drugs from Delhi to Chennai. The airline flew 550kg of cancer drugs for free from Delhi to Chennai, and other metros. An AAI official said there have been consistent movement of cargo flights almost every day since the shutdown began on March 25. “Initially, regular freighters and courier flights were landing. After a few days, domestic carriers started to bring in goods in the cargo hold,” he said. A skeletal staff used to arrive at the cargo terminal to clear the consignments. SpiceJet has carried 73 tonnes of perishables to and from Chennai and has transported 511 tonnes of other cargo in and out of the state till May 8. A Aswini, first officer, Blue Dart Aviation Ltd, Chennai, said: “We have been flying our B757 – 200 planes across major Indian and international cities (Guangzhou, Shanghai, Dhaka and Yangon) transporting over thousands of tonnes of essentials including ventilators, PPE, testing kits, reagents, enzymes, respirators, surgical masks, goggles and gloves among other medical and pharmaceutical supplies.” Most of these flights were operated under Lifeline Udan scheme announced by the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3000-tonnes-cargo-airlifted-to-chennai/articleshow/75856815.cms||V Ayyappan
May 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Cops send 93 back to Mumbai after travel e-passes from agent fail scan||KOLHAPUR/PUNE: Around 93 people from Mumbai travelling to different places in Kolhapur in minibuses were sent back by the police from a checkpoint near Sangli after their travel e-passes, secured from an agent, could not be scanned. Police suspect the agent could have given the travellers fake passes. The travellers were in a group of 103, including senior citizens and children, going in different minibuses. “They had hired the vehicles in Mumbai and an agent had organised all the formalities for their travel. However, the e-passes of only 10 travellers could be scanned and they were allowed to proceed,” said police inspector Dattatreya Kadam of Kokrud village. The checkpoint is near the village on the Sangli-Kolhapur border. Kadam, who was at the checkpoint, told TOI that the 93 travellers were sent back to Mumbai after their e-passes could not be verified even after four hours. In the meantime, the police arranged for snacks and food for the travellers. The police revealed that each traveller had paid Rs 2,500 to the agent. The Union government has set up a single-point access website (http://serviceonline.gov.in/epass/) where people can request for an e-pass. The service is presently being offered in 17 states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra has launched its own website (http://covid19.mhpolice.in/ ) for issuing e-passes for travel within and outside the state only in case of emergencies. It is using the national portal only for issuing passes for goods transport. Citizens from Pune are paying agents anything between Rs 1,500 for an e-pass and between Rs 13 and Rs 30 per km for air-conditioned travel by car to destinations outside Maharashtra. People heading to the same destination are made to share vehicles. The agents are offering medical certificates, e-passes and car services to people wanting to move out of cities like Pune and Mumbai hit by Covid-19, all at a hefty price. Reshma Purohit, a resident of Magarpatta City, put up a query on social media regarding a travel e-pass to go to her parents’ home in Indore, 600km away. Her roommate wanted to travel with her. Purohit was then contacted by around eight people who had offered to arrange her travel. “Some had packages to offer, which included medical certificates, e-passes and also travelling expenses. The agents were quoting close to Rs 10,000 per head to travel by a small cab. My roommate and I would have had to pay around Rs 20,000 for the journey. Usually, a private bus ticket to Indore costs around Rs 2,000,” she said, adding that she has not finalised her travel plans. Nidhi Jain, a management trainee from Vimannagar, similarly put up a query on social media for travel to New Delhi. Agents who contacted her quoted a package of Rs 25,000, which she accepted. Jain said, “I took the risk but reached Delhi safely with the cab provided by the agent. I had to share the cab with five others and no traveller knew the other.” Riwaz Shaikh, a cab operator from Hadapsar, said, “We send our driver’s medical fitness certificate to the traveller along with his Aadhaar card number. The e-pass has details of the traveller and driver. For destinations outside Maharashtra, the charges are higher than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-send-93-back-to-mumbai-after-travel-e-passes-from-agent-fail-scan/articleshow/75856817.cms||Satyajit Joshi
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: 70-day wait comes to an end as Costa crew land in Goa||DABOLIM: The families of over 400 seafarers heaved a sigh of relief after three chartered flights with stranded seafarers landed at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Wednesday. The repatriation exercise, which also saw around 100 Italians who were stranded in Goa depart from Dabolim, also added to Goa’s Covid-19 count, with one person from the first flight testing positive. “To tell you frankly, we thought the Goan crew would be taken home last,” said Mangeshi resident Marco Costa. “Infections were increasing in Mumbai and in other states. So when they announced that the Goans would be going home, I was surprised.” Waited for this moment for more than two months: Cruise sailors Many seafarers told TOI that the moment their flight landed on Goan soil, the entire flight broke into wide smiles. The crew waited for this moment for more than two months. All the 414 who arrived on Wednesday were working aboard cruise vessels operated by the Italian firm Costa Cruises, which chartered the three flights. Reliving the mental agony of remaining separated from his family, Costa, who used to work as a bartender on the Costa Diadema, said that crew of many other nationalities are still stranded in Italy. “Many times, our Filipino colleagues left the ship and got into buses to go home, only to be told their flight was cancelled,” he said. “Only when we got on the plane did we finally believe we were going home.” Costa was on the first flight, which arrived from Milan. The flight was scheduled to arrive at 8am after two technical halts at Cairo and Muscat for crew change and refuelling, but was delayed by over two hours and landed at Goa only at 10:20am. The seafarers were allowed to disembark in small groups and were taken for immigration and customs clearance. From there, the passengers were asked to queue up and submit their swab samples for testing. They were then taken to different quarantine facilities designated for them. Dedicated Kadamba buses were deployed to transport the seafarers to their hotels. “Twenty passengers were allowed to travel on each bus,” said Goa airport director, Gagan Malik. “Adequate social distance was maintained throughout the process. The earlier process would have required them to wait here (at the airport) for testing, but now there is no need, as we are sending them to quarantine facilities.” The process took nearly four hours, and the seamen were offered drinks and snacks at the airport terminal. “We are very happy to see them in Goa directly, as this was our main demand to the government — to get our Goan seafarers to Goa and avoid any transit in hotspot cities like Mumbai and Delhi,” said founder president, Goa Seamen’s Association of India, Dixon Vaz. The first flight brought in 168 passengers, while the second flight brought in 167. The third flight, which was initially expected to arrive a day later, arrived at 10:05pm with 81 passengers. “The third flight was approved at 1am on Wednesday,” said Malik. The plane, after sanitisation, will airlift stranded Italian tourists. The returning seafarers wholeheartedly appreciated the arrangements at Goa International Airport, and praised the efforts of GSAI. “Vaz and Venzy Viegas were in touch with us and trying very hard to bring us back. These are people who don’t know us, but helped us,” said a seafarer. Goa police helped maintain a tight security cordon around the airport and the arriving passengers, even providing an official escort to the buses that ferried the passengers to quarantine facilities in Bambolim and Calangute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/70-day-wait-comes-to-an-end-as-costa-crew-land-in-goa/articleshow/75857291.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||9 new Covid cases in Yavatmal, all Mum returnees||Yavatmal: The possibility of the district coming out of red zone on Friday has dimmed after nine new Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the number of active positive cases in Yavatmal to 16. According to sources, the new cases have been reported from Digras (4) (Isapur 3 and Rui Talav 1), Pusad (4) and Malkini village in Mahagaon (1). All those tested positive are Mumbai returnees. All these persons had travelled together from Vasai in Palghar district near Mumbai in a Matador. Two of them, from Hudi village in Pusad tehsil, had already tested positive and are in the isolation ward of GMCH. Of the 17 swab samples taken from the high risk contacts, nine (seven males and two females) have tested Covid positive while six came negative and two reports are awaited. Meanwhile, reports of the 52-year-old man from Hudi village, stamped Home Quarantined in Ahmednagar two weeks ago, who died on road while returning from Pusad hospital came negative for Covid infection. The man was reported to be suffering from cough, fever and breathing difficulties. The man along with his wife had returned from Ahmednagar two weeks ago. However, they were forced to stay in a farm as local police patil allegedly prevented them from entering the village. The man’s death, however, raises question as to how home quarantined persons were allowed to move on their own without any monitoring by the authorities. Residents are in a panic now after detection of coronavirus patients in their villages. Moreover, those who returned from Mumbai and other places are seen flouting the home quarantine rules and often move in the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/9-new-covid-cases-in-yavatmal-all-mum-returnees/articleshow/75856819.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chennai||Special trains ferry 1.1 lakh workers home||CHENNAI: Special trains operated from different parts of Tamil Nadu have taken more than one lakh guest workers back to their native states in the past two weeks. The government has sent 1.10 lakh guest workers in trains to north, eastern and northeastern states in the past two weeks. Since the first train, carrying 1,140 people from Katpadi to Jharkhand on May 6, the railways has operated more than 85 trains to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam, Tripura and Manipur. The state government enumerates the workers and then asks the railways for a train to the respective state. “We spent Rs 14 lakh to send labourers in a single train,” said a senior IAS officer. He said the government had spent more than Rs 11 crore towards train fare and food for the workers. The TN government has appointed 22 nodal officers to organise travel for the workers. On Wednesday, 1,464 workers boarded a train for Basti in Uttar Pradesh. Of the 85 trains, 26 were operated from Chennai, 20 from Coimbatore and nine from Tirupur. “Nearly 50% of the special trains were operated to UP and Bihar,” said the official adding that 60,000 of the workers who left TN were from the two states. Apart from this, 11 trains were operated to Jharkhand and nine to Odisha. The railways has also operated five to six trains to Assam, Manipur and Tripura. “In the last three to four days, nine to ten trains are being operated from the state,” the official said. In the last few days, two to three trains have been operated to clear the rush at government shelters in Tiruvallur district. The officials are stopping workers who are going home on foot or on cycles and taking them to shelters. “Six trains left from Tiruvallur in the past three days, ferrying more than 8,000 workers to UP, Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar,” said a revenue official coordinating the transportation of the labourers from the government shelters along the GNT Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/special-trains-ferry-1-1l-workers-home/articleshow/75856821.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Western city sees 23 new cases on average each day||Ahmedabad: The state government and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation may have relaxed movements in the western part of the city since May 18, but the residents will have to take additional precautions as 23 new cases a day are being reported from these areas. According to the morning statement issued by the AMC on April 20, there were 863 active cases in the West zone, North-West zone and South-West zone which figure was 713 as on May 15 and 631 on May 11 morning. AMC health officials said that between May 15 and May 20, cases in the western part of the city increased by 150, while active cases between May 11 and May 20 increased by 232. As on Wednesday, the western part of the city now has 863 active cases with 508 cases reported from Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas. In these areas, 86 new active cases were reported between May 15 and 20. While 157 and 198 cases each were reported the North and South West zones from areas such as Bodakdev, Satellite, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Sarkhej and Makarba among others. Between May 15 and 20, there were 43 cases added in North zone and 21 cases in South zone. Meanwhile, the AMC has started 50 Dhanvantari and Sanjivani Raths for the 200 areas in the city. Of these 200 areas, 184 areas are in containment zones and 16 are in the western part of the city. Rajiv Gupta, ACS forest and environment who has been appointed as overall in-charge of activities to control spread of Covid-19 in city said that the raths have ayurvedic, homoeopathy and allopathy doctors along with lab technician, pharmacist and paramedical staff. Gupta said that each rath will be in an area for two hours and will examine and treat about 120 patients in a day, thus the AMC will screen nearly 5,000 to 6,000 persons in a day. Also, these raths will identify co-morbid patients. He said that so far over 10,500 people have been screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/western-city-sees-23-new-cases-on-average-each-day/articleshow/75856190.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Anti-virals obtained on ‘compassionate grounds’||MUMBAI: Two patients in the city have been treated with Remdesivir and four with Favipiravir—two of the most talked about anti-viral medicines in the world at present. The drugs, which are in multiple clinical trials world over to study their efficacy in treating Covid-19, were obtained for the patients on “compassionate grounds”. Remdesivir that was used to treat Ebola and Favipiravir developed to fight influenza in Japan attracted attention after doctors world over started using them to treat Covid patients with “encouraging” results. In Mumbai, the patients who were given the repurposed medicines are completing their courses and have shown signs of recovery. The state Covid task force has also requested the chief minister to expedite availability of these drugs as cases and deaths continue to rise. “The patients are completing their courses and doing well,” said pulmonologist Dr Zarir Udwadia. He, though, said it was difficult to state the outcome as the patients were also on other therapies. “It’s hard to comment on the specific individual role of the anti-virals in my patients’ cure. They are not a cure for the novel coronavirus but in clinical studies have been shown to improve time for clinical recovery and to speed up viral clearance,” he said. Like any anti-viral, they should be given early on, he added. A trial by the National Institutes of Health, US, found Remdesivir, which blocks the virus from replicating, reduced the recovery time for patients. Initial excitement around the drug led to a global shortage. Dr Udwadia said the drugs were extremely difficult to access and his patients were well-connected and hence could manage to get these directly from companies on compassionate grounds. “Outside a trial, this is the only way to currently access the drugs,” he said. Several city hospitals will soon be part of two separate clinical trials to study these drugs. One is WHO’s Global Solidarity Trial, a joint international initiative to compare four treatment options (using four anti-viral agents, Remdesivir, Chloroquine/Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir-Ritonavir and Lopinavir-Ritonavir with Interferon). The second is a trial of Favipiravir, by Glenmark, which is testing the drug for safety before manufacturing. “We will conduct Favipiravir trials across a dozen centres in the country, including four to five in Mumbai. Recruitment of patients has begun. There is a demand for the drug but we couldn’t give it to many on compassionate grounds as the stocks have been kept for trials,” said Glenn Saldanha, chairman, Glenmark. He said if the findings are positive and approvals come on time, the drug could be available in July or earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anti-virals-obtained-on-compassionate-grounds/articleshow/75856180.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Associations ask hospitals to take in Covid cases||Ahmedabad: After several meetings with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) over issues ranging from per patient costs to the facilities provided to hospitals, Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) and Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) appealed to its members to start admission of Covid-19 positive patients ‘without waiting for formalities like signing of MoUs’. In an appeal by Dr Mona Desai, president of AMA, on Wednesday, doctors were asked to admit patients referred by the government and AMC as part of their wider social responsibility. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that the members have decided to start admitting patients considering the continued rise in the mortality rate. “Many patients have been transferred to these private hospitals from Civil Hospital Medicity and SVP Hospitals. All patients whose treatment costs will be paid by AMC as per the government circular, will be sent to the private hospitals by the nodal medical officer of AMC,” said Dr Gadhvi. “There will be no direct admission of patients whose treatment costs are being borne by AMC/state government.” AHNA also raised the issue of high costs and quality of triple-layer and N95 masks available in the city. In a letter to FDCA commissioner Dr H G Koshia, the association said that suppliers have jacked up prices by 300% to 400%. “AHNA also asked that N95 masks and three-ply surgical masks should be reserved for healthcare workers treating Covid patients. They should not be sold to the public,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/associations-ask-hospitals-to-take-in-covid-cases/articleshow/75856192.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Repatriation flight from Muscat lands in M’luru||Mangaluru: The Third Vande Bharat Mission flight carrying 63 repatriates from Muscat landed at Mangaluru International Airport at 8.35 pm on Wednesday. It was piloted by Kudla boy captain Michael Saldanha. After landing, all the passengers were given health kits, food and mobile SIMs, and arrangements were made to change their currency at the airport. A health department team screened each passenger, after which emigration formalities were completed. Their throat swab samples will be tested for Covid-19 on Thursday. Union fertiliser minister D V Sadananda Gowda tweeted on Wednesday that the next Vande Bharat Mission flight is scheduled on Friday from Doha to Mangaluru. The flight will land at Mangaluru at 9.55 pm. The third repatriation flight from Dubai to Mangaluru is scheduled on Saturday. It will first land at Bengaluru and later fly to Mangaluru. However, there are no flights from Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to Mangaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/repatriation-flight-from-muscat-lands-in-mluru/articleshow/75853868.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Some shops refusing orders below Rs 4,000 for liquor home delivery||Nagpur: Want liquor home delivered? You must place an order worth Rs4,000 and above. If your bill is any lower, the liquor shop owner will simply refuse to deliver. On being informed of this trend, TOI contacted many wine shop owners in the city and found if you place an order between Rs4,000 and Rs8,000, only then will liquor be home delivered. “We will deliver at your door step only if the order is above Rs4,000,” said a wineshop owner from Pardi area when TOI tried to verify the claim. “I was shocked when the wine shop owner informed me that he would not accept the order unless it is more than Rs4,000. The shop owner cannot force people to buy high quantity of liquor to get it home delivered,” said a miffed Rajesh Gupta. Another wine shop on Kamptee Road has a similar rule. “If you place an order of Rs5,000 and above, then only you will get home delivery,” the shop owner said. He justified the rider for home delivery and argued, “For one delivery, my boy takes an hour. If the quantum of order is more, we can afford it. Otherwise, we will end up supplying small orders, which will not only waste our time but bring less revenue.” A senior states excise department official said it was wrong on the part of the wine shop owners to set such a condition. The official said if the department gets complaints, action will be initiated against such wine shop owners. He said that the wine shop owners might be doing this as they have to deploy a boy to deliver liquor. “If the quantum is less, he may suffer a loss,” he said. To a query, the official said that a person having permit can purchase up to 100 litres liquor per month. According to the excise department there are 89 wine shops in the city. Due to riders laid to curb spread of Covid-19, only 33 wine shops in the city and five beer shops are open. “The rules for home delivery of liquor are difficult to follow. Under the present norms, violations are bound to happen. So I decided not to open our shop till the lockdown is lifted,” said the owner of a chain of wine shops, who didn’t wish to be named. Almost every wine shop is breaking rules set for home delivery. Another owner who kept his shop shut despite the permission said, “I have been paying my staff but I am short on workers who can go out and deliver liquor, so I decided to keep my store closed. I will lose customers but with normalcy they will be back. I am suffering losses but the threat of breaking rules and penalty that could be imposed by excise department will be bigger.” The excise department has already booked 11 shop owners, including nine wine retailers and one country liquor outlet, on May 17 for violating the order allowing home delivery. The state excise department on Wednesday generated Rs30.26 lakh from the production of liquor. The department has also registered three cases of illegal transportation of liquor and illicit liquor worth Rs46,114. On May 19, the city registered sale of 56,955 litre of country liquor, 34,464 litre of foreign made liquor and 3,28,336 litres of beer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-shops-refusing-orders-below-rs4000-for-liquor-home-delivery/articleshow/75856206.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujaratis return from Malaysia||Ahmedabad: About 50 Gujaratis, stranded in Malaysia because of the Covid-19 pandemic, have returned to Gujarat. They arrived late on Tuesday night at Ahmedabad airport, and were sent to institutional quarantine facilities after a check up. Hitendra Shah of Nadiad said he had gone to Malaysia to meet his daughter, but got stranded there because of the lockdown. “The lockdown in Malaysia is going to continue until June 9, and I am happy to be back home,” he said. Vinu Rajani of Surat said the Indian embassy had been a great help and helped him get back to the country. Vipul Shah, a petrochemical engineer with a multinational company, said he had been attempting to return to India since April 10. “I am finally back and it is good. The government helped us a lot,” he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujaratis-return-from-malaysia/articleshow/75856177.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops seize six bikes from duo||Hyderabad: Mangalhat police arrested two thieves and recovered six stolen bikes worth Rs 2 lakh from their possession on Wednesday. The accused, Md Salman, 19, and Khaja Pasha, 19, stole bikes from Mangalhat, Kalapathar, Bahadurpura and Mailardevpally.“The accused were selling the stolen bikes to customers for a lesser price or disposing the parts to scrap vendors,” Mangalhat police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-seize-six-bikes-from-duo/articleshow/75856194.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Five from Bengaluru flout quarantine norms, detained in Thrissur||THRISSUR: Officials of the health and police departments in Thrissur woke up to a major challenge on Wednesday when they intercepted five people coming from the red zone areas of Bengaluru, awaiting their bus at the KSRTC bus stand without adopting quarantine measures. The five people arrived by interstate private bus and had come to KSRTC bus stand to proceed to their local destinations. Three of them were from Chalissery in the border area of Malappuram, while the other two were from Kodungallur in Thrissur. The police saw them at the bus stand and alerted the health officials. “The consequences are grave. These people were coming from a red zone and they had not arranged a local transport from the point they were alighting from the interstate bus. Their plan was to board a local bus and proceed to their homes, without adopting quarantine measures. It is not known whether they were already infected or are just asymptomatic. They were probably unaware that they could transmit the virus to all those they encounter enroute,” said a health department official. Health officials in Thrissur were unaware of their arrival and free movement in the district. The local bodies in their areas may have received information about their trip from the borders. Even the officials there may not be aware that they were planning to use public transport from Thrissur to their homes, the official said. The two passengers from Thrissur were sent to institutional quarantine in an ambulance while the three from Chalissery were sent to their home villages in a vehicle arranged by them, after ensuring they would be put in quarantine there. It was a nine-member group; four of them had already left for their home towns. Two of them were later traced from Kodungallur while the remaining two are yet to be traced. Health official said yet another group of eight people from Bengaluru had alighted from another interstate bus at Mannuthy later. However, they were immediately sent for quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/five-from-bluru-flout-quarantine-norms-detained-in-thrissur/articleshow/75853899.cms||T Ramavarman
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Two GIB chicks spotted in DNP||Jaipur: Rajasthan’s efforts to conserve endangered Great Indian Bustard (GIB), known as Godawan in local parlance, received a boost after two chicks are born in the wild at the Desert National Park (DNP). The majestic GIBs can be sighted at Sudasri region in Jaisalmer district, the sanctum sanctorum of the DNP. At a time when 10 such birds have been artificially hatched at an especially developed hatchery, birth of chicks in the grassland (natural habitat) has given a ray of hope to the conservationists about its survival. Mostly Godawan eggs fall prey to predators before hatching. Thus, the successful hatching is good news for the forest department and wildlife lovers. Deputy conservator of forest, DNP, Kapil Chandrawal confirmed the birth of two chicks at the park. He said, “The park has witnessed the successful birth of two GIBs in March. The team is keeping a close watch on the enclosures to protect the newborns.” Sources in the forest department said, this season, three eggs were found in the grassland. However, one was damaged by the cattle that encroach into their territory. Conservationist believes, the government should declare core area inside the DNP as there is significant destruction of their habitat by the villagers. After many years of deliberations, a large area of about 3,162 square kilometre in Jaisalmer and Barmer districts was selected to be developed and maintained as the desert wildlife sanctuary. It was notified in 1980. At present, there are 73 villages located in the sanctuary area having a total population of over 1 lakh. The cattle population of all these villages is approximately 4,50,000. Mal Singh, former wildlife warden and founder of the Bustard Conservation Society, informed, “There is urgent requirement to declare 200 square kilometre area of the park as core area. GIB faces a myriad of challenges in the form of habitat loss and fragmentation of habitat, apart from hunting. Already most grassland has been converted into agricultural lands by the encroachers or has been degraded by excessive cattle grazing in the park,” Singh said. Experts claim, grassland habitat is crucial to the survival of the GIB as it lays only one egg per year. This solitary egg is under threat from natural predators of the grasslands such as jackals, hyenas or foxes or invasive species such as crows or feral dogs. In absence of habitat, these birds will be on the brink of extinction. Sources said, “Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, International Fund of Houbara Conservation, Abu Dhabi and Rajasthan wildlife department, in a joint endeavour, had conserved GIB eggs, from which 10 chicks have hatched, at the Godawan hatchery centre at Sam area in Jaisalmer, which is a big step towards conservation of Godawan. However, if no focus is laid to save the original habitat and it is destroyed, where these birds will be released,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-gib-chicks-spotted-in-dnp/articleshow/75856825.cms||Ajay Singh
May 21, 2020||Goa||Ore transport continues to distress locals||Keri: Resumption of iron ore transportation continues to affect daily life in Sattari’s Surla and some other villages of the Bicholim taluka. Locals say dust pollution and travel risks abound as trucks carrying the mineral zoom past their narrow roads. “Ore extraction had already affected the groundwater table in our area and the consequent interruption of the natural flow of streams impacted our horticultural crops. Now, the resumption of ore transportation has not only increased air pollution but also the risk of travelling by two- and four-wheelers in our area,” Surla-based horticulturist Uday Natekar, said. “If we need to travel to Sakhali, we have to deal with severe traffic congestion on a daily basis.” Air monitoring data with the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has indicated that iron ore transportation has led to an increase in air pollution in the state’s mining belt. The board’s member-secretary Shamila Monteiro had told TOI that the directorate of mines and geology was instructed to reduce the number of ore transportation trips by trucks in areas where it has noticed air pollution. Surla sarpanch Krishna Bayenkar said the panchayat had already submitted a memorandum to the authorities concerned about violation of regulations by ore-laden trucks. “Villagers have repeatedly been bringing their grievances to my notice. Presently, police personnel have been deployed at the Ghodbai and Tarmatha junctions. Officials of the transport department are also patrolling the area,” he said. When contacted, Bicholim deputy collector Sachin Desai said he would call for a joint meeting of the managers of the mining companies concerned and the affected villagers “to establish discipline and order in ore transportation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ore-transport-continues-to-distress-locals/articleshow/75856849.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||So far 5,347 patients treated: Health dept||Ahmedabad: The state health department on Wednesday said that it has treated 5,347 patients with Covid-19 symptoms at Asarwa Civil Hospital, of whom 1,994 were discharged after they tested negative. In all, since the outbreak, 914 patients had opted for home isolation after they appeared stable, a press release says. Another 1,177 Covid-19 patients who were being treated at Civil Hospital and appeared stable were transferred to specially established Covid-19 care centres. The state health department stated that a total of 338 patients had succumbed to the disease, of whom 242 had high co-morbidity conditions. “As of now, 924 Covid-19 patients are still under care at Civil Hospital,” says a senior hospital official. The press release says that there are 336 oxygen beds and 212 ventilator beds at the hospital. This special 1,200-bed Covid facility at Civil Hospital, which was set up in record 15 days by the state government, has a dedicated OPD for consulting and testing, a triage area for stabilizing patients, a general ward for stable patients, and a donning-doffing area for patients, and a special biomedical waste area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/so-far-5347-patients-treated-health-dept/articleshow/75856234.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Corporator in soup for party plan||Hyderabad: Jawaharnagar corporator and his son have been booked for allegedly assaulting residents of their apartment complex at Yadav Nagar in Malkajgiri. On Tuesday, a complaint was lodged by residents P Premkiran and I Shekar alleging that they along with other residents of Dream Enclave Apartment at Yadav Nagar, Malkajgiri, had objected to the plans of AK Murugesh, also a resident of the apartment and the corporator of Jawaharnagar municipality, to organise an event to celebrate his 24th wedding anniversary on the apartment premises, Malkajgiri inspector A Man Mohan said. The complainants alleged corporator Murugesh and his son Sai Charan abused, assaulted and threatened them with dire consequences, the inspector said. Police registered a case against corporator and his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-in-soup-for-party-plan/articleshow/75856216.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||State govt defends quality of local Dhaman-1 ventilators||Ahmedabad: Defending the safety and efficacy of Dhaman 1 ventilators developed by a Rajkot-based private firm Jyoti CNC for Covid-19 treatment at the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, the state government on Wednesday said the ventilators were certified by Gujarat government established laboratory, Electronics & Quality Development Centre (EQDC), which is a National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) accredited laboratory.Principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi, also claimed that the company had begun manufacturing the ventilators in bulk only after receiving the Geneva-based International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) certification 60601. “The machine’s efficacy was tested for eight hours on artificial lungs at the Michigan State University.” The Rajkot-based firm had initially provided 10 ventilators to be tested at Gandhinagar Civil hospital on April 18 and has till now donated 866 of the ventilators for free to the state government as there was acute shortage of the equipment.A political row had erupted in Gujarat after state Congress termed Dhaman-1 machines as `faulty ventilators' and demanded they be withdrawn from the hospitals as they were allegedly not helping critically ill patients. Ravi said that the firm needed no certification from Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). She said that the central government's HLL Lifecare has placed an order of 5,000 units of Dhaman-1, Puducherry and Maharashtra too have placed orders for ‘Dhaman-1’ apart from orders from other countries.Ravi, however, added that high-flow nasal cannula, a circuit with it and humidifier and flow meter are being added to the new version of ventilators after “suggestions were made by doctors attending to critical care patients.”Jai Prakash Shivahare, commissioner, health, said, “The new additions made to the ventilators are accessories required when Dhaman-1 ventilator is attached to an independent oxygen cylinder. Otherwise, if Dhaman-1 is attached to the regular piped oxygen supply, these accessories are not required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-defends-quality-of-local-dhaman-1-ventilators/articleshow/75856258.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||32-yr-old found dead on road||Hyderabad: A man was found dead on the road side near a parked tractor trolley in Abullapurmet on Tuesday. Upon receiving the information at around 6 pm, police officials rushed to spot. The man, Narsimha, 32, had started with a load of hay from Pochampally. He parked the tractor near Inamguda bus stop and slept under the trolley. Police suspect it was because of ill health as no external injuries were found on his body. He was shifted to OGH for postmortem, according to inspector S Devender. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/32-yr-old-found-dead-on-road/articleshow/75856227.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress orders return of it's 1,000 buses from Uttar Pradesh border||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Congress has ordered the retreat of its 1,000 passenger buses from the Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border in Bharatpur after two days of political negotiations between the Congress high command and the Yogi Adityanath government failed on Wednesday. While Congress claimed to have arranged these buses for transporting migrants walking by foot in Uttar Pradesh, the Yogi government called it a political stunt. AICC secretary Zubair Khan, who led the movement of buses from Rajasthan, has termed the UP government as anti-poor and anti-migrant. “The dictatorial attitude of Adityanath has proved that BJP can never shy away from playing politics even at the time of the epidemic. These buses would have united thousands of migrants or would have minimised their misery, but it was not acceptable to the UP government,” Khan said. These buses gathered at the Bharatpur border on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. They were denied entry by the UP police stating they don’t have the permission. As the buses were denied entry in UP, Rajasthan transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas demanded the Centre to take action against the UP government for flouting former’s order to not ask fitness certificate and driving licences from truck drivers till June 30. Khachariyawas said, “It is absurd that the Yogi Adityanath government has denied permission by making false claims of inaccurate fitness certificates of buses arranged by us, ignoring the Centre’s order. It is clear that the Adityanath government has politicised the matter overleaf to the migrants.” The matter soon snowballed into political a duel in the state. BJP state president Satish Poonia called the bus controversy an attempt by CM Ashok Gehlot to demonstrate his loyalty for the ‘Gandhi Parivar’. “Even in the time of crisis, CM Gehlot channelises his energy to arrange buses for migrants when the central government has assured states by providing an end number of trains to each state, including Rajasthan,” Poonia said. Congress central leaders on Wednesday made several attempts, but failed to get the permission. “Throughout the day, we have seen how the UP government has exchanged a war of words to the humble pleas of leaders. Finally, at 5pm we asked our buses to return as we cannot cause more inconvenience to drivers, conductors and Congress workers,” Khan said. Even the Congress efforts to embarrass the UP government by filing an FIR backfired. Khan had reportedly handed over a copy of the complaint to Bharatpur SP Haider Ali Zaidi, but it didn’t materialise due to technical issues. A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said, “The complaint lacked content. It is purely the prerogative of the UP government to allow buses or not. Rajasthan police cannot book UP’s bureaucrats for not allowing buses into their state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-congress-orders-return-of-its-buses/articleshow/75856833.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Brother of man found dead smells something fishy||AHMEDABAD: A man from Rajasthan, whose 75-year-old brother was found dead in his flat in the Gurukul area on April 20, has smelled something fishy about the matter and sought a fresh investigation into it as Vastrapur police in whose jurisdiction the area falls did not register even a case of accidental death. Incredibly, the Vastrapur police inspector, M M Jadeja, had said that his personnel had also seen to it that the body was cremated. On May 1, the Rajasthan-based man wrote an email to Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha and city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia, but neither of them responded to it. TOI has a copy of the email which speaks about the suspicious nature of the death and raised doubts about the police’s actions in the case. The Rajasthan-based man in the email asked that if the son of his brother, who was found dead, was mentally unstable then how was he looking after his bedridden father since March 10 when the deceased’s wife had gone to Mumbai. According to case details, residents of Nilmani Apartments in Gurukul called the police on April 20 due to a stench emanating from the flat. Police officials had then said that the cops had broken open the door and found the body of the 75-year-old man. Sitting next to the deceased was his 40-year-old son, who has learning difficulties and could not comprehend the gravity of what had happened or raise the alarm, police had said. The deceased’s wife, police said, had gone to Mumbai before the lockdown and got stranded there due to lack of transportation. In the the caregiver's absence, the tragedy struck. When the deceased’s daughter was alerted by neighbours, she rushed to the flat and said that her father was suffering from various age-related illnesses and may have succumbed to them. Now, the deceased’s brother has raised a question in his mail to Gujarat DGP and Ahmedabad police commissioner. “How could the woman of the house leave her mentally unstable son with her ailing husband?” he has asked. Raising suspicions about the police’s actions, he said, “The body wasn’t even sent for a postmortem.” Adding further he said, “We did not have cordial relations with my brother's family, but I was in constant touch with my brother. He often told me of the physical torture that he had to undergo at his family’s hands. At times, my brother had to call the police to bring the situation under control.” “It is my earnest request to you to kindly order a reinvestigation in this case, as the whole matter looks quite suspicious,” he said. At the time the body was discovered, Vastrapur police officials had said they did not register a case “at the request of the family”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brother-of-man-found-dead-smells-something-fishy/articleshow/75856257.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: After nearly two months, APSRTC set to resume its services today||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is set to partially restore bus services almost after two months of lockdown. APSRTC vice chairman and managing director (VC&MD) Madireddy Pratap announced on Wednesday that the bus services will resume on Thursday on select routs initially and they will scale up the operations based on the progress in containing the spread of Covid-19. The APSRTC is only starting 17% of its total fleet —about 1,683 buses on the first day. Buses in all categories like Telugu Velugu, Express, deluxe, ultra-deluxe, super luxury and AC services will be resumed in select routes. In order to contain the spread of the virus in the buses, the state run transport corporation announced a slew of measures. Passengers will have to buy the ticket before they board the bus. Online purchase of tickets are encouraged and payment can be made with all e-wallets and UPI based applications. The buses will not have conductor onboard to give tickets in view of safety reasons as the conductor can potentially become a super spreader of the virus, said Pratap. “For now buses will run without a conductor and passengers have to buy the ticket before boarding the bus” he said. To comply with social distancing norms, the APSRTC has rearranged the the seating in in deluxe, ultra-deluxe, super luxury and other high-end services. In Telugu Velugu buses, seats have been marked indicating where passangers can sit. Buses will be sanitised with disinfectants after completion of every trip. Passengers will be provided with hand sanitisers before boarding the bus with contactless dispenser. Wearing mask has been made mandatory and all shops in bus stations have been asked to sell masks at Rs 10 per peice. Only those who buy a ticket online are allowed to enter the bus stations. Pratap said they are discouraging people above the age of 60 and below the age of 10 from travelling unless it is an emergency. They are also encouraging all passengers to install Arogya Setu app. If a passenger has a smartphone, it is mandatory that the person install Arogya Setu app and in case of those who do not have smartphones, their phone numbers will be collected and the passengers database will be maintained for at least 15 days. The buses are scheduled to run from 7am to 7pm. The city services in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam will take some time to resume operations. Although the buses will run with limited capacity, ticket price will remain the same, said Pratap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-nearly-2-months-apsrtc-set-to-resume-its-services-today/articleshow/75855175.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||PG medical students can join by paying half of new fee: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday passed an order allowing selected students to join their respective post-graduate medical courses by paying half the enhanced fee. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice Shameem Akther, which took over the hearing, described the hike in convenor quota seats as a steep one. The hike order passed by the Telangana Admission and Fee Regulation Committee (TAFRC) had resulted in an eruption of controversy before a previous bench. The present bench, however, also went to say that it was allowing the hike in view of the difficulties faced by managements of private medical colleges and to balance the interests of both, colleges and students. The students will lose their seats if they do not join their new course following the payment of fee by May 25. They will also not be allowed to participate in the second phase of counselling. It can be recalled that the previous bench had sought the production of material considered by the fee regulation committee that had recommended the hike in fee. This had resulted in a controversy following the casting of aspersions by the committee’s chairman over one of the judges on the previous bench. The bench finally recused itself from the hearing the case following which the Chief Justice took over the case. Counsel for the aggrieved students, Sama Sandeep Reddy, pointed out to the court that the fee committee had not produced the material even now The CJ agreed that it was difficult for him to decide on the matter without studying the material which had become the basis for the committee to effect the fee hike. When a battery of senior lawyers argued for private medical colleges and said that they are paying hefty fees for professors and even stipends to students, the CJ wondered whether that would justify a hike of (up to) 550%. However, the CJ said that he will verify the authenticity of the hike in the final hearing and allowed colleges to collect up to 50% enhanced fee from convenor quota or Category-A students in addition to the existing fee as per GO number 29 issued in May 2016. For the remaining fee, students have to execute a bond. For Category-B, students have to pay 60% of enhanced fee while Category-C has to pay three times the fee prescribed for Category-B. The high court also accorded no relief for Category-C which also includes NRIs among others. Institution quota, which also falls under Category-C, was left untouched by the high court. The HC directed state, TAFRC and private medical colleges to file their counters within four weeks. It also directed the registry to tag the current PIL, two related PILs pending with the court since 2017 and posted the case to the third week of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pg-med-students-can-join-by-paying-half-of-new-fee-hc/articleshow/75855854.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Warangal MLA booked for lockdown violation||WARANGAL: Warangal East MLA Nannapaneni Narendar was on Wednesday booked for violating lockdown norms while distributing groceries to people from 25 divisions of his constituency. BJP urban district vice president B Harishankar lodged a complaint against the ruling party MLA alleging that he had not maintained social distancing during the distribution which saw the presence of 3,000 people at Deshaipet. The MLA submitted the photographs of people sitting in rows and not maintaining social distancing in violation of Covid-19 norms issued by the Centre and states. The BJP leader demanded that police take stringent action against the organisers of the event and the people who gathered for essentials. Speaking to TOI, Harishankar said the government had registered a case against Karimnagar MP B Sanjay when he visited an orange garden with ten activists. He said that the GWMC mayor was also at the gathering that had allegedly violated rules. TRS party sources claimed that while Narendar distributed groceries, he did so without violating norms. A case has been registered against the MLA, ACP Pratap said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-mla-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75855960.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Amphan: Three-day heatwave warning for Telangana||HYDERABAD: On a day when cyclone Amphan made a landfall in Bengal’s coastal town of Digha, Telangana was issued its first heatwave warning of the season — about a month later than usual. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, informed that isolated pockets of the state will witness heatwave conditions between May 22 and May 24. Reason: change in wind movement, from easterly to north-westerly, thanks to Amphan.  Experts say that the region is witnessing this unusual weather pattern, for the first time in almost a decade. Heatwaves usually hit the state by April, with temperatures soaring past the 40 degree Celsius mark. “It has perhaps been the coolest March-April-May for the state, since 2010,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet. “Until now, humid easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal were blowing over Telangana leading to increase in moisture levels and subsequent pre-monsoon showers. This kept temperatures low. The cyclone has resulted in these winds being replaced with dry and hot north-westerly winds. This phenomenon will lead to a rise in temperature in the state and Rayalaseema belt,” he said. Reiterating this, K Naga Ratna, director of IMD Hyderabad said that the “frequency of rain and thunderstorm activity”, in Telangana, has been more this summer, which resulted in temperatures hovering around normal or one or two degrees above it. A heatwave alert, she added, is issued only when temperatures shoot at least four or five degrees above normal. “Due to increase in western disturbances — which starts from Iran and Iraq — a lot of moisture-bearing winds travelled to southern India. So, we saw intermittent showers,” Naga Ratna said pointing out only some parts of Telangana touched 44 and 45 degree Celsius this summer, albeit for a brief period. But despite the unusual pattern, climate experts say it is too soon to attribute it to climate change. “This is only this year that we are recording a delay in heatwave conditions. We will have to monitor it year-on-year to conclusively say that the occurrence is a result of climate change,” said Y V Rama Rao, consultant meteorologist with the Telangana State Development Planning Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amphan-3-day-heatwave-warning-for-telangana/articleshow/75856247.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||BAGH shuts down for seven days to check hospital staff||Vadodara: City’s prominent multi-speciality hospital – the Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) – decided to close down all its operations completely on Wednesday for a period of seven days.So, from Thursday till May 27, the hospital will remain shut for all medical needs, a decision that had been taken keeping in mind the need of pool Covid-19 test of its staff members, an official release issued by the hospital’s management said.“Patients who are admitted currently shall be shifted and discharged as per clinical guidelines and as advised by the clinicians,” it further mentioned. “Team BAGH has proactively participated in the fight against corona and during this fight some of our warriors were injured and the authorities applaud them for their bravery,” the release said.The release also had a mention about the inspection committee that was formed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). “It gave BAGH no major deficiency in managing Covid-19 patients. In spite of the same the hospital management has decided for pool testing of its staff members,” the release said.On May 16, VMC had formed a fact-finding committee to look into the affairs at BAGH after around 15 Covid-19 positive cases were found linked directly or indirectly to the hospital. In fact, 10 people who tested positive in the city since Tuesday evening also have some link to the hospital.The next day, a three-member committee visited the hospital and in its report to the VMC stated that the hospital was following all current guidelines from ministry of health and family welfare related to Covid-19 case definition, triage, isolation, diagnosis and treatment.The committee, however, had also said that it had found the PPE kit to be inadequate as it was not covering the entire feet. Also, it had pointed out that proper signages of donning area and doffing area and general non-Covid OPD were missing. Thirdly, it had stated that the biomedical waste bins were without foot paddles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bagh-shuts-down-for-seven-days-to-check-hospital-staff/articleshow/75853578.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Imams and muezzins not paid since beginning of lockdown||HYDERABAD: With no congregational prayers in the last two months and thus no weekly or monthly contributions by devotees, managements of mosques are struggling for funds. Ramzan is the period when mosques get additional donations which are passed on to Imams, muezzins and other staff. Several Imams and Muezzins have also complained of non-receipt of monthly financial aid from the state. A survey covering about 100 mosques located in middle income and low-income group localities in the city revealed that Imams and muezzins lead a hand-to-mouth existence and the lockdown has only aggravated their condition. Many have not been paid salaries for the past two months. “Imams and muezzins are a financially vulnerable group. With mosques closed, all traditional forms of fund raising have completely dried up,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, managing trustee of Helping Hand Foundation, which conducted the survey. Askari said the staff of mosques located in rural areas are the worst affected as they have little access to the devout, who make Zakat and Sadaqa donations in Ramzan. The average salary of Imam, mostly Hafiz, responsible for conducting five obligatory prayers and leading Friday prayers, is in the range of Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000. Muezzin, who assists the Imam in making Azan five times a day and responsible for cleaning and maintenance of the mosque, is paid between Rs 5,000 and Rs 8000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imams-muezzins-not-paid-since-beginning-of-lockdown/articleshow/75855934.cms||Syed Akbar
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana origin businesswoman from Florida links farmers to markets||HYDERABAD: A US-based Telugu-origin woman is coordinating with farmers in Telangana to help buy their produce. She is purchasing lorry loads of fruits and vegetables and then helping them reach stranded migrants. “A farmer needed cauliflower taken off his hands during phase one of the lockdown. He had no way to sell it back then. That’s how it started. I started connecting community kitchens to the farm,” Shyla Talluri said, recalling about the first time she connected with a farmer. Since then, Florida-based Shyla, who claims to be a pharma pharma entrepreneur, has connected with sweet lime, cauliflower and tomato farmers as well as those growing watermelon, musk melon and mangoes. Buying tonnes of produce through donations and then connecting it to volunteers has been her mantra since lockdown began. Shyla began by connecting with a former software techie-turned-farmer Gowtham Amaraneni. “I am among the few farmers who are self-reliant and have the capacity to connect with customers,” Gowtham, a farmer from Shamshabad area, said. Gowtham said Shyla began by buying truck loads of veggies and fruits from poor farmers. “She has helped at least 30 farmers in the area. This has helped because first they are able to sell their stock in these troubled times and second the middleman gets cut out ensuring the farmer gets best price possible.” Gowtham says that Shyla has bought at least 10 tonnes of veggies and 15 tonnes of fruit from locals in this area. So far, Talluri has raised Rs 20 lakh during the lockdown towards her efforts to help the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-origin-bizwoman-from-florida-links-farmers-to-markets/articleshow/75855995.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Waive next sem’s fee: UoH students||Hyderabad: Following the footsteps of school children’s parents, the students of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) are demanding the waiver of next semester fee. Citing the severe financial losses suffered by people across the spectrum, the student union said that the income of several parents is very low and the corona crisis has only worsened the situation. In this backdrop the students body said the university should waive off even the current mess dues. “As normalcy hasn’t returned, a majority is still struggling to find a livelihood. This also includes the families of many of our students,” read the representation submitted by the students union to the varsity. They said that as per the student assistance database, parental income of more than 1,200 integrated and master’s students is quite less “We request the varsity to kindly consider waiving off tuition fee for the coming semester and the current mess dues of the students. Such a step from our university would be a great help for our students who hail from economically weaker and marginalised sections of the society,” said Abhishek Nandan, president of the student union. Students said that such a gesture from the varsity would relieve the students from the economic and mental stress. Meanwhile, UoH spokesperson Vinod Pavarala said there was no policy announcement on semester fee waiver by Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD). On the demand for waiving off mess dues, he said: “As on today, UoH has no intention of writing off mess dues for students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-next-sems-fee-uoh-students/articleshow/75855882.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Assn seeks Central aid to pvt schools||Hyderabad: Disappointed with the Centre’s financial package, the Telangana Recognsied School Management Association (TRSMA) said that even private schools should be provided with financial assistance. The body urged the Union government to release six-month salary for all teaching and non-teaching staff working in private schools. “Over 30 lakh students in the state are studying in private schools in the state. The situation is more or less the same across the country as about eight crore students are studying in such institutions. All these schools are struggling to survive and pay their staff. We were completely ignored by the central government in its financial package,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, TRSMA. The body further said once government allows schools to reopen, managements have to incur additional expenditure to ensure social-distancing, provide sanitisers, disinfectants among other measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assn-seeks-central-aid-to-pvt-schools/articleshow/75855867.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pre-monsoon cleaning drive to prevent epidemics||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state government has begun the preparations to prevent spread of any epidemic in the wake of the monsoon season which is expected in the first week of June.“In the video conference had with the district collectors and officials of the concerned departments, specific instructions were given to give thrust for waste disposal. To prevent any epidemic spread the focus should be on preventing the increase in density of mosquitoes. For this proper waste disposal must be carried out. In addition to this we will also have to maintain clean surroundings,” said the chief minister.For cleaning the drains and canals, the state government has sanctioned Rs 11.83 crore. If the districts wants more funds, then it would be sanctioned. All the local bodies have been given instructions to carry out the cleaning drive ahead of the monsoon season, he added.The health department has also planned to launch a campaign to make people aware of their critical role in reducing the burden of seasonal communicable diseases through personal and community-level activities such as mosquito control, personal hygiene, environmental sanitation and safe drinking water. They will help check spread of disease-causing viruses to humans.“The ongoing programmes such as Arogya Jagratha, the grassroots-level health awareness project carried out with the support of local self-government institutions, have been stepped up,” said Dr V Meenakshy, additional director of health services (public health). The Arogya Sena, a voluntary movement, have started home visits to tell people of the need to keep their homes and surroundings clean.Disease prevention activities are an important component of any robust public healthcare system. The state has always given due emphasis to these activities, said Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer for infectious diseases. The thrust of dengue prevention is mosquito eradication on the ground zero, which can be achieved through community involvement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pre-monsoon-cleaning-drive-to-prevent-epidemics/articleshow/75853919.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s first lady honours frontline warriors||Jammu: The first lady of J&K, Dr Smita Murmu, on Tuesday honoured Covid-19 frontline warriors of Udhampur district. Dr Smita Murmu also commended the crucial role being played by all frontline warriors in the battle against the pandemic. The first lady of J&K, along with Geetanjali Singla, the wife of DDC Udhampur, distributed PPE kits among frontline warriors, including nodal officers, drivers, and safai karamcharais, as a mark of appreciation for their dedicated work and enduring contribution towards containment of the spread of the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jks-first-lady-honours-frontline-warriors/articleshow/75833708.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: J&K LG takes stock of facilities provided to returnees||Times News Network Jammu: Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu visited Udhampur railway station on Tuesday and took stock of facilities provided to J&K residents being brought back through special trains from other states. During his visit, the LG observed that there should be strict implementation of all SoPs (standard operating procedures) in this regard and emphasized on thermal scanning of passengers to identify potential Covid-19 positive cases. He also underlined the importance of proper disposal of PPE kits and directed officials to ensure sufficient quantity of food for the returnees, besides provision of fans/cooling facility in the holding area. He also asked the mission director, National Health Mission, J&K to expedite the process of procurement of more PPE kits. He also enquired about the sample collection process in the district and stressed on maintenance of social distancing to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. He also visited the platform area and interacted with staff deployed there for reception of passengers. Later, the LG visited the holding area, food counter, transport area, etc and expressed satisfaction over the arrangements in place for the returnees. Udhampur deputy commissioner Dr Piyush Singla also gave a detailed PowerPoint presentation about the process involved in reception and dispatch of passengers to their home districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-jk-lg-takes-stock-of-facilities-provided-to-returnees/articleshow/75833722.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mumbai||‘Jugaad’ fails to work for low-cost ventilators, safety concerns deter buyers||‘Jugaad’ or frugal innovation, typically emanating from India, has often come to the aid of the country for affordable solutions to pressing needs - but it has failed to make the cut to tackle Covid-19, as far as low-cost ventilators are concerned. Two months after the government first placed an order for ventilators, most of these low-cost innovations have found no takers and there are practically no concrete orders. The government may not have gone ahead with the low-cost options, basic ventilators or ambu bags due to potential safety concerns and ease of use, industry experts pointed out. (An ambu bag is an emergency substitute for a ventilator, used in an ambulance or till the patient is shifted to an intensive care unit of the hospital.) Even the latest tender floated on May 14 by state-owned HLL Lifecare for an “emergency procurement” has not considered these frugal innovations around ventilators and ambu bags. The scramble to procure ventilators started in April after a huge rise in Covid cases, which also triggered a wave of ingenuity. Several start-ups, small medical equipment firms and scientific/engineering community, including IITs, jumped onto the bandwagon of developing low-cost ventilators and ambu bags (manual resuscitators). PM Modi also asked ministries to find innovative ways to scale up production of ventilators. “The race to develop ventilators led to some making (them) practically from scrap, without any real engineering, clinical precision, and most importantly, testing,” said one of the innovators, adding the government should have communicated that proper ventilators used in ICU settings only will only be procured, and not basic ones. Vishwaprasad Alva, managing director of Skanray Technologies, a vendor that has bagged the government order, said, “Manufacturers shouldn’t exploit the ‘Make in India’ initiative to thrust untested, unsafe and low quality products. They should use this boost to build export-worthy goods for the domestic market. Our philosophy has been to sell only globally-compliant products in India where standards and regulations haven’t been there all these years. The government has just initiated discussions on standards now, after over 70 years of independence”. As on date, around 18,855 ventilators are available in the country, while the government placed orders in April for around 60,000 ventilators, which includes 1,000 imported ones. The vendors are in the process of supplying them. Certain medium and small enterprises, start-ups and premier engineering institutes, IIT Bhubaneswar, IIT Roorkee and IIT Hyderabad reportedly announced their plans of low-cost ventilators or ambu bags. But most have remained on the drawing board, or progressed till the prototype, and not been tested yet as they do not meet requirements under Covid. “In April we came to know, the government has their requirements covered from existing manufacturers and their consortium suppliers. This has come as a big disappointment, especially for innovators and small firms. We have told them not to allocate resources for innovation or creating production capacity on basic, non-invasive ventilators/ambu bags,” Rajiv Nath forum coordinator AiMeD told TOI. Chennai-based med robotics firm Perfint Healthcare, which had submitted its proposal to HLL Lifecare, was finally told after a long wait that their product will not be considered. Nandakumar Subburaman, company’s founder and CEO, said, “We should not let an opportunity like this go waste when so many institutions and innovators have responded to the emergency need and created solutions.” The company was planning to manufacture ventilators based on a USFDA emergency use authorisation cleared, open-source design shared by US-firm Medtronic, but has disbanded plans. Another ambu bag ventilator developed at MSME, Central Tool Room & Training Centre (CTTC), Bhubaneswar and shortlisted under CAWACH, an initiative under Department of Science and Technology, ISBA and IIT Bombay- supported incubator, SINE, has not been considered by HLL Lifecare. “Only ventilators which can be used in ICU-setting are being considered for certification at present,” Bhagabati Prasad Pattnaik consultant incubation CTTC said. Further, Chandigarh-based VK Dhir, a retired Army officer, has developed EMAR (emergency automated resuscitator), an ambu bag based device, but may not take it forward as it may not be suitable for hospitalised Covid patients. Under the first tender floated by HLL Lifecare, vendors, including a consortium of Skanray-BEL-DRDO, AgVa-Maruti Udyog and AMTZ (Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone) are readying to supply ventilators, starting this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jugaad-fails-to-work-for-low-cost-ventilators-safety-concerns-deter-buyers/articleshow/75856854.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Police pickets make peak-hour traffic crawl||NEW DELHI: Traffic jams were back in Delhi on Wednesday as hundreds of vehicles slowed down at the police pickets across the city. The pickets were set up to check for migrant labourers heading towards the railway stations, Anand Vihar and border areas. The resultant snarls choked parts of Vikas Marg, Ring Road and Outer Ring Road. Commuters had started complaining about jams since Wednesday morning as vehicles were getting stuck in traffic on the arterial roads as well. “We have advised the local cops to ensure that the gaps between the pickets are increased during the peak hours. However, since they have been put on an alert to check for migrants, the vehicles are slowed down and scanned,” said Taj Hassan, special CP traffic. This is expected to continue for the next few days. While the checks were intensified during the peak hours, traffic jams were reported from Nizamuddin, ITO, Dhaula Kuan and Punjabi Bagh areas. Commuters near the Nizamuddin bridge complained that barricades were erected to conduct checks for vehicles coming from Ghazipur and Noida Link Road. The resultant jams stretched back to nearly one and a half kilometres behind the barricade. “Even though there were policemen deployed at this barricade, they were standing quite far away from the point where the vehicles were crossing. What is the point of having such a checkpost?” asked Sidharth Singh who was heading to his central Delhi office. Chaos was reported near the ITO crossing as well around noon. At the Aurobindo Marg, near Green Park, commuters complained about serpentine traffic queues stretching back till AIIMS after multiple rows of cars were found parked on the road. “With parking assistants remaining absent due to the lockdown and the adjoining roads blocked by police, it was absolute chaos during the evening peak hours,” said Atul Mishra who was stuck in the jam for nearly half an hour on Wednesday evening. Even though 2,000 traffic policemen were deployed across the city, most of them were on duty at the pickets to check vehicles for migrants. Commuters also complained about traffic tangles in the colonies as the road blockades were not yet removed from several places despite requests from the RWAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-pickets-make-peak-hour-traffic-crawl/articleshow/75856268.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 35.5 lakh engaged under NREGA, says Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: The labour engagement under MGNREGA in the state crossed 35.5 lakh on Wednesday, surpassing last year’s around 30-lakh engagement on the same day and also breaking the last 10-year record in labour employment, said deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. So far, under the ‘Ek Gram-Chaar Kaam’ special campaign, 36,679 works have been sanctioned, for which around Rs 1,372 crore have been spent so far. After the start of the special drive in the state to enrol more and more migrant workers who have returned to the state in MGNREGA work, on an average around 10,000 new job cards are issued daily. “In the current situation, when Covid-19 pandemic has affected everyone, MGNREGA has proved to be helpful in ensuring economic support by providing employment to people in the rural areas,” Pilot said. “In January 2019, a 100-day action plan was chalked out to approve works related to development of pasture land, model pond development, construction of cemetery and crematorium and sports ground development in every gram panchayat. Taking this a step further, ‘Ek Gram-Chaar Kaam’ campaign is currently being run under which these works are being done on priority basis in each revenue village of the state,” he added. Pilot informed that under this campaign, 36,679 works have been sanctioned so far. These include 9,281 pasture land development works; 9,090 model pond development works; 9,589 crematorium/cemetery development works and 8,719 sports ground development works. “The implementation of these works in every revenue village is being done through convergence of various schemes under rural development and panchayati raj department,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/35-5-lakh-enrolments-under-nrega-a-record-in-10-years-pilot/articleshow/75856844.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Lady doctor from K’taka turns +ve||Kozhikode: A lady doctor from Karnataka who has been practising at a private hospital at Engapuzha near Thamarassery tested postive for Covid-19 after she returned to her native place. According to police, the doctor who is a gynaecologist, is understood to have attended to patients last on April 6. She is learrnt to have gone to her native place at Davanagere in Karnataka on May 5. The doctor’s results were negative in the first Covid-19 test, but turned positive in the subsequent examination conducted on May 17. It is yet to be ascertained as to from where the doctor contracted the disease. A few patients and the staff at the hospital have been asked to go on quarantine. Police are searching for the vehicle and driver that took the doctor to Karnataka. Train with 1,435 guest workers leaves Plkd for UP The second train from Palakkad with 1,435 guest workers left for Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh) from Palakkad railway junction station on Wednesday. The guest workers were given food packets to cover the entire train journey and food kits and drinking water, said sub-collector Arjun Pandian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/lady-doctor-from-ktaka-turns-ve/articleshow/75853954.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||40 from edu dept to give kin answers||Ahmedabad: The biggest Covid-19 care centre in Gujarat is also being criticized the most for its lack of communication with patients. TOI on May 16 reported that a family was informed about the death of a Covid-19 patient eight days after he died. To address the issue, the state health department has resorted to inducting 40 persons from education department to man the command and control room at the Civil Hospital campus. Pankaj Kumar, additional chief secretary (revenue), on Wednesday said that relatives of patients admitted at the hospital will now be able to get updates on things from admission to discharge through the system. Civil Hospital officials said that the hospital is seeing 150-plus admissions a day and being a multi-hospital set-up, it is difficult to track patients based on details such as name or area. This has led to several flare-ups and incidents such as the cancer patient from Porbandar whose body was found in the morgue upon inquiry after he went ‘missing’ from his ward. “A workshop was also organized for those in the command and control centre and those dealing with family members of the Covid-19 patients to ensure that relatives get updated information without hiccups,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/40-from-edu-dept-to-give-kin-answers/articleshow/75856254.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||74,218 J&K residents brought back till date||Jammu: Fulfilling its commitment towards providing succour to Jammu & Kashmir residents stranded outside the UT due to lockdown imposed in the wake of global Coronavirus pandemic, the UT government on Tuesday said that it has transported over 74,218 residents back to their hometowns through special trains, buses and flights. As per the detailed breakup about the figures, a government spokesperson said that 59,492 residents of J&K, stranded in various other states and UTs, have been evacuated through Lakhanpur, besides bringing back home about 14,225 people through special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations. Besides, 501 passengers, including students, have been brought back through special flights so far. “So far, six trains have reached Jammu with a total of 5,508 stranded passengers belonging to different districts while 8,717 passengers have reached Udhampur in 10 special trains. Besides, two trains carrying about 1,400 passengers from Bhopal and Bengaluru are expected to reach Udhampur by this evening,” he added. A special train carrying J&K passengers stranded in Gujarat would start its journey from Kalupur railway station in Ahmedabad at 5 pm on Tuesday. According to nodal officer, J&K, the train service from Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat and Rajasthan is at its advance stage while for north east and states in east the service is in process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/74218-jk-residents-brought-back-till-date/articleshow/75833736.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Cases start to surface in rural areas||Aurangabad: While confirmed cases of Covid-19 were so far limited to district headquarters in Marathwada, the rural areas have also started reporting positive patients, putting the health authorities and district administrations on their toes. The total number of cases across the eight districts of Marathwada on Wednesday increased to 1,488. The number of confirmed cases in Beed district has increased to 19 with three hailing from Majalgaon taluka and two each from Kaij and Georai talukas. Ashti taluka of Beed has also reported seven positive patients, six of which have been moved to Pune, while one has succumbed to the contagion. Osmanabad district, which was in green zone until last few days, has reported a total of 16 confirmed cases of Covid-19 by Wednesday with 10 of them belonging to areas other than the district headquarters. The cases in rural areas include four each from Kalamb and Paranda talukas while two were reported from Tuljapur taluka. Nanded district has also reported cases of Covid-19 in rural areas. While the tally of total positive patients has increased to 106 in the district, Mukhed and Bhokar talukas have reported a case each of Covid-19, setting the alarm bells ringing. Latur district, which has recorded 65 cases till Wednesday, has reported positive patients from Udgir, Ahmedpur and Jalkot talukas. However, the exact number of cases from rural areas could not be ascertained. Jalna has reported 41 positive patients, including one from Ambad taluka whereas Bhirda village from Hingoli taluka also reported a confirmed case of Covid-19, taking the tally of positive patients in the district to 100. Among other districts, Parbhani, which has recorded 16 confirmed cases of Covid 19, has already reported one patient each from Sonpeth, Gangakhed and Selu talukas. A senior health official from Latur division said several positive patients surfacing in rural areas have a travel history . “The relaxed lockdown norms have facilitated inter-district movement of citizens, including those from containment areas. While the authorities are keeping a tight watch on such travellers, the individuals concerned must also follow quarantine norms and voluntarily come up for health checks for even flu-like symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cases-start-to-surface-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75856851.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||2 drivers booked for accident||Hyderabad: Shamshabad police registered a case against two van drivers on Wednesday in relation to a bike accident. During the wee hours of Wednesday, a van going towards Shadnagar from Shamshabad crashed into the railing of Palmakul bridge. The van driver abandoned the truck on the road without putting up safety cones behind the vehicle. The victim, Ch Mogulanna, who was riding a bike, did not notice the van initially and had to swerve his vehicle sharply to avoid collision. This resulted him being hit by another van. Mogulana suffered severe injuries.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-drivers-booked-for-accident/articleshow/75856287.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Barring Bundi, Covid-19 reaches 32 districts||JAIPUR: Four persons died while 170 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday taking the casualty toll to 147 and infection count to 6,015. Three of the four deaths were reported from Jaipur while another was a person hailing from another state. So far, 73 people have lost their lives due to the virus in Jaipur. Throughout the day, 72 people were discharged from hospitals in different districts taking the count of discharged persons to 3,000. Districts which reported cases are Jaipur (25), Dungarpur (22), Jodhpur (18), Nagaur (17), Sikar (12), Jalore (11), Jhunjhunu (9), Pali (8), Rajsamand (8), Ajmer (7), Chittorgarh (7), Kota (6), Sirohi (5), Churu (3), Udaipur (3), Banswara (3), Tonk (2), Jhalawar (1), Sriganganagar (1) Baran (1), and one from another state. Sriganganagar reported its first case on Wednesday, making it the 32nd district to report Covid-19. So far, all districts have reported Covid-19 cases except Bundi. In Jaipur, five more inmates of the district jail were found infected, two each from Ramganj and Shastri Nagar while one each tested positive in Mansarovar, Amer, Van Vihar Kachhi Basti, Govindpura, RD hostel, Jagatpura, Bajaj Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Jain Dharamshala, DCM on Ajmer Road, Ambabari, Mahaveer Nagar, Hotel Teej, Hotel Red Fox, PG girls hostel and address of one case is not clear. The tally of infected migrants reached 990 with 102 fresh cases (out of 170 new cases) on Wednesday. Health minister Raghu Sharma said 7.25 lakh migrants, who have entered the state, have been home quarantined, while another 34,000 have been kept at institutional quarantine. The minister said apart from these migrants, there are many who reached different districts without informing the government. “We have formed committees at village level to find out how many people have reached without informing the government. It is necessary to keep them in quarantine to ensure others do not get infected,” said Sharma, adding that till now the villages were safe from Covid-19 but now with migrants testing positive, cases are surfacing from rural areas. Meanwhile, an 108 ambulance driver after being tested positive reached SMS Hospital driving the vehicle for getting admitted on Tuesday night. The driver was posted at Gandhi Nagar. Ambulance employee leader Virendra Singh alleged that the driver prepared his own file of admission as no one came to help in his admission from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barring-bundi-covid-19-reaches-32-districts/articleshow/75856862.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Hu Pan Corona Warrior’ op starts||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday announced the launch of the ‘Hu Pan Corona Warrior’ campaign (Even I am a Corona Warrior) from May 21 to sensitise people about the need for protection against the Covid-19 pandemic. The campaign will run until May 27. In a video message on social media, Rupani said, “The state government was on its toes during the last two months and is still working 24x7 to curb the crisis. Gujarat led India from the front in the maximum number of Covid-19 tests. At the same time, the state accounts for the highest discharge rate among all the states. The discharge rate of Gujarat is also higher than the national average.” Chief Minister said we are indebted to government employees, doctors, paramedical forces, police personnel, health and sanitation workers who have proved their mettle in this scenario. “We have termed them as Corona Warriors till today. But now that relaxations have been provided based on terms and conditions, and it is time for everyone to be a `corona warrior’,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hu-pan-corona-warrior-op-starts/articleshow/75856297.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Scooter stolen in Meerpet area||Hyderabad: A scooter was stolen at Dathu Nagar in Meerpet on Wednesday by unidentified offenders. A 24-year-old student, Anusha, of Dathu Nagar lodged a complaint with police alleging that at 6.15 pm, her father went out of home on her scooter (TS 07 GY 5704) and parked the vehicle in front of the gate of Dathu Nagar toddy shop. When he returned to parking place at 6.30 pm, the scooter was missing. Based on the complaint, police registered a theft case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scooter-stolen-in-meerpet-area/articleshow/75856306.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||‘India needs to ride on Covid-19 while celebrating biodiversity day’||Nagpur: Even as International Biodiversity Day (IBD) will be celebrated on May 22 online, wildlife and biodiversity experts have appealed for the need to ride on the Covid-19 pandemic situation while celebrating the event. “While celebrating the event, the governments should think of the emerging threats to our rich biodiversity while lifting the lockdown,” said Kishor Rithe, former member of Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB). The state forest department has organized the event via webinar to be opened by PCCF SC Gairola. MSBB member-secretary Jeet Singh will speak about the status of biodiversity and people’s biodiversity registers (PBRs). This year’s theme of IBD is ‘Our solutions are in nature’ and the celebrations are confined to online campaigns only. The protected areas and even biodiversity hotspots play an important role in reducing the risk of disasters, including pandemics. “Many ayurvedic medicines can even help to fight Covid-19, which shows that solutions for human health are also available in nature. However, the existence of Indian ayurveda will depend upon how our systematic efforts bend the curve of biodiversity loss in India,” says Rithe. “As we are trying to recover from the pandemic and entire biodiversity on planet earth is right now healing very fast, we must ensure the activities harming biodiversity should not start again. Covid-19 has clearly shown that hereafter only biodiversity on earth is going to help humankind to survive on this planet,” said Rithe. Another expert & former member-secretary of MPSBB Dr Ram Gopal Soni said, “If all SBBs in the country apply access and benefit sharing (ABS) provisions under the Biological Diversity Act 2002 and Rules 2004, they can get more than Rs1,000 crore annually.” “This money can be utilized to protect biodiversity, rivers, forest wildlife, and medicinal plants,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/india-needs-to-ride-on-covid-19-while-celebrating-biodiversity-day/articleshow/75875946.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||‘SOPs, certification key to boost tourists’ confidence’||Jaipur: Tourism industry that took the first blow of the Covid-19 pandemic and would be the last to reopen fell off the radar when the Centre announced stimulus measures for various sectors of the economy. The disappointed industry now wants the government to at least formulate a basic strategy of safety protocols to seed confidence among the fear-stricken travellers. Currently, there are no unified standard operating procedures (SOPs) for hotels, home stays, group travellers, tour guides and other service providers. Definition of safety and precautions are interpreted differently by individual hotels or chains and there is no system of certification by the Centre. Speaking at FICCI webinar, principal secretary for tourism Sreya Guha urged the Centre to prepare a unified set of protocols and a certification system that would help the industry to adhere to the standards and create confidence among the travellers. “Generating confidence among travellers with regard to safety would be key to restarting the industry. A uniform set of safety measures would also help the hotels, home stays and other service providers of the industry to implement them better. Besides, we also need to have a certification system to ensure that all are following the protocols,” said Guha. She said already the department has prepared SOPs for monuments which have been vetted by the medical and health department. “We have kept them ready so that whenever the monuments are allowed to open, we will immediately be ready to welcome visitors,” said Guha. With regard to offering a financial relief package to the industry, she said the state government has already sent proposals to the Centre and Rajasthan will keep working with the Centre to convince them the need to support the industry that has been badly hit. As part of the state government’s task force on restarting the economy, the tourism department has submitted proposals for the revival of the sector. “The state government has already given relief in the form of rollback of liquor licence fees for hotels and restaurant and reimbursement of SGST early on without factoring in the prolonged nature of the pandemic at that point of time. But, we have submitted proposals to the state task force for extending a relief package to the sector,” added Guha. She said Rajasthan tourism has undertaken a number of digital initiatives by way of online concerts, virtual tours, celebrating cultural events online to keep the travellers engaged with the state’s unique offerings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sops-certification-key-to-boost-tourists-confidence/articleshow/75856855.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Palakkad reports seven new cases; all from other states||Palakkad: Palakkad recorded its highest single-day spike in the number of coronavirus cases so far as seven more people tested positive on Wednesday. There are 20 active Covid-19 cases, including one each from Malappuram and Thrissur undergoing treatment in the district. Of the seven positive cases reported on Wednesday, four persons had returned from Maharashtra and three from Chennai, said district medical officer (DMO) Dr KP Reetha. Among those who came from Maharashtra, two people, aged 48 and 45, are from Panamanna and the other two, aged 39 and 50, are from Thrikkaderi. They had reached Thalappady checkpost in Kasaragod on May 13 and at Walayar on May 14. The three people who returned from Chennai are a 38-year-old person from Kollengode, a 27-year-old from Kavassery, Alathur and a 49-year-old person from Mannampatta in Sreekrishnapuram, the DMO said. They came via Walayar checkpost on May 17. They had tested positive for coronavirus at Chennai and were asked to remain in isolation. Walayar check post officials had received the information and on their arrival, they were admitted to the district hospital. Their swab samples were sent for testing on May 18 and the result came as positive on Wednesday. A total number of 7,606 people are under observation in the district– 7,551 in home, 53 in district hospital and one each in Ottapalam and Mannarkkad taluk hospitals..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/palakkad-reports-seven-new-cases-all-from-other-states/articleshow/75854002.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||LG Mathur directs to improve public transport in Ladakh||Leh: Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, R K Mathur on Tuesday held a meeting with various departments at Raj Niwas. In the meeting, the Lt Governor directed offiials of planning development and monitoring department to digitise all statistical data and make it public. He directed to use the digital map of Ladakh to compile state-level data for every sector. He also directed to institute a mechanism to monitor all Centre flagship programmes. He directed to expedite the preparation of Ladakh Vision 2050. Meanwhile, keeping in view the growing traffic congestion in Ladakh, the Lt Governor exhorted the transport department to initiate measures to improve and promote public transport. He directed the department to work out a transportation model for Ladakh and have an alternative to J&K SRTC in future. He emphasised on improving the public transport facilities and plan for e-buses. The Lt Governor asked the department to continue existing registration token tax on light motor vehicles, strict compliance to pollution check and address the issue of inter-district contract carriage movement. He instructed to submit a proposal regarding waiving off late fees of permits for commercial vehicles and to convene state transport meeting at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lg-mathur-directs-to-improve-public-transport-in-ladakh/articleshow/75833778.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nashik||NMC to use software to detect Covid patients||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation and authorities in Malegaon will use a software developed by a Nashik-based IT firm to quicken the process of identifying Covid-19 patients. “I had discussed the use of the software with the special monitoring officer at Malegaon, Pankaj Ashiya. He has also decided to use it,” said Nashik municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. Under this new process, health personnel would take an x-ray of a person’s chest who has Covid-19 symptoms and then upload the scanned report in the software. Within a few minutes, the software will show whether the person has contracted the infection. “If the software shows that the person has been infected, we will isolate the person and send throat swab sample for re-confirmation,” said Game. “We had given chest x-ray reports of 500 suspected patients to the firm to carry out the test using the software. Without the knowledge of the company, we had sent the throat swab samples of the same people for testing. In over 90% of the cases, the results of the lab reports and the software matched,” added Game. The entire process takes around 15 minutes. Ashiya said the software is an artificial intelligence-based tool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-use-software-to-detect-covid-patients/articleshow/75853979.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Cyber branch cop tests +ve, 22 personnel quarantined||Aurangabad: The cybercrime branch police station located in the police commissionerate premises was sealed after a police constable was tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Wednesday. The 22 other police personnel working in the police station too have been quarantined at Mahsul Praobhidini. Sources in the cybercrime branch said that deputy commissioner of police (headquarter) Meena Makwana informed that the tests would be carried out soon. Police authorities informed that the 28-year old constable’s father, also a policeman, was posted with the civic body staff and tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. This was followed by testing his family members including his son and daughter-in-law, who were tested positive. The family was staying in the same premises and their house too have been partially sealed. “Our biggest concern is that the constable, who tested positive on Wednesday, was looking after the e-pass system and would daily interact with several police officers and constables at the CP office. You never know, who all have been infected,” said a senior police officer, while suggesting that everyone at CP office should undergo swab tests to rule out any infection. Health authorities informed that 44 fresh Cvoid-19 cases were registered taking the total number of cases to 1,120 in Aurangabad on Wednesday morning. In addition to this, three more succumbed to infection while undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, thus taking the death toll to 39 so far. Among the three deaths included a 50-year-old woman from Rehmaniya Colony, 80-year-old resident of Indiranagar and 55-year old man from Jaibhimnagar area of the city. Out of the 39 casualties so far, 36 cases have been reported from GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cyber-branch-cop-tests-ve-22-personnel-quarantined/articleshow/75856859.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Homeless man found dead||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old footpath dweller died at Vanasthalipuram on Wednesday . The deceased was, Suresh, 35. According to police, Suresh used to eke out his livelihood by seeking alms. On Wednesday evening, a truck driver has noticed the body of Suresh, lying next to a water tank near traffic police station of Vanasthalipuram. “Suresh died at the same place where he used to sleep every night. We suspect that he might have died on ill health,” Vanasthalipuram police said. His body was shifted to OGH for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/homeless-man-found-dead/articleshow/75856321.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolkata||More than 6 hours of storm fury leaves locked-in Kolkatans shaken and stirred||Kolkata: Bang in the middle of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, Kolkata was left battered and bruised when Cyclone Amphan — the strongest storm in recent memory — passed through it like a rampaging T-Rex, snapping power lines, shattering windowpanes, uprooting trees and iron gates and making high-rises shake.For most Kolkatans stuck at home, each second of the six-and-a-half hours that the storm raged on for seemed like hours. It was especially terrifying for those living on the top floor of high-rises.“On the 40th floor, it felt as if we were being shaken by the collar,” said Debjani Mukherjee, a resident of the Urbana complex on the EM Bypass. “Some of the window frames got disfigured and several installations, lights and a portion of the roof of the club has got damaged. A gate outside Tower 4 has also got uprooted, and we had to run downstairs and engage 20 people to shift it to a safer location. It is scarier at the upper floors. I have never seen something like this.”At the South City complex, residents saw cars parked outside moving in the wind and installations at the playground, garden and parks flying around. Several residents of the upper floors even attempted to come down to the ground-floor lobby in the evening, as the wind speed reached 105kmph around 6.30pm. But, as the lights went off, most residents preferred to stay back home, windows and doors bolted for safety.“It wasn’t this scary even during (cyclone) Aila,” said a resident. “We felt as if there was an earthquake. Such was the sound of the fury outside, we could not even dare to get near the window to see what was happening outside.”Sarojini Mukherjee, the state’s oldest Covid-19 survivor, and her family at their Madurdaha home, said they felt scared by the calamitous situation.“First the pandemic, and now this storm. I don’t even feel like talking about it. I just hope the situation gets better soon,” said Bikas Mukherjee, her eldest son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-6-hours-of-storm-fury-leaves-locked-in-kolkatans-shaken-and-stirred/articleshow/75856863.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 21, 2020||Goa||‘Demand inquiry into mining lease renewal case’||Panaji: Congress on Wednesday challenged former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar to demand an inquiry into the renewal process for the 88 mining leases as recommended by the Lokayukta, which was rejected by the state government. In a statement, Congress questioned Parsekar’s silence since the Lokayukta report recommending an investigation into the renewal of the mining leases.  A few days earlier, Parsekar reacted to the government’s decision to reject the Lokayukta’s recommendation. While doing so, Parsekar alleged that it was opposition leader Digambar Kamat who is tangled in corruption. “Before pointing finger at others, Laxmikant Parsekar should show guts and demand inquiry into the 88 mining lease renewals as recommended by Lokayukta of Goa,” Congress said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/demand-inquiry-into-mining-lease-renewal-case/articleshow/75856889.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Satara registers 24 fresh cases||KOLHAPUR: Five talukas in Satara district — Jawli, Khandala, Khatav, Patan, and Karad — are on high alert after 24 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported between Tuesday and Wednesday evening. The district now has a total 170 positive cases of which 94 are active, while as many as 73 patients have recovered from the contagion. The district has also reported three deaths so far. Sangli district non-red zone Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary on Wednesday said that as per the state government’s guidelines Sangli falls in the non-red zone category. The district, however, has containment zones in some areas. “In the non-red zone areas, the essential and non-essential shops will remain open from 9am to 5pm,” Chaudhary said, adding that from 7pm to 7am there will be curfew and citizens should abide by the lockdown guidelines. The district registered three Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 59. However, the number of active cases stands at 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-24-fresh-cases/articleshow/75856874.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||No services in Vizag, Vij for now||Visakhapatnam: In the north coastal Andhra Pradesh, a total of 407 buses will be operated from the RTC Vizianagaram zone, said C Ravi Kumar, the zonal executive director on Wednesday. “We will start the buses from 7am on May 21 on select routes. There will be no bus services in Visakhapatnam city. We will be operating inter-district services. We are yet to decide on the services to other states and cities like Hyderabad, Bangalore,” Ravi Kumar told TOI. While 135 buses will operate from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, 115 buses from Visakhapatnam and 157 buses from East Godavari district that fall under the Vizianagaram zone will ply. “If anyone want to travel from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam, they have to come via Rajahmundry by a change of bus. There is no direct bus from Visakhapatnam to Vijayawada as of now,” Ravi Kumar added.  The RTC Vizianagaram regional manager Appala Raju said that starting with 10%-20% of the buses on Thursday and their number will be increased in a phased manner. Further, the RTC is facilitating booking of seats in advance and on-spot booking through APSRTC online for all buses in a phased manner, Appala Raju added. “Conductors have been done away with to avoid cash transactions, queues and rushing of passengers into the bus,” Raju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-services-in-vizag-vij-for-now/articleshow/75855247.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Solapur city has over 400 Covid-19 patients||Kolhapur: Solapur city has registered 14 more Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Wednesday. With this, the coronavirus cases in the city have crossed the 400 mark, taking the total number of positive patients to 470, officials confirmed. The city has also witnessed a surge in Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients. Solapur district health officer Bhimashankar Jamadar said that the number of Covid-19 patients are more in urban areas while the rural areas have successfully managed to contain the spread of virus. Solapur municipal corporation commissioner Deepak Taware was unavailable for comments on the city’s present condition and measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. The city had reported its first coronavirus case on April 12 after a deceased tested positive for the contagion. From April 14 onwards when the close contacts of the deceased tested positive, there has been no turning back for the city as there has not been a single day’s break in the reporting of a positive case. Put stickers outside homes of quarantined citizens Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai on Wednesday asked officials to put stickers outside the residences of home-quarantined citizens. The aim of this exercise is to ensure that the neighbours of such citizens follow all the required safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/solapur-city-has-over-400-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75856866.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||‘Relief needs to be huge for govt to ensure safety’||Mumbai-based lawyer Yeshwant Shenoy has been a vocal and strong proponent of air safety in India, raising it at many forums -- from grassroots to the highest courts of the land. He established the 812 Foundation, a trust, to work on larger goals of aviation safety in India. He rues that there is no organisation that works on aviation safety, and so hence decided to fill that void, post-AIE air crash of 2010. Excerpts from an interview on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the horrific crash of Air India Express Flight 812 What is the sense you get after this landmark judgment? The judicial system in this country can be slow, but it is still the most effective institution in the country. Does this verdict demonstrate that if you are resolute, courts listen to you? Yes. People complain and give up. No one wants to fight. I know of a group who fought for a few years and gave up. They achieved nothing other than wasting their own money. Before you start a fight you need to know what you are fighting for. It could be purely financial or it could be to change something. Whatever it be, ensure you reach your goal.What implications will this judgment have on future accident claims? It settles a few aspects in accident claims. The difference between ‘permanent job’ and 'on a fixed salary' has been settled. The aspect on foreign currency conversion in accident cases is settled. It most importantly opens up the fact that other aspects of pay like ESOPs can be factored in compensation claims if quantum is specified. You still have two cases pending – one regarding CaptGlusia and another pertaining to criminal negligence by AAI... Capt. Glusica’s claim is pending for final hearing in the Bombay High Court. The pandemic has delayed the hearing. As regards the criminal case against AAI and AI, the final hearing was completed in the Karnataka high court in February 2020 and the matter is reserved for judgment. The Criminal case is more important than these compensation cases because the people responsible for this accident are still roaming free and Mangaluru Airport is still a sitting duck. No amount of compensation will bring back loved ones. Was higher compensation the sole motive behind this litigation? Both the compensation cases entrusted to me had one instruction -- the need for dignity associated with the life lost. Both these families went through extreme financial pressure and yet did not touch the amount offered by Air India. It was not about the money, it was about dignity, respect and overall value for human life. I was not under pressure to get a certain compensation and therefore, I could give it my all without worries. If all the kin of the victims of crash has fought this together, what could have been the outcome? And why did it not materialize? I wish people had fought this together. I tried my best. Look at this accident. The cost of compensation is much smaller than the cost of prevention and as a result we will never be able to prevent another Mangaluru. Had all of them come together, I would have fought this in the Supreme Court directly years ago and it would not have been on the aspect of compensation alone -- it would have been on valuing human life and looking at compensation as a means of prevention. Only when cost of prevention is lower than cost of compensation, will anyone have an incentive to prevent. We almost succeeded in repeating a Bhopal in Visakhapatnam. Unless compensations are higher, unless people who caused the crash are prosecuted, Mangaluru will never see its airport being safe. People were reluctant to stand up for a cause. There could have been a change, had the kin of the victims decided to fight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/relief-needs-to-be-huge-for-govt-to-ensure-safety/articleshow/75853995.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Couple donates Rs 11K to police||Nashik: A couple, who got married in the presence of close relatives in Ambad on Tuesday, donated Rs 11,000 of their wedding savings for the welfare of the city police. Kumar Chaudhary, senior police inspector of Ambad police station said that the wedding took place in the Khutwad Nagar area which falls under the jurisdiction of Ambad police station. Sumit Pagar and Puja Pawar had a very simple wedding ceremony with not more than 30 guests at Pawar’s residence. Due to the restrictions clamped on wedding ceremonies in view of the nationwide lockdown, the couple had invited very few guests and had ensured strict social distancing during the ceremony. Officers from the Ambad police attended the ceremony and ensured that there was no violation of lockdown rules. They also extended their warm wishes to the couple. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/couple-donates-rs-11k-to-police/articleshow/75853999.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||Anand records ninth death, 2 new cases||Vadodara/ Anand: After a respite of few days, Anand district recorded fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday as well as registered a death due to the deadly virus. After a 45-year-old resident of Rehmatnagar of Khambhat’s Kansari area, died on Wednesday, Anand’s death toll due to the virus rose to 9. The patient’s lungs were filled with fluid and had got inflamed. He passed away at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad, health officials said. Meanwhile, the same day also saw two fresh cases, of a 45-year-old man and a 56-year-old woman, both residents of Khambhat testing positive of the infection. As of now 76 patients have been discharged, nine have died while three are under treatment. So far, samples of 1,253 individuals have been tested of which 1,164 have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-records-ninth-death-2-new-cases/articleshow/75853601.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||2nd tiger death in PTR in 15 days, count nears 50||Pilibhit: The decomposed carcass of a tiger was found in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) on Wednesday, making him the second big cat to die in the forest range in the last 15 days. In the last census, PTR had just over 50 tigers. Earlier this month, an adult tiger, which was attacked and injured by villagers in Pilibhit, died during a botched rescue attempt by forest department officials who fired two tranquiliser darts at the feline, instead of required one. On Wednesday afternoon, the forest department found the decomposed and “almost dried up” carcass of the adult tiger in Khakra compartment of Mahof forest range in PTR, about 200-meter from the forest border of Surai forest range of Uttarakhand’s Terai east forest division. Field director of PTR, H Rajamohan, said a part of the tiger’s body was eaten up by wild animals. With this, PTR has lost three adult tigers since April 4. Two of them are dead, while one was sent to Kanpur zoo. “Nails and almost all the teeth are intact in the carcass. This suggests that it was not killed by poachers,” said Rajamohan. The field forest force has been directed to conduct combing operation in entire area to collect the clues about tiger’s death, he said. “The carcass seemed to be over one week old,” he added. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has nominated a representative to be present during the post-mortem for assessing the causes leading to tiger’s death and submit an independent report. Autopsy of the big cat will be conducted on Thursday in PTR by a panel of doctors hailing from Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute. The designated representatives of NTCA as well as chief wildlife warden of UP will be present there. Meanwhile, wildlife activists have slammed the forest department. Lucknow-based wildlife enthusiast and a former member of Uttarakhand state wildlife board, Kaushalendra Singh, has written a letter to principal secretary of forest in UP, Sudhir Garg, asking him to tell about the special measures taken by the state government to protect the tigers in PTR and other protected sanctuary. Singh asked, “Why the field forest force of PTR failed to trace the carcass in a span of one week, especially when the spot was a junction point of two states?” “This lapse is concrete evidence that the claims of PTR officials of carrying out round-the-clock combing in wild are false,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2nd-tiger-death-in-ptr-in-15-days-count-nears-50/articleshow/75853989.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Workforce crunch: Textile mills in Maharashtra's Ichalkaranji to train locals||KOLHAPUR: The exodus of around 23,000 migrant workers from Kolhapur to their native homes is affecting the production of industries and mills across the district. In order to deal with this crisis, the textile mills in Ichalkaranji — where over 50% of the workers were employed — have decided to train the local youths. Members of Ichalkaranji powerloom association had also approached the skill development department for providing them with semi-skilled workers. However, there has been no response from the department yet. Satish Koshti, president of the association, said, “We have decided to provide the training to the local youths. Around 16,000 workers from our town had registered for going back to their home towns and most of them have already left. The government has allowed the textile mills to start operations. But the mills are already in distress for the last few years. We need work force in large numbers and cannot rely on the government which can only train few people. We therefore have approached the worker suppliers and have assured that the local youths will be given training for semi-skilled work.” Koshti said that the youth can be trained in a month or two. “The association is making efforts to get all textile mill operators on board. Currently, Malegaon, Bhiwandi — other textile manufacturing hubs — are the hotspots of coronavirus and not many units have started there. We have an advantage that less number of people have tested positive in Ichalkaranji and surrounding areas. In a way this is an advantage for us to resume the operations at full capacity if the trained workforce is made available at the earliest,” he added. Not happy with Atmanirbhar Abhiyan The textile mill operators have claimed that the package declared by the central government is in the forms of loans. However, the mills are already in debt. Koshti said that the efforts are being made to force the governments to waive at least the interest amount over the principle loan dues. Stop import The mill operators have also demanded that the import of garments should be stopped especially from neighbouring countries like Bangladesh to make space in the market for domestically produced garments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/workforce-crunch-textile-mills-in-ichalkaranji-to-train-locals/articleshow/75856883.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Kochi||1 Covid patient admitted to Kottayam MCH||Kottayam: A Thiruvananthapuram native confirmed with Covid-19 on Wednesday was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital. The 40-year-old from Parassala, residing in Mumbai, was returning home by road from Mumbai when he was admitted in the general hospital with fever and other health issues on Monday. He was shifted to MCH on Tuesday after he experienced breathing difficulties. The sample test result of his driver is awaited. Meanwhile, the quarantine period of first batch of 20 NRIs in the district, who arrived at Nedumbassery airport from Abu Dhabi and Dubai on May 7, is to get over on Thursday. Among them, one person was confirmed with Covid. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/1-covid-patient-admitted-to-kottayam-mch/articleshow/75854024.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||How this Delhi family of four battled corona as one — even when apart||NEW DELHI: Perhaps Covid-19 crisis hasn’t yet created as much chaos in Delhi households as in the Kanojia family of east Delhi. At one point, all four members were in quarantine, all four in different locations, with the mother leaving everyone taut with tension because she was also diabetic, hypertensive, had renal problems and was suffering acute respiratory distress. It was on March 27 that 55-year-old Kusum Kanojia, resident of Khichripur, was detected to be corona-positive. Her 21-year-old daughter, who had been caring for her for the past year through her kidney-related problems, was also felled by the virus. While the mother was admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, the daughter was taken for quarantine and treatment to AIIMS, Jhajjhar, a Covid-designated facility in Haryana. Recalling his terror, Rahul Kanojia, the son, said, “I learnt that the novel coronavirus was a threat to people with co-morbidities like my mother. Most of those dying had such existing medical issues.” With Covid cases spiralling in the city, there was more bad news for the Kanojias. On April 1, family head, Kalika Prasad, 58, developed fever and as a suspect corona patient was ferried to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. Rahul, 28, tested negative, but was instructed to live in isolation at home for 14 days. The son was beside himself with anxiety. “Fear and pain multiply when you are alone, when there is no one to share your worries,” Rahul said. “I was alone, praying day and night for the safety of my ailing family.” The prayers were answered. The father tested negative, and his fever, the doctors discovered, was due to exhaustion after a fortnight of medical runs for Kusum, who had met with an accident on March 12. After several consultations, she was taken to a hospital on March 26 for vomiting, back pain and breathlessness. When referred to RML, she was discovered also to be corona-positive. The struggle to get her hospitalised in RML took a toll on the senior CPWD employee. When Kusum’s condition deteriorated, she was put on a ventilator. For seven days, she depended on the machine for breathing, an experience she described as the most terrible of her life. All this time, she never knew that her husband and daughter were also in hospitals. But ignorance proved bliss, for unshackled by family worries, she fought to regain her health. “I reminded myself every day that I had no big disease. Every day, I said to myself this was just like cough and cold and I could win the battle,” Kusum said. After around 15 days at RML, the mother realised her son had been lying to her. “I learnt about my husband and daughter, but I thanked God that they could return home safe,” Kusum said. On May 17, after a prolonged stay in hospital, the woman finally returned home. “People should know that the virus can be defeated with precautions and proper medicines. If I have recovered, anyone else can too,” she said. The family will remain in home quarantine till June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-this-family-of-four-battled-corona-as-one-even-when-apart/articleshow/75856890.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown 4.0: J&K issues fresh list of red zones||Jammu: Maintaining that classification of districts in different zones will be reviewed periodically keeping in view any further developments, the Jammu & Kashmir government on Tuesday issued fresh classification of districts in order to implement lockdown 4.0 from May 20. The order issued by chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam stated that all districts of Kashmir province, except Ganderbal and Bandipora, are listed as red zones while Kathua, Samba and Ramban districts of Jammu province have been declared red zones. Similarly, Bandipora, Ganderbal, Reasi, Udhampur and Jammu districts have been classified under orange category. Likewise, Doda, Kishtwar, Poonch and Rajouri districts have been put in green category. “This categorization of districts into red, orange and green will be followed for the purposes of implementation of permitted activities in the respective districts as per a separate order to be issued by the state executive committee,” the order read. It added: “This classification of districts will be reviewed periodically and any further modifications will be made by the government of Jammu & Kashmir keeping in view any further developments or instructions from the central government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lockdown-4-0-jk-issues-fresh-list-of-red-zones/articleshow/75833803.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||HC overrules government, allows private labs to test for coronavirus in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday declared as unconstitutional the state government’s decision to confine Covid-19 tests to select government hospitals such as Gandhi Hospital and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences. The bench of Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman set aside a directive issued by Hyderabad district medical and health officer and said the government cannot compel people to get tested and treated at designated government hospitals. Those who are willing to get their tests, isolation, and treatment for a price from the private sector at approved ICMR laboratories and hospitals, should be allowed to avail such facilities, the judgment said on a PIL filed by Ganta Jai Kumar of Hyderabad questioning the state’s policy. By allowing people who can afford the private testing and treatment, the state could preserve its limited facilities for the poorest of the poor, the bench added. Telangana has so far been testing only those with symptoms of Covid-19, their contacts and those who have returned from foreign countries. ICMR has already approved 12 private laboratories in the state to conduct Covid-19 tests. The bench said that other private hospitals and laboratories with requisite infrastructure and experienced doctors too can apply for permission to conduct tests and provide treatment and isolation. ICMR on its part must verify such hospitals and laboratories quickly to ensure that more tests. This will strengthen the state’s fight against the pandemic, the bench said. The bench, during the course of hearing, made ICMR a party to the case. Advocate general B S Prasad argued that during medical emergencies and wars, the state has the right to arbitrarily restrict even the right to health, conferred under Article 21 of the Constitution. The bench however disagreed and said an emergency of any sort is not an excuse to trample on the rights under Article 21. The judges added that the courts have the power to ensure that the state remains fair, just, and acts reasonably even during emergencies. In any case, the state is not testing the asymptomatic, hence there was nothing wrong in the asymptomatic getting themselves tested at approved private laboratories, the bench said. Moreover, the Centre has already roped in the private sector in the fight against Covid-19, it added. Telangana has a population of about 3.5 crore and a handful of government testing centres and hospitals cannot be expected to deal with a possible surge in infections which is likely to happen in view of the easing of lockdown, the bench said. The judges observed that government authorities and doctors have been encouraging the poor to approach corporate hospitals under the state’s Aarogyasri health scheme for various ailments. They cannot now cast aspersions on private hospitals when it comes to Covid-19 testing and treatment, they added. That too at a time when the state’s poor medical infrastructure was exposed and mustering support of private sector looked essential. Reminding the state that the ICMR has permitted 111 private laboratories to conduct Covid-19 tests across the country, the bench said that the Union government and ICMR were trying take the private sector on board to stop the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-overrules-govt-allows-pvt-labs-to-test-for-virus-in-t/articleshow/75857346.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man booked for FB post on Vizag gas leak||VIJAYAWADA: A day after the AP crime investigation department (CID) booked a 60-year-old woman for making ‘objectionable remarks’ against the state government, a Hyderabad-based man was named as second accused in the same case on Wednesday. The man, identified as Malladi Raghunath, was named as accused number two in the case for ‘sharing’ the post written by Poonthota Ranganayaki, which raised questions against the government on the LG Polymers vapour leak incident on May 7. CID SP Sarita said in a release that the post shared by Raghunath cannot be considered as ‘individual opinion’ but is ‘false propaganda’ against the government. The SP further said that the post could likely spark fear amongst people and potentially create law and order situation in the state. The CID’s cyber crime cell took suo moto cognisance of the issue and booked them under under IPC sections 505 (2) (making statements conducing to public mischief), 153 (A) (promoting enmity between two groups), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) read with sections 34 and 67 of IT Act. An arrest notice was issued to Raghunath and station bail was handed over to him by the police. The CID also warned people against propagating ‘false propaganda’ against the government and said first-time offenders could face three years in jail term and Rs 5 lakh fine while habitual offenders can see the sentence go up to five years of imprisonment and Rs 10 lakh fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-booked-for-fb-post-on-vizag-gas-leak/articleshow/75855259.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Muslims will pray at home for Eid: SP||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have made it clear that they will not allow any congregation in Malegaon to offer prayers on the day of Eid-ul-Fitr or Ramzan Eid, which will be celebrated on Sunday or Monday, depending upon the sighting of the crescent. Superintendent of police (Nashik rural) Arti Singh held a meeting with religious heads of Muslim community and local politicians of Malegaon to discuss the issue. It was decided at the meeting that Muslims will pray and celebrate Eid at home, she added. “We have made them understand that that there are clear-cut instructions from the state government that since the lockdown is in force, we cannot allow any congregation at a public place to offer prayers on Eid. All of us have to take precautions this year in view of the coronavirus pandemic,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muslims-will-pray-at-home-for-eid-sp/articleshow/75854019.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Amaravati||AP: CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy to review key ministries from May 25||AMARAVATI: Ahead of completing one-year in office, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has decided to review performance of crucial departments. The chief minister will start the five-day-long self-appraisal sessions on May 25. Although the chief minister is fully content with the implementation of a slew of welfare programmes in the last 12 months despite facing severe financial odds, he has decided to do a reality check. The chief minister would review one subject a day starting with agriculture. He would then review education, health, ward/village secretariats and planning over the next four days. The CM has already set the agenda for the next 12 months with a directive to district collectors not to ignore even a single eligible beneficiary from getting covered under the schemes launched by his government. “The government schemes should be extended to all the eligible. We should not discriminate anyone if they are eligible as per the rule. No one should be left out,” chief minister has directed the collectors. The state government has launched renovation programmes in education and health departments under Naadu-Nedu scheme. All public schools and hospitals are getting face-lift over the next four years. About 45,000 schools are being renovated with basic amenities like drinking water, fans, lighting, black boards and painting in three phases. Education minister Dr Adimulapu Suresh took stock of the ongoing programmes with senior officials on Tuesday ahead of the CM’s review. “We will invite experts in the field for the CM’s meeting to take feedback on the programmes initiated by the government and fine tune them if needed,” said Suresh. He said that his department has taken up nine jewels-Amma Vodi, Naadu-Nedu, improvement of standards, English medium, improvised mid-day meal, strengthening of Telugu language, uniform distribution, regulatory commissions to plug the private institutions, skill development and filling up of vacancies as part of the reforms in the department. Meanwhile, YSRC is gearing up to celebrate the one year of the state government on a grand scale. Government advisor and party general secretary Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has asked party MLAs, MPs, constituency in-charges and party presidents to organize various programmes in their constituencies May 23 to May 30. He has, however, directed the YSRC cadres to adhere to the lockdown rules while organizing the events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/jagan-to-review-key-ministries-from-may-25/articleshow/75855286.cms||Samdani MN
May 21, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh mulls Act to protect environment||AMARAVATI: In a move to discourage pollutant industries and protect environment, the state government has decided to bring in new legislation, AP Environment Improvement Act (APEIA). A separate mechanism will be set up to pool data from hazardous industries on real-time basis and take corrective measures when needed. The Act will make all the industries to file periodical compliance reports with the Pollution Control Board (PCB) to keep them on high alert on following the rules. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the issue of containing the mishaps in hazardous industries and protect the environment with the senior officials at the camp office on Wednesday. The chief minister directed the officials to see that international reputed firms are roped in as third-party agencies to take up audit of the compliance report field by the industries to make the process transparent. “There should not be any lenience or scope for corruption in making the industries following the prescribed guidelines,” the chief minister said. He said that PCB should focus on the recommendations made by the empaneled third-party agency to plug leakages in the safety systems. The chief minister said that ignoring the data received from the field is the biggest draw back in the administrative system and measures should be taken to correct them immediately. He said that the real-time alerts should be sent to the local district magistrate and Superintendent of Police (SP) so that they could swing into action without any delay. The chief minister also directed the officials to make a provision to impose hefty penalties on the industries for violation of rules. He said that penalties should be such high that no industry would dare to violate them. He referred to the recent hike of liquor prices by 75 percent prompting dip in sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-mulls-act-to-protect-environment/articleshow/75855275.cms||Samdani MN
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: This tailor distributed over 13,000 masks for free||JAIPUR: For over five decades, 77-year-old Ramswaroop Tailor earned his daily bread stitching clothes for women and the only time he ever got an extended break from work is during the lockdown. While he is no longer stitching clothes for his clients, he is stitching masks meant for free distribution. Having distributed over 13,000 cotton masks, Tailor said this was his way of giving back to society. “For the last 30 days, I have been working day and night to distribute masks. The society has given me love and respect. My work has attracted customers from nearby towns so, I thought about giving back to the society somehow,” said Ramswaroop, a resident of Kishangarh. His biggest support is his cancer survivor daughter-in-law. Working as a government teacher, Shakuntala helps her father-in-law in making and distributing masks. “When I was diagnosed for cancer, my staff members, people of the village in Barmer where I was posted, supported me financially for my treatment. When the society is suffering so much, I wanted to do my part for it. Whenever I get time after my office work, I help my father-in-law in this,” said Shakuntala. Following the coronavirus outbreak, the demand and price of masks went up. It was then that Ramswaroop decided to use his skills for the betterment of people and started stitching hundreds of masks every day. The quality of the masks was a priority and good cotton fabric was used to stitch them. One mask costs around Rs 35 in wholesale and it takes Ramswaroop ten minutes in cutting and stitching the piece. Colour of the mask is kept in mind while distributing them to government officials. While health workers are given green coloured ones, he makes brown or red ones for the cops. When asked about the amount of his donation, he reluctantly admitted to have spent around Rs 1 lakh already. “I don’t want to put a price tag on my work as I am doing a service to the nation. There is not much I can do at this age, it is just a small act to show my gratitude to the society,” said Ramswaroop. The family distributes masks among the people in slum areas, municipality workers, police officers and even to complete strangers. Their house has now become famous in the town and people have directly started reaching them to get masks. “People have started reaching us directly and always thank us for our service. I don’t know how long I will live. At least with this work, people can positively remember me after I die,” said Ramswaroop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-tailor-distributed-over-13k-masks-for-free/articleshow/75856881.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Vizag likely to get nine more rythu bazaars||VISAKHAPATNAM: The marketing department is planning to raise the number of rythu bazaars in Visakhapatnam to 22 after the lockdown end. At present, Visakhapatnam has 13 rythu bazars, which are all located in the core of the city. Some of the new rythu bazaars would be coming up at PM Palem-Madhurawada, Sujathanagar towards Pendurthi, Arilova, Dwarakanagar etc. The authorities are also considering setting up the bazaars in the open area surrounding the YSR Central Park to cater to the needs of residents of Dabagardens, Dwarakangar, and others. Apart from this, ward-wise janata rythu baazars are also being planned as part of the government’s efforts to check crowding at existing rythu bazars. If everything were to go as per plan, Visakhapatnam city will have 90 janata rythu bazaars. Confirming the plans, a senior marketing official said that the department is also considering the suggestions and proposals from the people and estate officers of the bazaars. Speaking to TOI, the officer said that the rythu bazars helped provide people with essential commodities and vegetables during the lockdown. “Our marketing commissioner has asked us to identify vacant land in every area and wards to set up additional rythu bazaars. We are presently working on it, but it has not yet been officially confirmed,” the official told TOI. Narasimha Nagar Rythu Bazaar estate officer G Prasad said the government has taken up several measures to supply essential commodities and vegetables through various platforms like mini rythu bazaars and tie-up with online door-to-door delivery suppliers etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vizag-likely-to-get-9-more-rythu-bazaars/articleshow/75855271.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Covid-19 may take sheen off the silverscreen||JAIPUR: A group of French tourists craving for something crunchy and sweet at Golcha auditorium, orders a few buckets of popcorn. The oldest of them is busy appreciating the elegant interior design, taking photos and sharing it online. By the time, the main door opens after the matinee show, people come out hooting and whistling. The French tourists, clearly in awe, click those pictures and stand in the queue for their turn to enter the auditorium. Despite the multiplex culture, Golcha and Raj Mandir have held on to their old world charm and remain the torch-bearers of the past grandeur of cinema’s golden times in the Pink City. Cut to May, 2020. It's lonely out there. The streets are deserted. The cinema halls have been shuttered down for the last couple of months. It all feels surreal, straight out of a film set! The Covid-19 outbreak has dealt a severe blow to the struggling single screens and many owners feel it will be difficult for them to make a comeback after the lockdown is lifted. “No one knows when public health guidelines will allow halls to reopen. It’s also unclear whether people will feel safe going into a darkened auditorium initially with a crowd of strangers,” said Sudhir Puri, GM of Golcha cinema. In this context he said without the government assistance, it’s difficult for them to survive. “Suppose after lockdown, we are forced to run two shows daily maintaining social distancing. If that happens, it’s beyond our capacity to run the business. Where is the profit?” he asked. Battling against the ravages of time, these old movie theatres stand testimony to the past grandeur and Puri is determined to restore those. Although he hasn't announced his decision officially, but he's dropped several hints of urging the state government to waive off electricity bills for at least one year. “On behalf of hall owners, we will also request the government to waive GST for a minimum period of six months.” The crisis, at the moment, trade experts say, is grave for the film exhibition business. The reason Puri explained is the fast progress of digital platform. “It may be true. But the concept was earlier announced by Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani in August last year,” he explained. Elaborating, Puri said Ambani’s ambitious plan is to enable premium JioFiber customers watch movies in their living rooms on the day of the release at theatres. On Friday, director Shoojit Sircar announced that Gulabo Sitabo, starring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana, will hit the digital platform on June 12 next month. Amazon Prime Video has not only acquired the comedy-drama film, but seven other language films which will also be premiered next month. Protesting the move, INOX, in a statement said: “INOX would like to express extreme displeasure and disappointment on an announcement made by a production house to release their movie directly on an OTT platform by skipping the theatrical window run.” Acknowledging the greater challenge, the industry is facing now, Ashok Tanwar, Manager of Raj Mandir said ensuring public distancing will be the utmost priority which will go a long way in instilling confidence in public. “I am optimistic with a fair amount of economic activity opening up in India, public will get out of their house and watch movies on big screen. What I feel that public would love to come back provided we take extensive safety measures,” he added. Actor Suniel Shetty, who has decided to shoot all his upcoming projects in India, in order to give more business to domestic stakeholders, feels the industry after Covid-19 is going to be a lot different. It will be a different world post the pandemic. So will be the tinsel town. But will the audience ever return to the theatres, like they did in the past? Question remains!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-may-take-sheen-off-the-silverscreen/articleshow/75856888.cms||Ashish Sen
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||DIPR’s TV programme to help beat lockdown stress||Jammu: To spread awareness about the psychological impact of the lockdown and measures to be adopted to overcome it, the department of information and public relations (DIPR) on Tuesday started a new initiative ‘Sukoon’. “The programme will be telecast on DD (K) every Tuesday at 9pm and psychiatrists and social scientists will give sessions on psychological health and how to keep the mind anxiety-free,” an official spokesperson said. He added that the the initiative was in line with the growing concern that the pandemic and the prolonged lockdown had resulted in tremendous stress among various sections of the society. “Parents, care givers and children are the greatest victims of lockdown as they grapple with restricted movement and are not being allowed to socialise,” the official said. “It is now all the more important that counselling sessions are held to beat the anxiety creeping in large sections of our society,” the official added On ‘Sukoon’ programme, eminent doctors and scientists will share their knowledge regarding the measures which people can adopt to keep stress level under control. The DIPR is also looking at telecasting such programmes on a daily basis to reach out to the people of the UT to ensure that they have a healthy mind in healthy body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/diprs-tv-programme-to-help-beat-lockdown-stress/articleshow/75833827.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Jalna police seize gutka worth Rs 60 lakh||AURANGABAD: Jalna police on Wednesday morning raided two premises, including a place of worship, and seized gutka worth around Rs 60 lakh besides a car, three mini tempos and two bikes, all estimated to be around Rs 20 lakh. The Ambad police led by inspector Anirudha Nandedkar, raided the premises of Rohilgadh-based Kanifnath Ashram, about 50km from Aurangabad, and seized 46 bags of gutka worth Rs 7 lakh early in the morning. The suspect, who owned the banned product, is at large, said police. In the other case, a police team led by additional superintendent of police Samadhan Pawar raided a godown in the Jalna MIDC area and seized gutka worth Rs 50 lakh and arrested two suspects. Meanwhile, City Chowk police station’s detection branch headed by PSI Pravin Patharkar on Wednesday evening intercepted a bike and nabbed two youths illegally carrying gutka. Police said tutka and other articles worth Rs 1.20 lakh were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-policeseize-gutka-worth-rs-60l/articleshow/75856894.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Migrants to walk 18 km to reach new bus boarding point||Nashik: Migrant workers coming from other areas of Nashik district have to walk another 18 km to reach the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus boarding point, which has now been shifted outside the city. The decision was taken after the Regional Transport Office (RTO) officials found that many migrant workers were travelling illegally in trucks coming from the Mumbai side over the past few days. The officials would off-board them at Hotel Jatra and transport them to the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border in MSRTC buses. After four days of action, the officials decided it is best to stop these trucks at Vilholi, located on Mumbai-side of the city on the national highway. The travellers are then transported to other MSRTC buses to take them to the MP border. This is causing a lot of inconvenience to other people coming to Hotel Jatra, as due to the unavailability of any transport they have to walk further 18 kms to board buses at Vilholi. “Why doesn’t the MSRTC start buses from Hotel Jatra so that these people do not have to walk additional 18 kms,” said Ramesh Jaiswal, a traveller. The MSRTC officials said that they were deploying buses on the RTO directions, therefore they have no say in making arrangement of special buses from any spot. The RTO officials, however, said that the MSRTC would be plying a couple of buses from Hotel Jatra on demand, as the entire focus would now be focused on Vilholi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrants-to-walk-18-km-to-reach-new-bus-boarding-point/articleshow/75854057.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Municipal Corporation will purchase smaller vehicles to spray disinfectant||JAIPUR: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) will soon purchase small vehicles specifically designed for spraying sodium hypochlorite in the city. On Wednesday, JMC officials watched a demonstration of these machines. Every zone in the city will receive one machine and JMC is all set to invite tenders for it. Till now officials in JMC have been using fire tenders for the purpose of spraying disinfectant in the city, but due to high maintenance cost, smaller vehicles are being purchased. JMC commissioner V P Singh said, “We can see that spraying disinfectant in the city will be a continuous process along with sanitation. Fire tenders are bigger vehicles worth crores that need regular maintenance. Hence, we have decided to purchase vehicles that are smaller in size. It will help us in sanitising smaller lanes and they will be battery driven. We will soon start the process of its procurement.” These new machines will have a capacity of 150 litres. It will be able to spray chemical and fogging. Its fogger can rotate in 180-degree direction and will cost around Rs 7 lakh per machine. Its fogger can spray two litre of sanitiser in one minute. JMC authorities said that it will help them keep the city sanitises on a regular basis. Around 120 JMC teams are involved in spraying disinfectant in the city with more than 37 fire vehicles involved in this work. JMC uses two type of chemical for disinfectant - sodium hypochlorite 1% that is being used in knapsack sprayer and sodium hydrochloride 10% that is used in fire vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-will-purchase-smaller-vehicles-to-spray-disinfectant/articleshow/75856892.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Public transport to resume in non-red zones of Nashik dist||Nashik: Transport services are likely to resume from May 22 in the non-red zone areas of the district, excluding the Nashik and Malegaon municipal limits. Social distancing will have to be mandatorily maintained. “Intradistrict buses and autorickshaws will be allowed, but only in non-red zone areas,” said district collector Suraj Mandhare. The district is now divided into red and non-red zones. While Nashik city and Malegaon town are still in the red, the rest of rural Nashik has been classified non-red zone as per state government notification guidelines. “Intradistrict public transport has been allowed with 50% occupancy. Inter-district transport too will be allowed soon with separate guidelines. Autorickshaws and taxis will be allowed to transport a maximum of two people at a time,” said Bhagwat Doifode, the resident deputy district collector.  Public places like parks and stadia have reopened in non-red zone areas though public gathering and group activities are not allowed.  In the red zones, shops and establishments can be opened only for maintenance and repair work but the norms and hygiene must be maintained. “People can get non-essential goods delivered to their homes,” the officer said. While the government offices can perform with 5% workforce, private offices will remain closed till further notice in the red zones. Meanwhile, in Nandurbar, the MSRTC has been asked to start its intra-district bus services from Friday, said collector Rajendra Bharud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/public-transport-to-resume-in-non-red-zones-of-nashik-dist/articleshow/75854041.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Six test positive in Udupi, one in Dakshina Kannada||UDUPI/MANGALURU: The coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday recorded seven Covid-19 cases, including six in Udupi alone. All the cases reported from Udupi were those of people who had travelled inter-district. The case reported from Dakshina Kannada was of a 40-year-old woman, who had come from Bengaluru on May 10. She was diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). The day also saw three Covid-19 patients get discharged from hospital in Dakshina Kannada. The husband and granddaughter of Dakshina Kannda’s fourth victim to succumb to Covid-19, from Boloor in Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) limits, got discharged on Wednesday. Led by area corporator Jagadish Shetty, locals accorded P-536’s husband P-579 and her granddaughter P-674 a rousing welcome, reassuring them that entire locality was with them in their hour of grief, and that they could rely on them for any support. Five members of P-536’s family, including her daughter and son-in-law, had contracted the disease after the 58-year-old woman, a TB meningitis patient, was discharged from First Neuro Hospital, a supervised isolation centre at Padil. Incidentally, the parents of P-674 are yet to get discharged from Wenlock Hospital. The other patient who got discharged was P-676, the daughter of P-390, the district’s first victim to succumb to Covid-19, from Kasba village in Bantwal. The authorities disinfected the containment zone of Balebail in the MCC limits on Wednesday. Health and ASHA workers, with assistance from city police and MCC officials, screened residents in the containment zone, and sanitised the area. With the day’s development, Dakshina Kannada presently has 30 active cases, and has seen 20 people, including 14 residents of the district and six from outside the district but treated here, get discharged from hospital. Udupi saw six people in institutional quarantine test positive for Covid-19. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that P-1432, a 55-year-old man, P-1433, a 44-year-old woman; P-1434, a 15-year-old girl, P-1435, a 74-year-old man, P-1436, a 31-year-old woman and P-1449, a 47-year-old woman, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. All of them have been shifted to TMA Pai Hospital. P-1433 and P-1434 are primary contacts of the district’s only victim to succumb to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/6-test-ve-in-udupi-1-in-dk/articleshow/75854044.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, you can buy Tirupati laddus at Rs 25 per piece||TIRUPATI: While the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala continues to remain closed, the Lord’s favourite ‘laddu’ will be made available for devotees in AP, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka soon. TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy told reporters on Wednesday that the temple body has decided to distribute the ‘Tirupati laddu’ at a subsidised rate of Rs 25 till the lockdown is lifted. Though the actual cost incurred towards preparation of a 175g laddu is around Rs 40, TTD sells it for Rs 50. Each devotee visiting the temple also gets a laddu free. “Following appeals from devotees to at least start the distribution of Tirupati laddus, we have decided to distribute the prasadam at a subsidised rate to devotees of Lord Venkateswara in the four southern states. The laddu would be available at TTD kalyana mandapams and information centres in AP, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka,” Reddy said. The Tirumala temple has remained closed for almost two months now due to the nationwide lockdown. Despite devotees not being allowed inside the temple, they have been extending generous donations to the TTD through its e-hundi platform. Reddy informed that the temple, which received Rs 1.79 crore through e-hundi last year, got Rs 1.97 crore this year despite the lockdown. Devotees wanting to purchase Tirupati laddus in bulk can contact the Tirumala temple deputy executive officer (98495 75952) or Peshkar (97010 92777). Laddu sales are likely to commence in the next two-three days. The TTD chairman also dismissed concerns about funds crunch for payment of salaries. “I once again clarify there is no funds shortage to pay salaries and pensions to our employees, nor for temple maintenance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-you-can-buy-tirupati-laddus-at-rs-25-per-piece/articleshow/75855329.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Average wholesale onion price stabilizes at Lasalgaon||NASHIK: The average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, has witnessed a drop from Rs 1,200 per quintal to Rs 600 per quintal. The imbalance in supply and demand has resulted in 50% dip in the average wholesale price of onion in the last one month. Onion farmers have expressed their disappointment over the drop in prices as they are incurring heavy losses. The Maharashtra state onion growers association has asked the government to prvodei them with minimum support price (MSP) for onion so that farmers will not incur losses due to the fluctuation in prices. “The cost for growing onions is around Rs 950 per quintal and farmers incur losses if they get the price below that range. Presently, the average wholesale onion price is around Rs 600 per quintal. It means that the farmers are incurring average losses of Rs 350 per quintal,” said Bharat Dighole, president of Maharashtra state onion growers association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avg-wholesale-onion-price-stabilizes-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/75856899.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 21, 2020||Mumbai||Soon, Bandra-Kurla Complex to get another 1k-bed facility||MUMBAI: Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has begun base and ground levelling work for Phase II of a jumbo Covid care facility, with 1,000 more beds at Bandra-Kurla Complex. Phase I was handed over to the BMC on Monday. An MMRDA spokesperson said Phase II will have 100 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, while 450 of the other 900 beds will have oxygen facilities. The Phase II facility will treat critical symptomatic patients, the spokesperson added. The facility will function like a makeshift hospital and a dean will supervise it. It will be convienent for patients from neighbouring hotspots. Manthan K Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soon-bkc-to-get-another-1k-bed-facility/articleshow/75856382.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Cyclone Amphan damages boats, blows away roofs of mud huts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Cyclone Amphan has damaged around 350 boats and a few mud houses of the fishermen in the three fishing villages of Kadapalem, Kondapalem and Pudimadaka villages of Visakhapatnam district. The storm hit the shores adjacent to their villages at around 9.30 am on Wednesday and blew away the boats and thatched roofs of the mud houses, said the villagers. A team from the district fisheries department reached the spot in the afternoon to ascertain the losses. “We demand compensation so that these fishermen can repair their boats. The fund should be released with immediate effect so that they can start repairing and complete them by June 16. At present, the mandatory fishing ban is in force and the fishing season will resume from June 16,” said Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist. The 350 boats damaged in the cyclone are traditional small fishing boats. Each cost around Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cyclone-amphan-damages-boats-blows-away-roofs-of-mud-huts/articleshow/75855353.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chandigarh||PNBM Trust holds webinar, discusses passage of temples and shrines bill||Jammu: Prem Nath Bhat Memorial (PNBM) Trust on Tuesday organised a webinar of its core members to take a stock of the recent political developments and discuss strategies for the passage of the temples and shrines bill for which the Kashmiri Pandit community and the trust have been relentlessly struggling for the last more than a decade. During the occasion, the members expressed concern over a recent act of vandalism towards a temple in Rainawari, Srinagar, where a petrol bomb was hurled. Expressing dismay that only false promises were made all along in the past regarding the passage of the aforementioned bill, the members said the temples and shrines were at an increased risk of completely vanishing from the ecosystem of Kashmir. “This would be a monumental tragedy as the priceless heritage of more than 5,000 years would be lost forever,” the members acknowledged. They questioned if there can be an Auqaf Act and Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee Act, then why not a Kashmiri Pandit temple and shrines bill for the protection and preservation of temples in Kashmir. President Roshan Lal Pandita said that the trust may have to adopt agitational path in support of passage of temples and shrines bill in Kashmir but the same was postponed due to the Coronavirus advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pnbm-trust-holds-webinar-discusses-passage-of-temples-and-shrines-bill/articleshow/75833849.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Rats spend lockdown in stationary cars on diet of wires||Visakhapatnam: Car mechanics in the city have been addressing issues of rodent infestation since the lockdown was eased. Many car owners, who initially complained of engines refusing to start during the lockdown, are now complaining of rodent tenants inside their cars! “Last Sunday I went out in my car after a gap of 65 days. As the car hit the road, the first thing I noticed was that my headlight was on. I took the car to a mechanic and he showed me that rats have damaged the wiring system,” K Srinivasa Rao, a public sector bank employee, said. Engineers and car mechanics infestation of rodents is a common problem when the cars remain stationary and unused for a long time. “If the wiring system is damaged you need to go to a mechanic. But it is best to spray repellants in every nook and corner of the car and keep the doors and windows open for at least an hour. If there are rats they will go out,” said Somorendra Mohan Ghosh, an automobile engineer. Car mechanic Firozuddin, who runs a garage at the police control room and also repairs private vehicles besides the ones used by the city police, said many car owners have come to his garage with chewed-up wiring systems in the last few weeks. “Frankly speaking, there is no solution if rats make your car their home. They are going to damage the wiring system. There are, however, a few home remedies which can be used to keep them away. All openings in the car must be blocked, they can keep egg shells on the dashboard, inside boot space and inside the engine compartments. Another solution is to keep sticky pads, with the sticky side downwards so that even if a rat gets inside they will get stuck and won’t be able to move,” suggested Firozuddin. Surath Sarkar, engineer of a multinational automobile company, pointed out rats like to remain inside the vehicles and gnaw on wires and other things “We have seen that inside an engine bay rats can blow fuses. There have been cases where rats have affected the ignition system. It can lead to sparks or even fire if the owner unknowingly tries to switch the engine on,” added Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rats-spend-lockdown-in-stationary-cars-on-diet-of-wires/articleshow/75855332.cms||Arpit Basu
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||1,000 migrant workers sent to UP, 700 leave for Uttarakhand in buses||Jaipur: Around 1,000 migrant workers were sent to Uttar Pradesh from Kanota “shelter camp” on Wednesday on special buses for migrant workers. Nearly, 700 others were sent to Uttarakand on roadways buses from Sindhi camp. Another 1,000 migrant workers from Bihar were sent to Jaipur railway station from Kanota camp for travel back to their state by train, which was scheduled to leave at 10 pm.“On Wednesday, workers from Uttar Pradesh were sent to their state on 25 buses via Bharatpur. Thirty-five migrant workers were sent to Chhattisgarh by bus,” said divisional commissioner K C Verma. 315 more workers from Bihar were still there at the camp.“Earlier, 285 were supposed to leave for Uttarakhand. Now, we are sending nearly 700 migrant workers on 15 roadways buses from Sindhi camp bus stand. They are being allowed to leave after proper screening. They are being provided with food and water bottles for their journey,” said sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) north Om Prabha. They were allowed to after an NGO Garhwal Sabha requested Rajasthan government to make arrangements for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1000-migrant-workers-sent-to-up-700-leave-for-uttarakhand-in-buses/articleshow/75856897.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||Over 12k ride KSRTC buses out of Mysuru dist in two days||Mysuru: More than 12,000 people travelled by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses from Mysuru to other districts on Monday and Tuesday, following the easing of restrictions on travel. Meanwhile, more than 10,000 passengers rode on KSRTC intra-city buses in Mysuru city. KSRTC officials said that, the rise in passenger traffic on Tuesday was an indicator of operations returning to the state prior to the lockdown. KSRTC Mysuru rural division controller R Ashok Kumar said that people were taking buses to Bengaluru, Shivamogga, Hassan and Chamarajanagar. “While on Monday, around 4,000 took buses to other districts, the ridership more than doubled on Tuesday. We are following all safety norms including enforcement of social distancing and use of hand sanitisers,” Kumar told TOI. The senior KSRTC official said that as many as 275 trips had been operated from the rural bus stand, with 114 buses being pressed into service. KSRTC’s urban division controller for Mysuru SP Nagaraj said that passenger traffic on intra-city buses was increasing after 11am. “Earlier, around 2.5 lakh people travelled by KSRTC city buses every day,” he said, stating that the increase in the number of passengers on Tuesday was a sign of life returning to normalcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/over-12k-ride-ksrtc-buses-out-of-mysuru-dist-in-two-days/articleshow/75854080.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Online registration begins for Rajasthan government hostels||JAIPUR: The social justice and empowerment department on Wednesday started online registration to apply for government hostels and residential schools. The registration began on Wednesday and will continue till June 30. The applicants can apply for admission in residential schools and government-aided hostels (school-level) in the new academic session 2020-21 till June 18. Similarly, students can apply for admission in college-level hostels till June 30. Additional director and joint secretary Dwarka Prasad Gupta said online applications will be accepted on the portal for admission in residential schools and state-aided hostels from May 20. “In case of any technical problem in applying for admission, one can contact joint director (analyst system) of the department on 0141-2226654. One can also contact the hostel office on 0141-2226611,” he said. He further informed that all the information related to this can be seen on the website www.sje.rajasthan.gov.in. The applications will be invited on the online portal sso.rajasthan.gov.in and http://sjms.rajasthan.gov.in. The eligibility criteria include —- the applicant must be resident of Rajasthan; at school-level hostels, students from class 6 to 12 will be eligible and at college-level hostels, students pursuing graduation will be allowed, among other criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/online-registration-begins-for-govt-hostels/articleshow/75856909.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Dental clinics can operate across Rajasthan except in containment zones||JAIPUR: Keeping in view the problems of proper treatment of dental patients due to Covid-19, zone-wise permission has been granted to operate dental clinics in the rest of the state, except in the containment zone. Instructions have also been given to all dental personnel to ensure compliance with the guidelines issued by the Centre for protection from corona infection. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Rohit Kumar Singh said only emergency dental procedures could be done in red zones. Dental clinics in orange and green zones will work to provide dental counselling. Dental procedures and operations would be limited to emergency and urgent treatment procedures only. All routine and elective dental procedures and oral cancer screening under the National Cancer Screening Programme will be postponed until new guidelines are issued. In the event of violation of these orders, necessary legal proceedings will be implemented against the concerned. Singh informed that there is a possibility of infection among dentists, dental assistants as well as patients undergoing dental procedures. Most dental procedures involve close contact with the patient’s oral cavity, saliva, blood, and respiratory tract secretions. The coronavirus infection load in saliva is high. Many patients who are without symptoms might be carriers of coronavirus. Instructions have been given for all patients coming to dental clinics to take all necessary protective measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dental-clinics-can-operate-across-state-except-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75856911.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Probe into misappropriation of funds in housing project||AMARAVATI: The state government has ordered a probe into allegations of misappropriation of funds for buying land for distribution of house sites to the poor. The government asked district collectors to look into the complaints about the land acquisition process and submit a report. The ruling YSR Congress legislators had lodged complaints about large-scale irregularities in their constituencies over land acquisition process. The opposition TDP is likely to move the high court over the issue. The government had already spent close to Rs 4,500 crore to acquire nearly 2,000 acre land for house sites from private parties. When many district collectors told the government that adequate land was not available in their districts to grant house sites, the government had spared additional funds to the programme with a directive to go ahead with land acquisition. The government had wanted to distribute about 27 lakh house sites to the poor during Ugadi in March. Critics allege that revenue officials resorted to irregularities in the land acquisition process. One such instance was brought to light by Ponnur legislator Kilari Rosaiah. Rosaiah requested district collector Samuel Anand Kumar to take action alleging field officials looted nearly Rs 80 crore during land acquisition. With the district collector not responding to the issue, Rosaiah wrote to the government prompting principal secretary V Usha Rani to direct the collector to submit a report. “Officials paid nearly four times high prices after striking deals with middlemen,” alleged Rosaiah. Former TDP MLA Alapati Rajendraprasad alleged that Rs 150 crore were misappropriated in Tenali constituency for land acquisition. A farmer of Burugapudi village in West Godavari district has filed a PIL in the High Court alleging that 177 acres of flood-prone land were acquired by paying Rs 43 to Rs 63 lakh per acre against a market price of Rs 5-7 lakh per acre. The high court has stayed payments to landlords in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/probe-into-misappropriation-of-funds-in-housing-project/articleshow/75855370.cms||Samdani MN
May 21, 2020||Nashik||City’s rating in cleanliness gets ‘buriedunder debris’||Nashik: The city’s rating has come down from three stars to one star in the garbage-free cities under Swachh Survekshan 2020, which was declared by the Union ministry of urban and housing affairs on Tuesday. Dhule and Jalgaon in north Maharashtra have showed improvement this from one star to three stars each. “We were expecting a better rating this year. We also examined our reports ward-wise and the one on collection and reuse of construction debris has not been accepted,” said a senior civic official while expressing shock.“The reports are submitted to the Centre via the state government. Incomplete reports may have been submitted. It will take a day or two to know the exact reason,” said the official. This year, we are yet to receive guidelines by the Centre on Swachh Survekshan, whether it will be quarterly or not, because of coronavirus. We will make our plans accordingly for the next survey, said the official. NMC officials said they are already in the process of appointing an agency to collect construction debris from across the city and reuse it. “The agency will have to create the facility for recycling of the construction waste. We have already floated bids in this connection, said an NMC official. The government has certified six cities under the 5-star category and 65 cities under 3-star. Around 70 cities have got one star ratings, including Nashik city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citys-rating-in-cleanliness-gets-buriedunder-debris/articleshow/75854096.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Eateries in Nashik city suffer losses worth Rs 300 crore||Nashik: The nationwide lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19 outbreak has resulted in the eateries in the city suffering losses estimated to around Rs 300 crore. There are over 500 small and large eateries across the city with manpower of over 20,000. According to a source from the industry, over 10,000 people have already returned to their hometowns in West Bengal, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh while the remaining workforce is also expected to return to their native places in the coming days.Around 90% of the workforce of Nashik’s eateries belongs to these three states. Sources in the industry said that some hotels and restaurants are also planning to take a six-month-long break as they forecast that the industry will only return to normalcy after a year or so. “The business of eateries in the city has completely shut down during the lockdown. Some have started parcel facilities, but it is marginal. The losses are huge and it will take much time for the sector to return to normalcy,” said Sanjay Chavan, president of Association of Bars, Hotels and Restaurants (ABHAR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/eateries-in-nashik-city-suffer-losses-worth-rs-300-crore/articleshow/75854113.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana paid Rs 6 crore for 75 trains, nothing from Centre, says KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Minister KT Rama Rao said the state government has so far deployed 75 special trains and ferried more than one lakh people to various states. In a tweet, Rao said, “As a responsible Govt, Telangana has so far run 75 trains; shramik specials, ferrying one lakh plus people to various states. State has paid over Rs 6 Cr to Railways and not charged even a single paisa to workers. Food and water included. Zero contribution from GoI; strange but a fact (sic).” Rao also mentioned he had arranged a special train for migrants from Meghalaya after receiving a call from Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma. “Have received a call from good friend & Honorable CM Meghalaya @SangmaConrad Ji to arrange for a special train for people from Meghalaya stationed in Telangana. A special train has been organised on 21st May as requested by CM Ji (sic),” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-paid-rs-6cr-for-75-trains-nothing-from-centre-ktr/articleshow/75856928.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP wing to start online competitions||Aurangabad: In an effort to stay connected with their voters, the Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha — a youth wing of BJP — has started a competition to keep them engaged during this lockdown. The competition includes making unique face masks with household articles, best photographs on lockdown theme, best letters on lockdown heroes along with the best speaker award. “We have organized the competition for not only appreciating the talent of a common man but also bridging the gap with the youths in the state,” said BJYM state general secretary Rajendra Sable Patil. Interested candidates have been asked to upload their entries by May 24 at www.bjymmaharashtra.org. The cash prizes have been earmarked from Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000 for each category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-wing-to-start-online-competitions/articleshow/75856921.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||HC judge refuses to hear case related to Singhvi||Jaipur: Justice Prakash Gupta of Rajasthan High court on Wednesday refused to hear the anticipatory bail application of Tamanna Begum in the mining bribery case of Rs 2.55 crore involving now retired IAS Ashok Singhvi.Shingvi is now being prosecuted by Enforcement Directorate under Money Laundering act. Justice Pankaj Bhandari, Justice KS Ahluwalia (now Retd.), Justice Mahendra Maheshwari (now Retd), Justice GR Moolchandani (now Retd) had earlier refused to hear matters related to Ashok Singhvi and other co-accused in the case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-judge-refuses-to-hear-case-related-to-singhvi/articleshow/75856916.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Malaria overlooked as AP fights Covid||Visakhapatnam: With officials in the Visakha Agency busy battling Covid cases, the number of malaria cases has been rising in the area. One hundred and sixty-six malaria cases were reported in May last year. This year, however, 59 cases were reported in the first 10 days of May. The Malaria season usually starts from April, but this years cases began surfacing since January when 32 cases were reported. The number rose to more than 110 in February and over 125 in March. Even before the season began, Visakha agency reported had 270 malaria cases which by the end of April was 388 and 447 by May 10. Every year, the medical and health department conduct two phases of disinfectant spraying in the tribal villages. Although the programme started from April 15, focus on Covid 19 has not given officials much room for the spraying work. Of the 2,150 high-risk villages only 1,100 have been sprayed so far. Speaking to TOI, assistant DMHO Dr Leela Prasad admitted that the number of cases is on the rise compared to the previous year. “We have taken measures to control the menace. Mosquito nets were distributed and spraying was also taken up. But there is a trend that the number of cases rise every four to five years. Moreover, most of the staff are busy with Covid control measures,” he said. He added that staff are now focused on tackling malaria cases. Records show that 1.09 lakh blood samples were collected between January to May 10 of 2019. Of which 225 cases tested positive for malaria. This year 447 cases have tested positive of the one lakh blood samples collected. Sources said there are more than 950 cases were reported last year. But this year, half of the 447 cases were reported in the first 40 days of this year. “We have 6.5 lakh tribal populations in the 11 mandals of Visakha Agency and every year three lakh people suffer from various fevers. We were lucky that there were no rains last year in the Agency. Because of that the number of positive cases were less,” said Adivasi Hakkula Parirakshana Samiti convenor and Adivasi JAC convenor Ramarao Dora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/malaria-overlooked-as-ap-fights-covid/articleshow/75855392.cms||Siva G
May 21, 2020||Madurai||HC closes PIL seeking to prevent spread of Covid in TN prisons||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday closed a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought to take steps to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at prisons in the state, citing that most of the relief, sought in the petition had already been addressed. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing a petition filed by P Thangaraj, coordinator of Prisoners Reform Intervention Support Mission (PRISM), a charitable trust which was formed by few advocates to provide free legal services to jail inmates.Thangaraj stated that following the outbreak of Covid-19, people have been asked to follow several precautionary steps including social distancing, however, the same would not be possible at the prisons due to overcrowding.He stated that steps must be taken to reduce the arrest and remand of petty offenders and enlarge them on bail in their own bond. The parole of the prisoners can be extended and applications for parole and leave could be considered leniently.The petitioner stated that since prevention is the most vital, prison cells should be sanitized periodically. Hand sanitisers, masks should be made available to the prison staff and the inmates who are newly brought should be screened. Quarantine and isolation wards should be provided at the prisons where new admissions must be quarantined for 14 days and testing kits should be made available at the prison hospitals.Since the visitors would not be allowed to visit the prisoners, steps should be taken to provide telephones to them to speak with their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-closes-pil-seeking-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-in-tn-prisons/articleshow/75856932.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Zuari bio managers brace for protection of clam, oyster site||Panaji: Biodiversity managers in Zuari bay have sounded an alert to higher authorities and Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) about a possible incursion of hordes of oyster and clam pickers on the river bed during the third phase of low tide. A long stretch of the river from Sancoale to Chicalim and adjacent areas is a hotspot for tisreo (clams), kalvam (edible oysters) and other bivalves. This season, there was a bumper crop of the shellfish after many years due to stoppage of barge movement and other activities. But hundreds residents from outlying areas of Dabolim, Cortalim, and other places allegedly harvested the bivalves and oysters in a haphazard manner. The biodiversity management committees (BMC) of Chicalim and Sancoale have quickly approached GSBB to halt another assault on the shellfish crop. “The board is extremely serious about the conservation of unique, threatened and rare species and has involved the BMCs for their protection,” GSBB member secretary, Pradip Sarmokadam said.  “It is important to protect the site to allow the rejuvenation cycle to continue. Though people have a right to livelihood, the animals and organisms also have a right to survive,” Cyril Fernandes, a local and human rights activist said. GSBB has requested the police to patrol the riverfront during low tide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zuari-bio-managers-brace-for-protection-of-clam-oyster-site/articleshow/75856954.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: No micro containment zone in Aundh-Baner ward areas||PUNE: Highest four new micro contained zones have been identified in the areas under the Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar ward office to arrest Covid-19 spread, taking the count of such zones to seven in its jurisdiction. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) identified three such zones each in Bibvewadi and Ahmednagar Road-Vadgaon Sheri ward offices, taking the total count there to 10 and 5, respectively. Aundh-Baner is the only area which doesn’t have a single containment zone (see box). The PMC has listed 22 new micro containment zones after a rise in cases in the respective areas. With these, the number of such zones in various wards stands at 65, which is four less than the earlier 69 identified zones. “People have been told to remain at home and avoid stepping out in such areas,” a civic official said. Health experts said low population density, fewer congested localities, open spaces and wider roads helped restrict the spread of the contagion in areas like Aundh-Baner. Health activist Abhijit More said, “Areas like Aundh-Baner-Balewadi have few slums and densely populated areas. Most people also sta in residential societies, which enables them to follow social distancing norms.” Sunil Jagtap, head of the city unit of Nationalist Congress Party’s doctors’ cell, said social distancing norms were followed effectively in areas of Aundh-Baner-Balewadi unlike the old city parts where localities were congested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-micro-containment-zone-in-aundh-baner-ward-areas/articleshow/75856410.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Three women die of Covid-19 in Malegoan, district toll 45||NASHIK: Covid-19 claimed three more lives in Malegaon town of the Nashik district taking the total death toll of the district to 45 with 43 in the textile town alone. Three women — aged 60, 57 and 40 years — died at a Covid care facility in Malegoan between May 17 and 18. Their swab reports arrived late on Tuesday night confirming that they were infected by coronavirus. 17 new Covid-19 cases in textile town Since late Tuesday night, the health authorities have also found 17 new Covid-19 positive patients in Malegaon, including the three deceased women. The total number of patients infected with Covid 19 has thus reached 665 in Malegaon. Further, eight more people tested positive of the virus in the district on Wednesday. While seven are from the rural parts of the district, one is from outside Nashik. The total number of Covid 19 patients in the district has thus reached to 855 against Tuesday’s 830.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-women-die-of-covid-19-in-malegoan-dist-toll-45/articleshow/75854122.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Rs 350.29cr okayed for Covid-19 prevention, state govt tells HC||Madurai: The state government on Wednesday informed the Madras high court that Rs 350.29 crore has been sanctioned for various Covid-19 prevention works including distribution of PPE kits. Following this, the court directed the government to file a detailed counter with regard to steps taken to distribute PPE kits and ensure that the kits are used by frontline workers. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by R Sathiamoorthy, executive trustee of ‘People’s Watch’ NGO in Madurai. He had sought to distribute PPE kits to all non-medical frontline workers like police, fire and rescue services personnel, cleanliness workers, ambulance staff, revenue officials, volunteers and mediapersons. Pursuant to an earlier direction of the court, the state government submitted a status report on Wednesday. The report said that the state government had sanctioned Rs 350.29 crore for various activities including procurement of disinfectants, equipment required for spraying disinfectants, drones, providing food and shelter, PPE kits for these workers. It was stated that cleanliness workers at all urban and rural local bodies, police, fire and rescue services personnel are being provided with PPE kits daily. In addition, Rs 149.79 crore towards the purchase of medical equipment and Rs 6.5 crore for protective gear have been sanctioned to the health and police departments. The state is also distributing nilavembu kudineer, kabasura kudineer, zinc tablets along with multi-vitamin or vitamin C tablets in order to boost the immunity of frontline workers who are fighting the pandemic. The case was adjourned to May 27 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-350-29cr-okayed-for-covid-19-prevention-state-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/75856926.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||Select train services to resume from Friday||TNN/ R Uday Kumar Mysuru: Here is good news for train commuters between Mysuru and Bengaluru. The railway board, as part of its plan to resume train services in the nation, will operate trains between Mysuru-Bengaluru and Bengaluru-Belagavi from Friday. The Mysuru -Bengaluru train will depart Bengaluru at 9.20am and reach Mysuru at 12.45pm. It will stop at Kengeri, Ramanagar, Maddur, Mandya, Pandavapura, Naganahalli stations. From Mysuru it will depart at 1.45pm and reach Bengaluru at 5pm. Bengaluru-Belagavi train will operate thrice a week — Monday, Wednesday and Friday. It will depart Bengaluru at 8am and reach Belagavi at 6.30pm. From Belagavi it will depart at 8am on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday and reach Bengaluru at 6.30pm. The train will have stops at Yeshvanthpur, Tumkur, Arsikere, Birur, Chikkajajur, Davangere, Harihar, Ranibennur, Haveri and Dharwad. Tickets will not be issued at the ticket counters and can only be booked online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/select-train-services-to-resume-from-friday/articleshow/75854115.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Seven fresh cases reported in Kalaburagi; active cases now 72||KALABURAGI: As many as seven individuals tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. All of them had returned from Mumbai. Confirming that seven fresh cases had been reported in the district, officials said that all of them had been isolated in quarantine centres following their arrival in Kalaburagi. Two of the people who have been confirmed infected are 22 – one from Hangara and the other from Yalavar - while two others in their 20s, a 25-year-old from Aralagundagi and a 26-year-old from Balavadagi, have also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The three others who have been confirmed infected are respectively 35, 46 and 50. All of them have been shifted to the isolation ward at ESIC Hospital. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the district has now spiked to 134. In all, seven have succumbed to the infection in Kalaburagi, while 55 have recovered. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 72.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/seven-fresh-cases-reported-in-kalaburagi-active-cases-now-72/articleshow/75854135.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chennai||Private omni buses ferry 15,000 guest workers out of Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Private omni buses and vans have helped in ferrying more than 15,000 guest workers out of Tamil Nadu till date. This was almost one-fourth of what trains have ferried in the same period. Despite heavy rainfall and strong winds due to Cyclone Amphan, these buses continued their journeys to costal districts of Odisha and West Bengal. According to official data, more than four lakh guest workers registered with the government portal, to return to their native states. Not enough trains were operated by the Centre and the transport department too has been reluctant in sending local government buses to help at least those who wanted to travel to states within 1,500 km radius. Against this backdrop, guest workers themselves started to arrange their own transport options in the form of buses and vans. They first get permission from their respective state governments and later approach local bus operators, who facilitate procurement of TN e-passes, said Saddam from Jabbar Travels, which has transported so far more than 500 passengers in the last one week. Passengers are charged Rs 35-Rs 40 per kilometre depending on the distance travelled to meet the fuel expenses, driver pay and toll fee. A Afzal, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Bus Owners Association said some private companies and banks are using their CSR funds to help stranded guest workers, who are unable to pay for tickets. In some districts, collectors themselves have taken initiatives to arrange buses. Overall, 500 such buses have left Tamil Nadu in the last two weeks, he added, Bus driver, Balamurugan from Tambram, who started his second trip to West Bengal on Wednesday, said, “Never expected so much care from the workers. Though I didn’t understand what they spoke, they made sure that I had enough food and took adequate rest whenever needed.” Though it was raining heavily in Odisha on the way back, never mind taking the risk to help these men meet their families, he added. ( With inputs from C Suresh Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pvt-omni-buses-ferry-15k-guest-workers-out-of-tn/articleshow/75855401.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Man cuts b’day cake with sword in presence of 18 others, arrested||Aurangabad: A 27-year-old man has been arrested by the Badnapur police for celebrating his birthday with a large group of people and violating the lockdown rules. As many as 18 others, who attended the event, have also been booked after the photographs of the party went viral on social media. The accused, Sachin Tukaram Arsud, in order to thank his friends for attending his birthday — which he celebrated by cutting the cake with a sword — posted the photographs on a social media platform. According to police, the incident took place in the Manjargaon village on Monday, while the photographs went viral on Tuesday. The police were shocked to see youths gathered for a birthday party with a sword and none of them were wearing a mask or following the social distancing norm. Taking cognizance of the same, a police team was dispatched and the main accused was arrested. Police have also seized the cake and motorcycle that was used to cut the cake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-cuts-bday-cake-with-sword-in-presence-of-18-others-arrested/articleshow/75854151.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Dead dugong washed ashore at Keelakarai||Madurai: A dugong was found dead near Sethukarai in Ramanathapuram district on Wednesday. The mammal weighing about 300kg was found dead near the shore around 9.30 am by local fishermen, who alerted the forest department. The carcass washed ashore around 10.30 am. The female dugong is around three to four-years-old and is 225cm long and had a circumference of 330cm. “The critically endangered species protected under Schedule I of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, present in small numbers in the Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park is hunted at times. But the carcass did not have any signs of hunting,” Keelakarai forest range officer S Sikkandar Batcha said. However it had a bleeding injury on the face near its eye. Forest department officials suspect that it could be due to an injury caused by accidentally hitting a rock or a fishing vessel, resulting in its death. Autopsy was performed by Keelakarai veterinary assistant surgeon Jeyaprakash and the carcass was buried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dead-dugong-washed-ashore-at-keelakarai/articleshow/75856936.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Rs 1cr insurance to frontline staffers||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will offer Rs1 crore life insurance to frontline staffers involved in controlling the Covid-19 spread. In case of any casualty, the civic administration will pay the sum to the staff member’s family. The frontline workers and their families are offered free stay in a private hotel for quarantine if needed and free medical treatment. A PMC official said the staff members include those working at the civic hospital, flu centres and for ambulances services. The civic officials said around 4,000 people are directly or indirectly working in the mitigation of the pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-1cr-insurance-to-frontline-staffers/articleshow/75856411.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Two plus one rule rule impractical, will cause financial loss, say auto drivers||VISAKHAPATNAM: The two plus one rule (two passengers and a driver) for autorickshaws, formulated to contain the spread of Covid-19, will not ease financial distress, said autorickshaw drivers in the state, claiming the rule will lead to further losses instead. In the absence of city bus services, the state government is considering allowing cabs and autorickshaws to resume services in major cities and towns. State secretary of Andhra Pradesh Auto Drivers Federation, G Vamana Murthy said, “We can’t hike auto fares in the present situation as many people have lost their livelihood and some small employees with private firms are facing pay cuts. However, taking two passengers to contain the spread of Covid-19 is also not feasible.” “We lost our livelihood for two months. Just taking two passengers in the auto is not profitable. We spend at least Rs 65 for one litre of diesel. If we take just Rs 25 per person for three to four kilometre, it still won’t cover fuel costs,” said V Vamsi, an autorickshaw driver. Autorickshaws are the preferred mode of transport for many commuters due to the low fares. The two plus one rule might make commuters think twice about travelling in an auto as fares are likely to rise. “Not everyone is ready to pay Rs 50 for a distance of three to four km. If we take three passengers in the auto to meet the fuel prices and profit, then we will land in trouble with officials. We are appealing to the government to provide diesel subsidy for a couple of months and provide sanitizers, masks and essential commodities,” said Vamana Murthy, another autorickshaw driver. A senior officer with the transport department said draft guidelines for operation of autorickshaws have been sent to the government and the vehicles will be allowed to ply once the guidelines are approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/21-rule-impractical-will-cause-financial-loss-say-auto-drivers/articleshow/75855415.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Wedding registrations down from 14K to zero a day||Madurai: The one industry that has been hit the hardest by the pandemic in Tamil Nadu is the wedding industry. Close to 1.50 lakh weddings have been cancelled across the state this year. Sources at the registrar’s office in Madurai said that before the Covid crisis struck, around 14,000 weddings were registered in the state in a day. But the number has dropped to almost zero in the last two months. Wedding planners, marriage halls and hotels have been seeing bookings being cancelled since April. K Suresh, of K K Nagar, said that he had decided to organise his son’s wedding in a star hotel in Madurai in May and had invited around 1,500 people. “It was supposed to be a grand affair, but I had to cancel it because most of the relatives could not come from abroad,’’ he said. R Senthil Kumar, one of the major decorators in Madurai, said that he has lost close to Rs 30 lakh in the last two months. “In big hotels and marriage halls, the decoration work costs close to Rs 1 lakh. I fear that even after the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control, people will not be shelling out such big amounts,’’ he said. According to him, there are about 100 event managers and decorators in Madurai, both big and small, and each of them employ about 20 people directly. Many working as flower distributors, carpet layers, cloth decorators are employed indirectly. All of them stand to suffer huge losses. While weddings are organised on auspicious days, registrations, engagements and birthday parties are held throughout the month. Even these events are being cancelled or postponded, he said. The manager of a marriage hall in the city outskirts, said that he had availed a loan worth a few crores for the construction of the building and had hoped to repay it based on bookings for weddings. With weddings being cancelled, they are now in a spot. They have had to return the advance money they had received for over 30 weddings in the last two months due to the crisis. Catering services which employs thousands of people during the wedding season are also going through a tough phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wedding-registrations-down-from-14k-to-zero-a-day/articleshow/75856934.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Duty of cops to ensure unmanned barricades don’t cause accidents: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Holding Delhi Police liable for causing an accident due to unmanned barricades, Delhi high court has asked it to pay Rs 75 lakh as compensation to a biker left in a vegetative state after colliding head on. Justice Navin Chawla, while fixing accountability on the police, noted that the barricades were chained together, unmanned and placed in a poorly lit area making it difficult for a motorist to spot them in time from a distance. “In the present case, it is evident from the record that the location where the barricades were placed was not properly lighted. It is not shown that the barricades had adequate reflectors or blinkers so as to make them visible from a long distance. In any case, they were chained and therefore, did not allow vehicles to pass through. Such chains could not have been visible to the motorist from a distance. They were also unmanned,” the court observed, concluding that the victim Dheeraj Kumar was entitled to the claim of damages for the negligence and failure of the Delhi Police to discharge its duty. Kumar was 21 years old at the time of the accident in December 2015. In the wee hours, he was on his way home with his father on a motorcycle and collided with police barricades that were chained together to cordon off a street in West Punjabi Bagh. The court took note of the fact that as per the discharge summary record of the hospital, Kumar was in a state of ''altered sensorium, eye opening to pain, not opening to commands'' and since then, his condition has not changed. Kumar and his father had approached the high court through advocate Harshit Chopra, seeking compensation towards the refund of medical expenses, loss of income/dependency, loss of prospects, continuing future needs as also for the pain and suffering suffered due to the accident. Opposing the plea, police had blamed Kumar for the accident, arguing there was contributory negligence of the biker as he was speeding and was unable to brake in time to avoid colliding with the barricades. Police also alleged Kumar was not wearing a helmet. But the court rejected these claims, noting that “merely because no helmet was shown to have been recovered from the site, cannot lead to a conclusion that Kumar was not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident or was driving his motorcycle at a high speed or rashly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/duty-of-cops-to-ensure-unmanned-barricades-dont-cause-accidents/articleshow/75856942.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 21, 2020||Agra||Manipur, Kerala students leave for Homes||Agra: Around 50 Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) students from Manipur and Kerala left for their home towns on Wednesday. According to AMU administration, two buses were arranged for the students to transport them to their respective railway stations. Manipur Students boarded the train from Moradabad while Kerala students boarded the train from New Delhi. AMU registrar Abdul Hamid said, “The first batch consisting of 20 students who are from Manipur and the second batch of 30 students from Kerala departed from Proctor’s office.” “All students were medically screened before their departure. Food and water bottles were provided to them,” an official said. Prof Beg informed that a special train for Guwahati (Assam) will operate from Aligarh on May 21 in the evening. The train will halt at Patna and Ranchi railway stations also. Another batch of AMU students form West Bengal will leave for Mathura Railway station by bus on May 21 for their onward train journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/manipur-kerala-students-leave-for-homes/articleshow/75854132.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Civic bodies in red zones urged to refocus on densely populated areas||PUNE: The central health ministry has directed all municipal corporations in red zones to minutely map congested residential areas and prepare for a possible disease spike in cases within the next two months. The directive was issued after an analysis by the Centre found that Covid-19 is set to follow a pattern similar to the 2009 swine flu pandemic, in which well-connected large cities with substantial population movement reported a higher number of cases than rural areas or small towns with very low population densities and relatively poor road, rail and air travel connectivity. According to health officials, there are 30 municipal corporation areas — across 11 states — that have accounted for 80% of all Covid cases in the country. In Maharashtra, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and the Amravati corporation areas are in red zones. State governments have also been told to intensify surveillance and focus on mass awareness programmes within these congested parts of cities. The health ministry has asked urban local bodies to provide masks and even suggest changed sleeping patterns, in which the face of a person is turned towards the feet of the other person with some space reserved for adequate physical distancing. Pune municipal commissioner, Shekar Gaikwad, said infection control within congested areas of the city will continue to be a major challenge. “We are carrying out house-to-house surveillance in these areas. We have done it four times already. However, our endeavour is to shift people out from these areas. That’s a major challenge and the monsoon months will make it difficult,” he said. The spread of infection in Dharavi in Mumbai and the Peth area of Pune has been particularly worrisome. Health experts have called for renewed efforts to ensure physical distancing, hygiene and clean toilets in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-bodies-in-red-zones-urged-to-refocus-on-densely-populated-areas/articleshow/75856413.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Patients wait for 6-8 hours to get beds at hospitals||CHENNAI: Despite having discharged more than 900 Covid-19 patients so far, government hospitals in Chennai were filled to capacity and patients were made to wait for six to eight hours before provided with beds. With number of positive cases on the rise, particularly in north Chennai, Stanley Medical College Hospital in Mint was overflowing with patients and many were taken to Covid-care centres, which were maintained outside the hospital premises by the government. Geetha (name changed), 60, from Nagamani Garden Street, a containment zone in Royapuram, tested positive. On Monday morning, she was picked up from home in a van and taken to nearby testing centre and later shifted to Stanley Hospital around 3 pm.  "For the next six hours, she was made to sit with 30 to 40 other patients in the waiting lobby. Except for two idlies in the evening, nothing else was given to her. She has heart ailments and diabetes. So, she started to panic and coughed a lot," said Geetha's son-in-law, requesting anonymity. “After nearly eight hours, she was a given a bed around 11pm and doctors told us that she was recovering well,” he added. P Balaji, dean of Stanley Hospital, was unavailable for comment. But a senior health department official said doctors, nurses, paramedical staffs were working round the clock without enough breaks to save lives. “According to government protocol, all positive patients were kept in observation at hospital for 24 hours and only those with comorbid conditions and symptoms were admitted in Covid-19 wards and rest were referred to Covid care centres,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/patients-wait-for-6-8-hours-to-get-beds-at-hospitals/articleshow/75855412.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Man held for assaulting on-duty cops||NASHIK: The Bhadrakali police arrested a 37-year-old man from the Kathegalli area of the city on Wednesday after he assaulted a team of police personnel who visited his residence after receiving a call about a heated argument at the place. The suspect has been identified as Murtaza Taher Rampurwala, said the Bhadrakali police. The incident took place at around 11.30 pm on Tuesday when an assistant police inspector and two constables of the Bhadrakali police station visited Rampurwala’s residence. At the time, Rampurwala was engaged in a heated conversation with his mother, police said. When the police tried to intervene, the suspect picked up a pressure cooker from the kitchen and threw it at the police personnel. However, the police team was quick enough to overpower the suspect and bring him under control. The suspect, however, bit one of the policemen who was trying to hold him in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-assaulting-on-duty-cops/articleshow/75854133.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hubballi||35 sleeping in bus for past five days||BELAGAVI: About 35 people have been sleeping inside a bus at Koganoli checkpost in Maharashtra, barely 22km from Nipani in Karnataka, since five days. Reason: Karnataka authorities have refused them entry into the state. The group consists of people from Hassan and Mandya, who worked in Mumbai. On May 15 they arrived at Koganoli checkpost in a bus they hired, but did not have e-passes to enter Karnataka. Now they are being forced to sleep inside the vehicle with no proper access to drinking water, toilets and bathrooms. Officials from Belagavi and Hassan district administration have asked them to return to Mumbai. The only solace is that the authorities concerned are arranging food for them. Preetu Gowda, one among the 35, said they had applied for e-passes on May 11. They began the journey thinking the passes would be generated before they’d reach Karnataka border. Those stranded say on May 17 water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi visited them and promised help, but nothing has changed. Belagavi deputy commissioner SB Bommanahalli said nine people who had e-passes at the border were allowed, while the rest were asked to leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/35-sleeping-in-bus-for-past-five-days/articleshow/75855692.cms||Shreyas HS
May 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: RTOs start to issue driving licences, learner licences||CHENNAI: Regional transport offices (RTOs) across Tamil Nadu on Monday began issuing driving licences, learner licences (LLRs) and the vehicle registration certification (RC). Prior appointments through government’s VAHAN portal are mandatory for entry into RTOs to take up required tests or get paper work done. “Though all documents issued by the state transport department, which were valid on February 1, will continue to remain valid till June 30, we have opened our counters for fresh applications,” said Tenkasi S Jawahar, the state transport commissioner. Social distancing norms were followed in all the RTOs and PPE and hand sanitizers were provided to all officials and visitors, he added. All the 150 odd transport offices in the state were shut on March 21. On an average, more than 5,000 licences and LLRs are issued daily in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rtos-start-to-issue-driving-licences-llrs/articleshow/75855419.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||High court asks judge to record doc’s statement||Vijayawada: The high court on Wednesday directed Visakhapatnam district judge to record the statement of Dr Kolaventi Sudhakar and submit it in a sealed cover by Friday. It considered the letter written by TDP women’s wing president V Anita over the manner in which police arrested Sudhakar as Public Interest Litigation (PIL) and appointed senior counsel Veera Reddy as amicus curie to assist the court. The counsel for the state government told the high court that it was not possible for them to produce Sudhakar as he was in a medical facility under treatment and due to other logistical issues because of the lockdown. The counsel appealed to the high court to allow them to produce him through video conference. The amicus curie Veera Reddy expressed doubt that seeking more time to produce him or producing him through video conference might be to cover up the injuries caused to him while he was arrested. He said Sudhakar’s statement has to be recorded in the presence of a judicial officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-asks-judge-to-record-docs-statement/articleshow/75855435.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Air pollution rises as lockdown eases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: As the state moves towards a modified lockdown, except in containment and curfew zones, the pollution levels have started to rise across Rajasthan. In a recent study, conducted by the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB), the air pollution levels have been rising in the state when compared to pre-lockdown and complete lockdown figures. When compared to pre-lockdown phase, the air quality improved during the complete lockdown phase. However, if we compare the data between the complete lockdown and modified lockdown phases, pollution is getting worse. The overall percentage increase in air quality index (AQI) from the period of lockdown to the modified one has ranged between 4% at Jaipur (police commissionerate) and 15% in Udaipur). However, in Ajmer, Alwar, Kota and Pali, the air quality has improved in the modified period when compared to the lockdown one, ranging from 5% (Pali) to 13% (Kota). Chief environmental engineer at RSPCB, Vijay Singhal says, “This is the third report of our study during the lockdown. With the economy opening up, the level of pollution will increase. Now, the pace at which pollution will return to pre-lockdown levels will depend on the rise in the number of vehicles and the opening up of industries.” When compared to the lockdown period, there has been a significant percentage increase during the modified lockdown for all three pollution parameters i.e. PM10, PM2.5, NO2, as observed in Jaipur (Science Park), Jodhpur and Udaipur whereas in Bhiwadi and Jaipur (Police Commissionerate), an increase of average concentrations of PM10, PM2.5 has been observed. However, air quality has improved in terms of all the three parameters in Alwar and Pali. The noise levels during the lockdown period decreased at all monitored locations except at Science Park, Shastri Nagar, during night time, in Jaipur. Despite the lockdown, the noise levels exceeded the prescribed standards at all locations except Jaipur Nagar Nigam Office, Patel Marg, Mansarovar (day time), Science Park, Shastri Nagar (day time), Gali No. 3, Raja Park (day & night time), and near Kotwali Thana, Chhoti Chaupar (day & night time).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/air-pollution-rises-aslockdown-eases-in-state/articleshow/75858295.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ajmer||Air pollution rises as lockdown eases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: As the state moves towards a modified lockdown, except in containment and curfew zones, the pollution levels have started to rise across Rajasthan. In a recent study, conducted by the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB), the air pollution levels have been rising in the state when compared to pre-lockdown and complete lockdown figures. When compared to pre-lockdown phase, the air quality improved during the complete lockdown phase. However, if we compare the data between the complete lockdown and modified lockdown phases, pollution is getting worse. The overall percentage increase in air quality index (AQI) from the period of lockdown to the modified one has ranged between 4% at Jaipur (police commissionerate) and 15% in Udaipur). However, in Ajmer, Alwar, Kota and Pali, the air quality has improved in the modified period when compared to the lockdown one, ranging from 5% (Pali) to 13% (Kota). Chief environmental engineer at RSPCB, Vijay Singhal says, “This is the third report of our study during the lockdown. With the economy opening up, the level of pollution will increase. Now, the pace at which pollution will return to pre-lockdown levels will depend on the rise in the number of vehicles and the opening up of industries.” When compared to the lockdown period, there has been a significant percentage increase during the modified lockdown for all three pollution parameters i.e. PM10, PM2.5, NO2, as observed in Jaipur (Science Park), Jodhpur and Udaipur whereas in Bhiwadi and Jaipur (Police Commissionerate), an increase of average concentrations of PM10, PM2.5 has been observed. However, air quality has improved in terms of all the three parameters in Alwar and Pali. The noise levels during the lockdown period decreased at all monitored locations except at Science Park, Shastri Nagar, during night time, in Jaipur. Despite the lockdown, the noise levels exceeded the prescribed standards at all locations except Jaipur Nagar Nigam Office, Patel Marg, Mansarovar (day time), Science Park, Shastri Nagar (day time), Gali No. 3, Raja Park (day & night time), and near Kotwali Thana, Chhoti Chaupar (day & night time).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/air-pollution-rises-aslockdown-eases-in-state/articleshow/75858296.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Close to 20 per cent restaurants on the verge of closure||PUNE: Between 15-20% of 250 and odd high-end restaurants in the city are considering indefinite closure, leading to job losses and bankrupt enterprises, sources from the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers’ Association (PRAHA) told TOI on Wednesday. Industry sources confirmed 3-4 restaurants in the city have recently shut shop for similar reasons. The Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) had recently said that at least 70% establishments across the country may close. PRAHA president Ganesh Shetty said, “Around 30-40 branded (or high-end) restaurants in the city, are on the verge of closure following the pandemic, lockdown, economic losses and rental issues. Restaurants on main streets and in malls have to pay the rent for the location even when they aren’t functional. If the lockdown for restaurants continues for another month and there is no relief from the government, at least 40-50 such restaurants will close down.” Vikram Shetty, PRAHA vice president, added, “A chunk of restaurants and hotels are considering permanent closure, while those in rental properties are most likely to close for good as business will not be the same even five to six months after the lockdown is lifted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/close-to-20-restaurants-on-the-verge-of-closure/articleshow/75856415.cms||Neha Madaan
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Air pollution rises as lockdown eases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: As the state moves towards a modified lockdown, except in containment and curfew zones, the pollution levels have started to rise across Rajasthan. In a recent study, conducted by the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB), the air pollution levels have been rising in the state when compared to pre-lockdown and complete lockdown figures. When compared to pre-lockdown phase, the air quality improved during the complete lockdown phase. However, if we compare the data between the complete lockdown and modified lockdown phases, pollution is getting worse. The overall percentage increase in air quality index (AQI) from the period of lockdown to the modified one has ranged between 4% at Jaipur (police commissionerate) and 15% in Udaipur). However, in Ajmer, Alwar, Kota and Pali, the air quality has improved in the modified period when compared to the lockdown one, ranging from 5% (Pali) to 13% (Kota). Chief environmental engineer at RSPCB, Vijay Singhal says, “This is the third report of our study during the lockdown. With the economy opening up, the level of pollution will increase. Now, the pace at which pollution will return to pre-lockdown levels will depend on the rise in the number of vehicles and the opening up of industries.” When compared to the lockdown period, there has been a significant percentage increase during the modified lockdown for all three pollution parameters i.e. PM10, PM2.5, NO2, as observed in Jaipur (Science Park), Jodhpur and Udaipur whereas in Bhiwadi and Jaipur (Police Commissionerate), an increase of average concentrations of PM10, PM2.5 has been observed. However, air quality has improved in terms of all the three parameters in Alwar and Pali. The noise levels during the lockdown period decreased at all monitored locations except at Science Park, Shastri Nagar, during night time, in Jaipur. Despite the lockdown, the noise levels exceeded the prescribed standards at all locations except Jaipur Nagar Nigam Office, Patel Marg, Mansarovar (day time), Science Park, Shastri Nagar (day time), Gali No. 3, Raja Park (day & night time), and near Kotwali Thana, Chhoti Chaupar (day & night time).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-pollution-rises-aslockdown-eases-in-state/articleshow/75856950.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Udaipur||Air pollution rises as lockdown eases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: As the state moves towards a modified lockdown, except in containment and curfew zones, the pollution levels have started to rise across Rajasthan. In a recent study, conducted by the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB), the air pollution levels have been rising in the state when compared to pre-lockdown and complete lockdown figures. When compared to pre-lockdown phase, the air quality improved during the complete lockdown phase. However, if we compare the data between the complete lockdown and modified lockdown phases, pollution is getting worse. The overall percentage increase in air quality index (AQI) from the period of lockdown to the modified one has ranged between 4% at Jaipur (police commissionerate) and 15% in Udaipur). However, in Ajmer, Alwar, Kota and Pali, the air quality has improved in the modified period when compared to the lockdown one, ranging from 5% (Pali) to 13% (Kota). Chief environmental engineer at RSPCB, Vijay Singhal says, “This is the third report of our study during the lockdown. With the economy opening up, the level of pollution will increase. Now, the pace at which pollution will return to pre-lockdown levels will depend on the rise in the number of vehicles and the opening up of industries.” When compared to the lockdown period, there has been a significant percentage increase during the modified lockdown for all three pollution parameters i.e. PM10, PM2.5, NO2, as observed in Jaipur (Science Park), Jodhpur and Udaipur whereas in Bhiwadi and Jaipur (Police Commissionerate), an increase of average concentrations of PM10, PM2.5 has been observed. However, air quality has improved in terms of all the three parameters in Alwar and Pali. The noise levels during the lockdown period decreased at all monitored locations except at Science Park, Shastri Nagar, during night time, in Jaipur. Despite the lockdown, the noise levels exceeded the prescribed standards at all locations except Jaipur Nagar Nigam Office, Patel Marg, Mansarovar (day time), Science Park, Shastri Nagar (day time), Gali No. 3, Raja Park (day & night time), and near Kotwali Thana, Chhoti Chaupar (day & night time).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/air-pollution-rises-aslockdown-eases-in-state/articleshow/75858294.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Cantt shopkeepers frown at new rule||Secunderabad: Two months after downing their shutters, shopkeepers resumed activity in the Secunderabad cantonment region. With Ramzan just four days away, the ready-made garment stores, branded factory outlets and shops selling wholesale clothes, imitation jewellery, shoes and dry fruits are hoping to make the fast buck. But the odd-even formula had just poured cold water on their plans. “So far we have managed to cover 80% of the shops. We have exempted pharmacies, wine shops, hardware shops and those selling essentials like groceries and food products from the odd even markings,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender, said adding that shopkeepers were strictly instructed to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines. “We gave strict instructions to the shopkeepers to follow the Covid-19 preventive measures like maintaining physical distance, wearing masks and using sanitisers. We will not hesitate to penalise the violators,” added the official. “It would take a couple of days before things fall in place. We are not expecting the business to pick up soon,” said N Sitharam, owner of a ready-made garments store at Trimulgherry. Another businessmen felt that the government should have allowed them to open at least 10 days before Ramzan. Devender said that they would conduct an inspection after a week and a penalty of Rs 1,000 would be imposed against violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-shopkeepers-frown-at-new-rule/articleshow/75856946.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Locals ask how forest staff missed ganja cultivation in Kodaikanal||DINDIGUL: Residents of Kodaikanal have expressed shock at the large-scale cultivation of ganja in a forest land, which was destroyed on Tuesday, and have urged for more vigilance from forest personnel to avert any such criminal activity. They also questioned the forest department for not finding out the activity thriving for long. Ravikumar Agatheeswaran, a resident said the forest personnel who do not allow locals to even gather firewood and strictly monitor their movement, questioned how the illegal activity missed their eyes. Around 150 fully-grown ganja plants spread across one acre of sloped terrain were destroyed by the police and forest personnel. Thirty kg of processed ganja kept ready for sale, was also seized by the Kodaikanal police team. K Sakthivel, 50, from Vilapatti and R Prasanth, 31, from Kumbur were arrested. Dindigul superintendent of police R Sakthivel said they received the lead from two accused P Palpandi, 60, and P Veeramani, 45, from Usilampatti, who were arrested by the Devadhanapatti police for peddling ganja. The accused confessed that they had procured the contraband from Kodaikanal, where it was cultivated. They were planted three months ago, the SP said and added that it was first time that a cultivation of this magnitude has been unearthed by the police in recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kodai-locals-express-shock-at-ganja-cultivation-question-forest-dept/articleshow/75856944.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Phase VI excavation resumes at Keeladi after 47 days||MADURAI: The state archaeology department has resumed excavation activities at Keeladi and Aharam after 47 days. The department stopped excavation on March 23, a day before the beginning of the national lockdown. Keeladi in Sivaganga district has attracted international attention and fame, after archaeologists discovered the remnants of a 2000-year-old civilization on the banks of the Vaigai, disproving the theory that there was no ancient riverbed civilization in south India. The first three phases of excavation were carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) from 2014-2015, 2015-2016 and 2016- 2018. The next three phases, including the fourth phase from 2018-2019, fifth phase in 2019 and now the sixth phase which began on Feb 19, are being done by the Tamil Nadu state archaeological department. It was expected that this would be the longest excavation to be carried out in Keeladi, as it was proposed to end in September this year. But the Covid-19 crisis has brought it to a standstill. The workers from the villagers around the three sites have been roped into the work now. Curator of the Keeladi site B Asaithambi said that they were now working on four quadrants in Keeladi and were employing 18 workers in all of them. In normal conditions, 27 workers would have been employed in these quadrants. The workers under the guidance of the archaeologists had gone to a depth of 2-2.5 meters before work was stopped and they covered the trenches with tarpaulin covers. Work was also resumed at Aharam on Wednesday, but not in Konthagai, which had received rain and water entered the trenches had to be cleared. Sources said that it was lucky for them that the three places, where the work was being executed now, had not recorded any Covid-19 cases, and Sivaganga had successfully managed to curtail the spread of the disease for more than 22 days, before people who came from other states and districts tested positive. Workers are monitored for their health and asked to wear safety masks, and given sanitizers to clean their hands regularly and told to maintain social distancing while working. No visitors would be allowed as a precaution against Covid-19, at these sites, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/phase-vi-excavation-resumes-at-keeladi-after-47-days/articleshow/75856940.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Marathwada has only 24 lifeboats for floods||AURANGABAD: As many as 772 villages across eight districts of Marathwada are prone to floods owing to heavy rainfall or water being released from upstream areas of Jayakwadi dam. However, to deal with such eventuality there are only 24 lifeboats. The skewed proportion between flood-prone villages and live-saving equipment calls for official attention as Marathwada has witnessed as many as 15 flood incidents since 2005. At 174, Nanded district has highest number of flood-prone villages, but it has only two lifeboats. Aurangabad district has 165 such villages, and is equipped with eight boats — highest in Marathwada. Parbhani has 89 flood-prone villages and 3 boats followed by Osmanabad (86, 1), Latur (78, 3), Hingoli (70, 2) , Beed (63, 1) and Jalna (47, 4). Marathwada, known as drought-prone region, has major rivers slike Godavari, Purna, Dudhna, Painganga, Manjra and Terna. The region has witnessed deluges including flash-floods in 2005, 2006, 2008, 2013 and 2016. Civic activist Abhijit Dhanorkar said district administrations from all eight districts must be equipped with adequate number of life-saving equipment for dealing with floods. An official from disaster management authority said, “Marathwada as a whole has 719 life-jackets distributed in eight districts and 528 trained life-guards. The proposal for increasing lifeboats is on the cards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mwada-has-only-24-lifeboats-for-floods/articleshow/76046395.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Pink eye disease outbreak linked to weather pattern, says Hyderabad institute||HYDERABAD: Researchers at LV Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) in the city have unravelled the mystery behind the outbreak of pink eye disease (epidemic keratoconjunctivitis or EKC) linking it with the changes in weather conditions. EKC is a viral conjunctivitis and highly contagious. It is caused by a group of viruses called adenoviruses. Generally, EKC is linked with pandemics. LVPEI researchers have found that contrary to popular belief, epidemic viral infections like EKC may not be affected by temperature. It is caused by a complex interplay of environmental factors such as humidity, rainfall and wind speed. EKC is characterised by redness in the eye, and hence it is also called pink eye disease. The symptoms include eye crusting when one wakes up in the morning, swelling of eyelid and soreness accompanied by irritation. Dr Anthony Vipin Das and Dr Sayan Basu of LVPEI conducted a research with a correlation on the effect of environmental factors and viral conjunctivitis outbreaks in India. The result of the research study was published in the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology. “The pandemic of novel coronavirus has sensitised the entire world to the importance of epidemiology and trend analysis. People all over the world are closely monitoring the rapidly changing landscape that reflects the aggressive nature of Covid-19 pandemic,” they said. As part of the study, the researchers studied 24 lakh patients across hospitals between August 2010 and February 2020. Patients with a clinical diagnosis of EKC in at least one eye were included in their studies. Of the 1.82 lakh patients from Hyderabad, 1,635 (0.89%) patients had an acute onset of symptoms. The median age of patients was 30 years. There were 963 (58.9%) male and 672 (41.1%) female patients. The highest prevalence was seen in April and the lowest in July. Weather parameters of rainfall, temperature, humidity, and wind speed were assessed on a monthly interval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pink-eye-disease-outbreak-linked-to-weather-pattern-says-city-institute/articleshow/75856418.cms||Syed Akbar
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Jalna police bust over 420 liquor dens||AURANGABAD: The Jalna police have busted over 420 dens illegally manufacturing spurious liquor ever since the lockdown came into force on March 23 and seized articles worth around Rs 1.07 crore. Police said that they have destroyed thousands of litres of spurious liquor during the raids conducted under the jurisdictions of 17 police stations across Jalna district. As per the details provided by the Jalna police, 355 cases were registered and articles worth Rs 89.69 lakh seized. Jalna police also arrested 470 suspects while the local crime branch team headed by inspector Rajendersingh Gaur registered 66 cases, seized articles worth Rs 17.26 lakh and arrested 50 suspects. The decision to keep a serious check on the sale and supply of spurious liquor was taken after police found that the administrations across the country imposed a blanket ban on the sale of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-bust-over-420-liquor-dens/articleshow/75854165.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vadodara||WRMS, NFIR to join nationwide protest||Vadodara: Western Railway Mazdoor Sangh (WRMS) and National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR) have decided to join protest of all central trade unions against ‘anti-worker policies’ of central government on May 22. National leaders of all federations and associations representing various sectors will organize a daylong hunger strike at Gandhi Samadhi at Rajghat, New Delhi to protest against misuse of lockdown to suppress the working class. “The central government is taking advantage of lockdown like giving temporary exemptions from certain labour laws to trade union act, industrial dispute act, act on occupational safety, contract labour act among others. Workers are being exploited without providing them right for collective bargaining, paying proper wages, providing them proper safety at workplace and guarantee of social security,” said J G Mahurkar, general secretary of WRMS and vice-president of NFIR. “Some states have increased daily working hours from eight to 12 hours through executive orders,” he said. While national leaders of trade unions will join the hunger strike at New Delhi, employees of Western Railway will wear black ribbon on forearm while performing their duty as a mark of protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wrms-nfir-to-join-nationwide-protest/articleshow/75853629.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Aurangabad||We have to live with coronavirus: HC||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has directed the special court to take a decision on bail application of an accused arrested for offences under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Atrocities Act. On April 18, the special court had given direction to place the matter for consideration only after the lockdown is lifted. Citing a Supreme Court order, justice TV Nalawade observed: “This court holds that the courts now need to decide on all the proceedings as we have to live with coronavirus and the working of the courts cannot be stopped directly or indirectly.” Earlier, the petitioner had approached the court of special judge with his bail application in March 2020, who ordered the application to be placed for consideration only after the lockdown was over. The special judge had passed this order on the basis of an order passed by a single judge at Principal Seat of the Bombay high court on April 3. Following this order, the accused’s brother approached the high court through lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar. Justice Nalawade, while allowing the petition, observed: “When the accused is behind bars, he has right of early trial of his case. The right to get early decision on his bail application is also a part of the right given under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In view of the aforesaid circumstances, it cannot be said now that such category of matters cannot be called as the matters needing urgent attention.’’ He added, “Lockdown was imposed in the month of March 2020 and it still continues. Initially, the courts were holding that the applications filed for relief of bail cannot be treated as from the category of extreme urgent matters. The lock down is continuing and the period of around two months will be completed shortly. It is not certain when the lockdown will come to an end.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/we-have-to-live-with-coronavirus-working-of-courts-cannot-stop-hc/articleshow/75854180.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 3,000 scramble for 1,700 seats on train to Uttarakhand||BENGALURU: A Shramik Special train with 1,700 seats was scheduled to leave for Haridwar, Uttarakhand on Wednesday evening but over 3,000 migrants — mostly from the north Indian state and working across Karnataka — had gathered outside Palace Grounds as early as at 3am. The migrants, including 50 women and children, waited for nearly 10 hours, mostly under the scorching sun, in a desperate bid to get home. While some got lucky and boarded the train that chugged out of Cantonment station at 8pm, others were left behind. Most workers were employed as culinary staff at hotels across Karnataka, mainly Udupi, Belagavi and Mangaluru. With the lockdown leaving them jobless and penniless, they’ve been yearning to return. “My friends and I paid Rs 25,000 for a taxi ride from Gokak, Belagavi to Bengaluru hoping to find a seat in the train. I really hope to make it as I don’t have the money to go back,” said Narendra Singh, a cook, who couldn’t walk without support as he’d suffered multiple fractures on his right leg following a recent accident. Manoj Negi from Pithoragarh, who unfortunately was at the tail-end of the km-long queue, spent all his savings on this trip. “I came from Udupi on Tuesday by hitching rides and paying people en route. I have been waiting here since 4am. When police made us queue up, I got pushed to the end,” he said. For some like Naveen Singh and Kavitha, who arrived from Mangaluru with their two-year-old son Keshav, waiting in the heat was unbearable. “The crowd is too much for us to handle,” said Singh, clutching his son. When mediapersons intervened, the family was offered a spot in the queue around 2.30pm. Police personnel struggled to control the surging crowd. Many migrants had registered online and received texts mainly from the Uttarakhand government, while some didn’t have any clearances but came out of sheer desperation to get back. “We are a group of nearly 300 catering staffers from Uttarakhand working in Bengaluru. We’ve had enough of this inhuman treatment. We are leaving and vow never to return,” said a teary-eyed Amit Singh, who stood for hours without food or water. Most of those heading home said they don’t plan to come back as they had to go without food, money and shelter for over 50 days. The crowd included people from Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. “I don’t know how to read and write and no one has provided me the correct information. An auto driver got me here saying I could get a bus. I waited for over five hours only to be chased away by police, saying only Haridwar-bound travellers could stay,” lamented Rampal Yadav, a Bihari. Finally, about 1,700 people, mostly Uttarakhand-bound, were bundled into buses and transported to Cantonment railway station. The rest, lugging huge backpacks, trudged back to their camps, despairing over another night of uncertainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-3000-scramble-for-1700-seats-on-train-to-uttarakhand/articleshow/75855722.cms||Petlee Peter
May 21, 2020||Pune||PCB staffer tests positive, 80 told to work from home||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has asked 80 of its 100 employees to work from home after a staffer from its engineering section at its headquarters near Golibar Maidan tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI, “Swab samples of 10 other employees who came in contact with the staffer have been sent for testing. The results are awaited. We have sanitised the entire building and surrounding premises.” On Monday, the employee (40), a resident of Kondhwa, had taken his father to the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital for treatment for back ache. The doctors realized that the employee wasn’t keeping well and advised him to get tested for Covid-19. Kumar said, “The employee did not inform us about this development and reported to work as usual. On Tuesday evening, his report came positive. We have since traced 10 other employees who came in contact with him. As a precautionary measure, we have asked 80% of our employees to work from home.” A three-day total lockdown in the PCB jurisdiction also commenced on Tuesday to contain the spread. “We have taken this decision considering the rising number of positive cases in Bhimpura, Modikhana, New Modikhana and the nearby areas. Only medical shops are allowed to operate from 10am to 1pm and 5pm to 8pm. Milk booths/outlets are operating between 7am and 10am,” Kumar said. On the supply of essential items, he said PCB staffers and the city police were making arrangements, while taking necessary precautions. The board has recorded 136 cases so far. Of them, 84 are active cases, 48 have been discharged and four have succumbed to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-staffer-tests-ve-80-told-to-work-from-home/articleshow/75856425.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: With businesses resuming today, march towards normalcy begins||VIJAYAWADA: Business activity across Krishna district and Vijayawada city is likely to revive today following relaxations by the state government. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz on Wednesday said all business establishments can start functioning across the district except in 25 containment zones identified by authorities. In Vijayawada city, businesses can resume except in eight containment zones. Hotspots such as Krishna Lanka and Machavaram are among the containment zones identified by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC). Chittinagar, Gandhinagar, Kothapet, Satyanarayanapuram, Singh Nagar and Vidhyadharapuram are among the other zones with high numbers of active cases. “We have denotified around 15 containment zones in the city as no cases were registered there recently. All shops can continue operations in non-containment areas between 7 am to 7 pm. The curfew will continue from 7 pm to 7 am. Restaurants and eateries can only facilitate takeaway services,” Imtiaz said. Function halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, temples, churches and mosques will remain closed, the collector said, adding “Maintaining social distance is a must and everyone should come out of their homes wearing masks. Fine will be imposed on those who roam on streets ignoring social distancing.” Meanwhile, nine new Covid-19 cases were registered in the city on Wednesday, of which four are from Krishna Lanka. Officials continued with sanitation and containment activities in Krishna Lanka and Machavaram. Vidhyadharapuram recorded one case while three cases were reported among persons under quarantine at Gudavalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-businesses-resuming-today-march-towards-normalcy-begins/articleshow/75855441.cms||Venu Lanka
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||At 57%, Rajasthan tops recovery chart||JAIPUR: While the state is touching new highs in new Covid-19 cases daily, here is something to cheer about in this gloom. The state is at the top among states with the highest percentage of patients recovering from Covid-19. However, there is a cause of concern as the graph of active cases, which had started flattening lately, is again moving upwards. Despite that, the percentage of active cases in the state is the lowest among states reporting high number of Covid-19 cases such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. The recovery rate in the state is 57%, which is the highest in the country. Rajasthan is followed by Madhya Pradesh (48%), Delhi (45%), Gujarat (42%), Karnataka (39%), Tamil Nadu (39%) and Maharashtra (26%). The national recovery rate average is 40%. With an increasing number of fresh cases being reported daily over the past 10 days, the graph of active cases, flattening earlier, has started moving up. The increasing number of migrants testing positive has had an impact on the active cases graph. “While Rajasthan is proactive in containing the spread of the virus, many are testing positive due to reasons beyond our control. Hence the focus is on providing quality healthcare to those testing positive so that they recover soon and go home. Special attention and care is given to high risk and vulnerable patients who suffer from other underlying conditions. The number of recovered patients in Rajasthan far exceeds the number of active positive cases,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). The curve of active cases started flattening after the third week of April and remained almost flat till May 10. This began as the number of persons recovering from Covid-19 increased on a daily basis. In comparison to new infections, more persons recovered daily, which flattened the active cases graph. From May 10, it started moving upwards again as an increasing number of persons along with migrants started testing positive and outstrip the number of those recovering from the disease. Despite the recent spurt, the percentage of active cases in the state remain at 41%, which is the lowest among states reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra has 70% active cases, the highest in the country. The national average for active cases is 57%. Among these states, Tamil Nadu reported the lowest death rate, which is just 1%. It is 2% in Rajasthan and Delhi, 3% in Karnataka, 4% in Maharashtra, 5% in Madhya Pradesh and 6% in Gujarat. The national average is 3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-57-raj-tops-recovery-chart/articleshow/75856961.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Five held for smuggling 180kg ganja||Theni: Five people, including three women, were arrested on Tuesday for smuggling 180kg of ganja in a commercial vehicle in Theni district. Based on a tip, police nabbed Sugapriya, 30, Muthuselvam, 28, Santhosh, 27, Swathi, 34, and Eswari,45, during a vehicle check at Manikatti Alamaram Junction. They told police they had procured the nine gunny bags of ganja from Andhra Pradesh and had hidden it in Cumbum due to the lockdown. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/five-held-for-smuggling-180kg-ganja/articleshow/75856948.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Training with masks on: Athletes say it’s absurd||BENGALURU: While sportspersons – amateur and professional alike – may have cheered the lifting of lockdown restrictions on sports and games, competitive athletes were left askance at sports minister CT Ravi’s latest diktat. On Thursday, Ravi said training for all non-contact sports could resume, but then threw in a bizarre spoiler – “provided athletes wear masks on field”. Experts and sportspersons immediately pointed out that while masks are indeed necessary in these coronavirus times, they could do more harm to athletes than good. Ravi, however, justified the decision, saying it is for the safety of athletes. “When there is something new attached to our body, it automatically becomes an irritant and takes time to adjust,” the minister told TOI. “If sportspersons want to resume training, then they have to adjust to wearing masks as it is for their own safety and those surrounding them.” Medical experts and athletes, however, insist masks are more than just irritants. “To expect competitive athletes to wear a mask while training is absurd,” said an established cricketer. “I tried running a 100m sprint using a handkerchief as a mask and I was breathless at the end of it. Can you imagine the impact on our lungs even if we wear it for a short duration? This just won’t work.” Renowned pulmonologist and chest specialist, Dr KS Satish concurred, saying, “A mask is a must for everybody and there is no two ways about it. But it works differently for sportspersons during competitions or training. If they train with masks on, then there is resistance to their breathing which will result in breathlessness and tire them out quickly. I think if they maintain social distance and follow other protocols, there is no need to wear masks while training.” Badminton ace, Ashwini Ponnappa hasn’t wielded a racket with a mask on as yet, but said, “It will be tough to train with one on. Besides breathing difficulties, athletes sweat a lot and a mask will only make our faces feel sticky and uncomfortable.” Gagan Reddy, national cyclist, resumed training on Thursday and found the going tough with a mask on. “It affects our breathing and we have to cut down on pace. But we have no choice. Most of us are using neck warmers as a mask and pulling them down when no one is around,” said the youngster. Officials in the sports department, however, said wearing a mass is a “broad guideline” and can be “skipped” when sportspersons are training in private. Ravi said athletes of all disciplines except swimming, aerobics, kabaddi and wrestling, can resume training. “This would mean Royal Challengers Bangalore players can start training at Chinnaswamy stadium provided they follow standard operating procedure which will be issued with the guidelines,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/training-with-masks-on-athletes-say-its-absurd/articleshow/75855664.cms||Manuja Veerappa
May 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Distributors struggle to maintain steady supply||PUNE: Fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) distributors in the city said limited staffers and restricted work hours were among the biggest hurdles towards ensuring steady supply in the market. Pune Consumer Products Distributors’ Association president Anand Munot said, “Most of the distributors are trying to maintain the supply, but are facing several problems. The biggest issue is the lack of supply from companies because the factories are working with half their staffers. If the stock doesn’t arrive, we cannot supply to the retailers.” The retailers have been complaining about shortage of FMCG products in the market because the distributors were not supplying to them. Munot said, “We are also working with limited staffers. Several workers live in slums, which are in the containment zones, and cannot resume work. Many retailers are preferring walk-in purchases from the distribution outlets, for which we have to keep additional staffers at depots, who would otherwise head out for deliveries.” “Earlier, we would work throughout the day. We have now restricted the work hours and only a limited number of deliveries can go out each day. Apart from that, several distributors are located within the containment zones and cannot function at all,” Munot said. “My outlet, which is at Market Yard,was closed on Wednesday after the Poona Merchants Chamber decided to close down area because some traders and staff members were detected Covid-19 positive. I will be able to resume operations only after Market Yard reopens,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/distributors-struggle-to-maintain-steady-supply/articleshow/75856420.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Four men held for hunting monitor lizards in Tenkasi district||TENKASI: Forest department officials on Tuesday arrested four men for hunting monitor lizards in the buffer zone of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) in Tenkasi district. Two of the accused have hunted more than 250 monitor lizards over the last three years. The prime accused, G John Vincent, 41, told officials that he had been hunting monitor lizards for more than 17 years. The four men were arrested based on a tip-off from a rival poacher who is accused of hunting wild boars. “At least six to seven more people were part of the gang and we are trying to nab others too,” range officer C Nellai Nayagam said and added that the four arrested men were from Karuthapillayur. The prime accused, Vincent, is a mason and head loader. Other accused are K Suresh, 22, who is a mason, J Anton Ravi, 22, who works in a private company in Coimbatore and hunts when he came home once in four months, and M Immanuel, 19, who is studying in a college in Tenkasi and is new to hunting monitor lizards. Monitor lizard is a species protected under Schedule I of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “Monitor lizard is hunted for its meat as there is a myth that its meat will help the consumer stay fit as it is a strong reptile. While there is only half a kg flesh in the small ones, bigger ones yield up to five kg flesh,” the range officer said. They hunted using dogs, which identify the lizards near waterbodies. The accused primarily consumed the meat and also shared it with their relatives and friends in the village. “Poaching and consuming its meat are offences. So many more will be booked for the offence,” the officer said. The four were booked under Sections 2, 9, 39, 52 and 57 of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, produced before the Ambasamudram court and lodged in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-arrested-for-hunting-over-250-monitor-lizards-in-3-yrs-at-kmtr/articleshow/75856951.cms||M K Ananth
May 21, 2020||Surat||New Covid-19 cases compel Vapi to extend ‘lockdown’...||Surat: Vapi Municipality in Valsad district on Wednesday decided to continue with lockdown guidelines until May 24 despite relaxation in the fourth phase by the state government in the aftermath of detection of seven new Covid-19 cases in the industrial town of late. The decision was made after a meeting chaired by Valsad district collector C R Kharasan. The meeting was attended by Vapi Municipality president Vitthal Patel, Pardi MLA Kanubhai Desai, industrialists and traders among others. "It has been unanimously decided to observe lockdown in the areas falling under the limits of Vapi Municipality until May 24 because of seven new Covid-19 cases in Vapi town in the last one week. On Tuesday, two vegetable vendors tested positive for Covid-19 in Vapi town. These vendors have shops at Vibrant Vegetable Markets and are residents of Satadhar Society in the town,'' Vitthal Patel told TOI. Municipality authorities fear that the vegetable vendors could be ‘super spreaders’ as they may have come into contact with hundreds of people while carrying out business transactions. "This is a precautionary step by us and all traders and businessmen have voluntarily decided to observe lockdown. However, essential services will continue unhindered between 8am and 12pm,'' Patel said. "All shops and commercial establishments in residential and market areas of GIDC, Vapi will voluntarily remain closed for four days from Thursday. However, industrial activities will continue as suggested by lockdown guidelines of the state government,'' Vapi Industries Association informed its members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/new-covid-19-cases-compel-vapi-to-extend-lockdown-/articleshow/75854178.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Alert over Madurai city police chief’s fake facebook account||Madurai: A scamster from abroad created a facebook account in the name of Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham with his profile picture in uniform, chatted with people in his contacts and tried to lure them with ‘offers’ to facilitate loans.Acting swiftly, an additional director general of police (ADGP) posted an alert for the public from the commissioner’s real account asking them not to fall prey to the criminal. Davidson told TOI that he has written to facebook to deactivate the fake account and changed his password and other credentials as a safety measure. He said that a person from United States had opened the account and tried to lure people through messenger. After he was alerted from people in his contact list, he took up safety measures immediately. He has also changed his profile picture. His status read “hi friends, someone has created a fake facebook account in my name with my picture. Please don’t chat with that criminal. Heard he is trying to reach out through messenger. I rarely use messenger. Please don’t fall into any trap.”Within eight hours, more than 380 people ‘liked’ the status. It also attracted more than 50 comments and 17 shares. Some of them even shared messages received through the fake account. While many declined the loan offer, some continued to chat to explore more, till the incident came to light. No formal complaint or FIR was registered in this connection, said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alert-over-madurai-city-police-chiefs-fake-facebook-account/articleshow/75856962.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||As dues go unpaid, uncertainty looms for pvt school faculty||Vijayawada: As the pandemic upends livelihoods, teachers and lecturers in private institutions are now facing the brunt of pending dues and salaries. Citing the closure of educational institutes following the lockdown, several schools and colleges have paid teachers only 50% of their salary for the last two months. Some faculty members also face the threat of termination of services, in spite of conducting online sessions and remote monitoring of other academic activities. The case of faculty members at engineering colleges and for other professional courses is similar. Andhra Pradesh has about 17,000 government-recognised private schools with a faculty strength of nearly 1.5 lakh, while it is estimated that another 1.5 lakh faculty serve at private degree, engineering and other colleges. The pandemic has forced many teachers to turn to alternate livelihoods to sustain their families. State president of the private teachers, lecturers union Didde Ambedkar said faculty at private institutes are at the mercy of their management. “We have made repeated representations to the concerned officials of every district, but in vain. Several teachers have already taken up other petty jobs to tide over the crisis. It is unfortunate to see well-educated teachers to go hungry,” said Ambedkar. Several faculty members at various schools and colleges who spoke to TOI feared that the prevailing uncertainty would continue at least till the year-end. “Unfortunately, we got only 50% salary for March and April months. One of my colleagues is thinking of taking up any small business instead of continuing the job as he is the only breadwinner and has to support four family members. We may be forced to do follow suit, if the situation remains the same in the coming months,” said D Dasu, a private institute teacher in Eluru. G Raju, another teacher from Kadapa, said they have been working at least eight hours a day even during the lockdown. “Right from conducting online classes and preparing assignments, we spend all our day in teaching students. But all we get at the end of the month is a part of an already meagre income,” said Raju. An official with the education department said they have directed private schools to pay salaries for the entire month, without any deductions, after receiving complaints from various quarters in the teaching community. “We made it clear to the schools that no such complaint should be received in the future,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-dues-go-unpaid-uncertainty-looms-for-pvt-school-faculty/articleshow/75855453.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 21, 2020||Pune||35 ‘re-positives’ found in Pune; ‘no threat’ of spread||PUNE: Nearly 32 Covid-19 patients in Pune tested positive for the new coronavirus again after making full recoveries during isolation in the hospital. Another three recovered patients tested positive as many as three times. Experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said these so-called ‘repeat positives’, even after being cured, indicates a person may have non-infectious shredded genes of the virus within the respiratory system. “In total, we have had 35 patients testing positive more than once after completing the 14-day isolation period. This extended their isolation stay for seven more days each time they tested positive. This was also before the country relaxed its Covid discharge policy on May 12,” said public health expert, Sanjeev Wavare, in-charge of the Naidu Infectious Diseases hospital, which is a dedicated Covid-19 unit of the Pune Municipal Corporation. The new discharge policy — for asymptomatic or mild cases — states the government no longer requires a negative test result for a person to be discharged, as long as he or she don't show any symptoms. Experts from the ICMR dismissed fears the virus might “reactivate” or infect people more than once. “The molecular RT-PCR test cannot differentiate between a dead or live virus. A dead virus can be detected up to three months after entering the body as cells in which it lives have a life of three months. It is rare to see a live virus after 10 days of infection,” the ICMR’s senior epidemiologist, Raman Gangakhedkar, told TOI. A second positive test after recovery may then simply mean particles of the dead virus are taking time to leave the body. “Such persons are no longer able to infect others,” Gangakhedkar said. State-run BJ Medical College’s virologist, Suvarna Joshi, said: “The detection of viral RNA does not necessarily mean there's an infectious virus present. The test may be picking up pieces of the viral RNA that have been left behind, rather than fully intact and infectious virus particles.” A study from South Korea back the belief. Researchers at the Korean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention analyzed data of more than 260 Covid-19 patients who tessted positive for the coronavirus after recovery. “What we are finding more and more is that the fragments of the virus that are being picked up on these swabs weeks later are not able to replicate. They are not live virus,” the researchers noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/35-re-positives-found-in-pune-no-threat-of-spread/articleshow/75856433.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||The show comes to a grinding halt for dancers||Coimbatore: The show couldn’t go on for the dancers in the district as lockdown put an abrupt ending to social gatherings. And for them no show means no livelihood. While a few of them went online to train their students, most of them gave that up in a few days as that was not helping their cause. S Harish, of UNI Dance Studio in the city, says, “Our main sources of income are dance classes, stage performances and choreography. We haven’t been earning anything since lockdown came into force more than 50 days ago.” Pointing out that awareness on dance has increased only in the past few years and that there are more than 350 dance schools in the district, he said lockdown might slow down their growth. “To sustain in the field, a few of us had tried to conduct virtual classes. But that didn’t work. First, many of us don’t have uninterrupted internet connection and could not use the applications. Second, it was difficult to hold the attention of students,” he says. M Edwin, of Footloose, says virtual classes could be conducted only to provide guidance or tips to the students. “Online classes might be useful to assist a person to burn calories and for physical fitness, but not to teach dance. Through virtual class, neither correction nor individual attention could be provided.” Referring to the online dance competitions that have been taking place nowadays, Vigna John, of Step-up Dance Academy, says a lot of students have been choreographing the movements just by watching YouTube videos. “Dance is something that requires constant updates, which one could get only with the help of professionals. If they continue to do that, a lot of students might not turn up for classes after lockdown.” At a time when most of the dancers are struggling to make both their ends meet, they have been asked to pay rent for the training facilities by landlords. “The rent would come around Rs25,000 a month. While most of us have paid a month’s rent from our savings, we are not sure how to manage the next few months,” says Vigna. Edwin says social gatherings would have to come alive for the situation to become normal for them. “It would take another six to seven months to happen that. March, April and May are important for us as that are the months when educational institutions conduct programmes. It is not just the dancers who are affected because of lockdown. There are about 35 supporting industries like event management companies, catering services and costume providers, etc.” With the help of district administration, city corporation and volunteers, he has been helping the needy dancers with groceries and vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/the-show-comes-to-a-grinding-halt-for-dancers/articleshow/75856437.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Properties under custody of EOW stolen||Madurai: Articles, including windows and doors, worth Rs 10 lakh went missing from a building that was under custody of Economic Offence Wing (EOW), Madurai. Based on a complaint from EOW inspector Prabakar a case was registered with the Koodalpudur police station under IPC section 380- theft in a building used as human dwelling. According to police sources, EOW had registered a cheating case against managing directors and directors of the firm Disc Assets Lead India for cheating its customers to the tune of hundreds of crores in 2016. The agency had attached several immovable and movable properties of the firm in the case. Taking advantage of the limited movement of people during lockdown period, unidentified people snuck into the mill and stole the articles. In total six iron grill gates, seven cupboards, 50 doors and 95 windows were stolen. Some of the documents have been stolen. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/properties-under-custody-of-eow-stolen/articleshow/75856963.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi records over 500 Covid-19 cases for second straight day||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported more than 500 Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, with 534 more persons testing positive for the disease. This is the highest single-day tally of Covid-19 in the national capital. On Tuesday, 500 fresh cases were recorded. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now crossed the 11,000 mark — at 11,088. The death toll has reached 176, with 10 more Covid-19 fatalities being confirmed in the last 24 hours by the death audit committee. An order has been issued regarding mandatory reporting of all deaths of Covid-19 positive persons at any health care facility in Delhi in accordance with the standard operating procedure issued earlier, officials in the state health department said. They added that total 5,192 people, 47% of total cases, have recovered from the disease. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain held a review meeting with the directors of state-run hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment to assess the situation. As per the latest data released by Delhi government, of the 11,088 persons found positive for Covid-19 in the state only 5,720 are active cases. Of this, 1,722 (30%) are admitted in hospitals, while the rest are at home or in other facilities being run by the government. “Total 180 persons have severe symptoms of the disease necessitating ICU care or ventilator support,” an official said. Delhi has 12 hospitals – two state-run, four Centre-run and six private ones – that are designated for Covid-19 treatment. Of this, Lok Nayak Hospital has maximum — 508 — positive cases, followed by AIIMS, Delhi and Jhajjar (403), Safdarjung (164) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital (135). Among private hospitals, Max Smart has maximum 127 positive cases under treatment at present. An order has also been issued for designating All India Institute of Ayurveda at Sarita Vihar, as an additional Covid care centre, authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-500-cases-for-2nd-straight-day/articleshow/75856964.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman kills two sons, survives suicide bid in Telangana||HYDERABAD: After a quarrel with her husband, a woman allegedly killed her two children and made a vain attempt to kill herself at Majidpur in Shamirpet on Wednesday. Shamirpet police said 28-year-old Preeti made her two sons - Gaurav (4) and Kaushik (2) - consume food mixed with a pesticide and later consumed it herself. When her husband Gopinath returned home at around 4 pm after attending office, he found Preeti and their children lying on the ground unconsious. “Gaurav and Kaushik had died by then and Preeti survived,” Shamirpet inspector S Santosham said. Police said the couple had a heated argument on Tuesday night. Police registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the IPC against Preeti, who is undergoing treatment. Cops said she would be arrested shortly. Gopinath works in a private pharmaceutical company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-2-sons-survives-suicide-bid/articleshow/75856446.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Trust in memory of air crash victims helps poor clear medical bills||Mangaluru: “Death leaves a heartache that no one can heal, while love leaves a memory no one can steal. Those we love truly never leave us,’’ said Dr P M Jayasimha Shetty. He lost his sister Manirekha Poonja, who was an accounts officer with Gulf News, who was travelling to Mangaluru along with her daughter Harshini and husband Shashikant Poonja, an architect, on the ill-fated Air India Express flight IX-812 from Dubai, on May 22, 2010. “I am happy that it is because of my sister and her family, that we have managed to bring back smiles on the faces of several needy people. Two years ago, through the Shashi Rekha Harshini Foundation that we established with the air crash compensation amount that we received, we donated Rs 1.5 lakh, the biggest single contribution till date for the foundation, for the kidney transplant of a 22-year-old woman. Her father, a painter, had donated his kidney to his daughter and today, every time I meet the girl, who is married and settled down in life, I am happy that my sister, despite not being with us, has managed to help people in need,” Dr Jayasimha said. The family had decided to set up a charitable trust that will help girls pursue their higher education. “We spend about Rs 7-8 lakh annually. Since there are several platforms providing scholarships, we have noticed a fall in the demand for scholarships from deserving candidates. Though we continue to give scholarships, the focus is now on helping the poor with their medical needs. We receive a lot of calls seeking help. Recently, we helped a driver who had met with an accident, and paid Rs 60,000 towards his ICU bills ,” he said. The trust has preferred to remain low-key. “We have been helping a lot of families. Many from my team suggested that we should post updates to the media. Since we are doing this with the amount received as compensation, I preferred to keep it a low-key,” he said. The trust was formed a year after Air India Express flight IX-812, from Dubai to Mangaluru, overshot the runway while landing, and went up in flames in the gorge at Adyapady at 6.10 am. Only eight people survived the crash, which took the lives of 158 people, including the two pilots and four cabin crew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/trust-in-memory-of-air-crash-victims-helps-poor-clear-medical-bills/articleshow/75854197.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Cases nearing 1,000 in south TN; TJ delegates discharged in Trichy||Madurai/Trichy: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the southern districts is inching towards the 1,000 mark with 60 new cases being reported on Wednesday. Among them, 56 are people are from other states. All the nine cases in Madurai were people who had travelled by bus from Mumbai, and were in a quarantine facility. Among them were six people including a 10-year-old boy from Dharavi in Mumbai. The other three were from Antheri in Mumbai. Eight of them belonged to the Usilampatti block in the district and one from Sedapatti. Madurai has 14 active containment zones in the rural area, and 20 in the city. Tuticorin saw the highest number of cases on Wednesday, with 21 people who came from Maharashtra testing positive. One local case was also reported taking the district total to 113. Tirunelveli became the district to have the highest number of cases with 16 new cases from Maharashtra taking the district tally to 242. Theni district recorded one local and two cases from Maharashtra testing positive taking the total to 92. Virudhunagar had one local and five cases from Maharashtra taking the total number of cases to 61. Tenkasi touched the 75 mark with one local person and two who had come from Maharashtra testing positive. Meanwhile, the central region recorded seven more Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. However, Trichy district administration discharged 328 Tablighi Jamaat delegates after they tested negative on Wednesday. In a statement, Trichy collector S Sivarasu said that 328 TJ returnees tested negative for Covid. They were among the total of 356 people who returned from New Delhi to Trichy by a special train on May 18. The results of the rest of them were yet to be out. Six people including five who returned from Maharashtra tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Another person from Sivagangai who came to Trichy by train from Chennai is undergoing treatment in Pudukottai after testing positive. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) also discharged two more patients on Wednesday. The hospital also sent back home seven patients of Perambalur district and two patients of Ariyalur district after their recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-nearing-1000-in-south-tn-tj-delegates-discharged-in-trichy/articleshow/75856965.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Waive power bill for three mnths: Naidu||Vijayawada: Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief N Chandrababu Naidu has demanded the waiver of power charges for three months in view of the financial troubles of the poor due to Covid-19. Speaking to the media via video conference, Naidu lashed out at the government for hiking power charges during the crisis period. He said that state government had levied heavy burden on the commoners by revising the power tariff and trying to cover-up with the false statements. “We demand that the state government should immediately waive off the power charges at least for three months to allow the people to overcome the lockdown induced financial troubles,” demanded Naidu. He said that the inability, arrogance and inexperience of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy were the reasons for the massive losses of the discoms in the state. He said that state government had completely bungled the functioning of the power utilities by trying to enforce the whims and fancies of the leaders. Naidu said that the government first stirred the hornet’s nest by trying to revise the Power Purchasing Agreements (PPAs) with the private parties against the rules. He said that the government had arrogantly went ahead to cause losses to the investors in the power sector by denying payments despite repeated instructions from the Centre and courts. He said that the mishandling of the power sector had resulted in heavy burden on the commoners. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/waive-power-bill-for-three-mnths-naidu/articleshow/75855470.cms||Samdani MN
May 21, 2020||Goa||Cyclone Amphan won’t affect Goa’s coastline, says Met department||PANAJI: The Goa coast will no longer be affected by cyclonic storm Amphan, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, said on Wednesday. “The surface windspeed over Goa has reduced,” IMD scientist, Rahul M, said. TOI had reported that Amphan may not directly affect the Goa coast, but the state did experience windy and cloudy weather on Monday owing to the phenomenon. The IMD said that the system brought some low-level clouds on the western coast resulting in cloudy weather. “Until Monday, there were winds of up to 25km per hour. The windspeed decreased by Tuesday afternoon. As of Wednesday, there is no effect of Amphan on Goa,” Rahul said. The IMD, in its daily forecast, has said there are no severe weather warnings for Goa over the next five days, starting May 20. Fishermen have also not been issued any alerts. “The maximum temperature will not reduce much either. It will be around 35-36C,” the IMD scientist said. Amphan has largely affected the eastern coast of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyclone-amphan-wont-affect-goas-coastline-says-met-dept/articleshow/75856966.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Surat||...while its units want lax pollution norms||Surat: The units located in the critically polluted Vapi industrial estate have made a bizarre demand to the Gujarat government. They industrial units have sought relaxation in effluent discharge norms citing shortage of adequate skilled staff to manage the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP). In a letter to Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), Vapi Industrial Association (VIA) has stated that due to the lockdown many skilled personnel performing environment protection activities in the industrial units and at the CETP have left for their native places. This, VIA contended, has led to shortage of skilled staff, and hence the industrial units may not be able to comply with the discharge norms. So, the industrial units should be given relaxation in the existing discharge norms. Last year in August, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered to recover Rs 117 crore from polluting industries in Vapi for polluting Damanganga river and Bill creek in the petition filed by Aryavrat Foundation, an environment NGO. The Vapi industries have challenged the NGT’s order in the Supreme Court. President of Aryavrat Foundation, A R Mishra told TOI, “GPCB has no authority to relax the effluent discharge norms of the industries in Vapi. Actually, the Vapi industries are trying to take advantage of the lockdown. A case is already pending in the Supreme Court and that the final hearing was delayed due to lockdown.”The Vapi industrial estate houses about 1,000 industries, majority of them are into the manufacturing of dyes and chemical intermediates, paper mills and phamaceuticals. Talking with TOI, president of VIA, Prakash Bhadra said, “In absence of skilled staff managing CETP operations, members should not be penalised for the non-compliance of norms.” He also demanded that like pharmaceutical manufacturing units where getting environment clearance from GPCB on priority, other sectors should also be considered for the same benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/-while-its-units-want-lax-pollution-norms/articleshow/75854219.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Virtual seminar on role of nano tech||Madurai: A three-day virtual seminar on the “role of nanotechnology against coronavirus” was inaugurated at Alagappa University in Karaikudi on Wednesday under the aegis of the university’s nanoscience and technology department. In his address, vice-chancellor N Rajendran said scientists had opined that nanotechnology may offer solutions for the Covid-19 pandemic. If employed successfully, nano particles may be able to eliminate the virus inside the body by confining, immobilising and preventing the spread of the virus. Owing to the small size and large surface area of nanomaterials and their antimicrobial activity, they can be used for containing the coronavirus. Head of the department of nanoscience and technology, Dr P Shakthivel, said the seminar would discuss the solutions offered by nanotechnology in mitigating the spread of the pandemic. During the course of the seminar, experts will speak on topics like ‘Development of nanostructured materials for drug loading and controlled release of antiviral drugs”, ‘Hybrid antiviral based nano-coating application for sensor and healthcare devices against Covid-19’ and ‘Scope and potential of nanostructures in tackling Covid-19’ .tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virtual-seminar-on-role-of-nano-tech/articleshow/75856982.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Madurai||Traders seek better transportation means for labourers||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited has written to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief ministers O Panneerselvam seeking better transportation facilities for labourers in the trade and industry that have reopened after close to 50 days.Association president S P Jeyapragasam said that over the last 10 days, industries and factories are allowed to function with 33% and 50% staff. He said that a sizeable workforce is travelling from neighbouring districts to Madurai and vice versa for work on a day-to-day basis.The association pointed out that this is causing hindrances as the workers are finding it difficult to obtain passes for the inter-district travel. “This is affecting the operations of factories and industries. Labourers should also be allowed to travel in government buses within the district and to neighbouring districts like government employees and healthcare professionals,” Jeyapragasam said and added that this will benefit the workers as well as the industries.He also said that an authorisation letter from the employer or identity card should be accepted by police manning the check posts to allow employees for inter-district travels for work.The association said that traders are trying to maintain social distancing in shops but at times there is a mad rush as customers are thronging shops to make purchases that are long due. Pointing out at this scenario, they made an appeal to the authorities concerned to help them maintain social distancing instead of closing down the shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-seek-better-transportation-means-for-labourers/articleshow/75856974.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Covid-19 lab second only to Bengaluru facility||MYSURU: Indian Council of Medical Research – recognized viral lab in Mysuru has come in handy for not just authorities in Mysuru but to those in five districts of south Karnataka during the pandemic as the lab has alleviated the burden on state’s lab. It takes six hours to test a sample and give results. Scores of samples are tested each day in three shifts making it one of the busiest covid Lab in Karnataka. The lab has conducted nearly 13,000 tests so far, second highest in the state after the lab in Bengaluru which as conducted 20,303 tests as on May 17. It has tested samples of patients suspected to have caught the virus in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Kodagu and even in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi in the last two months. As many as 1,552 samples from Chamarajanga and 1,432 from Kodagu, both green districts, have been tested in Mysuru. On an average, the lab is conducting over 500 tests per day with support from Defence Food Research Laboratory’s mobile unit. Even the Central Food Technological Research Institute has supported the lab with equipment. This was the first ICMR-recognised lab in south Karnataka and has three trained staff who are working round the clock since the pandemic, says Dr CP Nanjaraj, dean and director of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute. “The lab was opened in February 2017 as viral test laboratory. But after the outbreak, it was upgraded to a Covid lab. Initially we conducted close to 100 tests every day but gradually increased its capacity with support of central agencies. Today, the lab has a capacity to do anywhere between 500 and 600 tests a day,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysure-covid-lab-second-only-to-bluru-facility/articleshow/75854231.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 21, 2020||Delhi||For first time in over three weeks, Delhi gets two new containment zones||NEW DELHI: After a gap of more than three weeks, Delhi government on Wednesday created two new containment zones taking the total number of sealed areas to 78. The last containment zone, Shaheen Bagh in Southeast district, was created on April 28. The government also de-sealed two areas, Shahjanabad and Dinpur, in Southwest district. The new containment zones included parts of Zamroodpur and Dakshinpuri after “several cases” of Covid-19 emerged in the areas. The district authorities sealed the street with house numbers 64C to 90C in Zamroodpur village and the lane with house numbers 306 to 379 in Dakshinpuri’s F-Block. “Considering high risk of transmission amid dense population clusters, it becomes pertinent to implement strict perimeter control over the subject area to prevent further spread of contamination,” the government order read. The total number of Covid-19 cases reached 11,088 on Wednesday with 534 new cases added to the list. Interestingly, Delhi government’s health department on Tuesday had written to all district magistrates pointing out that while novel coronavirus cases were on the rise, the number of containment zones had been going down. The number of sealed areas had touched 100 when there were just 3,314 cases. Though the number of Covid-19 cases have increased by over 7,000 in the last three weeks, the containment zones have dropped by 25. Health secretary Padmini Singla on Tuesday had asked district magistrates to carefully go through the list of new positive cases and create containment zones. As per the guidelines issued by the health department, containment zones are supposed to be declared based on the number of cases, their contacts and the geographical spread. In Delhi, areas that have three or more cases have to be declared containment zones. Earlier, the DMs sealed areas where just one case was found. A senior official said that going by the earlier policy, many more areas should have been sealed by now. “While going through the data of Covid-19 infections, it was observed that 300-400 cases were being added daily, but declaration of equivalent containment zones by DMs was not happening. The guidelines are clear to declare an area a containment zone where three or more Covid-19 positive cases are discovered in close proximity,” read the order. With the government giving massive relaxations in the lockdown and permitting several activities, including opening of markets and plying of public transport, officials accepted that the significance of containment zones had increased significantly. Containment zones are sealed completely and doorstep delivery of only essential commodities is allowed. Barricades are placed at the entry and exit points and policemen are deployed to ensure total lockdown. An extensive sanitisation and screening exercise is carried out to make sure that the virus doesn’t spread out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-first-time-in-over-3-weeks-delhi-gets-two-new-containment-zones/articleshow/75857018.cms||Atul Mathur
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||School conducts entrance exam, locked||Udhagamandalam: A private school in Gudalur in the Nilgiris was locked by revenue officials on Wednesday as it has been conducting entrance examination for new admissions. According to Gudalur tahsildar Sangeetha Rani, St Antony’s Higher Secondary School in Gudalur town had been conducting entrance test for new admissions to the school for the past one week. “On Wednesday, when we conducted a surprise raid at the school, three boys were writing the entrance examination. We warned the school management and locked the school. The keys are with us,” she said. The matter is taken up with the education department and the district administration for further action, the official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-conducts-entrance-exam-locked/articleshow/75856441.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Surat||3 test positive on return to Navsari||Surat: After a gap, Navsari district recorded three cases of Covid-19 from Chikhli and Vansda talukas on Wednesday. Health officials stated that in all cases the patients have travel history to Mumbai and they had returned to their homes in Navsari in private vehicles in the last three days. Amar Rathod (18), a resident of Kukeri village in Chikhli; Naresh Patel (34) and Tamanna Patel (33), both residents of Vandervala village in Vansda —tested positive after they were medically screened upon their return into the district on May 19. Chief district health officer (CDHO), Navsari, Dr DH Bhavsar told TOI, “The positive cases are surfacing as people have started coming back to Navsari from other states and cities. The last patient at the Covid-19 hospital was discharged on May 16.” Dr Bhavsar added, “The three new patients were screened after our medical teams found symptoms of the virus.” About 1,500 people have arrived in Navsari in the last 10 days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/3-test-positive-on-return-to-navsari/articleshow/75854261.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||After typist tests positive, court staff on quarantine||Thanjavur: A 36-year-old woman who joined the sub court in Thanjavur recently as typist tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Subsequently, health officials started screening 14 court staff and also the inmates of a women’s hostel where she was staying in the city. A native of Tenkasi, she had undergone the test on arriving at Thanjavur last week as is the protocol. She joined duty on May 18 and the result of the blood test turned positive on Wednesday. Subsequently, she was admitted to the isolation ward of Thanjavur government medical college hospital, health officials said. Apart from the court staff, all inmates of her hostel have been asked to isolate themselves at home till the results come, sources said. Medical college dean Kumutha Lingaraj told TOI, “We are tracing her contacts from office, hostel and family members too”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/after-typist-tests-positive-court-staff-on-quarantine/articleshow/75857009.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Youth injured in train accident||Hyderabad: An 18-year-old private employee sustained injuries when he was hit by a train while trying to cross a railway track at Malkajgiri on May 15. Later, it was alleged that the mishap occurred when the youngster was trying to record a video on TikTok. However, the police clarified that they have no such information. Dinesh (18) partied with his friends at 8 pm on May 15 and then went to the nearby railway track. “On May 15, the locopilot of a goods train informed us saying some youngsters crossed the track close to the train and one of them was hit.The victim got admitted to a hospital in Punjagutta with a fractured arm. At the hospital, they claimed that he was injured in a bike accident. We have made a General Diary entry of the incident,” said GRP inspector Adi Reddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-injured-in-train-accident/articleshow/75856514.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||Syringe needle stuck in baby’s hip removed||Trichy: A broken syringe needle stuck near the left hip of a two-and-a-half month-old baby girl was removed by her parents at Idaiyapatti village near Manapparai on Wednesday. P Pichandavar of Telungapatti near Kulithalai in Karur district lodged a petition with the medical superintendent of government headquarters hospital in Manapparai claiming that a vaccination was administered to his baby at the hospital on March 10, a day after she was born. He said the needle of the syringe broke and got stuck deep in the the baby’s left gluteal region resulting in frequent fever for the baby. “When we asked the staff at Maravanur PHC about the fever at the next vaccination after 45 days, they dismissed it. Today, we found a wound near her hip. As we squeezed it, we got the broken needle from the body,” said Pichandavar. Responding to the issue, joint director of health services (JDHS), Dr S Lakshmi, said, “We have to enquire whether the vaccination was administered at Manapparai GH, and enquire further.” The couple took the baby to MGMGH to check for any further complications.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/syringe-needle-stuck-in-babys-hip-removed/articleshow/75857001.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||1,425 guest workers leave for Bihar from Trichy, Perambalur||Trichy: As many as 1,425 guest workers of Bihar left for their state by a Shramik special train from Trichy railway junction on Wednesday. They were working in Trichy and Perambalur districts. This was the second Sharmik special train to be operated from Trichy for the guest workers who had expressed their willingness to return back to their native places during the lockdown. According to officials from the Trichy district administration, around 4,000 guest workers had been staying in Trichy. Of them, more than 3,000 workers had expressed their willingness to return to their native states. Based on their registration, a total of 1,009 guest workers from Trichy have started their journey to Motihari station in Bihar from Trichy railway junction. District collector S Sivarasu distributed food packets, water bottles before sending off the guest workers at the railway junction. A total of 416 guest workers from Perambalur were also started to Bihar on the same special train. Earlier, they arrived at Trichy junction by special buses arranged by Perambalur district administration. It may be recalled that a total of 1,425 guest workers from Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karur departed from Trichy junction on May 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1425-guest-workers-leave-for-bihar-from-trichy-perambalur/articleshow/75856992.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Rajkot||Woman’s alleged killer ‘critical’ after suicide bid||Rajkot: The Rajkot rural police said on Wednesday that Yuvrajsinh Jadeja, the man who had allegedly killed a woman after she resisted his molestation attempt in Charel village of Jamkandorna taluka, is in a critical condition after attempting suicide.Jadeja had allegedly killed the woman Chandrika Boricha (27) with the handle of a spade, according to the complaint lodged by her husband.Rajkot rural SP Balram Meena said Jadeja attempted suicide over ‘interpersonal relations’ and not because he feared police arrest.Guards have been deployed at the civil hospital as police are waiting for Jadeja to regain consciousness and later record his statement. “We are waiting for Jadeja to regain consciousness to record his statement, after which we will be able to know the details of the incident,” said S S Mehta, deputy superintendent of police, Rajkot district ST/SC cell. Mehta said Jadeja also had allegedly attacked two women identified as Ramu Boricha and Chandrika Rathod, who were accompanying the victim and had tried to rush to her rescue when she was being attacked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/womans-alleged-killer-critical-after-suicide-bid/articleshow/75855497.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Team of over 500 to disinfect IGI hourly||NEW DELHI: With domestic flights slated to resume from May 25, a team of over 500 employees will be called into action every few minutes at Indira Gandhi International Airport to disinfect items like chairs, tiles and counters on account of passengers touching them. Initially, only T3 will be operational with all domestic carriers flying their aircraft from there. Flyers may have to arrive at the airport much earlier than usual to safely go through all security procedures keeping in mind social distancing norms. Delhi International Airport Limited said masks will be a must and social distancing indicators have been installed at each step reminding people to maintain the gap. Frisking may take longer with CISF likely to try out contactless operations. A DIAL spokesperson said, “To make social distancing more effective, DIAL has planned to put signage at various places. For instance, coloured tape has been placed at various points and markers have been positioned on alternate chairs pointing towards which seats need to be avoided.” These arrangements are in addition to the standard operating procedures issued by ministry of civil aviation. UV machines were installed at IGI last week to disinfect the premises. “We have installed new machines that will disinfect baggage and other equipment automatically. While sanitisers will be available for passengers, a team of 500 professionals will be constantly disinfecting items manually,” said the DIAL spokesperson. This will be in addition to queue managers at kerb side (city side), check-in halls, security areas and boarding gates. Additional seating arrangements will be made near the check-in counters, security areas and near immigration. DIAL has suggested that flyers check-in from home to avoid long queues. “To avoid contact and crowding at the counters, passengers will be encouraged to check-in at home or use self-service kiosks, self bag tag, etc,” said the operator. Anyone who doesn’t pass through the screening process will be taken to a separate isolation facility and the authorities concerned will be informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/team-of-over-500-to-disinfect-igi-hourly/articleshow/75857379.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 21, 2020||Trichy||IIM-Trichy’s MBA courses to go online||Trichy: Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy has decided to offer its executive MBA program online from next semester in view of lockdown. The program was designed for working professionals with classroom learning during weekends and 95 students had enrolled in this program offered from its Chennai campus. Similar plans are underway for the regular MBA courses which are offered from Trichy campus. The e-learning centres of the institute would be fully functional in the next two weeks to start the executive program (PGPBM). Bhimaraya Metri, director, IIM Trichy said that the work on e-learning centre was started last year that has now helped them during Covid-19 lockdown. The institute is also preparing to take up online classes for the regular postgraduate program in management (PGPM). The PGPM-HR program which will be launched by the institute this academic year may also be offered in the online mode, he said. Plans are under consideration for students to take up online exams under remote proctoring besides the plan to prepare e-books for the students. Speaking on the challenges, he said students in rural areas with poor connectivity may face some issues, but it will be temporary and may be sorted once everything goes online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-trichys-mba-courses-to-go-online/articleshow/75857027.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||Man to death over tiff at Tasmac||Revised Trichy: A 40-year-old man was stabbed to death by two men on Tuesday evening in a sequel to a dispute over buying liquor, at Kajapettai in Trichy city. Palakkarai police arrested G Mustafa, 43, and S Kajamohideen, 55, for murdering K Sangilikaruppu. Police inquiry revealed that Sangilikaruppu had assaulted Mustafa during a dispute while buying liquor at a Tasmac outlet at Manalvarithurai on May 16. Mustafa decided to take revenge and along with Mohideen went to Sangilikaruppu’s house where he was living alone. They picked up a quarrel with him which escalated into a fight which saw them stab Sangilikaruppu with a knife on his chest and stomach. Neighbours rushed him to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) where he died without responding to treatment. A case was registered based on a complaint from M Eswari, 52, a relative and neighbour of Sanjilikaruppu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-to-death-over-tiff-at-tasmac/articleshow/75857021.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Muslims should abstain from mass Eid prayers: Khazi||Mangaluru: In the wake of Covid-19, that has claimed five lives in Dakshina Kannada district, Khazi Alhaj Bekal Ibrahim Musliyar has called upon Muslims not to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr — expected on May 23 or 24— with pomp this year. The khazi has announced that certain rituals held as part of Eid can be avoided this year considering the pandemic. He suggested that the community members offer Eid namaz at their homes, instead of holding mass prayers in mosques. He has also asked them not to shake hands, hug each other or gather in groups, which is normally a part of sharing the festive joy. “The central and state governments have already issued directions banning gatherings as a measure to check the virus spread. Community members have been following the directions of religious leaders by not holding rituals like ‘juma namaz’ and ‘taraweeh’ prayer during Ramzan and ‘kootu ziyarath’. They have also followed the directions of the community leaders by not shopping for Ramzan. In continuation with the restrictions, mass prayers at masjids and Idgahs have also been banned. Hence, all community members should hold Eid namaz at their homes and also abstain from holding ‘khabar ziyarat’ ritual,” Musliyar said. He said Fitr Zakat, a practice wherein the rich help the poor, should reach the deserving persons on the Eid-ul-Fitr day or a day before. “Special emphasis should be given for social distancing during Fitr Zakat. Everyone should compulsorily wear masks. It is not apt for us to celebrate Eid with pomp when the doors of all masjids are closed. Hence, let us celebrate the festival this year in a simple way,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/muslims-should-abstain-from-mass-eid-prayers-khazi/articleshow/75854281.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||East-West Seed takes e-tail route to reach farmers||Hyderabad: It’s not just urban consumers that have been able to stay at home and beat the Covid-19 threat thanks to home deliveries of essentials by e-commerce players. With the pandemic disrupting supply chains and last mile delivery, seed companies like East-West Seed India too are using the e-commerce route to reach farmers across the country, albeit through rural etailers. The company has joined hands with digital agri-tech players like Agrostar, Bighaat, Dehaat and Gramophone to ensure delivery of seeds, an essential commodity for farmers, at their doorstep while following hygiene and social distancing norms. “We wanted to create a pan India reach to the e-commerce connected farmers and evaluated many potential e-commerce players. As most of them have regional strength areas, we decided to go with four partners as part of plans to reach a larger number of farmers across the country,” said Dilip Rajan, managing director, East-West Seed India, said, adding this is part of the company’s plans to emerge among the top five vegetable seed companies in India by 2021 with a projected 15% CAGR. Pointing out that vegetables offer a better economic choice for smallholder farmers as these crops can not only be grown on smaller farms but also yield higher returns and offer a faster turnaround than field crops, he said: “For instance, a bitter gourd planted over a 1,000 square meter plot will give a farmer roughly the same income as rice planted on one hectare. Vegetable farming has a shorter cultivation cycle of 45-55 days and allows the farmer to cultivate 3-4 crops throughout the year, something that is badly needed in these times of increased demand for vegetables and changes in food consumption.” “Market-oriented vegetable farming not only creates income for smallholder farmers but also helps to build their resilience to external risks. The sheer diversity of vegetable crops, short growing cycles, and efficient use of irrigation can reduce farmers’ vulnerability to climate change,” he explained||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/east-west-seed-takes-e-tail-route-to-reach-farmers/articleshow/75848409.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||Kalvi Tholaikatchi telecasts AV classes for NEET, JEE aspirants||Trichy: Kalvi Tholaikatchi, Tamil Nadu’s educational channel, will help aspirants of NEET and JEE in their preparation through dedicated audio-visual (AV) classes by expert teachers in each subject from government schools. The telecast of pre-recorded classes shot in few other districts started from Wednesday, which is likely to benefit students who cannot afford JEE and NEET coaching. While the channel can be accessed on five cable TV platforms including the state-owned TACTV, a mobile application is being developed by the school education department to widen the reach of this channel. A set of 27 expert teachers for various subjects relevant to NEET and JEE were recommended for the classes by chief education officer of districts for lending their expertise in audio-visual form. Meanwhile, a five-day shoot in Mount Zion matriculation school, Pudukottai, concluded on Wednesday and this content will be telecast after editing. Telecast of audio-visual classes, which were shot previously in few other districts, have been started from Wednesday, said a senior officer from Kalvi Tholaikaatchi in Chennai. The shoot was scheduled for total 17 districts and presently the work is still on in five districts including in Pudukottai. While the shooting in Pudukottai is over, editing work is being taken up. Pudukottai district chief education officer D Vijayalakshmi said that the initiative will hugely benefit students especially those, who cannot afford NEET and JEE coaching. We have a total of 200 episodes to be made. We have planned the content to be bilingual so that more number of students get benefit of the classes, said the officer from the channel. Kalvi Tholaikatchi was started in July last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kalvi-tholaikatchi-telecasts-av-classes-for-neet-jee-aspirants/articleshow/75857032.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||2nd blood donation camp fetches 125 units of blood||Trichy: The second blood donation camp organized during the lockdown by the Trichy district administration at National College, Trichy helped in collecting 125 units of blood from the donors on Wednesday. The camp started at 9am and witnessed decent footfall. Around 125 of them were found fit to donate blood. “Like the first blood donation camp, this one also got us expected units of blood. We expected 100 units of blood but it exceeded to 125 units ,” said district programme manager of district AIDS prevention and control unit (DAPCU) Dr SM Manivannan. The first camp fetched 286 units of the blood bank at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy.A donor R Anbudhasan, 25, of Thiruverumbur said the news about the shortage of blood during the lockdown prompted him to donate blood in the camp. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2nd-blood-donation-camp-fetches-125-units-of-blood/articleshow/75857037.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||HIV patients, elderly, children among those cured of Covid-19 in Karur MCH||Trichy: With the distinction of curing the oldest Covid-19 patient, a 95-year-old Dindigul woman, Karur government medical college hospital has been marching ahead in the fight against the pandemic by curing many comorbid patients. Apart from elderly people, several pregnant women and even HIV patients figure among the 209 Covid-19 positive people who were treated successfully at the hospital so far. The hospital which caters to Covid-19 positive cases in Karur, Dindigul and Namakkal districts has witnessed a total of 236 cases but witnessed only one death, that of a 96-year-old man from Dindigul who was suffering from age-related ailments. Two patients who were People Living With HIV/AIDS (PLHA) under antiretroviral therapy (ART) were also treated successfully for Covid-19. Medical college dean Dr E Theranirajan said one of them was a 36-year-old man and the other a 54-year-old woman, both of who were high risk patients. The hospital had taken a slew of measures to keep patients mentally sound and roped in psychologists to counsel the patients. They proved effective in counselling anti-natal mothers as well as mothers of new born babies who had contracted the disease. A woman from Namakkal who showed signs of depression for being away from her newborn was effectively counselled. It was challenging to prevent a possible infection to a newborn from a Covid-19 positive mother without separating the duo, said Dr Theranirajan. It has been proven that the baby will not get infection from breast milk but the mother had to be kept at a distance. Therefore, the baby received breast milk ‘expressed’ from themother’s breast and the idea worked, he said. The hospital also treated eleven children who had the infection, from as young as five months to as old as 11 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hiv-patients-elderly-children-among-those-cured-of-covid-19-in-karur-mch/articleshow/75857036.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: BJP slams opposition for ‘politicising’ exam issue||PANAJI/MARGAO: By trying to play politics over the Goa government’s decision to conduct the Class X and XII public exams during the lockdown, Congress and other opposition MLAs in the state have only added to the stress and confusion of parents and students, BJP party general secretary Damodar Naik said on Wednesday. He said the high court decision to allow holding the board exams is historic. Spokesperson Premanand Mhambrey said that the Class XII exams started on Wednesday with the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education ensuring that social distancing and other lockdown norms are followed. “Parents, educationists and students had demanded that the exams will be held. This exam is a milestone in the life of students. But Congress has developed a mindset to criticise any decision taken by the BJP government. They have lost touch with the people and they were opposing a decision which was in the interest of the people and students. They pretended to go on hunger strike, knocked the doors of the high court and added to the mental stress of students,” said BJP spokesperson Sidharth Kuncalienker. He said CM Pramod Sawant and advocate general Devidas Pangam need to be congratulated for managing to convince the high court twice that the decision to conduct the exam was correct. “Congress should have helped us keep the students and parents motivated,” said Mhambrey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-slams-oppn-for-politicising-exam-issue/articleshow/75857038.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Trichy||Teachers seek nod for classroom revision ahead of board exam||Trichy: After the decision to postpone Class X state board examination by 15 days, teachers want the school education department to give permission to organize classroom revision for at least a week before the board exams start.While the examinations are now scheduled to be held from June 15 instead of June 1, the additional days can be utilized for classroom revision, teachers suggested.They said that making students appear for board examination just after two months of lockdown without basic classroom revision may have adverse effect on the results.Over the last one week, teachers were calling parents and asking them to engage their children in revision of textbooks. Some of the schools went ahead with online classes and even online tests with the help of parents. However, that may not be sufficient to help students get good marks in the board exams, said a teacher from a government-aided school in Trichy.The additional time that the students will get because of the postponement can be utilized for classroom revision and the school education department must give permission, said the teacher.Since it is only the students of Class X and only a few teachers will be coming to schools, there won’t be any issues in terms of social distancing, the teacher said. This is the first batch appearing for the examination in the new syllabus, and there is no blue print of the question paper available. Further 25% of questions are expected to be asked out of the book and students may not be able to perform well without proper revision, said another teacher.When asked, an official from the district chief education office, Trichy, said that there has not been any direction in terms of engaging students for classroom revision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teachers-seek-nod-for-classroom-revision-ahead-of-board-exam/articleshow/75857039.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 21, 2020||Trichy||19-yr-old Lankan refugee arrested for raping girl||A 19-year-old Sri Lankan refugee was arrested on Wednesday for raping and threatening a 17-year-old minor girl in Trichy. The accused resides in the Sri Lankan Tamils’ refugee camp at Valavandhankottai in Trichy district. The all-women police station (AWPS), Cantonment police in Trichy said the girl got acquainted with him when she came to attend her Class 11 public exam at a school in KK Nagar area. They fell in love with each other and were in touch regularly. Kishanth had forced the girl to send her pictures to his mobile, which she obliged. He had also committed penetrative sexual assault on the girl several times. Police inquiry revealed that he also threatened to upload her pictures on social media. On Tuesday, Kishanth asked the girl to meet him at the Old railway station in Udaiyanpatti. When her family sensed her move, they inquired with her and came to know that Kishanth had been sexually harassing their daughter. Acting on a complaint from her elder sister, police initiated action. Kishanth was caught late on Tuesday night and booked on charges of indulging in penetrative sexual assault on a minor girl repeatedly and threatening to use a real or fabricated depiction through electronic, film, digital or any other mode under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He was arrested and remanded on Wednesday.Kodai school donates PPE kits Bhavan’s Gandhi Vidyashram, Kodaikanal, donated 250 PPE kits to Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi recently. The donation was aimed at helping medical professionals in the district effectivelytake on Covid-19. C Radhakrishnan, school principal, and Ganesh Kumar, president of parent-teacher association, handed over the consignment worth Rs 2 lakh.Sasthakoil dam brims overRecent rain in the Western Ghats bordering Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli districts has resulted in the 34ft level Sasthakoil dam inside the reserve forest area in Rajapalayam filling up fast. Heavy rain lashed Rajapalayam and surrounding areas four days ago, resulting in the inflow into the dam going up. It touched its maximum level of 34ft on Wednesday. The dam is a major attraction among the locals, but there are no visitors now due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, farmers from Devadanam, Muhavoor, Thalavaipuram and those living near the dam have urged the government to release the water for agricultureDugong carcass washes ashoreA dugong was found dead near Sethukarai in Ramanathapuram district on Wednesday. The mammal weighing about 300kg was found dead near the shore around 9.30 am by local fishermen, who alerted the forest department. The carcass washed ashore around 10.30 am. The female dugong is around three to four-years-old and is 225cm long and had a circumference of 330cm. “The critically endangered species protected under Schedule I of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, present in small numbers in the Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park is hunted at times. But the carcass did not have any signs of hunting,” Keelakarai forest range officer S Sikkandar Batcha said.However it had a bleeding injury on the face near its eye. Forest department officials suspect that it could be due to an injury caused by accidentally hitting a rock or a fishing vessel, resulting in its death.Covid patients order biryaniFour Covid-19 patients admitted to Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH) in Tamil Nadu, to ordered their favourite biryani on Wednesday. As luck would have it, the food delivery company obliged. The delivery man reached the hospital gates well in time with his package, only to find, much to his dismay, that his clients happened to be four asymptomatic Covid positive patients, serving their mandatory isolation period. When the man tried to enter the ward, the security personnel stopped him. On questioning him, they learnt that he was carrying tandoori chicken and biryani to deliver to four people. They immediately alerted hospital dean Dr R Balajinathan and other doctors, who quizzed the delivery man. “The man told us he was merely following the customer location on the app without knowing that he was going to enter a Covid-19 ward,” said a doctor, seeking anonymity. The doctors then inquired with the four Covid-19 patients, who sheepishly admitted to having ordered the food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/19-yr-old-lankan-refugee-arrested-for-raping-girl/articleshow/75857042.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Chennai||Assault cases in Tamil Nadu rose six times after liquor shops resumed sale||CHENNAI: Binge-drinking incidents and booze-fuelled violence have left hospitals and scan centres across the state crowded with injured people ever since the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) reopened liquor outlets, health department data shows. Read the entire story on TOI+With liquor sales come assaults, brawls, domestic violence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/assault-cases-in-tn-rose-6-times-after-liquor-shops-resumed-sale/articleshow/75856509.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 21, 2020||Rajkot||Two held for hunting deer, rabbits in Patan||Palanpur: Two men were arrested on Wednesday for hunting down a spotted deer and three rabbits outside the Wild Ass Sanctuary near Dhokavada village in Santalpur taluka of Patan district on Sunday night. The accused told forest officials that they had hunted the animals for its meat.The accused Habib Higorja (35) of Sidhada village and Nasir Khan Malek (30) of Santalpur were arrested from near Charanka village in Patan district, said range forest officer Z P Vaghela.The duo was booked under varios sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, Vaghela said, adding that the accused have been sent for Covid testing in government hospital before seeking their remand.“We have recovered the pellet gun used by the accused in shooting down the deer and rabbits. The poachers are locals and had hunted the animals for its meat and not for selling,” said Vaghela. The forest officials during a routine patrolling outside the Wild Ass Sanctuary near Dhokavada village had found carcasses of a spotted deer and three rabbits on Sunday late night. The deer being a scheduled I species and rabbits falling under schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, the forest department has registered a case of poaching against unidentified persons.The animals were killed using pellet gun. The forest officials had also recovered an abandoned motorcycle, which was used believed by the poachers. According to forest department, there are about 25 spotted deers in the wild ass sanctuary area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-for-hunting-deer-rabbits-in-patan/articleshow/75855540.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Fact finding committee says APMC yard not safe for wholesale market||Mangaluru: A fact finding panel of Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee has observed that the APMC yard in Baikampady, where wholesale vegetable and fruit merchants of the city’s central market are relocated, is not safe and posing many challenges, including the possibility of Covid19 spread. The fact finding committee led by Abdul Rouf, opposition leader in Mangaluru City Corporation council, said there are no basic facilities for merchants at the APMC yard and no protection from rain. The committee including Congress leaders Shashidhar Hegde, Sadashiva Ullal, K Bhaskar, Shahul Hameed, Naveen D’Souza, Vasanth Barnad, Praveen Chandra Alva, Anil Kumar and Prathibha Kulai that held a spot inspection at the APMC yard also found the place not suitable for wholesale market. “On May 19, wholesale merchants at the APMC yard lost fruits and vegetables worth Rs 50 lakh due to heavy rain. Meanwhile, a large number of retailers also have suffered losses. We found that the area offers no precautionary measures to prevent Covid19 spread. The area has no sheds to protect merchants from rain and sun. There is no electricity, water supply and toilets for the convenience of merchants. With no proper drainage system, the entire area has turned unhygienic. This also poses the threat of various diseases. The place is also covered with weeds with poisonous snakes and pythons slithering around. Hence, the place is not suitable for wholesale vegetables and fruits market,” he said. Since a large number of retailers and public gather, Dakshina Kannada district administration had banned all activities at the central market in the city a month ago and all wholesale merchants were asked to shift business to APMC Yard in Bykampady, which is located about 18 km from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fact-finding-committee-says-apmc-yard-not-safe-for-wholesale-market/articleshow/75854345.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Erode||Assault cases in Tamil Nadu rose six times after liquor shops resumed sale||CHENNAI: Binge-drinking incidents and booze-fuelled violence have left hospitals and scan centres across the state crowded with injured people ever since the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) reopened liquor outlets, health department data shows. Read the entire story on TOI+With liquor sales come assaults, brawls, domestic violence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/assault-cases-in-tn-rose-6-times-after-liquor-shops-resumed-sale/articleshow/75865416.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee: Two constables held for demanding extortion||ROORKEE: Two warders (prison guards) posted at local prison were held for allegedly demanding extortion from a local businessman for an inmate presently lodged in Roorkee jail. Last year, this inmate had shot at another warder over extortion collection. Both the warders — Nitin Nagar and Satender Rod — are residents of Haridwar district. SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI, “A man named Gul Nawaz, the owner of a local dairy, had complained that warders Nitin and Satender had come to his shop on Tuesday morning to collect money from him in the name of Sabir Ahmed, a Roorkee jail inmate.” The official added that both the warders were arrested late on Tuesday evening under sections 383 (intentionally putting any person in fear of injury for extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have suspended Nitin and Satender in view of their alleged crime,” confirmed IG (prision) PVK Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-constables-held-for-demanding-extortion/articleshow/75854404.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||Sunni Barelvi clerics urge people to offer alvida, Eid namaz at home||Bareilly: Breaking their silence over Friday's 'alvida namaz' and Eid Al-fitr, influential Sunni Barelvi clerics on Wednesday appealed to people to offer prayers from their homes on both the important occasions. Nasir Qureshi of Dargah Aala Hazrat said, “Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri, sajjadanasheen, Dargah Aala Hazrat has released a statement and asked people that as the lockdown in the country has been extended, people should offer prayers from homes. He asked people to avoid purchasing new clothes for the festival. As a large number of people are ill or have died due to Covid-19 pandemic, it will not be right to indulge in Eid festivities. He urged people to provide financial assistance to poor, needy, destitute and domestic helps. He said as we cannot follow proper format of prayer on Eid, there is no celebration.” Media in-charge of Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, Samran Khan, said, “Influential Sunni Barelvi cleric Mufti Mohammed Asjad Raza Khan has made an announcement for people across India that alvida and Eid namaz will be read out only in the presence of a few people in mosques. He also asked people to celebrate Eid in a simple way and help the needy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sunni-barelvi-clerics-urge-people-to-offer-alvida-eid-namaz-at-home/articleshow/75854386.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 21, 2020||Goa||Separate exams for students stuck outside Goa||Panaji: If any Class X or XII student is stuck outside Goa due to the lockdown, a separate exam will be held for these students later. This exam will be considered as a first attempt and not a supplementary exam, officials of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said on Wednesday. They also said that no students from Maharashtra and Karnataka border districts will be crossing the border into Goa during the Class X board exam, to answer their papers. Board secretary Bhagirath Shetye said that for all students from across the border, arrangements have been made for them to answer the exam in their home states itself. The Class X exam will be conducted across 29 centres throughout the state and will be answered by 19,680 students— 9,790 boys and 9,890 girls. The main papers will end on June 1 and thereafter exams for children with special needs will be conducted till June 6, Shetye said. “The Class XII exam which began on Wednesday was held without any issues. Around 3,000 personnel, including volunteers, have been deployed by the board to ensure that social distancing, use of sanitisers, keeping parents away by 200m from the exam hall and other norms are observed during the Class X exam,” said Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant. Officials said that it has been ensured that there are only 9 students on average, in one exam hall. Examination sub-centres for this purpose have been increased to 173. If any student had travelled outside Goa and has returned to answer the exam, separate arrangements have been made for them, to answer their papers away from regular students. Additional KTC buses will be deployed for the duration of the exam, and schools will also operate Bal Rath buses to ferry students to exam centres, said Samant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/separate-exams-for-students-stuck-outside-goa/articleshow/75857047.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Tungnath portals opened for summer||DEHRADUN: The ancient Tungnath shrine, regarded the highest-located Shiva temple in the world, opened its portals for the summer on Wednesday 11:30am. The shrine, situated at an altitude of over 3,680 metre near Chopta in Garhwal Himalayas, is believed to be almost 5,000 years old. Only priests are allowed at shrines right now, due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, all temples, including Char Dham and Panch Kedar, will not be opened for pilgrims until further instructions from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tungnath-portals-opened-for-summer/articleshow/75854392.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Doctors don PAPR suits, collect swabs of 100 rail travellers||PANAJI: After nine passengers on the Saturday Delhi- Goa train tested positive for Covid-19, doctors began collecting swab samples from around 100 other passengers who travelled in the same train compartments, 72 hours after the travellers arrived in the state. The passengers were tested bogie-wise and transported from the station in the same order, to ensure that they didn’t come into contact with those from other compartments, now making it easier for doctors to test them. Instead of bringing the passengers spread across various quarantine centres to the South Goa district hospital to collect their swab samples, doctors hopped from one quarantine centre to another in Margao and Colva on Tuesday evening, collecting swabs of the 100-odd rail passengers within four hours. The portable powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) suit, which comes with a machine that pumps filtered air inside, helped doctors collect the samples on site. “When we wear regular PPE there’s always the risk of the patient coughing on you or vomiting, as we have to touch the back of the throat to collect the sample and it’s also difficult to communicate with the person with a face shield. The PAPR allows us to get close to the suspect and easily communicate with them without the fear of getting infected. The filters don’t allow the virus to pass,” a doctor said.With around 22 passengers at Margao residency, 60 at another hotel in Colva and 19 at Colva residency, the doctors decided that testing them at the quarantine centres would save time. “If we had to send them by bus, many trips would have been required due to social distancing rules. The buses would also have to be sanitised between each trip. We also did not want to risk the passengers mingling. They aren’t supposed to leave their rooms. So we asked each person to wait at the entrance of their rooms and collected their swab samples there,” the doctor said. The TruNat tests are being received. If there are any positives, the sample will be sent to the lab at GMC for confirmation. If the tests are negative the passengers will be marked with 14 day-home quarantine stamps, and sent home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/docs-don-papr-suits-collect-swabs-of-100-rail-travellers/articleshow/75857043.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 21, 2020||Rajkot||Charas worth Rs 24L found abandoned||Rajkot: As many as 16 packets of charas (hash) worth Rs 24 lakh, the weight of which is yet to be ascertained, was found abandoned in Shekhran Peer island off Jakhau coast on Tuesday night. “After we found the contraband, we called a team of forensic experts who ascertained that the drug was charas,” said Saurabh Tolambia, Bhuj superintendent of police. “We had received an intelligence alert from the central government about the possible infiltration from Pakistan, following which we were patrolling near Jakhau. Meanwhile, we received a tip-off from the local fishermen about the packets lying in Shekhran Peer island,” added Tolambia. Police suspect that the drug packets had drifted to the island from the sea. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/charas-worth-rs-24l-found-abandoned/articleshow/75855556.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||800 guest workers awaiting nod to leave the Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: As many as 150 guest workers from Bihar and another 30 from Madhya Pradesh were taken to Coimbatore from the Nilgiris on Wednesday to catch trains back to their hometowns. All of them had earlier registered with the government for transportation to their native places. With the respective states’ nod, a decision was subsequently taken to send them home. The district administration arranged them buses to Coimbatore, where a nodal officer would do arrangements for them to board trains to their hometowns. More than 300 guest workers have left the Nilgiris in the past one week. There are another 800 guest workers, who are waiting for approval from their respective state governments, to return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/800-guest-workers-awaiting-nod-to-leave-the-nilgiris/articleshow/75856519.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Rajkot||20-year-old girl lodges rape complaint after miscarriage||Rajkot: A 20-year-old girl on Tuesday night lodged a rape complaint against her neighbour after she suffered a miscarriage. She claimed that she had taken a pill given by the accused to abort the foetus in Sandhia Line locality of Dhrangadhra in Surendranagar district. Police said the accused, identified as Ahmed Sandhi, had allegedly raped the girl several times in the past four months. According to the police complaint, four months ago, when the survivor was alone at home, Sandhi barged into her house and alllegedly raped her with the threat that he would kill her and her family members, if she complained about the crime to anyone. Ten days back, the survivor realized that she was pregnant. Sandhi gave her a pill to terminate the pregnancy. But after taking the pill the girl became unconscious and started bleeding.“After the survivor was hospitalized, she told her mother what actually had happened. Following this, the girl’s mother asked her to lodge police complaint against Sandhi,” said N B Dodhiya, sub-inspector with Dhrangadhra police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Sandhi, who went absconding after the complaint was lodged against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/20-year-old-girl-lodges-rape-complaint-after-miscarriage/articleshow/75855570.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Only Railway Board can cancel halt at Margao station’||MARGAO: Notwithstanding the announcement made by chief minister Pramod Sawant about his request to the Centre not to allow Rajdhani trains to have Margao as a destination station, highly placed sources in the Konkan Railway said that as bookings for the Rajdhani trains are open until May 25, they will run as per the original schedule. Two Rajdhani trains — one from Thiruvananthapuram to Delhi, and the other from Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram — stopped at the Margao railway station on Wednesday to allow passengers to embark and disembark. Forty-four passengers alighted and 109 boarded the Thiruvananthapuram-Delhi express at Margao, while 16 alighted and 22 boarded the Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram express. “The railway ministry is yet to issue any notification with regards to cancellation of Margao as a stop or destination for the Rajdhani trains. The booking is open for special trains until May 25, and they are likely to run as per schedule. We have the last Rajdhani to arrive at Margao on May 24,” a senior official told TOI. “It’s for the Railway Board to take a decision about the request for cancellation of Margao station. Bookings for trains beyond May 25 haven’t been opened yet.” Sources said that while Sawant had requested the Centre for cancellation of Delhi-Margao Rajdhani trains, he was of the view that the state could manage those alighting from Delh-Thiruvananthapuram-Delhi trains as the arrivals are relatively few. All 60 who alighted from both the trains were ferried to the new district hospital, Margao, for their Covid -19 tests. Every day migrants renew hope of journey homeOf the over 7,000 migrants who converged at the Margao railway station through the day on Wednesday to board the two trains to Uttar Pradesh, over a half of them who “missed” boarding the trains after they got packed to capacity had to spend one more night in the open — on roadsides, besides railway tracks, in the fields, and on any available space to lie down — before the break of the next dawn that would renew their hopes of a homebound journey. Many of them have been queuing up at the railway station for the last few days in the hope of getting to board a train home, and then spending nights under the starry sky after failing to pass the scrutiny by the railway and administrative officials at the gates of the Konkan Railway station at Margao. The first train that left Margao around 2.30pm accommodated residents of districts around Kanpur, while the second train that left around 7pm, was boarded by residents of districts around Lucknow. While 1,464 passengers boarded the first train, the second carried 1,520 passengers. Sources said that a large number of migrants, who were left out, were later accommodated in the shelter home at the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium, Navelim, where arrangements were made for their meals as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-rly-board-can-cancel-halt-at-margao-station/articleshow/75857049.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Gear up for a different travelling experience||Coimbatore: Domestic flights are likely to resume services next week and trains from June. However, the travelling experiences are unlikely to be the same as it was before Covid-19 pandemic. To start with, passengers will have to arrive at railway stations or airports at least two to four hours before the departure time. In the past, there wasn’t any cut off time for trains and one could arrive at airport an hour before departure. Sale of tickets wouldn’t be allowed both at railway stations and airport. While the Salem railway division has not been informed if any of the 200 trains would originate or stop at any of the stations in the district, work on preparing them for passengers had begun when Shramik special trains were announced. U Subba Rao, Salem divisional railway manager, said, “We have drawn slots on platforms for passengers to ensure social distancing. Passengers will have to wear masks for the entire duration of their journey. We have stopped the sale of tickets at counters and passengers will have to buy them online. We will also thermal screen every passenger and disinfect their baggage.” People accompanying the passengers to see them off won’t be allowed on station premises. A railway engineer in Chennai said, “Like in airports, we may not allow any non-travellers inside the station premises for the next few months, unless the passenger is disabled, handicapped or has a valid reason for having an attender.” The flying experience too is likely to change. As per the standard operating practices, the city airport has done its bit to ensure social distancing among the flyers at the entrance, at the baggage scanning centre and at the check-in counters. An Air India official said, “Passengers will have to print their own boarding passes and show the same to the security outside along with their personal identification cards. After screening baggage and check-in, passengers will be screened at the security hold. Before boarding the flight, their passes will be scanned with a scanner. There won’t be any sort of contact involved.” The airport authorities have placed hand sanitizers at all touch points and hand wash facilities at all possible places. The boarding will commence prior to one hour and 20 minutes before the departure of flight, compared to close to 45 minutes earlier. The idea of waiting at the security hold, chatting with family or friends while grabbing a bite or coffee or picking up a last-minute gift, is also likely to become a memory. “We have removed middle seats from all the three seaters in the waiting area. We don’t know if retail outlets, and food and beverage outlets could be opened and the protocols they have to follow. Masks will be made compulsory during the entire duration of travel,” an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gear-up-for-a-different-travelling-experience/articleshow/75856531.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Micro industrial units demand subsidy, loan||Coimbatore: Micro job work and manufacturing unit owners on Wednesday sought a subsidy of Rs 1 lakh from the state government to tide over the present financial crisis. Pointing out that most of them were functioning out of rental buildings, they said their landlords have started asking for rent as they have resumed operations. “This has put us in a tight spot.” There are around 30,000 micro job work units in the city, of which more than 20,000 are functioning out of rental buildings. After more than 40 days of lockdown, the units had opened last week. With no proper orders and a hike in raw material prices, they are facing a severe fund crunch. J James, district president, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), confirmed that a majority of the micro units in the city were functioning out of rental buildings. “The rent varies from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 a month. This is around 10% of their monthly turnover.” As the units had been shut down for almost two months, the landowners have been asking for the arrear rent also, he said. “They say they depend on this income for their livelihood.” To tide over the crisis, TACT has sought a subsidy of Rs 1 lakh for micro industrial units to meet expenses such as rent. They have also sought a loan of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh at 6% interest and a holiday period of one year to repay the same to carry out other functions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/micro-industrial-units-demand-subsidy-loan/articleshow/75856529.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hubballi||Old letter on liquor comes back to haunt BJP MLA||Hubballi: Arvind Bellad, the BJP MLA representing Hubballi-Dharwad West, who has been openly criticising the state government for its move to open liquor shops, and also demanding a blanket ban on liquor across the state, is now facing an embarrassing situation. Many organisations and people, including some seers, have extended their support to the MLA, to go ahead with his plans to pressurise the government to ban liquor in the state. However, much to his embarrassment, a letter signed by him, asking the Navanagar excise department deputy commissioner, on March 21, to open an MSIL liquor shop 2 km from Kelageri, went viral on social media. In the letter, MLA stated that the people of Kelageri, which falls under his constituency, are very poor and daily wage labourers, and that they wanted an MSIL liquor shop in their vicinity, hence, he requested DC to open the shop 2 km from Kelageri. MLA Aravind Bellad said, “I am really happy over the response I had received to my demand seeking a blanket ban on liquor from different quarters. I am committed to my demand, and will continue to demand a blanket ban on liquor in the state.” “As far as my letter is concerned, it’s true I had asked the excise DC to open an MSIL liquor shop 2 km away from Kelageri in Dharwad, when some villagers had approached me to shift it from their village. The MSIL liquor shops are government-owned and as an MLA, it’s my duty to give my opinion, and I did it in the interest of voters of my constituency, but it doesn’t mean that I am supporting the sale of liquor in the state. I am still firm on my decision to ban liquor in the state,” he said. ‘Double standards’ KPCC general secretary Shakir Sanadi said that the letter has exposed the double standards of the MLA. “I really appreciated him when he sought a blanket ban on liquor, but now his double standards stand exposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/old-letter-on-liquor-comes-back-to-haunt-bjp-mla/articleshow/75854434.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand stops transfer of government employees till next year||DEHRADUN: In a major administrative decision, Uttarakhand government announced a “zero transfer session” for its employees on Wednesday. According to the order, transfers of all state government employees would remain suspended in the state till next year. The letter issued in this regard by state’s additional chief secretary Radha Raturi was addressed to the all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries, additional secretaries, commissioners, district magistrates and heads of departments. The circular mentions that the economic condition of the state has been adversely impacted by the lockdown due to coronavirus. It further states that in case of a transfer, an employee will have to be moved from one location to another and this process could increase the chances of spread of coronavirus. However, the letter adds that if any individual faces any problem due to the decision, the employee can raise the issue before the competent authorities. Notably, there are around 3 lakh state government employees in Uttarakhand and their transfers were likely in a short time. The proposal was prepared by the personnel department and the announcement has been made after getting nod from the state government. It is reported that the move was in the pipelines for the past few weeks but the decision has been taken after a spike was recorded in the number of coronavirus cases in the state. Sources said that the decision was taken after considering that shifting an employee from one district to another was difficult as the districts have been categorised in different zones – red, orange and green. “Transferring them from one district to another would put their health at risk and as a number of employees have been put on Covid-19 duty and it was not possible to transfer them anywhere else at present,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-stops-transfer-of-govt-employees-till-next-year/articleshow/75854454.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||New CMO of Dehradun appointed||DEHRADUN: Dr BC Ramola has been appointed as chief medical officer (CMO) Dehradun on Wednesday. Dr Ramola was the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Gandhi Shatabadi and Coronation hospitals. The CMO till date, Dr Meenakshi Joshi has been transferred to health directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-cmo-of-doon-appointed/articleshow/75854438.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||State asks pvt schools not to hold exams for classes I to IX||Coimbatore: The directorate of matriculation schools in Tamil Nadu has warned the private schools against conducting exams and violating the state’s direction to promote all the students of classes I to IX (to the next classes).At the beginning of lockdown, the state had asked the schools to promote all the students of classes I to IX without exams, considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation.In a communication to chief education officers (CEOs) of all the districts on Tuesday, the directorate of matriculation schools said some private schools had appraised parents of their decision to hold exams for students of classes I to IX after they reopen and told them that their wards would be promoted only based on their performance in the same.“This move is in violation of the state’s orders and would invite strict action,” said the communication that asked CEOs to convey its decision to the schools.P Usha, CEO, Coimbatore district, said based on the state’s earlier order they had instructed matriculation schools to promote students without holding exams. “Following the new communication, we have again instructed them to promote all the students and not to hold exams.”Representatives of private schools, meanwhile, denied the charges that they were planning to hold exams to promote students to the next classes. K R Nandhakumar, state general secretary, Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation, Higher Secondary and CBSE Schools’ Association, said this was a misleading communication from the state. “We closed our schools around March 15. Based on the state’s order, we had promoted all the students of classes I to IX to the next level. We are now conducting online classes for their next academic year.”Referring to the uncertainty over reopening of schools, he wondered how they could have told parents about conducting exams. “If we come to know of any school doing so, we would intervene. But no such incident has happened so far.”Education activists said the state had sent out the warning only because some private schools had violated the orders. Private schools think and act like they are autonomous bodies, says education activist Prince Gajendra Babu. “Schools say they have a year-long continuous assessment for students up to Class IX. If they say they could promote students only based on exams, it means their evaluation is not proper. It also contradicts their claim of providing quality education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-asks-pvt-schools-not-to-hold-exams-for-classes-i-to-ix/articleshow/75856536.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Stalker murdered by woman’s family in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 28-year-old farmer was bludgeoned to death by angry villagers at Rampur in Medak district on Wednesday for stalking a woman and trying to prevent her marriage. The deceased was identified as Narasimha Goud of Nizampur mandal. “At around 6 am, Narasimha was confronted by Nagaraju and seven others, who attacked him with boulders and sticks. Narasimha collapsed in the fields with severe injuries, while the accused fled from the scene,” Ramayampet CI Nagarjuna Goud said. The incident came to light at 6.30 am when Narasimha’s father Rajaram Goud saw his son lying in a pool of blood. During a preliminary probe, police found Narasimha’s and Nagaraju’s families have been quarrelling. “Narasimha was stalking and harassing a 20-year-old woman from the family of Nagaraju. A case was booked against him a year ago under POCSO Act. Narasimha was even remanded in the case,” the CI said. Medak SP Chandana Deepthi said recently, the woman’s marriage was fixed and on Tuesday, there was an altercation between the families. “A case was registered against him on Tuesday under section 509 of the IPC for insulting the modesty of a woman,” the SP said. Police took some of the accused into custody and registered a murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stalker-murdered-by-womans-family/articleshow/75856552.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 21, 2020||Delhi||At 42.7°C, Delhi’s hottest day so far||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its hottest day of the season so far with the mercury touching 42.7 degrees Celsius on Thursday, and crossing 44°C at Palam. Temperatures are likely to rise even further in the next few days, touching 44° by Sunday, say IMD officials. Met officials forecast a spell of light rain on Friday, with gusty winds by the night. This season, the previous highest at Safdarjung — the base station for the capital —was 40.9 degrees Celsius on May 9. Before this, Delhi had largely been witnessing days cooler than what is considered normal. In fact, till May 15, Delhi’s average monthly temperature had been 1.5 degrees below the average normal monthly temperature. “A spell of very light rain may occur on Friday and Saturday, but it will not be enough to bring a cooling effect,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. Last year, temperatures touched 44.7° C on May 31. Since 2011, the maximum in May has always touched 44°, going as high as 46° in 2013 and 2015. Forecast for Friday shows the possibility of light rain, accompanied by gusty winds at a speed of 30-40 km/hr. However, the maximum temperature is expected to be around 43 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-42-7c-delhis-hottest-day-so-far/articleshow/75877583.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Mysuru||9.32kg marijuana seized in Kodagu||Madikeri: Kodagu District Crime Intelligence Bureau (DCIB) seized 9.32 kg marijuana worth Rs 3 lakh and arrested 15 people at Virajpet town on Tuesday night. Main accused Nisar Ahmed , 34, is a vegetable vendor and is a resident of Sunkadakatte in Virajpet town. He had recently applied for an online pass to travel to Mysuru stating medical reasons. However, investigation revealed that he travelled to Mysuru to purchase marijuana worth Rs 3 lakh. According to police, DCIB police were on lookout for marijuana peddlers across Virajpet town as Nisar was distributing the drugs to peddlers on Tuesday night. After receiving information about the activity, DCIB nabbed the 15 marijuana peddlers involved in the deal with Nisar. The accused have been identified as Nisar Ahmed, AS Sadhik (31), Boutesh D’ Souza (33), MH Rafeeq (35), Karun Kumar (24), Mohammed Aaris (33), Sailal (22), Rizwan (23), Mohammed Harris (37), C T Dinesh (31), NP Aiyappa (34), Milan MG (26), M H Safvan(30), M A Imran(35) and M H Imran (36) — all residents of Madikeri and Virajpet. The police also seized Rs 1,99,670 cash and 11 mobile phones and vehicles used for the crime. The operation was led by SP Dr Suman Pannekar along with DCIB police sub-inspector H V Chandrashekhar and Virajpet police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/9-32kg-marijuana-seized-in-kodagu/articleshow/75854507.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: HSSC exam begins with too few temp scanners||PANAJI: The Class XII exam for first of the three remaining subjects was held on Wednesday by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Though only 3,818 students answered the exam on the first day, a shortage of thermal screening machines was witnessed. In many exam halls in Panaji and Vasco, students were seen entering exam halls without being screened. Board officials said that thermal screening machines were arranged for later and students were screened after sitting in the examination hall. “There was a slight shortage. But we managed to arrange thermal screening machines and all 3,818 students, who appeared for the exam, were screened,” said Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant. The exam began with the Marathi language paper on Wednesday and will end on May 22. But while the state faced a shortage of screening machines with just 3,818 students, 19,680 students are set to answer the Class X board exam starting Thursday. The Class X exam will begin with only 365 students answering the exam on the first day and the main papers will start from May 23, when all of the over 19,000 students will be appearing for the paper. On the same day the board fell short of thermal screening machines, the state government produced before the high court of Bombay at Goa, the conditional permission to hold the public exams, granted by the Union home ministry. The permission was granted based on the condition that the provision for thermal screening will be made at the centres. But apart from the shortage of screening equipment, the exam on Wednesday was conducted smoothly with teachers and volunteers employed by the board ensuring that social distancing was maintained while students entered the rooms. Students were provided with sanitiser and parents were kept 200m away from the exam halls, ensuring there is no crowding. The students were also seated far apart from each other during the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hssc-exam-begins-with-too-few-temp-scanners/articleshow/75857058.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Rickshaw, autos, vikrams to ply from today but with almost 50% capacity||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday announced the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for public transport vehicles to ply in districts included under the orange and green zone categories. However, keeping in mind the Covid-19 scare, the number of passengers have been reduced. Movement from one district to another will be permitted only in emergency situations. A circular in this regard, written by secretary transport Shailesh Bagauli and addressed to all additional chief secretaries, secretaries, additional secretaries, commissioners, district magistrates, SSPs and SPs was issued on Wednesday. According to the SOP, earlier five people, including the driver were permitted for E-rickshaws and it has been now reduced to three people (including driver). Similarly, for autorickshaws, two people will be allowed now, including driver, instead of the earlier four. For Vikram tempo, seven passengers were earlier allowed and now only three, including the driver can use the vehicle at a time. For taxi/cab the permissble number earlier was five and it has now been brought down to three. Maxi cab had a permission for nine people but now only four passengers can travel during a trip. Mini buses and buses will carry only 50% of the total capacity. The drivers have been directed to ensure proper sanitisation of vehicle before every trip. A driver as well as the conductor will have to wear face mask and gloves. Aarogya application has been made mandatory for the drivers, conductors and passengers. Meanwhile, the state government has called off the Odd-Even traffic formula which it had earlier announced for seven major cities of Uttarakhand. Keeping in mind the practical problems, the decision was taken by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. The orders in this regard have been issued to the authorities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rickshaw-autos-vikrams-to-ply-from-today-but-with-almost-50-capacity/articleshow/75854505.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 21, 2020||Goa||Thermal screening mandatory before exam, MHA instructs state chief secy||Panaji: Home secretary for the government of India Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday issued fresh instructions to Goa on mandatory precautions to be taken during the conduct of the Class X and XII state board exams. The exemption given to the lockdown to conduct the board examinations is subject to the conditions that there shall be provision for thermal screening and sanitisers at the centres. Social distancing in all exam centres should be strictly maintained and wearing of masks is mandatory, Bhalla said in a letter to the Goa chief secretary. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/thermal-screening-mandatory-before-exam-mha-instructs-state-chief-secy/articleshow/75857055.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Traders slam SGPDA’s sopo on goods vans||Margao: The All Goa FMCG and Telecom Distributors Association has taken exception to the levying of sopo charges on delivery vans of traders by the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA). In a letter addressed to the member secretary, SGPDA, president of the association Chetan Kapdi, said they have been “forced to pay Rs 100 and issued a receipt which says that the same is towards the use of the SGPDA (complex)”, since December 2019. Kapdi pointed out that some traders regularly visit the shops situated in the SGPDA market to deliver goods, for which the purchase orders have been taken in advance, by the representatives of the concerned companies. “Our members have been supplying to this market for many years and no one has asked them to pay sopo charges,” Kapdi said, further pointing out that the new contractor who has bagged the sopo contract may not have properly understood who comes under the purview of the sopo tax and who does not. The association has pointed out that the rickshaws parked within the SGPDA complex also don’t pay any sopo charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traders-slam-sgpdas-sopo-on-goods-vans/articleshow/75857061.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||2 complaints against Dayanidhi||Coimbatore: A day after the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (NCSC) sought action against DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran for his remarks against scheduled castes, two persons filed a complaint against the MP in the district on Wednesday. In a complaint, Kovai Iniyavan, a member of Adhitamizhar Munnetra Kazhagam, sought action against Maran under sections 3(1) r and 3(1) u of SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. Iniyavan said that Maran’s remarks were insulting and disrespectful to the entire community. While he submitted a petition at the office of police commissioner, a similar complaint was registered against him at Sulur police station on Wednesday. On Monday, both the city and rural police registered separate cases against Maran and another DMK MP RS Bharathi for their remarks against the schedule castes. While two cases, one each at Perur police station and Saibaba police station, were registered against RS Bharathi, two cases were registered against Maran at VH road police station and Thudiyalur police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-complaints-against-dayanidhi/articleshow/75856538.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Civic body to be ready with plan for southwest monsoon||Coimbatore: Corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar has directed officials to prepare for southwest monsoon.At a meeting with the department heads and other officials, he has directed them to take necessary steps to maintain roads properly and put in place a mechanism to clear traffic blocks that might arise due to uprooted trees during the monsoon.According to a source, who attended the meeting, the corporation commissioner has asked them to ensure that rainwater harvesting structures are intact at all the buildings, including commercial complexes, offices and residential buildings, and take steps to ensure uninterrupted water supply to the public, besides supervising sanitary works that are being carried out in the city.To ensure smooth flow of water in the Noyyal during monsoon, Sravan Kumar has urged the officials to desilt water channels. They were also asked to identify and alert the people residing in the low-lying areas near the river about the onset of monsoon, so that they could be prepared to face any eventuality. “We have started stocking sand bags to face any breach in water channels,” the source said.The corporation head has also asked them to continue Covid-19 preventive measures and spray disinfectant across the city corporation limits. “Officials have been directed to ensure adherence social distancing norms by the public who have to wear masks whenever they step out of their houses. If the public fail to adhere to the norms, they would be fined,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/civic-body-to-be-ready-with-plan-for-southwest-monsoon/articleshow/75856540.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rain pours woes in Cuttack, Capital less affected||Cuttack/Bhubaneswar: Waterlogging coupled with power cuts threw life out of gear in the Millennium City. Many areas were inundated on Wednesday following heavy rainfall caused by the cyclonic storm Amphan. Residents were seen wading through knee-deep water in various low-lying areas. The rain, which started late at Tuesday, continued till Wednesday evening. The bus terminal at Badambadi was submerged. The incessant rain paralysed normal life in Patapole, Kumbhar Sahi, Seminary Chaak, Meria Bazaar, Buxi Bazaar, Kathagada Sahi, Kala Vikash Kendra Road, Kesharpur, Friends Colony, Jhola Sahi and Mangalabag. Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) commissioner Ananya Das said, “We deployed 14 teams across the city. We were monitoring the situation from time to time. Two sluice gates in Khannagar and Matrubhawan were opened to drain out the clogged water of the city.” The CMC has installed 108 pumps to drain out water across the city, added Das. A helpline number has been circulated and CMC is taking immediate steps following any complaint regarding waterlogging, informed Das. Several areas in Cuttack witnessed power cut from Tuesday night, which led to resentment among the people. “It is more than 14 hours, power supply is yet to be restored in my home. The electricity officials said they don’t have adequate manpower to restore power supply,” said Sudarshan Das of Goshala. Cuttack district emergency officer Pradeep Tripathy said, “We have received complaints from the residents about power cuts. I have informed the electrical engineers concerned to restore power at the earliest.” Four trees were uprooted in the city. Tripathy said, “We immediately engaged the ORDAF team and the personnel cleared the trees from the roads.” In the capital city of Bhubaneswar, the cyclone triggered shower, leaving some of areas with waterlogging, less severe than what was anticipated. Although it started raining since early morning, its intensity was low. Six areas among the vulnerable points reported waterlogging, but the water receded without use of high-powered motor pumps that were deployed. “We had kept the motor pumps ready at the vulnerable points but there was no need for their use as the water receded. The intensity of the downpour also started reducing in the evening,” said city engineer, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Debasundar Mohapatra. He said there was no need for evacuation of people and no tree or electric pole was uprooted. For the first time, Acharya Vihar didn’t witness storm water flooding because of the newly-constructed underground drain. “We felt safe. We were very apprehensive about Amphan causing waterlogging in our area,” said Bhagabat Das, president, Acharya Vihar Parishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rain-pours-woes-in-cuttack-capital-less-affected/articleshow/75854525.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Stamp ink leaves burns, blisters on two at Polem||Panaji: Two men who travelled from Goa to Karwar via the Polem checkpost have developed a skin reaction and burns on their hands where they were stamped. Director general of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry R S Kamat has written to the district collector and superintendent of police, Karwar, alerting them of the reaction to the water-resistant ink. Kamat’s son Siddhartha and retired Lt Col Dinesh Kumar were heading to the Sea Bird naval base at Karwar and were stamped at the Karnataka border. “The ink from the quarantine stamp has caused blisters and burns on their hands. I had sent a mail to the district collector and SP Karwar with photos requesting them to take measures to ensure that this does not happen to more people,” said Kamat. Similar instances were seen in Goa with people complaining of skin burn and allergic reactions after they were given a home quarantine stamp at the Patradevi checkpoint. The Goa government replaced the ink after the complaints. Siddhartha Kamat and his colleague Kumar work for a multinational consulting firm AECOM at the Sea Bird Naval Base and were returning to Karwar after spending the last 50 days under lockdown in Goa. “They travelled on valid travel permit and are now home quarantined till May 31 in Karwar,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stamp-ink-leaves-burns-blisters-on-two-at-polem/articleshow/75857063.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||Hindu Nat community to cremate their dead instead of burying||Bareilly: A community meeting held at Salava village in Moradabad said that people of nomadic Hindu Nat tribe will be able to cremate their dead, breaking away from the long tradition of burying the dead. Glad with the decision, people of Hindu Nat community said that now they would be able to perform last rites in a dignified manner instead of burying dead bodies at Gram Samaj land. Notably, Nat people have been burying their dead for decades. Village head Saroj Devi’s husband Mahendra Singh Randhawa said that for years it had been disturbing him that a big chunk of Hindu population in the village was not following Hindu rituals while performing last rites. Following that he decided to eradicate the decades old dogma of burying dead of Hindu Nat community and discussed the matter with villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hindu-nat-community-to-cremate-their-dead-instead-of-burying/articleshow/75854520.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 21, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 patient booked under attempt to murder for hiding details||UTTARKASHI: A Covid-19 patient of a village in Uttarkashi district has been charged under attempt to murder for allegedly hiding information about his sampling and giving wrong contact details to the administration. The accused patient who was declared positive on May 18 has been kept in isolation at Uttarkashi district hospital. According to officials, the accused, a resident of Dakhyat village, came to AIIMS, Rishikesh, from Mumbai on May 17. After giving sample, he reached Uttarakashi with few other people, but did not disclose about his sampling in AIIMS. Due to which the administration kept him in institutional quarantine for a night and then sent him to his village for panchayat quarantine. However, later on May 18, AIIMS authority declared him Covid positive and the administration tried to trace him, but failed to do so, as he had given wrong mobile number in his contact details. Inspector Mahadev Uniyal, in-charge of Uttarkashi police station said, "We have booked a Covid-19 patient under section 307 (attempt to murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 188 (disobedience of order), 270 and 269 (negligence act likely to spread infection diseases) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 51(B) of disaster management Act. The accused patient is currently admitted to a hospital."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-patient-booked-under-attempt-to-murder-for-hiding-details/articleshow/75854517.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||After a night’s ‘halt’ in Bundi, locusts fly to Chittor district||Kota: Triggering the Bundi district administration and the agriculture officials into action, a locust swarm entered Jakholi village of Negad panchyat in Bundi district late on Tuesday evening. However, it stayed just for the night in the forests causing damage to wild cultivation and then moved to Dabi area of the district on Wednesday morning. The swarm reached Chittor district through Rawatbhata area by Wednesday evening and is likely to stay there for the night. The swarm (around 1.5km long and nearly 300m broad) entered villages under Negad Panchyat of Hindoli tehsil on Tuesday evening following which officials rushed to the spot, Hindoli tehsildar Kesari Singh said. Around seven fire tenders were deployed in the area to spray chlorpyriphos which continued work till Wednesday morning, he said and claimed that at least 50% of the insects were killed with the spray. The remaining swarm resumed flight around 8am on Wednesday and moved through Basoli, Neem ka Kheda villages to Gardha, Dabi areas of the district from where they are reported to have entered into Rawatbhata of Chittor district after flying over Jawahar Sagar dam, the tehsildar said. The locust swarms have left Bundi district for now, but its direction is not predictable as the insects flow with the wind, said Ramesh Chand Jain, deputy director, agriculture, Bundi. “The locust swarm has not entered Kota and it is reported to have entered into Chittor district,” said Ramniwas Paliwal, deputy director, agriculture, Kota. Locust swarms did move around Kota district two days ago, but they made way into Madhya Pradesh through Bhawanimandi area of the district, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-a-nights-halt-in-bundi-locusts-fly-to-chittor-district/articleshow/75856543.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest worker population down by 25K, to drop further||Coimbatore: Four special trains, three of them from the city and one from Tirupur, left for northern states on Wednesday carrying 1,464 guest workers each. While a train was operated between Tirupur and Bihar, the remaining ones were operated to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh from the city. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said, “A total of 20 special trains have departed to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh from the city so far, carrying more than 25,000 guest workers. Their ticket fare was borne by the state government.” The first special train service was operated from the district on May 8. The collector said there was a need to operate more trains from the district as thousands of workers were still waiting to go home. “The district administration has been taking all the efforts to ensure smooth functioning of industries and return journey of guest workers to their states.” Pointing out that the highest number of guest workers in the district was from Bihar, he said they had already operated eight trains to that state. “We need to operate more trains to Bihar.” A district administration source, meanwhile, said they have been planning to operate five to six more trains to northern states. “Initially, our plan was to send only the workers who were brought to the district with the help of manpower agencies and not in contact with their employers. On priority basis, most of the stranded workers were sent back to their states. Now, the ones who are willing to return to their native places are being sent back.” According to the source, reopening of industries hasn’t stopped the guest workers from returning to their homes as many of the firms are yet to start functioning with 100% manpower. “In some instances, the industry owners themselves have urged the district administration to make arrangements to transport their employees back to their states as they could not afford to pay wages to them.” Similarly, nine special trains have been operated from Tirupur district till date, carrying more than 10,000 guest workers to their home states. More trains are expected to be operated from Tirupur as well in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-worker-population-down-by-25k-to-drop-further/articleshow/75856545.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 21, 2020||Jaipur||Food packets for Langa Manganiyars||Jaisalmer: Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) have come forward to help Langa Manganiyars of Jaisalmer who are facing problems due to pandemic. A Jaisalmer-based NGO Priya Foundation along with a foreign NGO Go Dharmik on Wednesday distributed 200 food packets to folk artistes. The NGOs gave them masks and made them aware on how to prevent corona. Zila pramukh Anjana Meghwal and Priya Foundation’s Mayank Kumar were present and large number of eminent people of Jaisalmer along with Manganiyar folk artistes were present. This has brought relief to the Langa Mangniyars. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/food-packets-for-langa-manganiyars/articleshow/75856541.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Youngsters jazz up masks with trendy prints, crochet||PANAJI: Panaji-based artist Alexandra Faye was used to getting requests to paint her friends’ shirts and jackets to add a splash of colour to an otherwise plain piece of clothing. During the lockdown however, she has been flooded with requests to jazz up their face masks. “From musical instruments to sports motifs, superhero characters to personalised themes, there are increasing requests for hand-painted, customised masks,” she said. Faye is now busy designing a mask using the photography theme for a friend while another has asked her to design something that “reflects Sparta”. Wearing of a face masks has become mandatory during the coronavirus pandemic and with this trend likely to continue in the foreseeable future, people are finding ways to incorporate them into their outfits. Margao-based Nivedita Walke, who is known for her crochet skills, has been decorating masks with the thread art. “I received positive response on social media when I put up a picture of a mask with a crochet design. I then came up with the idea of a crochet brooch pin, so users can take the decorative piece off the mask before washing and even use it on other masks ,” she said. While adults understand the importance of wearing the mask irrespective of its appearance, getting little ones to follow the norm strictly has been a Herculean task for some parents. Saligao-based Ninoshka Alvares Delaney says that she has been receiving requests from such parents to supply them with colourful customised masks. “There was one mother who asked for a mask with stars to encourage her child to wear it. Another requested a matching headband for her daughter. In another case, a mother-daughter duo requested for matching masks,” she said. Calangute-based Katya Coelho would initially make masks with leftover fabric at home but when people started requesting for more, she started playing with prints and started changing the borders to bright colours. Floral and ethnic design requests come from women, while men prefer chequered prints. Masks with lace, stripes and fruit prints are popular among children, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/youngsters-jazz-up-masks-with-trendy-prints-crochet/articleshow/75857065.cms||Nida Sayed
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Crooks scam migrants with fake e-passes in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Rahul Paswan and his family were seated in the back of a Tempo Traveller with the hope that it would take them to Muzaffarpur in Bihar, their hometown. Paswan, who was a part of the group of two dozen migrants, was happy because they were not travelling illegally, but on a valid movement pass — or so they thought. The group left for Bihar in two vehicles late on Monday, but their journey was cut short after a police team stopped them near Barwala traffic signal in outer Delhi’s Bawana. As the conversation between police and the transporters prolonged, Paswan and the others got anxious and requested the cops to let them go. It was then that they realised that they had been scammed. DCP (Outer-North) Gaurav Sharma told TOI that the drivers showed e-passes allegedly issued by the district magistrate of Panipat, Haryana. “But the migrants said they were residents of Bawana. The surprised cops then scanned the QR codes on the passes, but they couldn’t be read. A soft copy was later found saved on a phone,” he added. A scan of the QR code revealed that it was genuine, but issued in the name of a different person, Mohit Kumar from Panipat. The next day, an inquiry with the Panipat DM’s office confirmed that the passes were not issued by them. “The drivers had misled 24 migrants to pay for the fake passes and transportation,” the DCP said. Five people, including the drivers, Mammy Prasad and Rakesh Mohan, the agent, Shankar Chaudhary, a middleman, Krishan Mohan, and Mohit Nagpal, a facilitator, were arrested, police said. Nagpal ran a kirana (grocery) shop in G-Block Sector-3, DSIIDC Bawana. When he heard a few factory workers wanting to return home, he hatched a plan to cheat them. He introduced them to Chaudhary and Mohan, who agreed to provide e-passes and vehicles for Rs 5,200 each. Chaudhary and Mohan roped in Mukul to arrange for the vehicles. Mukul’s cousin Anshul forged the passes with the help of his friend Ravinder, who ran a cyber cafe in Panipat. “Ravinder gave a copy of a genuine e-pass issued in the name of Mohit Kumar. Anshul copied the code and pasted it on another e-form,” Sharma said. A hunt is on for the other associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crooks-scam-migrants-with-fake-e-passes/articleshow/75856549.cms||Raj Shekhar
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly civic body to penalise those caught without face masks or spitting in public||Bareilly: At a recent board meeting, Bareilly Nagar Nigam has decided to penalise those found flouting basic Covid-19 norms like not wearing face masks or spitting in public, when outdoors, after receiving reports about scores of locals flouting the norms despite repeated requests and warnings. BMC Officials said the main focus will be on not wearing face masks. In addition, people caught spitting in public will be fined, as the practice is already a violation of civic rules, and especially dangerous in times of the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, Bareilly mayor Umesh Gautam said, “Considering the lack of sincerity among locals towards following basic practices to reduce the spread of Covid 19, we have decided to impose penalties on those caught flouting the two rules in public. Those caught spitting in public will be charged Rs 300, while those caught without face masks will have to pay Rs 250. A team is being formed which will patrol the city to keep a tab on commuters and residents who don’t adhere to these rules.” The mayor added, “Initially, we will be sensitising locals about the new guidelines, with the help of media. Thereafter, the rules will be enforced. We may also rope in ex-Army personnel, who assist BMC in its eviction drives, to enforce the new rules. Guidelines will be circulated shortly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-civic-body-to-penalise-those-caught-without-face-masks-or-spitting-in-public/articleshow/75854527.cms||Maria Khan
May 21, 2020||Hubballi||Robot to serve food to Covid-19 patients||Belagavi: To minimise the risk of Covid-19 spread among health workers, Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) has deployed an IOT (Internet of Things) based robot to serve food, water and medicines to novel coronavirus patients. The robot has been developed by members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangha (RSS) and trial operations were started three days ago at the hospital. The hospital staff were given necessary training. The robot, named Annapurna, has several compartments, a sensor-based water dispenser, a camera, a speaker and other features. The machine was developed by a team of four engineers who are members of Bharatiya Vichar Manch, an offshoot of the RSS. The team members – Shailendra Parikh, Tulsidas Salunke, Bharat Kurpe and Banudas Salunke - said they developed Annapurna in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Make in India call. The cost incurred to develop the robot was Rs 40,000 as some of the required materials were either donated or available with the team. BIMS director Vinay Dastikop told TOI the machine is being tested and has started trial operations in non-Covid wards. “Once the staff become perfect in operating it, we will start sending the bot to coronavirus wards,” he said. Shailendra Parikh, the lead of the team that developed Annapurna, said the robot is can be using a mobile phone sitting anywhere inside BIMS. A camera and speaker are installed on the machine for navigation and communication. The image captured by the camera can be seen on the mobile. The bot, which runs on wheels, has compartments for food packets and medicines. It can run continuously for seven hours once fully charged. Parikh said a patient can communicate with the staff through the camera and must collect food by himself/herself. To draw water, the person only needs to simply place a glass under the sensor-based tap. The team is currently developing and an advanced machine which will have facilities to check BP and pulse. It will also be handed over to BIMS, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/robot-to-serve-food-to-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75854536.cms||Shreyas HS
May 21, 2020||Bareilly||Eight fresh cases take Pilibhit dist tally to 28||Pilibhit: With eight more people testing positive for Covid-19, the tally in Pilibhit district, which was declared corona-free last month, reached 28. Health officials had sent the samples of as many as 29 people to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) on May 15, of which eight — all migrants — were tested positive. “The infected patients have been sent to a Shahjahanpur isolation centre, while their family members have been shifted to a quarantine centre. Their samples will be sent for testing soon,” said Dr CM Chaturvedi, additional chief medical officer. According to district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav, four villages — Gopalpur, Seramau and Bangla Mitrasen under Puranpur tehsil and Piparia Mandan under Bisalpur tehsil — were designated as containment zones and all precautionary measures such as sanitising the villages and thermal screening of residents are being carried out there. Meanwhile, a joint team of civil and jail administrations — comprising jail superintendent Anoop Singh, city magistrate Arun Kumar Singh and Pilibhit circle officer Praveen Malik — has sent a proposal to the DM, seeking his approval to set up a temporary jail at Saint Aloysius College in the city to lodge new prisoners. “Following a government order, districts with 20 or above Covid positive cases need to set up a temporary jail. We will keep new prisoners in the temporary jail for 14 days before shifting them to the district jail,” said Singh. “This is necessary to prevent the transmission of Covid infection in jail. The new prisoners will also be tested for Covid during their 14-day stay at the temporary jail. The temporary jail will have around 14 rooms and the new prisoners will be lodged in a new room every day,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-fresh-cases-take-pilibhit-dist-tally-to-28/articleshow/75854541.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||Webinar on career for govt school students||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) in collaboration with Unicef and a private group, idreamcareer, will soon organise a webinar on career counselling on a YouTube page called “Jharkhand career portal”. Talking about the webinar, the director of JEPC, Uma Shankar Singh, said, “We have planned to organise a webinar for around nine lakh students of over 40,000 government and JAC-affiliated schools. There will be speakers from the Unicef, among others.” The session will be 90-minute long and it will start at 2pm on Friday. Singh said, “Generally parents in rural areas have not much knowledge about career options. We have, therefore, thought about involving the parents as well,” Singh added. Launched more than six months ago, around 4.5 lakh students have already registered on the career portal of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/webinar-on-career-for-govt-school-students/articleshow/75855299.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||Chennai to Chatra: 7 migrants cover 1,700km on 4 cycles||Ranchi: Several migrant workers overcame the odds and reached their home covering hundreds of miles on cycles and autos in the last few days. For Vikas Kumar, a migrant worker in Chennai, and his friends, the 1,700km journey to Chatra district was not a big deal. Manual labourers with a building construction firm in the southern city, Kumar and six of his colleagues were desperate to return home when they ran out of money after losing their jobs. They decided to walk to Chatra, but a few miles down the road, they figured the going would not be easy. They sold off all their belongings — including their cell phones — and decided to buy some cycles. “We contacted our family and asked them to send some money to us,” said Vikas, holding a spanking new red cycle, though with a broken pedal, at Ring Road in Ranchi. Vikas said they managed to buy four bicycles for the seven of them. “We’d have bought one cycle each if we had the money. That would have made our journey faster and easier. We carried each other on the pillion and have covered 1,500km in six days," he said. They are still about 200km from home in Chatra district. The team had to face several challenges on their journey. One cycle suffered a puncture and had to be dragged for several miles near Bundu (40km from Ranchi) and Vikas had to manage with a broken pedal. We had a difficult time finding repair shops that could fix the flat tyre," said Vikas, the only person in group who could speak Hindi. While Vikas and his friends travelled home on two wheels, Riyaz Ansari from Bagodar in Giridih drove down from Mumbai with his family in the autorickshaw that he had hired to make a living. “I have driven this auto for several years in Mumbai. The owner allowed me to take the vehicle home,” Ansari said, expressing gratitude to the owner of the vehicle. Riyaz and his family — wife and three children— were relieved to enter Jharkhand after facing harassment in Odisha. “We were chased by some people who called us ‘corona carriers’,” said Ansari’s wife Noor Bano. Breaking down into tears, she said that they were overwhelmed by the received by tribals when the crossed the border and entered Jharkhand. She said, “We tried fasting for Ramzan, but all the eateries on the road were shut after sunset. We obviously couldn’t continue our journey without food. In the tribal-dominated villages of Jharkhand, we were offered watermelon, cucumber and jaggery almost everywhere on the road side," she said showing her stock of food in the autorickshaw.” Ansari said he will ensure that the owner of the auto will get the vehicle back. “I will return to Mumbai on this very auto someday, but this road trip — by far the longest journey of my life on a three-wheeler — will be etched in memory for ever,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chennai-to-chatra-7-migrants-cover-1700km-on-4-cycles/articleshow/75855224.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||Rims body seeks deferment of promotions||Ranchi: A section of Rims’ teachers association on Wednesday handed over a memorandum to the hospital’s director, Dr D K Singh, and demanded postponement of the Assessment Promotion Scheme (APS) citing Covid-19 as a reason and alleged irregularities in the process. Talking to TOI, secretary of the teachers association Dr Prabhat Kumar said, “We have lost faith in the director as he is purposefully introducing new rules and regulations to create a bottleneck in promotions of many staff to benefit ineligible candidates. We want APS to be implemented in accordance with the MCI guidelines and Rims rules and regulations 2014.” Notably, the applications for promotion of assistant, associate and additional professors to associate, additional and professor ranks respectively was invited on March 30 and the eligible candidates were asked to submit their applications by April 30. It was extended till May 15 after health minister Banna Gupta suggested Rims authorities to provide a window for doctors engaged in Covid-19 duty. On May 16, Singh issued a letter to all head of the departments asking them to submit additional details of applicants under a specified proforma which includes submission of details of on-going research projects as well as publications as per MCI guidelines. Soon after the letter was released, the teachers association objected to the letter as it necessitated candidates to submit title of articles, journal details, type of publications, indexing and impact factors of the medical journals as well as citations to the articles submitted by the candidates. “The director has asked us to submit publications indexed at seven specific journals which have been notified by MCI in February this year which is completely impractical. MCI in the same guideline has provided a two-year transitory period which allows the institution to promote assistant, associate and additional professors as any no faculty can publish as per the revised directions in such a short notice,” said assistant professor of the surgery department, Dr Nishith Ekka. Notably, the promotion exercise at Rims was due for the last three years as the last APS was conducted in 2017 and the inspection teams of MCI had directed the institute to hold promotions of its academic staff every year. According to hospital sources, around 100 eligible candidates have applied for promotions under APS which includes 70 associate professors and 30 assistant professors. All the signatories on the memorandum also applied for their promotions. “People who are asking to defer the APS are doing it on purpose as they do not have right publications and fear that their applications might be rejected. Only 40 of the 100 applicants have signed the memorandum which shows there is a vested interest in postponing the promotion exercise,” said an assistant professor on condition of anonymity. When contacted, Rims director said, “I have followed all necessary protocol in the promotion exercise and have accepted the memorandum handed over to me. I will examine their letter and take necessary steps.” Rims is an autonomous institute under the government of Jharkhand and the governing body is the highest decision making body. Governing body member and former president of Association of Surgeons of India Dr R P Srivastava said, “Directors don’t get manipulated by actors when they have to come out with a good movie. Promotion at Rims has always been done after it is prompted by MCI and if a director is trying to facilitate it due to his foresightedness and experience in medical education, it is surprising that people who have already applied for the promotion are demanding it to be postponed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-body-seeks-deferment-of-promotions/articleshow/75855071.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||Amphan brings rain, people evacuated in parts of state||Ranchi: With Amphan making a landfall in West Bengal, most parts of Jharkhand received light to moderate rainfall from late Tuesday night. In East and West Sighbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, people living in kutcha houses in the vulnerable areas were evacuated and shifted to safer locations on Wednesday. Wind speed in parts of Kolhan division was recorded at 40kmph. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Ranchi predicted a partially cloudy weather on Thursday and said the skies will clear and temperature will rise from Friday. Talking to TOI, scientific assistant at IMD Ranchi Ravi Raushan said, “Most parts of Jharkhand saw cloudy skies and witnessed light to moderate rainfall. Weather conditions are expected to normalise from Friday with a rise in the mercury.” In East Singhbhum, people were evacuated from the vulnerable areas of Baharagora and Chakulia blocks, which share borders with West Bengal and Odisha. “Over 200 families have been evacuated to safer locations so far,” said officer in-charge of Baharagora police station Chandrasekhar Kumar. “The intensity of the wind and rain is expected to increase further between 4 pm and 10 pm as per the weather forecast and accordingly, panchayat officials were asked to evacuate people living in thatched-roofed and kutcha houses of their respective villages to the nearest safe locations by 4pm in the evening,” said Chakulia BDO Lekhraj Nag. Meanwhile, field officials in eight blocks of Ghatshila sub-division made public announcements and asked people to stay indoors. In West Singhbhum, hamlets in Jagannathpur sub-division — Manoharpur, Sonua and Jagannathpur — located on the border of Odisha, were put on alert. The district disaster management officials have been asked to remain alert and ready with resources for rescue operations. In a letter to block development officers and circle officers, Seraikela-Kharsawan DC Anjaneyulu Dodde asked all officials to stay alert. As a preventive measure, Dhanbad district administration officials shifted families living in kutcha houses to government and other safer buildings. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar tweeted, “The cyclone is expected to enter Jharkhand through Odisha. Seeing the danger, it has been directed to shift people living in kutcha houses to either government buildings or other safer places.” In a statement, Khunti district administration advised people in the district to stay away from electric wires and poles and stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/amphan-brings-rain-people-evacuated-in-parts-of-state/articleshow/75855139.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||CID takes over investigation of marijuana recovery case||Ranchi: The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has taken over the investigation of a case related to the seizure of around 40 kilograms of hemp under Nirsa police station in Dhanbad district. The case was registered on August 25, 2019. CID ADG Anil Palta on Wednesday said the Jharkhand Director General of Police M V Rao has ordered the CID to investigate the case. He said, “The CID would inquire to find out why and how a person named Chiranjit Ghosh was accused and arrested in the case.” The CID has already formed a team headed by the DSP to carry out the investigation. He will be assisted by an inspector, a sub-inspector and a assistant sub-inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cid-takes-over-investigation-of-marijuana-recovery-case/articleshow/75855354.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||Cabinet allots Rs 100 crore for Covid-19 fight in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The state cabinet gave its nod for allocating Rs 100 crore to the state disaster management department for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic in Jharkhand on Wednesday. In its first meeting since the lockdown was imposed in Jharkhand on March 22, the 11-member ministerial council headed by chief minister Hemant Soren gave its approval to 15 proposals tabled by various departments. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, cabinet secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said: “The cabinet okayed the proposal to disburse Rs 100 crore to the state disaster management department from the state contingency fund to tackle Covid-19. The money will be spent for setting up quarantine centres, screening and sampling of suspected patients, procurement of medical equipment, food and other essential provisions in quarantine and isolation centres.” Singh said the disbursement was done as the budgetary allocations for the disaster management, pegged at Rs 30 crore, was insufficient. In another decision, the cabinet gave its post facto approval to the proposal of procuring PPE kit, medicines and other equipment on nomination basis from agencies and companies identified by AIIMS (New Delhi) and the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The cabinet also gave its post facto approval to the decision whereby MLAs can spend up to Rs 25 lakh from their respective MLA-LAD funds to fight Covid-19. In another decision, the cabinet allocated Rs 84.95 crore to the state department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs for transportation of food grain which is to be distributed for free to all beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in between April and June this year. The cabinet also gave its nod to seeking loan of Rs 229.93 crore from Nabard for 36 undergoing water-harvesting projects. Pegged at a cumulative cost of Rs 300 crore, the projects were sanctioned in 2016 but work commenced two years later, Singh said. The cabinet also okayed a proposal to seek loan of Rs 104.68 crore from Nabard for six new rural piped-water supply projects which are planned in Kapali (Seraikela-Kharsawan), Chandil (Seraikela-Kharsawan), Nimiya, Chatarpur and Patan (all of them in Palamu) and Kanhara in Dumka. The cabinet gave its nod for setting up one new industrial training centre each in Khunti, Giridih, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Simdega and Dumka under the Union government’s skill development programme for youth in leftwing-extremism-affected districts. It approved Rs 34.22 crore for the ITI buildings, including the Union grant of Rs 20.65 crore. The cabinet gave its post facto approval to the commencement of Budget session of the fifth Jharkhand assembly, budgetary allocations and tabling of Jharkhand Economic Survey report in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cabinet-allots-rs-100-crore-for-covid-19-fight-in-jharkhand/articleshow/75855160.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||5 flee Simdega quarantine centre, held, brought back||Gumla: Five migrant workers who arrived in a truck from Mumbai were booked after they engaged in vandalism and escaped from a quarantine centre in Simdega on Tuesday. Later, all the five were apprehended and brought back to the centre. The workers were identified as Suman Minz, Bimal Tirkey, Santosh Bara, Atul Tirkey and Shashikant Toppa of Michutoli village in Kesrai block. Kesrai BDO Kumar Abhinav said, “The five men were brought to the quarantine centre on Tuesday from their village after they directly reached home from Mumbai in a truck with 22 others. In a drunken state, they misbehaved with the on-duty medical staff, broke window panes of the centre and fled. However, they were soon apprehended and brought back.” Abhinav said an FIR was lodged against the five at Kurdeg police station for violating the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2020 and Jharkhand State Epidemic Diseases (Covid-19) Regulations 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-flee-simdega-quarantine-centre-held-brought-back/articleshow/75855104.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Ranchi||5 flee Simdega quarantine centre, held, brought back||Gumla: Five migrant workers who arrived in a truck from Mumbai were booked after they engaged in vandalism and escaped from a quarantine centre in Simdega on Tuesday. Later, all the five were apprehended and brought back to the centre. The workers were identified as Suman Minz, Bimal Tirkey, Santosh Bara, Atul Tirkey and Shashikant Toppa of Michutoli village in Kesrai block. Kesrai BDO Kumar Abhinav said, “The five men were brought to the quarantine centre on Tuesday from their village after they directly reached home from Mumbai in a truck with 22 others. In a drunken state, they misbehaved with the on-duty medical staff, broke window panes of the centre and fled. However, they were soon apprehended and brought back.” Abhinav said an FIR was lodged against the five at Kurdeg police station for violating the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2020 and Jharkhand State Epidemic Diseases (Covid-19) Regulations 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-flee-simdega-quarantine-centre-held-brought-back/articleshow/75855101.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Business||Covid effect: Home consumption drives up household grocery bills||BENGALURU: Grocery bills have ballooned as home consumption rises and consumers buy larger packs of FMCG products. The bill sizes had almost doubled in March, when the lockdown started, but they remain significantly higher than in the pre-coronavirus days. Industry executives say they may remain high for some time as concepts of hygiene and cook-at-home have become important. Lockdown 4.0: Live updatesDevendra Chawla, CEO of Spencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket, said the bill size is 1.5 times now compared to pre-Covid times. When the lockdown started it was even more because people were worried about stores running out of stocks. Prem Kumar, CEO of retail-tech startup Snapbizz, which analyses consumer data at more than a million kirana stores, said the median basket which was around Rs 650 in the first week of March shot up to about Rs 1,000 in the first week of April, and is now at about Rs 900. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Consumers are buying bigger packs of products such as biscuits, noodles, snacking products, hand-wash products, antiseptics, as also pulses, grains and sugar. High growth in large packs of snacks"In biscuits and noodles, we have seen a higher growth in larger pack sizes, probably driven by reduced trips to the market and hence larger buying on every trip. It's also driven by shops having limited opening times," Hemant Malik, divisional CEO of ITC Foods, said. Arvind Mediratta, managing director & CEO of Metro Cash & Carry India, said people usually bought Maggi noodles in packs of 4-6 from their wholesale stores, but now they have been purchasing packs of 24. The latter are actually meant for hotels. "This trend is also visible in biscuits, pasta, flour and lentils as people stay at home and consume more," he said. Greendots Health Foods, which sells nacho crisps and taco shells under the brand Cornitos, has pack sizes for nachos of Rs 20, Rs 35 and Rs 85. Since the lockdown, the Rs 35 pack is moving faster off the shelves than the Rs 20 one, said managing director Vikram Agarwal. As snacking and munching go up, so has demand for larger bottles of cold beverages. Future Group, which runs Nilgiri's, Big Bazaar and Easy Day stores, said it has seen a spike in demand for 1.25-litre and 2-litre bottles compared to the 500 ml and 750 ml ones. "Besides this, the sale of larger oil cans of 5 litres and containers of 1 kg ghee have also gone up as people are making sweets and cakes while staying at home," the company added. Watch Covid-19 effect: Home consumption drives up household grocery bills||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-effect-home-consumption-drives-up-household-grocery-bills/articleshow/75857724.cms||Avik Das
May 21, 2020||India||Mother can never discriminate between children without grave reason: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court saw through a daughter's greed-driven attempt to create her mother's Will to usurp a big house in a posh Defence Colony area of south Delhi and deprive her elder sister and brother of any share in the property on the specious ground of "mother's special affection towards youngest daughter". A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said a mother may resort to unfair division if she had either soured relationship or was ill-treated. In absence of any such evidence, the court refused to probate the purported Will of a mother finding that the mother had inexplicably denied a fair share of the property to her elder widowed daughter, who was living in the property with her and who was taking her regularly for a medical check-up, and son who she was fond of. In a 96-page judgment ripping apart the crafty "special affection" alibi behind the Will produced for probate by the youngest daughter of a retired army officer, the Judges used their worldly and legal knowledge and experience to say, "The appellant (youngest daughter) has suggested that the parents had a special affection towards her. Even if this suggestion is taken on its face value, it is difficult to assume that the alleged special affection towards one child should necessarily correspond to repugnance towards the other children by the same mother." Justice Maheshwari, who penned the judgment, said, "Even if the parents had special liking and affection towards the appellant, as could be argued with reference to the gift made by the father in her favour of the ground floor of the property in question, it would be too far stretched and unnatural to assume that by the reason of such special affection towards appellant, the mother drifted far away from the other children, including the widowed daughter who was residing on the upper floor of the same house and who was taking her care." "In the ordinary and natural course, a person could be expected to be more inclined towards the child taking his/her care; and it would be too unrealistic to assume that special love and affection towards one, maybe blue-eyed, the child would also result in a person leaving the serving and needy child in lurch. As noticed, an unfair disposition of property or an unjust exclusion of the legal heirs, particularly the dependants, is regarded as a suspicious circumstance. The appellant has failed to assign even a wee bit reason for which the testatrix (mother) would have thought it proper to leave her widowed daughter in the heap of uncertainty as emanating from the Will in question," the SC said. The bench said it is difficult to be satisfied that what is literally coming out of the document in question had been the last wish and desire of the testatrix as regards succession of her estate. Dismissing the youngest daughter's appeal against concurrent findings of the trial court and the Delhi High Court, the bench imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on her with a direction that it will be divided equally between her elder sister and brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mother-can-never-discriminate-between-children-without-grave-reason-sc/articleshow/75857730.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Shortage of material, men hits Metro work||Nagpur: The multiple phases of lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic and resultant upheaval in the migrant labour force has upset the Nagpur Metro’s construction target, which is set to be delayed. Work on Nagpur Metro project had to be stopped for over a month amid the lockdown and MahaMetro officials had hoped that they would be able to make up for the delay when government gave green signal for restarting construction. However, shortage of men and material is hampering the work. According to MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit around one-third of the construction workers have left for their native villages. The percentage of depletion in workforce is varying for different Metro contractors. Metro officials admitted that while contractors provided meals to the workers, they did not pay wages. This was the reason for large scale exodus of workers. “Metro is paying wages to the workers instead of the contractors. We have just paid salary for March 25 to March 31 period. Process is on for paying wages for April 1 to April 7 period. We urge the workers to wait as their salaries would be paid, but many of them don’t listen,” said an official. The exodus of Metro workers took place in two phases. The first lot left when state government announced a lockdown. The second happened when Shramik Special trains started. AFCONS Infrastructure Ltd is constructing Hingna depot. Its officials said there were around 230 workers before the lockdown, but only around 150 are working now. They admitted that completion of the depot would be delayed by three months. “We are not only facing shortage of men but also cement, gravel, sand etc. As transport of these materials is not regular, we run out of them many times,” said the officials. AFCONS officials said they were maintaining Covid distancing at the worksite. “There is a distance of six feet between two workers. They wear mask and wash hands with sanitizers frequently. We have set up a machine which dispenses water and sanitizer through a foot pedal,” they added. Metro officials at LAD Square station said the date for completing the construction was July 30, but there would be a delay. “We can specify the quantum only after meeting with senior officials,” they said. These officials claimed that the contractor had paid wages to the workers and only 10% of them had left. Work is going on at five stations on Sitabuldi to Khapri stretch. “Earlier, around 200 workers used to work in each station. Now, there are only 20 due to manpower shortage and to ensure Covid distancing. Around 50% of the workforce has gone home. The speed of work has reduced drastically,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shortage-of-material-men-hits-metro-work/articleshow/75855940.cms||Ashish Roy
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Sand smugglers try to set forest guards on fire in Hinganghat||Wardha: Members of sand mafia attempted to set on fire two forest guards when they raided a place on Kolhi-Sastabad Road in Hinganghat tehsil on Tuesday midnight. A case has been registered against the accused, including Jangona village sarpanch, at Wadner police station. Further investigations are under way. Police sources said forest guards Munesh Sajjan and Madhav Mane came to know about illegally mined sand stored in forest area when they both were patrolling at around 1.30am. When the guards went to the spot on a two-wheeler, they were confronted by four persons armed with lathis. On seeing the attackers, the guards tried to flee but the accused dashed their bike and threw some inflammable material on them when they had fallen to the ground. As the accused tried to set them on fire, the guards raised an alarm and managed to save themselves. The accused fled the scene. Later, the guards managed to reach Wadner police station where an offence has been registered against sarpanch of Jangona village Nitin Wagh, Balu Kubade of Pohana village and two others under sections 307, 353, 332, 427 of the Indian Penal Code. Though sand ghat auction has been stopped in the district, illegal sand smuggling is still continuing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sand-smugglers-try-to-set-forest-guards-on-fire-in-hinganghat/articleshow/75855977.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||NMC turns 5 hosps, bungalow into Covid-19 centres||Nagpur: After achieving reasonable success in containing Covid-19, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is all set to treat positive patients. Five hospitals and health centres which were in a shambles are being converted into Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) with a capacity of 450-465 beds, including 50 in the ICU. The Surana Maternity Home in Sadar, which was being used as the official bungalow for over a decade, is set to be used again for patients. Going by the communication from the central government, the state government had projected 11,114 cases in the city between May 15 and 31 and directed the administration to be ready with as many beds. Accordingly, the administration has to prepare Covid Care Centres (CCC) for asymptomatic corona positive patients, DCHCs for moderately severe patients and a Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) for severe patients. To avoid pressure on state government-run hospitals and depend entirely on private ones, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai and additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar planned to develop NMC’s own DCHCs. After the retirement of the additional municipal commissioner, Surana Maternity Home had become vacant. Work to develop it as a DCHC with 35 beds is nearing completion. The NMC’s Unani Hospital and Physiotherapy Centre is situated in the adjacent building and it will serve the same purpose. Another major task taken up by the NMC is to convert a health centre at KT Nagar into a 130-bedded DCHC. Here, the ICU facility is also being developed. Residents have opposed the move. NMC’s three hospitals — Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) at LAD Square, Panchpaoli Maternity Home and Isolation Hospital at Rambagh — were in a shambles. Work to convert IGR into a 130 bedded-DCHC, including ICU, is nearing completion. The hospital is set to get a new look. Similarly, the Panchpaoli Maternity Home will be a 110-bedded DCHC and is likely to be ready soon. The Isolation Hospital will be converted into a 60-bedded DCHC in a short period of time. Here too, the ICU facility is being developed. The five hospitals, situated in different parts of the city, would come handy in case of a sudden spike in cases. “The civic body-run Urban Primary Health Centres are in good condition. They were recently developed under the central government’s scheme. The hospitals were in bad shape and lacked proper facilities. After the end of Covid-19 epidemic, these hospitals will become a lifeline for thousands of patients who are now dependent on GMCH and IGGMCH,” NMC officials told TOI. Another big challenge before the civic body would be to garner the required number of staff. “We have identified the staff. They have been well trained to treat corona positive patients. All types of safety equipment is also being readied,” added the NMC officials. The central government’s Rapid Response Team had credited the NMC for fewer casualties and cases in the city. The NMC had launched various innovative measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-turns-5-hosps-bungalow-into-covid-19-centres/articleshow/75856008.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 21, 2020||India||Supreme Court awards Rs 7.6 crore relief to family of Mangaluru crash victim||MANGALURU: The Supreme Court has enhanced the compensation awarded to the next of kin of a 45-year-old man who was killed when Air India Express Flight 812 from Dubai crashed on landing in Mangaluru on May 22, 2010 from Rs 7.35 crore to Rs 7.64 crore. Mahendra Kodkany’s wife, daughter and son will now get Rs 7.64 crore plus 9% interest per annum (on the amount yet to be paid). The original compensation awarded by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission was Rs 7.35 crore with 9% interest. Advocate Yeshwanth Shenoy, who represented the family in the NCDRC and the Supreme Court, said this is the highest compensation awarded to any of the victims of the Mangaluru air crash. The accident, in which the aircraft overshot the runway, went down a hillside and burst into flames, killed 158 of the 166 passengers on board. While enhancing the compensation, an apex court bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Ajay Rastogi said it was unable to accept the reasons cited by NCDRC in making a deduction from the salary of the victim while calculating compensation. Kodkany was the regional director for the Middle East for a UAE-based company. "The bifurcation of salary into diverse heads may be made by the employer for a variety of reasons. However, in a claim for compensation arising out of the death of the employee, the income has to be assessed on the basis of the entitlement of the employee," the order said. The court also held that Kodkany had been a confirmed employee entitled to adequate weightage in terms of determination of compensation in the event of untimely demise. "We have come to the conclusion that 30% (of his salary) should be allowed on account of future prospects," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-awards-rs-7-6-crore-relief-to-family-of-mangaluru-crash-victim/articleshow/75857742.cms||Stanley Pinto
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Slow net speed, new method of teaching putting students off||Nagpur: While there has been a sudden rush for online classes by coaching institutes, schools and colleges, many say the experience is being spoilt due to poor net connectivity and ‘poker faced’ teachers. Some teachers themselves have accepted that few of their colleagues get nervous before camera and are not able to replicate the real classroom feel. “There is a teacher who does not bat an eyelid during the classes,” said a coaching class student. “We get a recorded version, which we download, so there is not net issue but he looks like a robot while teaching. All through the series he stands like a statue,” said the student. TOI spoke to another teacher who was aware of this situation. He said many are not used to the new method of teaching. “All good teachers thrive on the physical presence of students. We judge their body language, their mood and accordingly change the tempo of our speech. Sometimes we can figure out which student is not following along and we focus on that student by looking at him or her while speaking,” the teacher, who owns a coaching institute, said. All these elements are missing in e-learning platform, especially where videos are recorded and sent on WhatsApp groups. A parent, who owns a branded clothes franchise, told TOI that his son’s online classes are a ‘waste of time’. “Their college has started these classes and he logs in at the scheduled time. But many times the net connection goes off, or the audio crackles. I am told sometimes students are listening to songs in their headphones and log in just to register their presence,” the parent said. For schools and colleges, the online classes currently are more to keep students busy and try to finish off some small part of the curriculum. But for coaching institutes, this period is crucial. “Competitive exams like JEE and NEET will be held after lockdown is over and every day gives more time for students to study. But students are used to personal one-to-one attention which many teachers are not able to replicate,” said a class owner who did not want to be identified lest his teachers feel demoralized. “Answering queries over WhatsApp is very cumbersome and our senior teachers are not used to that. I am sure we all will get used to it in future, but this is not possible in such a short time,” said the class owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/slow-net-speed-new-method-of-teaching-putting-students-off/articleshow/75856051.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||‘Bring all forest devpt corporations under EIA 2020’||Nagpur: Conservationists have demanded that all the state forest development corporations (SFDCs), which fell high value forest to convert them into teak plantations, should be brought under the ambit of Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020. The demand has been raised with Union Environment Ministry (MoEFCC) during the extended notice period for expressing concerns on Draft EIA 2020 up to June 30. “Forest corporations need to be included in proposal list to get environment clearance (EC) for commercial plantations on natural-mixed forest land,” they said. Former divisional forest officer (DFO) Hemant Chhajed in his comments to MoEFCC says, “EIA’s main aspect is to study project proposals that affect environment, soil, wildlife etc on post diversion and expansion of forest land. EC should be applicable for converting natural forests into monoculture plantations.” Dense forest cover of country is under threat by leasing out high value forest areas out to state corporations on nominal rent to raise monoculture plantations, especially teak. This is being done to generate revenue. Hence, apart from EC, net present value (NPV) should also be charged from them. Though these corporations work as per the prescribed working plan code and also pay dividend to state governments, this dividend is minuscule compared to the high quality forests leased out. The corporations earn most of their revenue from selling timber by clear felling forest patches. Corporations work as per plans approved by MoEFCC itself, these working plans are replaced with earlier sanctioned plans of territorial division. Chhajed gave example of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM). In 1974, it was handed over 5 lakh hectares of high value forest for Rs 1 per hectare. Now FDCM has 3.67 lakh hectares forest area with it, which is 6% of state’s forest area. Most of its area has been declared as sanctuaries but it was compensated with equal area in Allapalli. Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani said as per the current forest policy, biodiversity conservation and socio-economics was on top priority and revenue secondary. Most of the lands allotted to these corporations were either on the fringes of protected areas (PAs) or are rich in wildlife with perennial water bodies and natural water sources that supply water to big rivers. “This is true with all the state forest corporations. Hence, such natural forests are important to wild animals and locals for food and non-timber forest produce (NTFP) for their livelihood. Therefore EIA is necessary for such areas to assess present status of ecology and biodiversity as well as to fix NPV before handing them over to corporations for changing land use for commercial purposes,” said Jeswani. “Besides, public hearing is also essential before handing over such mixed forests for monoculture plantations ignoring locals dependence on NTFP collection. These corporations are set up for commercial purposes and are profit-making like any other industry. Hence, these should be brought under the ambit of EIA 2020,” said Jeswani. MoEFCC has extended notice period for expressing concerns on draft EIA 2020 up to June 30, 2020. The comments can be sent to secretary, MoEFCC, Indira Paryavaran Bhawan, Jor Bagh Road, Aliganj, New Delhi-110003, or on e-mail address: eia2020-moefcc@gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bring-all-forest-devpt-corporations-under-eia-2020/articleshow/75856080.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Protest at Delhi-Gurugram border, 6 cops hurt||GURUGRAM: Facing restrictions at the border for weeks, nearly 1,000 people protested on Wednesday morning at Salapur Khera village along the Gurugram -Delhi border, saying they were unable to go back to work despite their factories opening. Many in the crowd pelted stones at the cops manning the border post, injuring six policemen. Salapur Khera is part of Delhi’s administrative territory but people here make a living working in various factories in Gurugram’s Udyog Vihar area. Villagers said since their factories had resumed operations in Gurugram , they were keen on going back to work, but “are regularly blocked by police over passes”. Police filed a case against 800 people, seven of them local residents, while the MCG built a wall across a shortcut between the village and Palam Vihar in Gurugram that workers use to cross over. Tempers rose swiftly after a group of residents of the village began a protest around 7.30am demanding the removal of police barricades from the pathway into Gurugram so that they could walk to their factories. They alleged they had inter-state passes but were being stopped because of arbitrary implementation of border curbs. A senior administration official later clarified to TOI that other than those in essential services, no other pass holder is allowed to commute daily between the two cities because of tight regulations at the border in view of the pandemic. But the rule has also added a layer of confusion among people on how essential services are defined and how one pass holder is different from another. The protesters at Salapur Khera, led by a person named Girish, claimed that workers putting up in their houses as tenants — many of them migrants — were facing problems in going to work to industrial units in the Udyog Vihar area despite the government allowing them to call workers back to their shifts. More people began joining the protest. As a police contingent was rushed there, the tension became palpable. Among the protesters, a group started pelting stones at the cops. Police responded with a lathicharge. Officials said as many as six cops sustained injuries after being hit by stones. The injuries were not severe and none of them needs hospitalisation.  ACP (Udyog Vihar) Biram Singh told TOI a case had been registered against the protesters and a wall was erected to block the illegal road between Salapur Khera and Palam Vihar. “The wall was in place earlier but villagers had razed it to create kuccha road over government land,” Singh said, adding inter-state movement of people between Delhi and Gurugram is allowed but “only with valid passes through legal entry points”. Another senior police officer said an FIR has been registered under sections 147 and 148 (rioting), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharging duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assaulting public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 427 (mischief), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 51B of Disaster Management Act at Palam Vihar police station against Girish, Amit, Anil, Ashish, Akash, Arun and Abhishek, and 800 unknown people. A number of workers also assembled at the Kapashera border during the day, but they were also denied entry into Gurugram . Similarly, some workers from Delhi reached the Sirhaul border on cycles but were denied entry too. The workers waited for several hours and returned back home. “For the past two months, we are without jobs. Now, factories are opening in Gurugram and we want to join our work, but police are not allowing us entry,” said Ram Yadav, who works at a manufacturing unit in Udyog Vihar and lives in Delhi. Earlier this month, more than 1,300 industries in Gurugram received permission to start operating their units. Latest guidelines also permit industries in IMT Manesar to call 100% workers back. Though passes are being issued for it, the government has also said workers coming from Delhi have to be put up in temporary accommodations by their employers to stop to and fro movement between the two cities. Neither workers, nor companies have found that to be feasible, leading to frustration building up among workers about not being able to return to their jobs and earn their wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/blocked-from-work-border-villagers-protest-attack-cops-at-salapur-khera/articleshow/75857316.cms||Bagish Jha
May 21, 2020||Nagpur||Rlys carried over 12L migrants from May 1-14, earned Rs 77.56cr||Nagpur: For lakhs of aggrieved migrants stranded across the country, the Indian Railways came as a saviour by transporting over 12 lakh of them from May 1 to 14 on its Shramik Special trains. In an affidavit filed before Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the Railways informed that it ran 929 such trains from across the country to drop migrants to their respective destinations. Even as the Centre as decided to bear 85% cost of travel, the railways earned Rs 77.56 crore through tickets sales from various states who were told to pay 15% cost. As per the affidavit filed by Central Railway’s senior commercial manager K Patil, largest number of trains were ferried from Gujarat at 353 that carried over 4.74 lakh migrants to various places from May 1 to 14. It was followed by Maharashtra from where 171 trains carried over 2.22 lakh migrants from various places, including Nagpur, in this period. Punjab followed with 116 trains ferrying over 1.40 lakh passengers. Most were ferried to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Only six Shramik Special trains originated from the UP and Bihar carrying 7,282 and 6,740 passengers respectively and one originated from MP ferrying 1,473 migrants in this period. Patil told TOI their entire staff was working hard to take care of migrants by providing them food packets and water in trains originating from Nagpur station and also in those making halts here. “We are working overtime to ensure uninterrupted train services and hassle-free ride to the migrants. Today also we have catered to three such trains,” he said. He informed that 215 Shramik Special trains have passed from the city till May 17 carrying over 1.20 lakh passengers of which 94 made a halt here while 47 trains ferrying 58,937 travellers halted at Ballarshah Station. From Nagpur, nine such trains originated carrying 10,271 migrants to their respective states. # Shramik Special trains summary from May 1 to 14: Date --------- Trains -----------------Passengers ------------------- Earnings (Rs) May 1------- 4 -----------------------3,645 --------------------------- 17,94,440 May 2------- 10 -----------------------11,053 --------------------------- 80,22,230 May 3------- 20 -----------------------22,615 --------------------------- 2,51,92,925 May 4------- 21 -----------------------24,990 --------------------------- 1,68,69,565 May 5------- 38 -----------------------44,508 --------------------------- 2,89,82,295 May 6------- 64 -----------------------73,430 --------------------------- 4,83,05,000 May 7------- 62 -----------------------71,870 --------------------------- 4,58,32,550 May 8------- 66 -----------------------78,610 --------------------------- 4,88,60,095 May 9------- 80 -----------------------94,778 --------------------------- 5,85,25,481 May 10------- 101 -------------------1,22,268 --------------------------- 7,84,69,088 May 11------ 75 -----------------------96,587 --------------------------- 6,02,63,615 May 12------- 104 --------------------1,46,740 --------------------------- 9,60,58,150 May 13------- 139-------------------1,99,766 --------------------------- 12,30,74,360 May 14------- 145 --------------------2,10,074 --------------------------- 13,54,39,000 Total ------- 929 ----------------------12,00,934 --------------------------- 77,56,88,794 # State-wise Shramik trains summary from May 1 to 14: Originating State ------------ Trains -----------------Passengers ------------------- Earnings (Rs) Andhra Pradesh-------------- 22 -----------------------25,327 ------------------------ 1,78,29,371 Bihar----------------------------- 6 -----------------------7,282 --------------------------- 34,18,920 Delhi --------------------------- 14 -----------------------18,786 -------------------------- 1,09,43,653 Goa ----------------------------- 4-----------------------5,099 ------------------------------ 36,91,135 Gujarat ------------------------ 353 -----------------------4,74,899 ------------------------29,14,93,155 Haryana------------------------ 33 -----------------------44,207 --------------------------- 2,31,74,860 Jharkhand--------------------- 1 -----------------------1,159 ------------------------------- 7,18,580 Karnataka-------------------- 53 -----------------------69,543 ---------------------------- 6,07,56,545 Kerala------------------------- 30 -----------------------34,928 ---------------------------- 2,99,03,575 Madhya Pradesh----------- 1 -----------------------1,473 -------------------------------- 6,70,215 Maharashtra---------------- 171 -----------------------2,22,741 ------------------------- 13,95,47,240 Punjab----------------------- 116 -----------------------1,40,949 --------------------------- 7,39,46,970 Rajasthan-------------------- 38 -----------------------46,030 ---------------------------- 3,61,90,300 Tamil Nadu----------------- 39 -----------------------49,340 ---------------------------- 4,29,80,165 Telangana------------------- 42 -----------------------52431 ---------------------------- 37325940 Uttar Pradesh-------------- 6 -----------------------6,740 ------------------------------- 30,98,170 Total ------------------------ 929 --------------------12,00,934 --------------------------- 77,56,88,794||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rlys-carried-over-12l-migrants-from-may-1-14-earned-rs-77-56cr/articleshow/75856115.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 21, 2020||India||For 1st time ever, Uddhav Thackeray to attend a meet led by Sonia Gandhi||MUMBAI: For the first time ever, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray will attend a meeting led by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. A video-conference meeting of all members of UPA has been convened by the Congress party to discuss issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic and problems faced by migrant labourers in various states. Shiv Sena is not a part of UPA nationally but gives the Congress-led coalition company on the opposition benches since quitting the BJP-led NDA government last year. Shiv Sena has 18 Lok Sabha members. Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said that both him and the chief minister would be attending the meeting. Thackeray, after his swearing-in as Maharashtra CM in November, had visited Delhi in February and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Gandhi. His son, Aaditya, who is guardian minister of Mumbai suburban district, had met Gandhi twice, first to invite her to the chief minister’s swearing-in ceremony and a second time — when he also met her son Rahul — after Shiv Sena had skipped a UPA meeting called to discuss the CAA and NRC issues in January. Sources said NCP chief Sharad Pawar and a few senior politicians of Congress from the state would also attend the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-1st-time-ever-uddhav-thackeray-to-attend-a-meet-led-by-sonia-gandhi/articleshow/75857756.cms||Swati Mathur
May 21, 2020||India||Out of jail & into hiding: Why freed prisoners aren’t rejoicing||NEW DELHI: Life in prison is hard but prisoners have discovered that freedom can be harsher still. In March, prison authorities were asked by courts to decongest jails to prevent spread of infection. And though the process did start, it’s left many released prisoners hungry, homeless and hounded by the public. Read the entire story on TOI+Why freed prisoners are not jumping with joy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/out-of-jail-into-hiding-why-freed-prisoners-arent-rejoicing/articleshow/75857765.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
May 21, 2020||India||Congress attacks government on lockdown, BJP returns the favour||NEW DELHI: BJP on Wednesday dismissed Congress claims of countrywide lockdown being implemented in an unplanned manner, saying that under PM Modi, India has demonstrated unprecedented leadership to the world in battling the Covid-19 crisis. “It was never a claim of the government that there will be no corona cases as a result of the lockdown. An individual’s opinions do not reflect the government’s views,” said BJP spokesperson GVL Narsimha Rao. “The Congress party could have imagined a corona-free India only if Dr Rahul Gandhi would have invented a vaccine before the lockdown was imposed,” he said. The remarks came soon after Congress said implementation of the nationwide lockdown was unplanned and alleged that the government does not have any exit strategy. Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said this government is synonymous with “inefficiency, incompetence and insensitivity” and its taskforce has been indulging in “data jugglery” to claim that “there will be zero cases by May 16”. Rao, however, explained that the lockdown had to be imposed suddenly and without weeks of notice as the spread of the virus had to be contained by asking people to stay where they were. He said under Congress rule, India had always been seen as a country worst prepared to handle any health emergency. “Under PM Modi, India has demonstrated unprecedented leadership to the world in battling the Covid-19 challenge with its hugely successful lockdown,” Rao said. He said Congress is “deeply jealous and envious” of the soaring image of the Prime Minister both at home and abroad, as reflected in global and national surveys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-attacks-government-on-lockdown-bjp-returns-the-favour/articleshow/75857771.cms||---
May 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC opens parks, gardens for joggers||NEW DELHI: People can now go for morning walks and jogging in the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area. Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park, Talkatora Garden and the other parks and gardens will reopen for the public from Thursday.  Two months ago, parks and public places were shut down in view of the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown.  An order issued by the civic agency on Wednesday stated: "It has been decided to open parks and gardens of NDMC area, including Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park and Talkatora Garden, for public for limited purpose of walking, jogging and running on the walking tracks from May 21 till further orders. The parks will remain open between 7am and 10am and from 3.30pm to 6.30pm. These have been opened as per the revised guidelines of the Centre and Delhi government for Lockdown 4.0."  "However, open gym, yoga and other such activities will not be allowed," the order said. Watch Getting back to normal: NDMC opens parks and gardens for joggers in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ndmc-opens-parks-gardens-for-joggers/articleshow/75857772.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 21, 2020||Kohima||Cyclone Amphan: Heavy rain alert in Assam, Meghalaya||GUWAHATI: Assam and Meghalaya are bracing for heavy to very heavy rain due to the impact of cyclonic storm Amphan on Thursday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert in Assam and Meghalaya in view of the adverse climatic conditions to be experienced from Wednesday night. In other NE states, light to moderate rain is expected, the IMD said. "Mainly west Assam districts - South Salmara Mankachar, Dhubri, Bongaigaon and Goalpara - will have the maximum impact of Amphan. In neighbouring Meghalaya, the districts of Garo Hills will be mainly affected," a senior official of IMD told TOI. Rainfall in the northeast is expected from tonight itself and will continue the entire day on Thursday, he added. The IMD said Amphan, which was centred at 12:30 pm on Wednesday as an extremely severe cyclonic storm over the northwest Bay of Bengal near latitude 20.90 degree north and longitude 88.0 degrees east, was moving north-northeastwards and crossing the West Bengal- Bangladesh coast between Digha and Hatiya close to Sunderbans during Wednesday evening with a wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said, "All district disaster management teams in Assam have been put on alert. In lower (also known as western) Assam, 40 state disaster response teams have been asked to take position in view of Amphan impact. The NDRF has also been kept ready." As per the forecast issued by the IMD on Wednesday for the next 24 hours, moderate rain and thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura. "Strong surface wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH over south Assam, west Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura is expected from Wednesday night itself," said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) deputy director general of meteorology Sanjay O'Neill Shaw. The IMD has issued warning of thunderstorm with lightning and gusty wind with speed (40-50) kmph at isolated places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya in the next 24 hours. Forecast of gusty winds, thunderstormThe IMD further said thunderstorms with lightning and gusty wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH is very likely to occur at isolated places over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the period. While heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya, especially western districts, in the next 24 hours, the IMD on Wednesday warned that heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kohima/cyclone-amphan-heavy-rain-alert-in-assam-meghalaya/articleshow/75857790.cms||Kangkan Kalita
May 21, 2020||Shillong||Cyclone Amphan: Heavy rain alert in Assam, Meghalaya||GUWAHATI: Assam and Meghalaya are bracing for heavy to very heavy rain due to the impact of cyclonic storm Amphan on Thursday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert in Assam and Meghalaya in view of the adverse climatic conditions to be experienced from Wednesday night. In other NE states, light to moderate rain is expected, the IMD said. "Mainly west Assam districts - South Salmara Mankachar, Dhubri, Bongaigaon and Goalpara - will have the maximum impact of Amphan. In neighbouring Meghalaya, the districts of Garo Hills will be mainly affected," a senior official of IMD told TOI. Rainfall in the northeast is expected from tonight itself and will continue the entire day on Thursday, he added. The IMD said Amphan, which was centred at 12:30 pm on Wednesday as an extremely severe cyclonic storm over the northwest Bay of Bengal near latitude 20.90 degree north and longitude 88.0 degrees east, was moving north-northeastwards and crossing the West Bengal- Bangladesh coast between Digha and Hatiya close to Sunderbans during Wednesday evening with a wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said, "All district disaster management teams in Assam have been put on alert. In lower (also known as western) Assam, 40 state disaster response teams have been asked to take position in view of Amphan impact. The NDRF has also been kept ready." As per the forecast issued by the IMD on Wednesday for the next 24 hours, moderate rain and thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura. "Strong surface wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH over south Assam, west Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura is expected from Wednesday night itself," said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) deputy director general of meteorology Sanjay O'Neill Shaw. The IMD has issued warning of thunderstorm with lightning and gusty wind with speed (40-50) kmph at isolated places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya in the next 24 hours. Forecast of gusty winds, thunderstormThe IMD further said thunderstorms with lightning and gusty wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH is very likely to occur at isolated places over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the period. While heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya, especially western districts, in the next 24 hours, the IMD on Wednesday warned that heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shillong/cyclone-amphan-heavy-rain-alert-in-assam-meghalaya/articleshow/75857789.cms||Kangkan Kalita
May 21, 2020||Imphal||Cyclone Amphan: Heavy rain alert in Assam, Meghalaya||GUWAHATI: Assam and Meghalaya are bracing for heavy to very heavy rain due to the impact of cyclonic storm Amphan on Thursday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert in Assam and Meghalaya in view of the adverse climatic conditions to be experienced from Wednesday night. In other NE states, light to moderate rain is expected, the IMD said. "Mainly west Assam districts - South Salmara Mankachar, Dhubri, Bongaigaon and Goalpara - will have the maximum impact of Amphan. In neighbouring Meghalaya, the districts of Garo Hills will be mainly affected," a senior official of IMD told TOI. Rainfall in the northeast is expected from tonight itself and will continue the entire day on Thursday, he added. The IMD said Amphan, which was centred at 12:30 pm on Wednesday as an extremely severe cyclonic storm over the northwest Bay of Bengal near latitude 20.90 degree north and longitude 88.0 degrees east, was moving north-northeastwards and crossing the West Bengal- Bangladesh coast between Digha and Hatiya close to Sunderbans during Wednesday evening with a wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said, "All district disaster management teams in Assam have been put on alert. In lower (also known as western) Assam, 40 state disaster response teams have been asked to take position in view of Amphan impact. The NDRF has also been kept ready." As per the forecast issued by the IMD on Wednesday for the next 24 hours, moderate rain and thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura. "Strong surface wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH over south Assam, west Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura is expected from Wednesday night itself," said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) deputy director general of meteorology Sanjay O'Neill Shaw. The IMD has issued warning of thunderstorm with lightning and gusty wind with speed (40-50) kmph at isolated places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya in the next 24 hours. Forecast of gusty winds, thunderstormThe IMD further said thunderstorms with lightning and gusty wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH is very likely to occur at isolated places over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the period. While heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya, especially western districts, in the next 24 hours, the IMD on Wednesday warned that heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/cyclone-amphan-heavy-rain-alert-in-assam-meghalaya/articleshow/75857791.cms||Kangkan Kalita
May 21, 2020||Itanagar||Cyclone Amphan: Heavy rain alert in Assam, Meghalaya||GUWAHATI: Assam and Meghalaya are bracing for heavy to very heavy rain due to the impact of cyclonic storm Amphan on Thursday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert in Assam and Meghalaya in view of the adverse climatic conditions to be experienced from Wednesday night. In other NE states, light to moderate rain is expected, the IMD said. "Mainly west Assam districts - South Salmara Mankachar, Dhubri, Bongaigaon and Goalpara - will have the maximum impact of Amphan. In neighbouring Meghalaya, the districts of Garo Hills will be mainly affected," a senior official of IMD told TOI. Rainfall in the northeast is expected from tonight itself and will continue the entire day on Thursday, he added. The IMD said Amphan, which was centred at 12:30 pm on Wednesday as an extremely severe cyclonic storm over the northwest Bay of Bengal near latitude 20.90 degree north and longitude 88.0 degrees east, was moving north-northeastwards and crossing the West Bengal- Bangladesh coast between Digha and Hatiya close to Sunderbans during Wednesday evening with a wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said, "All district disaster management teams in Assam have been put on alert. In lower (also known as western) Assam, 40 state disaster response teams have been asked to take position in view of Amphan impact. The NDRF has also been kept ready." As per the forecast issued by the IMD on Wednesday for the next 24 hours, moderate rain and thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura. "Strong surface wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH over south Assam, west Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura is expected from Wednesday night itself," said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) deputy director general of meteorology Sanjay O'Neill Shaw. The IMD has issued warning of thunderstorm with lightning and gusty wind with speed (40-50) kmph at isolated places over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya in the next 24 hours. Forecast of gusty winds, thunderstormThe IMD further said thunderstorms with lightning and gusty wind with speed of 30-40 KMPH is very likely to occur at isolated places over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the period. While heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya, especially western districts, in the next 24 hours, the IMD on Wednesday warned that heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/itanagar/cyclone-amphan-heavy-rain-alert-in-assam-meghalaya/articleshow/75857787.cms||Kangkan Kalita
