May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru's co-living spaces prepare for life after lockdown||The approximately 300 co-living properties in Bengaluru, were earlier an ideal setup for several students and millenials. But the number of residents drastically dropped with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, leaving many properties nearly empty. Residents like 25-year-old Shivshankar Machiraju from Hyderabad, were quick to return home when no measures were taken as soon as the pandemic struck. Now, to adapt to the new norms of social distancing and reassure residents, co-living spaces have started coming up with adjustments and changes in their living arrangements. We take a closer look... Reduced rent to cope with the crisisOne such space, Nestaway has waived off Rs 1 million in the past month, by reducing rent for its members. They plan to keep it that way even after the lockdown is lifted. Sneha Ghosh, one of the residents, says, "Reducing the rent helps students, who form a majority of the residents of these spaces. Since I'm not earning and my parents are also working with pay-cuts, this was a great move." Preventive measures take priorityThrough meetings on video call, these spaces have been discussing new measures with residents. Faisal Mohammad, resident of a Co-Live property in Bengaluru, suggested doing away with finger print scanners, on one such meeting. "I don't know whether we'd need voice recognition or pass key swipe as security features to replace the fingerprint scan, but that security feature could put us at risk. So I suggested the change and they were completely on board with it," he shares. Providing an ideal work-from-home setupSince many of its residents are working from home, co-living space Zolo is now providing cheaper internet services. Sromona Mukherjee, a representative, says, "We have decided on 24x7 power backup with extra fuel available if the power outage lasts longer. Extra desks and chairs are available to residents who need a bigger workstation. We are working on the bandwidth of the internet to make it more efficient and faster. In short, we are trying to build a connection with our members so that they can count on us." Recreational activities go online Co-Live and Nestaway usually provide multiple sets of board and card games for their residents. Prior to the lockdown, Saturday night used to be game night at Co-Live - an evening of fun board games that the residents could enjoy with their neighbours. Now, these companies are planning to provide online versions of the same games, to avoid proximity with other residents. Co-Live is also introducing online recreation - like fancy-dress competitions and disco nights - for community members. These competitions will have prizes like a top-notch, in-house privilege for a month, in store. New rules in common areasAreas that are common to residents are a cause for concern in co-living spaces, as appliances like washing machines are shared. While Zolo has decided to temporarily shut off their common areas, Co-Live has installed sanitizers in every corner, asking residents to thoroughly clean and sanitize if they're using something or are sitting in a common space. Meals are still available at some of these spaces, but residents are asked to bring their own utensils so that they can take the food away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-co-living-spaces-prepare-for-life-after-lockdown/articleshow/75873240.cms||Hansy Sanctis
May 22, 2020||Agra||Rights panel notice to UP over kids carrying wood in used PPE||AGRA: Days after a video of two children carrying firewood in a discarded PPE suit surfaced, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued a notice to the UP's health department and sought its reply within three days. The panel has asked the Agra administration and the UP health secretary to take necessary action in the matter and ensure that used Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits are disposed according to the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. NCPCR is a statutory body which comes under the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development. The notice was issued by NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo, who also cited TOI report on the incident. On May 13 afternoon, two minor children were found using a discarded PPE suit to drag home a heap of dry wood in Agra Cantonment, a shocking visual which was captured by some Agra residents on mobile phones and shared widely on social media platforms. The boys, who were busy collecting firewood, found the "fascinating" white PPE suit in a pile of garbage near a graveyard. The place is about one km away from Railway hospital, which now doubles up as an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients.  Child rights activist Naresh Paras had filed a complaint with the panel after which the direction was issued. He told TOI, "The matter of children carrying firewood in used PPE kit was not taken seriously by the district administration and health department. They didn't investigate the matter. The purpose to file the complaint with the NCPCR was to ensure that such an incident is not repeated. Authorities must ensure that used PPE kits are disposed as per the guidelines of the Central ministry of health and family welfare." Agra chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, "We had found that the PPE in the hands of the children was not of government purchase. It had a different colour. We have a contract with a private company for the disposal of hazardous medical waste. All the medical waste generated at hospitals is collected in separate containers. It is sprayed with disinfectant and carried to a disposal facility on Firozabad road. All the waste is taken out of the vehicle and again disinfected. Finally, all the waste is thrown in an electric furnace." Watch Child rights panel slams UP govt after video shows kids using discarded PPE kits||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rights-panel-notice-to-up-over-kids-carrying-wood-in-used-ppe/articleshow/75876554.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Amphan ravages College Street as heartbreaking pictures of devastation emerge||Among the endless horrific photographs of the aftermath of cyclone Amphan, the one that shows the floating books in the muddy waters of Kolkata’s College Street are the most difficult to forget. As per current estimation, books worth more than Rs 50-60 lakh have been destroyed by the cyclone. While many publishers are struggling to drain out the water from their godown, asbestos and tin roofs of countless small shops flew away leaving the books exposed to the beast from the Bay of Bengal. “My office is on the first floor,” said Avik Sarkar, owner of online retailer Boi Choi. “My publishers, who own small shops around the area, are all devastated. Roofs are gone, doors broken, their books are floating on the street water,” he said. “Our godown is still waterlogged,” said Esha Chatterjee of Patra Bharati. “Today the entire day we struggled to find a pump to drain the water out. But nothing happened. We, along with the family members and friends, tried to drain water with buckets but that too is a mammoth task,” she said in despair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-ravages-college-street-as-heartbreaking-pictures-of-devastation-emerge/articleshow/75876506.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
May 22, 2020||India||Uninsured trucks pose greater risk to road users, migrants walking home||NEW DELHI: A large share of trucks without active insurance cover and the government not extending the deadline to renew them beyond May 15 have increased the risk for other road users and particularly migrants. Insurance companies don't pay any compensation to the victims, if the vehicle involved in a crash doesn't have active insurance cover. According to sources in trucking industry, nearly half of the 52 lakh trucks have not renewed the third party insurance with the hope that the government would extend the relaxation by a month or so as it has been done for permits and other documents under Central Motor Vehicle Act. Two key truckers and transporters associations, AIMTC and AITWA, have been demanding the extension of deadline considering that mostly small players in the trade, particularly the single truck owners, have not been able to renew the third party motor insurance cover. They said big players and organized fleet owners have renewed their insurance. “But the lion’s share of all trucks are with those who have one or a couple of trucks. There is little demand and most of these trucks are standing idle. So, expecting them to renew insurance paying between Rs 27,000 to Rs 50,000 now is not a practical proposition,” said an office bearer of AIMTC. An AITWA office bearer said truckers were facing huge crisis as small players don’t see major change in the demand picking up in near future. “Another big problem is a large chunk of drivers have gone home in Shramik Special trains and buses. We are staring at huge shortage of drivers and we will feel the impact soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uninsured-trucks-pose-greater-risk-to-road-users-migrants-walking-home/articleshow/75876692.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 22, 2020||Business||Uninsured trucks pose greater risk to road users, migrants walking home||NEW DELHI: A large share of trucks without active insurance cover and the government not extending the deadline to renew them beyond May 15 have increased the risk for other road users and particularly migrants. Insurance companies don't pay any compensation to the victims, if the vehicle involved in a crash doesn't have active insurance cover. According to sources in trucking industry, nearly half of the 52 lakh trucks have not renewed the third party insurance with the hope that the government would extend the relaxation by a month or so as it has been done for permits and other documents under Central Motor Vehicle Act. Two key truckers and transporters associations, AIMTC and AITWA, have been demanding the extension of deadline considering that mostly small players in the trade, particularly the single truck owners, have not been able to renew the third party motor insurance cover. They said big players and organized fleet owners have renewed their insurance. “But the lion’s share of all trucks are with those who have one or a couple of trucks. There is little demand and most of these trucks are standing idle. So, expecting them to renew insurance paying between Rs 27,000 to Rs 50,000 now is not a practical proposition,” said an office bearer of AIMTC. An AITWA office bearer said truckers were facing huge crisis as small players don’t see major change in the demand picking up in near future. “Another big problem is a large chunk of drivers have gone home in Shramik Special trains and buses. We are staring at huge shortage of drivers and we will feel the impact soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uninsured-trucks-pose-greater-risk-to-road-users-migrants-walking-home/articleshow/75876723.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Restrictions lifted in Punjab's first containment zone; villagers send wheat and other items worth Rs 15 lakh for langar at Darbar Sahib||NAWANSHAHR: Two months after village Pathlawa was declared containment zone after first Covid-19 casualty in Punjab took place from here, restrictions placed in and around the village were lifted on Wednesday. The first thing villagers did was to send 315 quintal wheat, vegetables, sugars and dry rations – with total worth of Rs 15 lakh - in three cargo vehicles for langar at Darbar Sahib, Amritsar. Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani himself went to the village on Wednesday to announce the lifting of the restrictions placed on the village as it was notified as containment zone. He also heard the villagers and asked all the financial and other institutions to resume their activities in the village. Pathlawa was declared containment zone on March 19 after report of sample taken from Baldev Singh, 70, who had died a day earlier on March 18, confirmed that he was having Corona virus infection. Later 14 members of his family, his two co-travellers, village Sarpanch Harpal Singh and latter’s mother, were among the 27 of his contacts who tested positive. Barring one – Harbhajan Singh of village Moranwali who was at Government Medical College Amritsar - all had recovered without any complications. Last from the village, a grandson of Baldev Singh, had returned home on April 21 and 28 days later restrictions were lifted. Sant Gurbachan Singh, 78, a co-traveller of Baldev Singh to Germany and Italy, who also recovered from Covid-19 infection, performed Ardaas as three vehicles of wheat and other things were sent to Amritsar. DC Bublani also interacted with the villagers at the office of vilages based NGO Ek Noor Sanstha and Sant Gurbcahan Singh felicitated him from the village. After the officials left Sarpanch and other villagers took the three cargo vehicles to Darbar Sahib Amritsar. “We raised the money from the villagers to send Wheat and other items to the Langar at Darbar Sahib and Sarpanch led the endeavour,” said village resident nihang Harpreet Singh, an active member of the NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/restrictions-lifted-in-punjabs-first-containment-zone-villagers-send-wheat-and-other-items-worth-rs-15-lakh-for-langar-at-darbar-sahib/articleshow/75877107.cms||I P Singh
May 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rajdhani Express passengers who travelled with 12 Covid-positive passengers retested for infection||PANAJI: Doctors from south Goa district hospital on Thursday retested 150-odd passengers who came into contact with 12 positive passengers while travelling on a Rajdhani Express train to Goa on Sunday. These 150 passengers were contact-traced and retested as they traveled in the same compartment as the 12, who tested positive on the Sunday. The train ferried around 350 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-rajdhani-express-passengers-who-travelled-with-12-covid-positive-passengers-retested-for-infection/articleshow/75877220.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Authorities look for camps to lodge people during monsoon rains||KOCHI: Village officials, tahasildars and secretaries of all local bodies in Ernakulam will be asked to identify buildings, where people can be rehabilitated in view of possibility of heavy rain during the monsoon season while following social distancing norms in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. The decision in this regard was taken in a review meeting held at collaborate on Thursday. Four buildings should be situated in the same compound in each local body limit. One building for accommodating people, who have no illness, the second one for the vulnerable people, including elders and children and the third one for lodging people undergoing home quarantine. The fourth one will be for people with symptoms of fever, cough etc. Besides, a committee comprising a village officer and ward members should be constituted. The committee should convene meeting on the availability of food, symptoms of fever and cough among public and those who need medical care and it should be intimated to the village officer and secretaries of local bodies. A meeting will be convened on May 26 to discuss further about in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-authorities-lookout-for-camps-to-lodge-people-during-monsoon-rains/articleshow/75877310.cms||T C Sreemol
May 22, 2020||Shimla||Returnees spur spike in Himachal Pradesh, 42 coronavirus cases in a day||SHIMLA: In a fresh spike in Himachal Pradesh, 42 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday - 31 from Hamirpur district, 6 from Kangra district and 5 from Solan district. The 18 persons who tested positive on Wednesday had come back from other states. The new cases have taken the state's tally to 152 positive cases, of which 90 are active cases. Five persons who tested positive from Solan district had been quarantined on their return from West Bengal on May 15. Six new positive cases have been reported from Kangra district, all returnees from Mumbai under quarantine. They will be shifted to a dedicated Covid care centre at Baijnath. Those who tested positive from Kangra are in the age group of 21 to 57. The Hamirpur cases include two men from Bhoranj tehsil and a man from a Hamirpur village. Two members of a family, both Mumbai returnees, tested positive in Nadaun sub division. A total of 34,734 people were put under surveillance in the state till Thursday, of which 10,414 have completed 28 days of surveillance and 24,320 are under active surveillance. Of the 22,641 persons tested for coronavirus, 21,812 have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/returnees-spur-spike-in-himachal-pradesh-42-coronavirus-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/75877398.cms||Anand Bodh
May 22, 2020||India||NH toll plazas to help migrant workers walking back home||NEW DELHI: Now migrant workers walking on highways will get assistance from the toll operators across the country. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has asked all toll operators to record the number of migrants who received help from them and they need to provide the details of the facilities provided resting place, drinking water, providing footwear and medical assistance besides food. They also need to put in record any other assistance for their safety such as pasting radiant tapes on cycles so they vehicles can spot them from a distance. Some of the toll operators told TOI that there has been significant reduction in the number of migrant workers walking on highways to return home in recent days. “Still we see many walking. We have been providing food and water to these migrants on our own. Now NHAI has asked us to keep the details and share with them,” said a toll operator. Sources said the issue of migrants taking highways is more in certain states such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The NHAI along with road transport ministry is working on a protocol to deal with this while ensuring that the persons in distress are helped in the best possible manner. “Private contractors had earlier done great service. In several cases they have donated footwear and other necessary items to the migrant workers returning home,” said an NHAI official. The home ministry has urged all district administrations to help the migrant workers by creating rest places with food and other necessary facilities till they are guided to bus or rail stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nh-toll-plazas-to-help-migrant-workers-walking-back-home/articleshow/75877294.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 22, 2020||Business||NHAI ropes in experts for developing new financing approaches in current financial condition||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started working on new strategies to tap long-term investment from different sources including from insurance, pension and foreign funds and also to get soft loan from multi-lateral agencies such as World Bank, ADB and New Development Bank (earlier known as BRICS bank). The intense exercise has started amid clear indications of fall in toll revenue, reduction in fuel cess and subdued response to the monetisation of completed highway projects, the three key sources for NHAI’s finances. An NHAI official said they have engaged a team of experts “recommended by World Bank” and another external expert has been appointed as advisor (finance) who has worked in a major public sector insurance company. Sources said the group of experts will have the responsibility to carry out background review, compile data and will be tasked with “developing new financing approaches in the current financial horizon”. They added the experts will identify the required investment and potential investors and will also provide credit risk mitigation support. “Now it’s all the more important to study all the projects and what best we can do to continue our highway development without facing financial burden,” said an official. Despite government’s effort, private investment has not revived in this sector and NHAI has been fully funding highway development projects in most of the cases. Sources admitted that conventional source of financing – budgetary support and toll revenue – are no more enough to provide comfort to NHAI get more fund in the form of loan. Though it has a plan to auction completed projects to raise about Rs 1 lakh crore in the next four years, the current condition is not conducive for this. High increase in land and road construction expenses have pushed the per km cost of stretches under Bharatmala by 63% more than what the Cabinet had approved, thereby making these financially unsustainable. According to estimates, NHAI would require about Rs 10.9 lakh crore by 2025 against the earlier projected availability of about Rs 8.85 lakh crore and this fund availability would include approved burrowing of about Rs 4.35 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nhai-ropes-in-experts-for-developing-new-financing-approaches-in-current-financial-condition/articleshow/75877508.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 22, 2020||Guwahati||Assam to spend up to Rs 20,000 per incoming person in mandatory quarantine||GUWAHATI: Assam government has allocated up to Rs 20,000 towards the expenditure in quarantining each person arriving from outside the state under its new slogan of “Ruthless Quarantine with Human Heart” to arrest Covid-19 from spreading out in the community. State health minister Himanta Bisawa Sarma said, “The government will not compromise on the mandatory 14 days quarantine period and we are saying ruthless because any person, however influential or powerful he may be, has to stay in quarantine. We will take care of them with a human heart and provide them food and bed to the best of our capabilities. Criminal cases will be initiated against anyone found jumping quarantine.” People will have to spend seven days in institutional quarantine, either in temporary facilities or in hotels depending upon vacancies and will be allowed to go home after seven days provided the person tests negative. From the institutional facility, the person has to spend another seven days in home quarantine along with his family members at home. The government will provide three meals with tea in between along with packaged water costing Rs 500 per day for each person in the temporary facilities, which amounts to Rs 3500 per head for seven days. Those put up in hotels will get the same meals for the same amount and the hoteliers will be paid Rs 2000 for each room per day, which amounts to Rs 17500 per head for seven days. For the next seven days in home quarantine, the government will provide a one-time assistance of Rs 2000 to the family for ration as the entire family will have to go into quarantine. Those in home quarantine will also get an additional Rs 500 for purchase of toiletries and medicines. Apart from this, Assam is the only state to give a second installment of Rs 2000 to each of its 3.61 lakh citizens, who are still stranded outside the state and have registered their names with the government. “We released Rs 72.23 crore for providing Rs 2000 to each of these people as the first installment last month. Today we are sending the second installment and we are the only state to do so. The third installment will be sent next month,” Sarma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-to-spend-up-to-rs-20000-per-incoming-person-in-mandatory-quarantine/articleshow/75877269.cms||Prabin Kalita
May 22, 2020||Delhi||#LockdownEffect: No Jashn-e-Eid this year||Every year, there are celebrations galore in Delhi with power-packed iftar evenings and Eid lunches. However, celebrations this year are low-key, owing to the pandemic. Delhiites, who either organise these parties or attend them, tell us what are they missing the most about those gatherings. Virtual Eid celebrations this year Renu HussainRenu Hussain and Shahnawaz Hussain host an Eid lunch every year at their home. Renu tells us, “This year, we’re celebrating Eid at home with only family members. We’ve been hosting Eid parties for the last 20 years, and there have seldom been times when we couldn’t host one. I’m really touched to hear how much my friends are missing celebrating Eid with me. This year I’ll organise a Zoom party with my friends, so we can have a virtual celebration.” Neelam Pratap RudyNeelam Pratap Rudy says, “Eid means celebrations with Renu and Shahnawaz Hussain. They are like family to me, and my younger daughter ties a rakhi to Renu’s two sons. So for me, it’s like a family event. This will be the first time I won’t be at their place on Eid, but I’ll pray we meet soon and celebrate together.” 'Will miss meeting friends at Eid parties'A file picture of Leena Singh with her staff on EidLeena Singh says, “For me, Eid has always been an occasion to celebrate with my staff, spend time with them and celebrate the rest of the day with my friends at an Eid ki dawat. This year, I will greet everyone on phone. What I am already missing is hugs from my friends. Eid gale milne ka tyohaar hai and it is sad that we won’t be able to do that this year. I never miss Eid parties because I get to meet all my friends, and we all sit for hours and chat. Also, the food at their Eid parties is the best – I always eat jalebi, rabri and kulfi.” Vani Tripathi TikooThough Vani Tripathi Tikoo will miss going to Eid and iftar parties, she reminds us that the need of the hour is social distancing. She says, "It’s important to understand that social distancing is necessary. We haven’t celebrated any festival in the last two months, and we’ll all celebrate Eid at home. However, I’m definitely missing going to iftar and Eid parties, the warmth of hosts and meeting my friends." 'I'll miss friends coming over on Eid'Amaan Ali Bangash says that while he isn’t a regular to Eid parties, he’ll miss the gathering at home. "Eid at home has always been with some close friends, who come home to greet our family, and we have a great time talking and eating good food. This year I’ll miss that human presence. Abhi toh achcha khaana khaane ka bhi mann nahi hai, since there are so many people who aren’t even getting two meals a day. When I was a kid, I remember my father would go to some iftar and Eid parties, but I’ve always loved spending time with family on Eid. This time also, I’ll be with my family and we’ll pray, but will miss the celebrations," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdowneffect-no-jashn-e-eid-this-year/articleshow/75873429.cms||Divya Kaushik
May 22, 2020||India||US deports Osmania graduate with Qaeda link||NEW DELHI: A 40-year-old civil engineering graduate from Osmania University in Hyderabad who had moved to the US for further studies but got involved in terror financing Al Qaeda, has been deported by the United States to India after completing his prison term there. Mohammed Zubair Ibrahim (40), son of a Mohd Ahmed Shaker and resident of Toledo, Ohio, USA, and his brother Yahya Farooq Mohammad were influenced by Anwar Al Awlaki, leader of Al Qaeda in Arabian Peninsula, who was designated as terrorist by the US in 2009 and later killed in a drone strike in 2011 in Yemen. Yahya had handed over $22,000 to Awlaki’s associates in Yemen in 2009, contributed via cheques by his university friend Asif Ahmed Salim and his brother Sultane Salim. Yahya pleaded guilty after being detained by FBI in 2015 and is incarcerated ever since. He was sentenced to over 27 years in prison. Zubair, an Indian passport holder, on the other hand has completed his sentence and was deported by the US to India a couple of days ago by a special flight. He is presently serving quarantine at Amritsar and will be questioned exhaustively by the Indian agencies. “He is not charged in India...not yet,” an officer in the Central security establishment told TOI. Zubair had got admission to do his Masters in Structural Engineering at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. His brother, Yahya, who also did his Masters from Ohio University in 2004, had shifted to UAE and started living with his mother. He became a permanent US Citizen in 2007. Both brothers used to share literature/speeches of Anwar Al Awlaki. Yahya also shared videos of Taliban and Chechen militants. Yahya used to attach such mails to his university friend, one Asif Ahmed Salim, resident of Kansas, US who was a US citizen but had family origins in Pakistan. In January and July 2009, Yahya visited Yemen to meet Awlaki along with his two friends from UAE, namely, Jawed Tahir and Madin (originally from India). Jawed, who owned fishing business and made business trips to Yemen often, facilitated the meeting of Yahya and Awlaki. Yahya would receive cheques from Asif Ahmed Salim and his brother Sultane Salim, meant for further donation to be given to Awlaki. During the July visit Yahya handed over $22,000 to an associate of Awlaki. He couldn't meet Awlaki in person as the village where Awlaki was staying had presence of Yemenese Army persons. In October, 2011 after death of Awlaki, Ibrahim deleted his emails with keywords "Awlaki", "AA", "jihad", "Taliban", and “Yemen”. On December 8, 2011 he was was questioned by FBI regarding monetary help to Awlaki through Asif and Sultane. He was detained by FBI on November 5, 2015. Yahya pleaded guilty to providing and concealing material support to terrorists. In 2009, his two associates delivered $7,000 to Awlaki while in July, 2009 he himself travelled to Yemen and gave $22,000 dollars to Al Awlaki's associate. He was also charged with attempt to hire a contract killer to kill one of the judges assigned to their case. He was sentenced to jail for over 27 years in 2017. Awlaki was designated as terrorist by US in July, 2010 after he claimed responsibility for Fort Hood Attack and Christmas bombing in December 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-deports-osmania-graduate-with-qaeda-link/articleshow/75877972.cms||Bharti Jain
May 22, 2020||India||After 2,050 Shramik runs, just 30% of migrants have managed to leave||NEW DELHI: Even as Indian Railways has moved over 30 lakh stranded migrant workers, students and tourists by 2,050 Shramik Special trains, data from different states indicate a large number is still waiting for trains or buses to return home. Across Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Haryana and Punjab not more than 30% have returned home, data compiled by TOI suggest. Sources said though railways had worked out a ballpark figure of about 30 lakh stranded migrants who needed trains to return to their home states, now it seems the numbers are higher and the national transporter is ready to run 300 to 350 Shramik Special trains per day till there is demand. Railway minister Piyush Goyal said over 50% Shramik Specials (1,054) had reached Uttar Pradesh and over 25% (562) terminated in Bihar. Goyal said Gujarat had sent 636 Shramik Specials, which was the maximum among all sending states, while lauding UP and Gujarat chief ministers. He alleged that some states including West Bengal, Rajasthan and Jharkhand were not cooperating in accelerating migrants return through trains. Details from Maharashtra show that nearly five lakh out of the 20 lakh stranded migrants registered with the state authorities had taken these special trains to return to their native place. According to sources in Mumbai police, more than two lakh out of the 3.5 lakh migrants registered with them had left the city in such trains indicating a large number from other centres in the state were still waiting their turn. Delhi has registered nearly four lakh stranded migrants who want to go back home, but around 65,000 had been able to leave as of Wednesday. In the case of Karnataka, nearly 7.88 lakh stranded migrants have registered and till Wednesday nearly 1.6 lakh had gone back by the special trains. However, there are also indications that a section of the registered people may stay back as construction work has resumed, sources said. Even sources in railway ministry feel the demand for the SS trains may reduce as economic activities restart quickly across urban areas. Details from Haryana show while 10.93 lakh persons had registered to go to their home state, nearly 2.08 lakh had left from the state by 53 trains and 4,257 buses till Wednesday. Out of the 1.76 lakh who wanted to come back from their home states once work resumed, only 11,000 had returned to Haryana. In the case of Punjab, 17.19 lakh had registered to go back and till Wednesday 2.7 lakh had boarded 236 trains from the state. Data of passengers who are availing bus services was not readily available. There there is no consolidated data of how many want to go home from Kerala. A study conducted by Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) had estimated there are 25 lakh migrant workers in the state. So far 42 special trains have ferried around 65,000 passengers. In the case of Rajasthan, nearly 1 lakh migrant workers had left by 78 trains till Thursday. “Now we have 45,000 stranded labourers for whom we are arranging at least 36 more trains,” said Ravi Jain, commissioner transport. Rajasthan has also started Shramik Special buses for the migrant workers for intra-state movement.  (With inputs from Manthan Mehta in Mumbai, Rakesh Prakash in Bengaluru & Ashish Mehta from Jaipur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-2050-shramik-runs-just-30-of-migrants-have-managed-to-leave/articleshow/75878703.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 22, 2020||India||Covid deaths: Over 50% above 60 yrs; 73% had other illnesses||NEW DELHI: The elderly and those with co-morbidities continue to be most vulnerable to Covid-19 infection as over 50% of total fatalities are among people above 60 years of age, whereas 73% of those who died had underlying co-morbidities like diabetes, heart disorders and chronic kidney ailments, the latest health ministry analysis of deaths showed. Though the share of deaths in these two categories in the total fatalities has declined slightly as compared to the statistics reported on April 30, the latest figures shows people above 60 as well as those with underlying conditions are very high risk groups. On April 30, people above 60 accounted for 51.2% fatalities, whereas 78% deaths were among people with co-morbidities.  As earlier, men are more at risk when it comes to fatalities, accounting for 64% of deaths. The age analysis of deaths showed that 0.5% of deaths were reported in the under-15 age group, 2.5% between 15 and 30 years, 11.4% between 30 and 45 years, 35.1% between 45-60 years and 50.5% among those above 60 years. Covid-19 deaths increased from 1,075 on April 30 to 3,435 on Thursday. The case mortality rate in India is 3.06%, which compares favourably with the global rate of 6.65%, the ministry said, underlining the need for timely case identification and proper clinical management which it said helped keep the mortality rate low. Officials said the low case fatality among younger people indicated that most of them were cured of the infection. The ministry said the number of cases had climbed to 1,12,359 with 132 deaths and 5,609 cases added in the last 24 hours till 8am on Thursday. A total of 45,299 patients have recovered so far and 3,002 were cured in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. “The recovery rate is improving and is 40.32% at present,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-deaths-over-50-above-60-yrs-73-had-other-illnesses/articleshow/75879310.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 22, 2020||India||SP, BSP to skip Cong-led oppn meeting, AAP not invited yet||NEW DELHI: Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will stay away from the meeting of opposition parties called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss Centre's response to the coronavirus pandemic on Friday.  Sources said SP and BSP were extended invitations to join the discussion on the raging issue but "they have expressed regret". Both the UP outfits have generally steered clear of big opposition gatherings though their representatives do attend discussions that the opposition calls on floor coordination in Parliament. Interestingly, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), it is learnt, was not invited. The Delhi outfit fought a bitter battle with BJP in state polls but has since been warm towards the central government. While absence of SP and BSP will continue to be a spoiler in opposition unity, Shiv Sena supremo and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will participate in the meeting. It will be his first appearance in a formal opposition brainstorming. Sources said the discussions are likely to focus on the government's handling of the pandemic, migrant crisis and the economic situation, including the Centre's help to states and relief package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sp-bsp-to-skip-cong-led-oppn-meeting-aap-not-invited-yet/articleshow/75879321.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar engineering colleges to accept JEE-Main score||PATNA: The Bihar Combined Entrance Competitive Exam Board (BCECEB) authorities on Thursday announced that the state engineering colleges will take admissions on the basis of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main score, which is conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). The NTA has given another opportunity to engineering aspirants to apply for JEE-Main. The application window for JEE-Main (round II) had opened on May 19 and it will close on May 24 at 5pm. JEE-Main will be held on July 18 to 23. BCECEB officer on special duty Anil Kumar Sinha on Thursday said that candidates who wish to take admission in engineering colleges of Bihar, will have to submit the forms by May 24. “There are around 38 government engineering colleges and one private college in Vaishali. There are altogether 10,000 seats in engineering colleges for students who qualify JEE-Main,” he added. “BCECEB will not conduct any exam for admission in engineering colleges. Students will be selected on the basis of their scores in JEE-Main. The application form for admission will come out after JEE results are announced,.” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-engineering-colleges-to-accept-jee-main-score/articleshow/75873974.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Now, use mobile app to get fresh fish at home||PATNA: People eager to get fresh fish of their choice at home can now use the special mobile application developed by the fisheries directorate. Special secretary-cum-director, fisheries directorate, Dharmendra Singh said, “The app — DOFAHD BIHAR — contains the details of fish vendors, including their names and cellphone numbers. “People willing to have fish of their choice delivered at home have been using this platform during the lockdown,” Singh said, adding the department has worked as a “facilitator” and “aggregator” of the fish vendors. Asked if the list of fish vendors is Patna specific, Singh said the majority of the fish vendors listed in the app are from Patna, where the demand for online food delivery is high. “Names of some fish vendors from other major towns have also been included on the list,” Singh said, adding the app has found many takers. He said the department had been already working to develop the app this year. “In view of the new situation, work on developing the app was expedited and it was finally launched in mid-April,” Singh said. Under the guidance of animal husbandry and fisheries department secretary N Vijayalaskhmi, Bihar has emerged as a major fish producing state, with the current production at 6.42 lakh metric tonnes, around 1.5 lakh metric tonne short of self-sufficiency. Gone are the days when the state used to depend on Andhra Pradesh for fish import despite having huge potential for fish production. The state has around 93,000 hectares of pond, 26,000 hectares of water reservoirs, 9,000 hectares of ox-bow lakes and 3,200km of river length. The Centre and the state government have stressed on promoting “blue revolution” to improve the state’s economy that has been otherwise disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-use-mobile-app-to-get-fresh-fish-at-home/articleshow/75873548.cms||Abhay Singh
May 22, 2020||Business||Covid-19: Finance minister to look at credit flow||MUMBAI: In her meeting with banks on Friday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will take up the progress of Covid-related credit and the extent of pre-approved loans that have been sanctioned. The minister will meet with chiefs of public sector banks and heads of Nabard, Sidbi and the National Housing Bank through videoconference. The FM has also called for details on the loan offers accepted and disbursement effected. In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, several banks have extended additional working capital limits and term loans to businesses to help overcome the liquidity challenges arising out of the lockdown. While many borrowers have sought increased lines of credit, quite a few have not drawn them as they await the lockdown to be lifted. The new projects announced by the government under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme will also be discussed on Friday. These include the emergency credit line guarantee scheme providing up to Rs 3 lakh crore for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The FM has also called for data on the utilisation of the refinance limits by Nabard, NHB and Sidbi. The RBI had last month extended funding of Rs 50,000 crore, of which Rs 25,000 crore was for Nabard, Rs 15,000 crore for Sidbi and Rs 10,000 crore for the NHB for refinancing commercial lenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fm-bankers-meet-on-covid-fin-today/articleshow/75876531.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Business||Banks to pay 0.25% for government guarantee||MUMBAI: To get a government guarantee against defaults on the bonds or the loans that they buy from finance companies, banks will pay to the government a fee of 0.25% of the portfolio value. This fee, which has to be paid in advance, will protect up to 20% of the NBFC-issued bonds in their portfolio or 10% of the loan book banks have purchased from NBFCs. The government on Thursday released detailed guidelines of the partial credit guarantee scheme, which has now been extended from credit to bond investments. NBFCs, which include housing finance companies and microfinance institutions and who receive bank support under this scheme have to rework their asset-liability management to ensure that in three months their future fund flows match their outgo. They must also ensure that their capital adequacy ratio does not go below what has been stipulated by regulation. Loans that NBFCs sell to banks have to be at least six months old and if they are raising money by issuing bonds, they should be of AA rating or below. The window for the one-time partial credit guarantee offered by the government will remain open until March 2021 or until Rs 10,000-crore guarantees are provided by the government. For purchase of pooled assets, the government guarantee will be valid for 24 months from the date of purchase, while for purchase of bonds the guarantee will be coterminous with the tenure of the instruments. To be eligible, the tenure of the bonds at the time of purchase should be from nine months or 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-to-pay-0-25-for-govt-guarantee/articleshow/75876390.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||VMC finances gasping from Covid infection||Vadodara: With expenses of the civic body surpassing its revenue in April this year, cash-strapped Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is almost staring at a financial crisis owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. Relying heavily on octroi grant provided by the state government to compensate for the octroi tax that has been abolished, VMC has to walk the tight rope with its limited sources of revenue. Finances were further hit in April when the civic body collected Rs 6.75 crore and spent around Rs 85 crore. In April last year, the civic body had collected revenue amounting to Rs 29 crore from various sources. Officials pointed out that the civic body was struggling with its revenues as income from sources like building permissions, various taxes and charges as well as other sources had completely dried up. An official said that several expenses that totalled to around Rs 85 crore per month remained unchanged. These include expenses like salary and pension, operation and maintenance cost as well as electricity and other bills. The only sources that are contributing to the civic body’s earnings these days are interest, rent, some income towards pending taxes as well as other minor heads. The opposition in the elected wing of VMC has already raised the issue with the state government. Former deputy mayor and Congress corporator Chirag Zaveri said that the corporation needed to be prepared for the ensuing monsoon, water woes and unexpected expenses. He added that if this continued even giving salaries would be a difficult task. Zaveri has asked the chief minister to provide a grant of Rs 500crore to the civic body. He added that there were pressing works related to drainage that would need allocation of funds. He gave the example of cave-ins that took place in the city recently and said that drainage works related to them will have to be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-finances-gasping-from-covid-infection/articleshow/75873686.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||HC notice on financial benefits for ‘corona warriors’||PATNA: The Patna high court on Thursday directed the urban development and housing department (UDHD) to respond with details of safety measures and financial benefits for employees of municipal corporations across the state as they are also on the frontline of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL via video conferencing filed by a law student Shivani Kaushik urging the court to issue direction for payment of ‘risk and hardship’ allowances, incentives as bonus and additional salary to policemen and healthcare staff battling Covid-19 pandemic. The court also directed the petitioner to file a supplementary affidavit before th next hearing bringing on record information in tabulated format about the benefits granted to ‘Corona warriors’ in other states for fighting Covid-19. Though the state government had filed a counter affidavit addressing issues raised by the petitioner, the court sought a reply from additional chief secretary (home) on it. The court had dubbed doctors, healthcare workers and police personnel as ‘guardian angels’ during an earlier hearing on May 7. The bench also sought Union finance ministry’s reply on plans for any economic grant to Bihar for the Corona warriors, especially police personnel. Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general SD Sanjay sought two weeks’ time to file a reply following which the court fixed June 4 as the next date for hearing. Additional advocate general Anjani Kumar appearing for the state government, submitted that only Rs 450.21 crore revenue could be collected by the state government in April this year in comparison to Rs 2542.23 crore in the corresponding month of last fiscal year amounting to a shortfall of 82.29%. Kumar urged that no direction be issued by high court as under these circumstances it may not be possible to provide financial benefits. He also submitted that healthcare workers were being provided a special insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. He also informed the court that police personnel were being provided 13 months’ salary along with compensatory leave as per the Bihar Police Manual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-notice-on-financial-benefits-for-corona-warriors/articleshow/75874054.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 22, 2020||Varanasi||City recalls contribution of Rajiv Gandhi||Varanasi: The city observed the Anti-Terrorism Day and death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on Thursday. Congressmen held an online meeting and donated blood to pay tributes to the great leader while the police personnel held pledge-taking ceremonies at different police stations. A meeting on digital platform was held at the Congress office in Englishialine area. Addressing the meeting digitally, coordinator of Rajiv Gandhi Study Circle Prof Satish Rai highlighted the personality and works of Rajiv Gandhi. Recalling his contributions for development of the country, he said that Rajiv Gandhi had visualized the 21st century’s India and brought revolutionary changes. The meeting was attended by senior leaders including Vijay Shankar Pandey, Baijnath Singh, Vijay Shankar Mehta, Bhupendra Pratap Singh, Shailendra Singh, Ashok Kumar Pandey and others. A number of Congressmen led by former MLA Ajay Rai donated blood at IMA building on the occasion. Besides, the Anti-Terrorism Day was observed at different police stations in the district. In view of Covid-19 outbreak the police personnel maintained social distancing wearing masks while taking pledge on the occasion. The Anti-Terrorism Day was also observed in other districts. A function was held at the Mau SP office and police lines to take oath of eradicating terrorism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-recalls-contribution-of-rajiv-gandhi/articleshow/75874512.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Patnaites breathe easy as AQI ‘satisfactory’||PATNA: Patnaites breathed easy on Thursday with the city recording its overall air quality index (AQI) in the satisfactory category. Though public transports like autorickshaws and taxis are back on city roads in the fourth phase of lockdown, the AQI was recorded at 68 at 4pm on Thursday, as per the daily bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). An improvement has been observed in the air quality of the capital due to limited number of vehicles on roads and changes in climatic condition because of the effect of super cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’, which now lies near coastal West Bengal. Prof Pradhan Parth Sarthi, department of environmental science, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) and standing committee member of Bihar State Action Plan for Climate Change said that meteorological conditions are mainly responsible for fluctuations in AQI level. “During the winter and other time of the year, vehicular movement remains the same. But the AQI only increases in winter not in pre-monsoon season. Even during the lockdown, the AQI level of Patna remained moderate and satisfactory, but it never attained good category,” Sarthi said. BSPCB chairman Ashok Gosh said that climatic conditions such as light rain and wind velocity has helped the air quality to remain satisfactory. Gosh said that the overall AQI of 68 for Patna was the average of AQI level of five air monitoring stations at BIT- Mesra, Patna (65), Eco Park (77), SK Memorial Hall (72), DRM office, Khagaul (64) and Patna City (55). The data of air monitoring station at Planetarium was not available due to technical fault. According to a BSPCB survey, a decrease of 17 to 89% was observed for majority of pollutant levels during the lockdown period compared to a day before the lockdown began. There was also a decrease in PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5microns) concentration in Patna, Gaya and Muzaffarpur in comparison to the previous year (2019) during the same time in current year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnaites-breathe-easy-as-aqi-satisfactory/articleshow/75874114.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 22, 2020||Patna||1.5L migrants return to state by 74 special trains||PATNA: At least 74 Shramik Special trains carrying 1.5 lakh stranded migrants from 13 states, including Delhi, reached different places in Bihar on Thursday. The East Central Railway (ECR) has so far received 501 Shramik Special trains by which 6.15 lakh migrant workers and others have returned to the state since May 2. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said 19 special trains from Gujarat, carrying about 24,000 people, reached Banka, Gaya, Chhapra, Sitamarhi, Barauni, Danapur, Siwan, Muzaffarpur, Bettiah, Biharsharif, Supaul and Motihari on Thursday, while two special trains from Nagalapalli and one from Ghatkesar in Telangana reached Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga. Similarly, one Shramik Special train each from Chennai, Nambur in Andhra Pradesh, Faridabad, Ambala in Haryana and Dehradun in Uttarakhand, carrying about 5,300 migrant workers and others, reached Biharshraif, Katihar, Bhagalpur and Motihari on Thursday. Three more special trains from Bengaluru in Karnataka reached Saharsa, Bettiah and Darbhanga with about 3,700 passengers. Two special trains from Jaipur and Bikaner in Rajasthan, carrying about 2,600 stranded people, reached Gaya and Madhubani. Nine special trains from Delhi reached Bhagalpur, Barauni, Purnia, Supaul, Saharsa, Banka, Muzaffarpur and Danapur with migrant workers and other stranded people, while seven special trains from Mumbai, Kolhapur, Panvel and Nagpur with 8,900 people reached Katihar, Motihari, Saharsa, Gaya and Muzaffarpur. At least six special trains from Danapur, Barauni, Bettiah, Madhubani and Araria also ferried migrant workers to other places in the state. “Railway doctors and healthcare staff conducted thermal screening of those reaching the state by Shramik Special trains at railway platforms in coordination with the district administration concerned,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-5l-migrants-return-to-state-by-74-special-trains/articleshow/75874115.cms||Kumod Verma
May 22, 2020||Patna||Day care centre for thalassemia patients at PMCH||PATNA: The first haemoglobinopathies day care centre of the state is all set to become operational at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) soon. The centre will also provide medical help and counselling to people suffering from thalassemia, haemophilia and sickle cell anaemia. Apart from blood transfusion facility for thalassemia patients, it will also have testing facility for haemoglobin, differential leukocyte count, total leukocyte count and serum ferritin test. The centre will also have provision for HIV, Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C tests. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said the centre would be inaugurated in a week. “The 15-bed centre will function from the fifth floor of maternity ward. It will also have a separate play zone for kids,” Dr Karak added. Social activist Mukesh Hissariya, who is quite active in the field of blood donation, said the centre would be of great help for people suffering from thalassemia, who otherwise had to visit different hospitals for blood transfusion and treatment. Hissariya said around 4,000 children are suffering from thalassemia in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/day-care-centre-for-thalassemia-patients-at-pmch/articleshow/75874032.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Couple celebrate 79th wedding anniversary amidst pandemic gloom||Mangaluru: If it wasn’t for the pandemic, the Pais family from Madanthya, about 45 km from here, would have a had a priceless moment of capturing in one frame, the large family of Joseph Pais, 101, and Cossess, 95, while celebrating the 79 years of their union on May 20. The couple has 13 children, including seven girls, of whom one passed away, and six sons, 64 grandchildren and 68 great-grandchildren. The family had celebrated the couple’s platinum wedding anniversary in 2015. All the 12 children of the couple, and most of the grandchildren and great-grandchildren were part of the grand celebrations held at their residence. However, this year, the celebrations were muted, and not many of their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren could make it. Only those family members who lived nearby witnessed the momentous occasion. Their wedding was arranged in 1941, when World War II was going on. The couple say that everything was difficult during that time, like it is now, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The couple never met before they got married, though both the families hail from Madanthyar parish. Bride Cossess D’Souza was just 15 when she started her life with her husband. Life was far from a bed of roses for the couple living in the wilderness of Madanthyar, where the only source of livelihood was agriculture. The couple went through a lot of struggle to bring up their 13 children. Five of their daughters are married off, and are well settled, and their youngest daughter is a nun. Most of their sons live in Madanthyar, around the home, except for a son, who is in Mumbai. His son David points out that his father expects his wife to be present before him as soon as he calls her, even now. David also said that their aged parents have their share of fights, which are usually short-lived. Joseph is very fond of traditional Mangalurean fare, and keeps grumbling if the taste is not to his liking. Dennis, with whom the elderly couple now live, recalls, “I could study only up to standard VII because of the prevailing situation then. There was a lot of poverty, and our only source of income was from the beetle leaf and paddy that we used to grow. I remember accompanying my parents to the markets in Madanthyar, and even to markets as far as Belthangady and Moodbidri. Most of the time, we used to go walking long distances to the markets, to sell our produce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/couple-celebrate-79th-wedding-anniversary-amidst-pandemic-gloom/articleshow/75875775.cms||Stanley Pinto
May 22, 2020||Mangaluru||City to observe 10th anniversary of IX812 crash on Friday||Mangaluru: Sound of blades trimming the growth on a fenced off piece of land abutting the Phalguni river is the only sign of activity at the ‘22/5 Park’. Set up as a memorial for the victims of IX812 crash off Mangaluru International airport on May 22, 2010. The Park is gearing up for 10th anniversary of this coastal district’s worst air disaster. The lone contract employee tasked with maintaining the park that New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) has developed, was going about his routine task when TOI visited the Park. Pausing for a moment, the employee said, “Normally I get a direction from my contractor a day or two ahead of the air crash anniversary to keep the area clean,” he said. VV Rao, airport director, Mangaluru International Airport said with the district administration taking the lead in holding the memorial service, heads of departments from Airports Authority of India’s MIA will attend. “We got a letter from the district administration and MIA will do its bit in paying homage to the air crash victims while ensuring social distancing norms are maintained,” he said. Families of victims and survivors did turn up for the memorial that the administration organised in the past. Even doctors who were present at Adyapady, Ground Zero on the day of the crash and those who saw the stream of bodies come into the mortuary of District Wenlock, Hospital too have attended the event. An eminent doctor who was a regular to the event had told TOI that the day’s memories are too candid to be forgotten in a hurry. Incidentally, it was initiative taken by then deputy commissioner AB Ibrahim that saw this park come up on banks of the Phalguni. Bodies of 12 unidentified crash victims have been interned at the park that also now houses a memorial that resembles the tail of an aircraft, for the other 146-victims as well. Vandals had targeted a memorial that Air India Express had set up for the victims at Adyapady on October 4, 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/city-to-observe-10th-anniversary-of-ix812-crash-on-friday/articleshow/75875446.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Survivor gets panic attacks in flights even now||Mangaluru: After a decade, for an otherwise jovial Joel Prathap D’Souza, 34, the first person to jump out of the ill-fated Air India Express flight IX-812 on May 22, 2010, flying is a nightmare even now. Joel, one among seven other survivors and a resident of Vamanjoor in Mangaluru, works in Dubai and travels every year to his hometown. He was seated in row 23 in the ill-fated flight, 10 years ago. “Whenever I fly, I will be normal till I board the flight. Once the plane takes off, I get panic attacks and need someone beside me to calm me down. I never travel alone now. I get flashbacks and I undergo the same experience every flight,” Joel told TOI over phone. “I lose control of myself, start shivering, hallucinate and lose my mind till the flight lands. I cause trouble to all passengers, especially when the plane is about to land,” he said. Joel says he will not forget that fateful day. He was returning to Mangaluru for a change of visa and had to return for a new job after a week. “The incident created difficulty to join work due to injuries,” he said. Joel had suffered a compression fracture of the vertebra and a ligament injury to his right knee. “Though I received compensation, I value my life more and not money. When people ask what saved me, I say it’s my prayers and devotion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/survivor-gets-panic-attacks-in-flights-even-now/articleshow/75875341.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Demand for bikes likely to go up||Visakhapatnam: The demand for two-wheelers in Andhra Pradesh is slowly increasing following the social distancing norms being put in place on public transport. Dealers of two-wheelers say people will prefer to use personal transportation following the Covid-19 crisis. “We used to sell 12 to 15 bikes per day before Covid-19 lockdown. For the past few days, we have been selling 18 to 20 bikes each day. We expect the sales of two-wheelers to further increase in the coming days as two-wheeler was a dependable mode of transport mode during the Covid-19 crisis,” says Y Raghu Ram, managing partner of Jupiter Honda, dealers of Honda Motorcycles in Vizag city. “We have seen an encouraging response. Close to 40 to 50 per cent of those who inquired about Honda’s products in the past few weeks were keen on the purchase,” he added. With the lockdown leading to an insecure job market and deduction in salaries, most people are not likely to buy cars and will prefer two-wheelers, if only to save their income, a few auto-mobile dealers in the state said. Speaking to TOI, SAV Prasad Rao, joint commissioner (transport), said that new vehicles with BS-VI engines are being registered at majority of the regional transport offices (RTOs) in the state. “When compared to the situation before the lockdown, the RTO has been registering only 5 to 10 per cent of vehicles. Moreover, RTOs are registering more bikes than four-wheelers,” he added. The Vizag RTO has has been registering 50 vehicles a day—mostly bikes—for the past few days. “The sales of bikes will also be helped by social distancing becoming the new normal. The transport department is one of the major contributors of revenue resources to the state exchequer,” said G Raja Ratnam, deputy transport commissioner, Vizag. With the lockdown leading to an insecure job market and deduction in salaries, most people are not likely to buy cars and will prefer two-wheelers, if only to save their income||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/demand-for-bikes-likely-to-go-up/articleshow/75875114.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Lockdown pastime: Family digs well to solve water problem of residents in locality||Mangaluru: In a commendable act, six members of a Muslim family made use of their unpaid holidays during the lockdown to quench the thirst of residents of their colony at a village in Belthangady taluk. They dug a well in the colony, which will prove to be a permanent solution to the water crisis residents face during summer. About 75 families live in Janata Colony at Karambaru in Banthadka village. The only source of water in the locality was a public well, dug by the government years ago, which would go dry during summer. When Covid-19 lockdown rendered many youths in the village jobless, 24-year-old Aboobakker Siddiq, who is a plasterer by occupation, thought of utilising the free time usefully by digging a well in the family. When he shared his thoughts with his family, his father Hassainar, brothers Ashraf, Sadiq, Shamsuddin and Sirajuddin too agreed to shoulder the responsibility. Siddiq told TOI that the new well dug by the family will be a permanent solution to the drinking water problem in the locality in the summer. “All of us in the colony have been depending on the public open well for the past several years. We have been facing drinking water crisis every year during peak summer. We made several requests to the local authorities to sanction a well for the colony. However, our demand was not fulfilled. Meanwhile, when the lockdown made all of us jobless, the idea of digging a well in our property was mooted. Initially, six of us from our family started the work. Later, neighbours too joined hands to pull ropes and remove debris. At 40 feet, we found water and now it is being used by us and others in the locality,” Siddiq said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lockdown-pastime-family-digs-well-to-solve-water-problem-of-residents-in-locality/articleshow/75875094.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Business||Sebi for quicker post-default rating upgrade||TNN Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi has come to the rescue of corporates who may be downgraded to a ‘default’ rating for a brief period due to issues related to Covid-19. On Thursday, it allowed credit rating agencies to shorten the 90-day period required for a company rated ‘D’ to be upgraded to a non-investment (junk) grade and 365 days to investment grade. Rating agencies can curtail the cooling-off duration between two ratings, also called ‘curing’ period, on a case-to-case basis, but with additional safeguards in place, a Sebi circular said. The markets regulator pointed out that in some recent cases, after companies put in the default category were out of it within a short duration, the ratings could not be upgraded due to the provisions relating to the curing period. “There is a possibility that such cases may increase in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A need has been felt to review the existing policy on post-default curing period with a view to providing some flexibility to rating agencies in taking appropriate view in such cases,” Sebi said. It said that in case the agencies deviate from the 90-day and 365-day curing periods, such cases should be placed before the ratings sub-committee of the board of the credit rating agency, along with the rationale for such deviations. A rating agency should also have a policy for such upgrades and “place it on its website”. Such policies may include “scenarios like technical defaults, change in management, acquisition by another firm, sizeable inflow of long-term funds or benefits arising out of a regulatory action, etc, which fundamentally alter the credit risk profile of the defaulting firm”, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-for-quicker-post-default-rating-upgrade/articleshow/75876349.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Business||Private jets soar on demand from super rich||Chennai: With the Covid pandemic bringing safety to the fore, super rich are clicking the private option by signing up for chartered planes and jets. While the price differential of Rs 7,000 per person per hour between first class air travel and private planes existed, the need for safety by travelling with known people and their health record is resulting in private jet operators witness a 30% increase in enquiries. “We have seen a nine fold increase in demand just before the lockdown was announced and were able to fulfil only 50%-60% of the requests mainly because the regulations kept changing overnight in one country or the other. Post the lockdowns, we’ve received 10-12 requests a day to bring home people stuck in various parts of the world,” said Kanika Tekriwal, CEO & founder of the Delhi-based JetSetGo Aviation. That included parents of kids or children of elderly parents stuck in different parts of the world. “Since no commercial flights were operating people were reaching out to us,” she said.“During the lockdown we got a lot of enquiries and now that domestic flights are set to resume we are waiting for clarity on whether private/chartered flights will also be allowed and what kind of quarantine will be enforced,” said MK Manoj, GM (charter) operations of Bengaluru and Dubai headquartered Titan Aviation. A quick back-of-the-envelope comparison of private/leased jet and first class ticket in a commercial airline shows that the difference between the two is just around Rs 7,000/person per hour.Given the attraction of flying as many times as needed within the lease/charter period, walking into the tarmac and straight on to the flight, safety in terms of social distancing, this is an option that is becoming more popular among the literally jet set crowd. Consider the math : A Chennai-London first class return flight for a group of 10 costs around Rs 50 lakh. For a chartered or leased private jet, the economics work out to around Rs 64 lakh. Which means the per person, per hour cost of a first class commercial flight is Rs 25,000 while that of a private jet is Rs 32,000 – a difference of Rs 7,000. The economics are dependent on how many people can fly in the same aircraft. Even after air spaces open for commercial travel post the lockdown, travelling with 100+ passengers coughing and sneezing in the same cabin irrespective of new social distancing norms could make air travel a health hazard. “Covid-19 has induced a radical shift in the thinking of super-rich to weigh personal safety as the main criteria in addition to decisions regarding the business travel,” said Amba Shankar, director of Chennai based private jet start-up SBS Aviation. “Leasing companies are offering various range of air planes and lease rentals ranging from Rs 3 crore onwards, which is almost the same as owning a high-end luxury car.” The cost of lease includes everything like the cost of the aircraft, insurance, fuel, pilots, other crew, maintenance, all approvals from airports and government bodies. It means no waiting in the long queues for check-ins, security checks, immigration clearances at airports while flying. “More businessmen were pooling in and leasing the private jets to optimize the cost benefit,” added Shankar. “For the very first time, we saw requests coming from people who would not necessarily travel first class. A lot of requests came from Singapore, London and Australia and 85% of these flights carried between 1-3 passengers. Also from small business men who had travelled to places on business,” Tekriwal added.“Normally private jets are partially expensive than the first class due to the customised services and facility provided and higher rental costs,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/private-jets-soar-on-demand-from-super-rich/articleshow/75876190.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 22, 2020||Pune||Foreign liquor worth Rs 73,000 stolen in Pune||PUNE: Thieves broke into a liquor shop along the Pune-Mumbai highway and decamped with 48 bottles of foreign liquor of different brands, totally worth Rs 73,000, early on Wednesday. Shop-owner Manoj Pardeshi (45) of Dapodi has lodged an FIR with the Bhosari police. An officer from the Bhosari police told TOI that the suspects entered the shop by breaking a mesh fixed on the wall of the shop. “The suspects stole 48 bottles of foreign liquor, of different brands, worth Rs 73,000,” the officer said. The theft came to light on Wednesday around 10am when Pardeshi opened the shop. “We are checking CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the thieves,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foreign-liquor-worth-rs-73k-stolen/articleshow/75878513.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man tests positive after committing suicide||PATNA: A 30-year-old migrant worker, who had hanged himself at a quarantine centre in Hajipur late on Wednesday evening, has tested positive for Covid19. He had returned from Noida on May 18. “The test report of the migrant worker reached the district headquarters on Thursday morning. The sample was sent to NMCH, Patna, for test. He was in depression for being quarantined for the second time,” said Vaishali civil surgeon Dr Indradev Ranjan, adding, he was in quarantine at a government hostel for girls near Dighi at Hajipur. The deceased was reportedly quarantined in Delhi as well. The deceased had reached his native village in Vaishali district from Noida on May 18 and was quarantined at Belsar Bazar from where he was shifted to Hajipur after he complained of cough and fever. At the quarantine centre in Hajipur, he also complained of chest pain. The youth was kept in isolation at the quarantine centre after his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. But around 5.30 pm on Wednesday he committed suicide. However, the victim’s brother, Rakesh Kumar, claimed that his brother looked fine when he had visited the quarantine centre earlier in the day to being him home cooked food. “He behaved normal and didn’t complain about anything,” he added. The SHO of Hajipur sadar police station Rohan Kumar said on Thursday that the body was disposed of under the supervision of a medical team as he was suspected to be infected by coronavirus. “The test report later confirmed he was being infected,” the SHO said, adding, altogether 22 migrant workers are staying at the Hajipur Ambedkar Balika Chhatrawas quarantine centre. This is not an isolated case of a migrant worker committing suicide. Another migrant worker from Musahari block in Muzaffarpur had committed suicide on Tuesday after his family members refused him entry into the house and asked him to return only after completing the 14-day mandatory quarantine at a nearby centre. Sources said at least half a dozen similar cases of suicide have been reported in the state ever since migrant workers started arriving from other states. Taking a note of this disconcerting trend, the State Health Society has decided to provide counselling facility at quarantine centres. A senior officer of the state health department said 400 personnel, including psychiatrists, doctors, para-medical staff, family planning and Aids control programme counsellors and district mental health workers were being trained through video conferencing. “They will counsel quarantined inmates to ease their mental pressure at district to panchayat level quarantine centres,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-tests-ve-after-committing-suicide/articleshow/75874098.cms||Ramashankar
May 22, 2020||Business||Deposits rise over Rs 2.8 lakh crore in six weeks of lockdown||MUMBAI: Bank deposits have risen by over Rs 2.8 lakh crore in three fortnights of the lockdown till May 8, while bank credit during the period dipped by Rs 1.2 lakh crore, according to data released by the Reserve Bank of India. This has added nearly Rs 4 lakh crore to the liquidity in the banking system, resulting in a surge in investments by banks. A few days into the lockdown, on March 27, bank deposits stood at Rs 135.7 lakh crore. A fortnight later on April 10, outstanding deposits surged to Rs 137.1 lakh crore. In another two fortnights, by May 8, the deposits rose to Rs 138.5 lakh crore — a rise of Rs 2.8 lakh crore in the six weeks since March 27. These three fortnights also saw bank credit decline from Rs 103.7 lakh crore on March 27 to Rs 102.5 lakh crore on May 8 — a drop of Rs 1.2 lakh crore in six weeks. Banks have grown outstanding deposits by over 2% in six weeks, while the whole of FY20 (up to March 27) bank deposits had gone up by only 7.9%. The numbers indicate a big shift to bank deposits during the lockdown. Most of the money went into fixed deposits, where the outstanding amount rose to Rs 123.9 lakh crore on May 8 — an increase of Rs 4.4 lakh crore over March 27. Current and savings deposit balances declined by Rs 1.6 lakh crore to Rs 14.6 lakh crore. While a decline in bank credit in April is not unusual, what accentuates this year’s decline is that the year-end surge in March, which leads to a pullback in April, was missing. As a result, FY20 credit growth was only 6.1% — less than half of the 13% growth in FY19. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her meeting with banks on Friday, will take up the progress of Covid-related credit and the extent of pre-approved loans that have been sanctioned. The FM has also called for details on the loan offers accepted and disbursement effected. The new schemes announced by the government under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme will also be discussed. Last week, SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar had said that in April 2020, the public sector lender had seen a bank deposit growth of Rs 1.25 lakh crore, attributing it to a flight to safety. He added that credit growth was negative during April, leading to surplus liquidity in the banking system. Speaking to TOI, the SBI chairman said that top-rated corporates were raising funds from the money markets. The amount outstanding under commercial papers jumped to Rs 4.17 lakh crore as on April 30, 2020, up from Rs 3.81 lakh crore as on April 15, with Rs 77,889 crore of paper being issued during the fortnight. Banks also say that small businesses are not availing of additional limits as they have been waiting for the loans that will be subsidised because of the government credit guarantee, which have recently been notified. “People’s savings are shifting to banks since it is safe and people are not ready to spend, while trade, commerce and industry are withdrawing. The government must address the demand side by crediting cash to the affected sections of the society,” said Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation general secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar. He added that the government must strengthen banks by addressing issues such as recruitment as the heavy lifting in the form of credit to MSMEs, Mudra Shishu scheme, street vendors and Kisan credit cards have been shifted to banks. “In the process, the focus is being shifted from corporate credit to retail credit, in which involvement of the entire workforce is needed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/6-weeks-of-lockdown-see-deposits-rise-over-rs-2-8l-cr/articleshow/75876656.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Air India crash changed lives, careers of survivors||Mangaluru: Eight persons, including a woman, were lucky to be alive after Air India’s low budget carrier IX-812 Dubai-Mangalore flight overshot the runway while landing and went up in flames at Adyapady at 6.10am on May 22, 2010. As many as 158 persons, including the two pilots and the four-member cabin crew were killed. The accident scene is still fresh in the minds of the survivors. Ummar Farooq, 35, spent 45 days in the ICU and was treated for almost an year after that for the burn injuries he had sustained. He recollects how in the first few years after the accident, he would avoid the Mangaluru airport. “I used to panic about flying. Two years later, when I was flying back to Mangaluru, I was so tensed when the aircraft was in the air for more than an hour before landing, for technical reasons. I asked the cabin crew to change my seat to one closer to the emergency exit. Over the years, I have overcome the fear,” he said. Farooq, who was working in Dubai, was returning for a vacation when the accident took place. “After spending one year at home, we were hopeful Air India would offer us jobs. As I was offered only a low paying one in Air India SATS, I did not accept it. I lost the job in Dubai too. I invested the money that I got as compensation in a business, that did not click,” said Farooq, who is currently working in a private company in Mangaluru. Mohammed Usman, 60, decided to settle down in Mangaluru after the air crash. He was in hospital for 32 days and even suffered from fear and anxiety. He could not return to Dubai for almost a year because of his health and getting his documents back took longer than expected. A transporter, since the market conditions were not favourable, he decided to wind up operations there. “It’s has been a decade now since the accident and people would have surely overcome their fears,” he said. Pradeep G Kotian, a civil contractor, is happy that he got a second life, said he is also focussing on social work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/air-india-crash-changed-lives-careers-of-survivors/articleshow/75875269.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 22, 2020||Mysuru||Will not bow to blackmail politics, says Somashekar||Mysuru: Reacting sharply to allegations of irregularities in the recruitment process for MyMul made by senior JD(S) member and KR Nagar MLA SR Mahesh, Karnataka cooperation minister ST Somashekar on Thursday said that the state government would not yield to blackmail politics. “We will not stop the appointment process bowing to such pressure,” said Somashekar. The minister further added that the department had ordered an inquiry into the allegations. “The government will get to the truth after going through the report submitted after the inquiry,” Somashekar said. Former minister and Chamundeshwari MLA GT Devegowda said that an inquiry would help unearth the truth about the allegations. Devegowda said that MyMul, MCDCC Bank were authonomous government institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-not-bow-to-blackmail-politics-says-somashekar/articleshow/75871987.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 tally in Belagavi spikes to 119 as nine more test positive||Belagavi: Nine people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Thursday, taking the total tally of the disease to 119 in Belagavi. Eight of the people who tested positive had travelled to Shikharaji in Jharkhand, Mumbai in Maharashtra and Ajmer in Rajasthan. A 43-year-old woman has contracted the disease from a patient designated P-721. Among these 9 patients who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, four are women, one is a 7-year-old girl, and four are men. With this, three more new places are added to the list of places struck by the disease. They are Ramdurga, Bailahongal and Kagawad. All the patients who were kept under institutional quarantine, have now has been sent to the hospital. According to the district administration, the patients are being treated at the designated Covid-19 hospital, and are said to be stable. So far, 69 patients have recovered and been discharged from the hospital, in the district, and the active cases in the district stands at 57.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-19-tally-in-belagavi-spikes-to-119-as-nine-more-test-positive/articleshow/75874451.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Business||Banks and NBFCs turn off automobile loan tap as they revise credit worthiness norms||Chennai: As lenders recalibrate their processes post stimulus announcements, coupled with imposing stringent disbursement norms due to job losses and pay cuts, the loan tap appears shut for car buyers. The chances of getting an auto loan sanctioned gets tougher if the person had opted for the moratorium for repayment of an earlier loan. “Banks are revaluating consumers based on current conditions and customers who have taken a moratorium in another loan are not being given a new loan. Most financiers are in the process of recalibrating their assessment methods and credit terms. Credit evaluations happen at local levels so customers are facing this issue but the situation should settle down shortly. We are telling the banks that while in their assessment income levels of consumers may have come down (loss of income or business), they should evaluate consumers individually rather than assuming that everything is negative,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director-MNS, Maruti Suzuki. Dittoed GR Durairaj Naidu who owns both Mahindra and Tata Motors dealerships in Puducherry and in parts of Tamil Nadu. “As it is we are only doing 20% of the business we were doing before the lockdown and that too there is this problem of financing,” he said. “This is a nation-wide problem. Many banks and NBFCs are now slowly starting operations and the field agents are being doubly cautious so getting a new loan for a vehicle is very tough. Earlier financiers used to give 100% ex-showroom funding, now only 80% is on offer and for light commercial vehicles it is 70%. Most financiers are asking for higher down payment,” agreed another Bengaluru based car dealer. Auto financiers, for their part, say the bottleneck is mostly due to logistics as handling paperwork for customers or dealerships in the red zone/containment zone is not possible. “In markets which are green zones, we have already started doing business like Kerala,” said the head of a car financier. “In orange zones the rules differ from state to state so wherever the rules allow, we will start disbursing,” he added. According to Ashish Harsharaj Kale, president, Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) the dealerships and the banking sector are sputtering back to normalcy. “Many have yet to open offices while some are re-looking credit norms and checking credit worthiness of customers who have opted for loan moratorium etc,” he said. “Credit norms will be revised. For instance, commercial vehicle customers who have gone in for loan moratorium will not get new funding until the moratorium has been regularized,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-and-nbfcs-turn-off-automobile-loan-tap-as-they-revise-credit-worthiness-norms/articleshow/75876151.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid testing down by half after net issues delay results||Kolkata: Covid sample testing dropped by nearly half on Thursday as disrupted internet connections delayed result generation. On Thursday, 4,242 samples were tested. “Covid result generation has been massively affected due to the snapping of internet connection. And the results that were already generated before the cyclone are yet to be sent across to the hospitals,” said an official at NRS Medical College and Hospital. Laboratories that had generated Covid reports prior to the cyclone could not send the results across to the hospitals either. Transporting samples from hospitals to the laboratories has also been affected as major thoroughfares remained out of bounds for traffic. Hospitals have also been hit by manpower issues, specially Group-D employees. “We already had a Group-D manpower crisis. Now, even maintaining cleanliness in the wards is a challenge,” said an official at Medical College and Hospital. Kolkata. At SSKM Hospital, the area around the main block remained flooded till Thursday afternoon. The roof of the main MBBS hostel had also come down. However, no one was injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-testing-down-by-half-after-net-issues-delay-results/articleshow/75876491.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Private firms want employees to continue working from home||PATNA: Employees of several private companies, specially information technology (IT) companies, are encouraging employees to continue work from home (WFH), except for those involved in critical functions, despite relaxations given in the fourth phase of of lockdown. Attributing safety of employees and fear of getting infected by Covid-19 as the main reasons behind continuing the WFH culture, several private companies said that even if one employee tests positive, the entire office will have to suffer. Earlier this month, the district administration allowed private offices to resume work with 33% workforce thrice a week i.e. on—Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Praveen Kumar Singh, director of an IT company in Karbigahiya said he is not very keen to resume work from office at present. “This pandemic gave us a chance to understand the pros and cons of working from home. Fortunately, we had a great experience from WFH culture as our work basically includes developing software, which can easily be done from home. Hence, we are looking forward to continue the same till the risk subsides. We have been provided laptop with all required software to make our work easy,” Singh said. Several companies are also finding it difficult to arrange proper means of transportation. “Even though public transport has been allowed in the city, the numbers are few. It is not possible for the company to arrange transport for every employee and hence it is better to work the way we were functioning,” said Arun Kumar, director of a human resources company in Mithapur. Kamal Singh, branch manager of a private company in Khemnichak said that 95% of the employees are still working from home. “Keeping the number of increasing cases in view, it is risky to visit the workplace. Only those who are required to do field work have been asked to move around.” Several employees are also quite apprehensive about returning to office. “Going to the office is not required right now and I am comfortable working from home,” an employee of Exhibition Road-based private firm Sikandar Pandey said here on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-firms-want-employees-to-continue-working-from-home/articleshow/75873952.cms||Archi Rani
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Rly ops to begin in Vij from June 1, only e-ticketing allowed||Vijayawada: Apart from the special Rajdhani train from Delhi to Chennai, Vijayawada railway station would now see another seven pairing trains transiting the region from June 1 onwards. According to the new railway schedule, six of them would be a daily service while the Duronto Express coming in from Howrah to Yesvantapur junction would function five days a week. Other trains includes Falaknuma Express originating from Howrah to Secunderabad, Golconda Express travelling from Guntur to Secunderabad, Godavari Express travelling from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam, Konark Express from Mumbai CST to Bhubaneswar, AP Express starting from Danapur to Bengaluru and Sanghamitra Express travelling from Visakhapatnam to New Delhi. Some of the other stations that these trains would be stopping within Vijayawada division includes, Vijayawada, Eluru, Rayanapadu, Tadepalligudem, Rajahmundry, Nidadavole, Gudur, Nellore, Ongole and Anakapalle. A standard operating procedure was issued by the railway board to all the railway stations to take precautionary measures like social distancing and thermal scanning. No booking counters will be opened at the stations and only e-ticketing is allowed that will be done through IRCTC website. Also, no platform tickets would be issued under the UTS app. Railway authourities have appealed to the public to not crowd at the railway station premises. Officials said that sanitation workers will be on standby to ensure that trains are cleaning and sanitised when they arrive. Station authorites said that they would be preparing limited eatables and packaged drinking water will be available for the passengers and urged people to carry their own food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rly-ops-to-begin-in-vij-from-june-1-only-e-ticketing-allowed/articleshow/75875154.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 22 pairs of special trains from June 1||PATNA: Of the 100 pairs of special mail and express trains, which will start operating from June 1, 22 will run on different routes falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) in Bihar. E-tickets can be booked at least 30 days in advance on the official website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the railways is already running a special Rajdhani Express (02309/02310) between Rajendra Nagar Terminal and New Delhi. “Two other superfast trains — Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Sampoorna Kranti Express (02393/02394) and Rajgir-New Delhi Shramjeevi Express (02391/02392) — will run from June 1. The railways will also run the Patliputra Junction-Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai special (02141/02142) and Patna Junction-Lokmanya Tilak Express (03201/03202),” the CPRO told this newspaper on Thursday. The Danapur-Secunderabad special (02791/02792), Danapur-Pune special (02149/02150), Danapur-Bengaluru Sanghmitra Express (02295/02296), Patna-Ahmedabad Azimabad special (02947/02948), Patna-Shalimar Duronto special (02213/02214), Patna-Howrah Jan Shatabdi special (02023/02024) and Patna-Ranchi Jan Shatabdi special (02365/02366) will also resume from June 1. Similarly, the Saharsa-New Delhi Express (02553/02554), Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar Express (02557/02558), Raxaul-Anand Vihar Express (05273/05274), Danapur-Tatanagar Express (08183/08184), Muzaffarpur-Bandra Avadh Express (09039/09040), Darbhanga-New Delhi Bihar Sampark Kranti Express (02565/02566), Motihari-New Delhi Express (04009/04010), Darbhanga-Lokmanya Tilak (01061/01062) and Darbhanga-Ahmedabad special (09165/09166) will also start running from June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-pairs-of-special-trains-from-june-1/articleshow/75874126.cms||Kumod Verma
May 22, 2020||Patna||Patna SI turns messiah for migrant workers||PATNA: At a time when visuals of cops thrashing migrants amid lockdown are quite common on social media platforms, Rajesh Kumar Yadav (42), an additional sub-inspector in Patna traffic police, has turned messiah for migrant workers reaching the state from different parts of the country. Yadav is deployed at Zero Mile on the outskirts of Patna, where large number of migrants are dropped by trucks and other vehicles every day. Yadav and other cops on duty at Zero Mile ensure that the migrants are sent to right places without hassles. They also coordinate with the district administration to provide food to the migrants. “We either help the migrant workers board the right bus or send them to Danapur from where they are finally sent to their respective destinations. A control room has also been set up at Zero Mile with doctors and other officials,” Yadav said. Asked if he is not afraid of going closer to migrants, Yadav said, “It is our duty to serve everyone. I feel sad for the migrants, especially women and kids. Their tired eyes make me depressed. Our good behaviour and little support give them some strength. We have been provided masks and sanitisers. Though we try to maintain social distancing, it is not possible all the time.” Father of three kids, Yadav stays with his family Gola Road in a rented accommodation near Gola Road. Though he initially tried to get a room on rent near his workplace, people refused to help him fearing that they might get infected. Yadav said his only concern is safety of his three kids and wife. “There is a tap in the courtyard where I take shower and clean my uniform before entering home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/si-turns-messiah-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/75874080.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 22, 2020||Patna||Patna eateries start home delivery of groceries||PATNA: After losing customers and facing losses amid the Covid-19 lockdown, many eateries in the city have started home delivery of groceries, fruits, vegetables and raw meat. Arjun Kumar Gupta, the owner of a restaurant on Ashiana Digha Road, began delivering raw mutton, chicken, fish and eggs to his customers recently. “Covid-19 has ruined my business as people are no more interested in eating outside. So, I decided to switch to something that was in demand,” Gupta told this newspaper and added that he was also providing seasonal fruits and vegetables to customers. Another restaurateur, Gopal Kushwaha, rued, “Before the lockdown was imposed, people used to queue up outside my restaurant. Now, however, the situation has changed so much that there is hardly any customer here.” Popular food delivery chains are also devising new ways to generate income during the pandemic. Aditya Chandra, the founder of a food delivery firm, is planning to start doorstep delivery of mangoes now. He said, “After researching a lot and consulting other chains, I have decided to sell something that is in demand. Mangoes are loved by a lot of people here and have many takers. This will help me as well as several farmers, who are waiting for their fruits to be sold.” Many Patnaites, however, are not “ready to trust food delivery chains at the moment”. “We do not touch any food item for at least two days after buying it. How are we supposed to consume food cooked in restaurants?” Bans Ghat resident Shristy asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/restaurants-begin-doorstep-delivery-of-groceries-fruits/articleshow/75873921.cms||Archi Rani
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Constant pounding for four hours made cyclone more devastating||KOLKATA: Cyclone Amphan took the course predicted by weathermen, which has left them wishing they were wrong. From the wind speed to the timing of its landfall, and the subsequent lashing that Kolkata received, almost every detail about the storm came right. Its core crossed the city with the eye of the storm — 30km in diameter — coming very close to east Kolkata. According to weather scientists, this was the fiercest storm to hit Bengal in at least a century. “It grazed the eastern fringes of the city, which indicates that whole system lashed Kolkata,” said a weather scientist. A day after ravaging south Bengal, Amphan sailed into Bangladesh and stood at a distance of 300km northeast of Kolkata on Thursday evening. The city remained cloudy and continued to receive intermittent drizzles. But that was just an aftermath of the cyclone, said the Met office. The city, however, will be sunny from Friday, said weathermen. “Dispersed clouds left scattered by the cyclone kept the city cloudy on Thursday, but there will be no heavy showers now. As the clouds move away, it will get warm,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. On Wednesday, the wall clouds of the cyclone’s ‘forward sector’ struck Kolkata with a fierce wind speed. It was followed by the ‘eye’ that led to a 20-minute lull before the tail clouds started pounding. “Only Aila had come this close, but only a part of the system had hit Kolkata. Amphan passed right through the city,” said Das. As a result, the wind speed went up and it lasted for a longer period, which damaged trees, lamp posts and buildings. “A constant pounding at 80 km/hr and above is dangerous for any tall structure or tree. Kolkata received the lashing for four hours on Wednesday,” said a weather scientist. What made Amphan infinitely more potent than its predecessors were its course and wind speed, according to weathermen. Unlike Bulbul and Phani, it struck Kolkata after making landfall at the Sunderbans coast. And though Aila came close in intensity, it swerved past Kolkata. “Other than being weaker systems, the previous two storms had bypassed Kolkata. But Amphan went over the city for four hours between 5pm and 9pm, generating an average wind speed of 80km/hr. The constant pounding that Kolkata received was unprecedented and resulted in large-scale uprooting of trees and lamp posts. It couldn’t have been avoided unless Amphan had altered course at the last moment,” said Das. While the peak wind speed recorded at Alipore was 114km/hr, it touched 133km/hr in Dum Dum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/constant-pounding-for-four-hours-made-cyclone-more-devastating/articleshow/75876526.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Loss of crops, veggies may push up prices||KOLKATA: Wednesday’s cyclone the fiercest in recent memory, has left the state’s agriculture severely damaged. The loss of crops will now further push up the price of essentials. Vast tracts of land are submerged, killing the crops in a large number of fields. According to the preliminary report, nearly 7% of the 12.5 lakh hectares of standing boro paddy crop may have been irretrievably damaged. Much of the produce is common miniket, widely consumed in the state. Annually, Bengal produces 15 million tonnes-16 million tonnes of paddy in three crop seasons — aus, aman and boro. The boro output accounts for 30% of the paddy production in the state, said Pradip Mazumdar, agriculture advisor to Bengal. The report revealed that 50% of sesame crop has been damaged.Groundnut, another oilseed produced in Bengal, has also been affected. Some common vegetables, like ridged gourd, green chilli, cucumber, brinjal, bottle gourd, pumpkin and pointed gourd, were damaged across south Bengal. Vendors said that in the coming few days, there will be distress sale of these vegetables. That will be followed by highly fluctuating prices in a volatile vegetable market, predicted Kamal Dey, president of West Bengal Vegetable Vendors’ Association. “The vegetables are irretrievable. Unless the water recedes fast from the fields, we cannot accurately estimate the loss. But after Covid-19 had delivered a blow to the state’s agriculture, cyclone Amphan has virtually broken its backbone,” said Adhir Sarkar, secretary of Vegetable Growers’ Association in south Bengal. North Bengal has also been hit. In Malda, which is the biggest mango producer in Bengal, the preliminary report suggests that 38,000 tonnes of the fruit was lost in the storm. The district’s economy largely revolves around mango production and nearly 10% of its production of 3.5 lakh tonnes has received a big jolt at the beginning of the season. Malda has also lost 16,000 hectares of paddy and 500 hectares of vegetables. Vegetable prices will shoot up once the flood water recedes. “We have already been paying extra for rice, pulses and edible oil, courtesy the lockdown for Covid-19. Vegetable prices in Bengal was the only solace. Now, we have to burn bigger holes in our pockets,” said Shankar Upadhyay, a private firm employee. (Inputs from Subhro Maitra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/loss-of-crops-veggies-may-push-up-prices/articleshow/75876478.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops’ action against vada pav vendors||PUNE: Several vada pav vendors faced police action in the last two days for setting up their handcarts along the Pune-Satara Road in defiance of the lockdown. The police stations of Swargate, Market Yard and Bharati Vidyapeeth have booked 15 cart operators under Section 188 (disobedience to order) of the IPC. Handcart operators in other parts of Satara Road were also served notices. With the administration providing a slew of relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown in the city,the vada pav sellers thought it to be safe to set up their stalls for business again. The new guidelines, however, had maintained the curbs on eateries offering direct services to its customers. “These stalls had begun to attract large crowd,” senior inspector SS Nimbalkar of Market Yard police station told TOI. Police said the most of these vendors had licenses issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-action-against-vada-pav-vendors/articleshow/75878500.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Business||Cop canteens withdraw order on local sourcing information||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: In what has come as a breather for multinational companies in India, the central police welfare stores body, Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar (KPKB) canteens, has withdrawn the order that had put all fresh procurement on hold after the government’s decision to sell only “swadeshi” products at these outlets. The move to withdraw the order comes on the back of the authorities clarifying that “swadeshi” means Make-in-India, for instance, a Coke or a Samsung TV manufactured in India can be sold at these canteens. On Thursday, a ministry of home affairs (MHA) spokesperson said in a tweet, “Some media reports have been confusing the KPKB order to put purchases on hold, with MHA’s decision to sell only made in India products at the CAPF canteens and stores across the country. MHA decision still stands.” “We source all our raw materials from Indian farmers. Our manufacturing facilities with thousands of Indian workers are located in India. Doesn’t this make our products ‘swadeshi’,” said a senior executive at one of India’s largest food and beverages company with headquarters in the US. “L’Oreal has been in the country for over 26 years and we proudly ‘Make in India’ for India and the world. Through our manufacturing facilities in Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra, we manufacture over 90% of our local requirements and also export to Asia and Latin America,” said the spokesperson for French personal care maker L’Oréal India. Nestle India’s chairman and managing director Suresh Narayanan had asserted that the Switzerland-headquartered company, which has been present in India for more than a century, sources milk, wheat, spices and coffee through lakhs of farmers. “Nestle has seen even the Spanish Flu in the country,” he said. Earlier this week, most foreign companies operating in India had flagged concerns after receiving queries from government-run stores such as the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) and the Central Police Canteen (CPC). The questions were specific and asked these manufacturers details of their manufacturing locations and origin of raw materials. These were, however, not limited to MNCs but were also sent to homegrown companies, including Dabur and Patanjali. CPC, which came into existence in 2006 as a measure of welfare for the serving and retired Central Armed Police Forces, has around 119 master canteens which act as distribution centres and over 1,700 subsidiary canteens which sell products to its troops and families. It also sells registered two-wheelers and four-wheelers which are sold at a discount to market rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cop-canteens-withdraw-order-on-local-sourcing-info/articleshow/75876683.cms||John Sarkar
May 22, 2020||Business||Birla MF stops inflows in 2 debt funds, no ban on redemptions||MUMBAI: Aditya Birla Sun Life MF has stopped taking money in two of its debt schemes — Medium Term Plan and Credit Risk Fund. But the fund house said that regular redemptions and switch to other funds will continue as usual. It said the decision, which has been taken to safeguard the interests of existing investors, is effective May 22. Together, the two debt schemes currently manage about Rs 5,000 crore. The fund house has already informed its investors about its decision to suspend inflows. Both the funds had exposure to debt papers of IL&FS companies, which were written down, and also of Essel Group, which were recovered. “We believe that there are substantial gains in our funds, which would be realised by the existing investors over next few months. Since we do not wish to dilute this for existing investors by taking more money in these funds, we have stopped fresh subscriptions,” a spokesperson for Birla MF said. Systematic investment plans (SIPs) and systematic transfer plans (STPs) registered till May 21 will continue, but no new SIPs and STPs will be registered. A Birla MF executive explained that this decision has been taken to keep ‘opportunistic’ investors away from making quick gains by investing in these funds now. Suppose some investors enter these schemes now and the two schemes make recoveries in some of the investments that had turned bad, then the net asset value (NAV) of the funds could jump, bringing in gains. “We are expecting recovery in some of our assets…we did not want opportunistic money to benefit at the cost of current investors,” the fund house said. However, such gains may not be immediate for existing investors since “…resolutions on these stressed assets may start yielding results over six-18 months,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birla-mf-stops-inflows-in-2-debt-funds-no-ban-on-redemptions/articleshow/75876304.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Pray at home on Alvida Jumma, Muslims asked||PATNA: In view of the Covid-19 lockdown, many Islamic bodies have asked Muslims to offer ‘Alvida Jumma’ (last Friday of Ramzan) and Eid prayers at home and follow social distancing norms. Depending on the sighting of the crescent moon, Eid is likely to be celebrated on Sunday or Monday. Imarat-e-Shariah, a Muslim religious body with jurisdiction over Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, has told the devotees that no congregational prayer services will be conducted at mosques on ‘Alvida Jumma’ and Eid this year. Only the ‘imam’ (who leads prayers), ‘muezzin’ (who gives the call for prayers) and three others will pray at mosques. Imarat-e-Shariah’s general secretary Maulana Shibli Qasmi said, “Mosques will remain shut till the Centre issues a notification regarding recommencement of prayer services at religious places. Your prayers will be accepted even if you offer ‘Alvida Jumma’ and Eid namaz at home.” Bihar State Sunni Waqf Board (BSSWB) also made an appeal to the people to avoid large gatherings and pray at home. Its chairman Mohd Irshad Ullah told this newspaper on Thursday, “Devotees should form a small group of five to seven people and offer prayers with ‘khutba’ (public preaching in the Islamic tradition) at home.” He also emphasized on maintaining social distance as “it is the only way to combat Covid-19”. Khanquah Munemia (Mitan Ghat) head Maulana Shamimuddin Munami said, “The last Friday of Ramzan is of great significance as it makes us realize that the holy month of Ramzan is about to end. I urge people to recite the ‘Quran’, offer prayers at home and desist from going to mosques.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pray-at-home-on-alvida-jumma-muslims-asked/articleshow/75874063.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 22, 2020||Patna||Big relief as cyclone Amphan spares state||PATNA: Bihar remained largely unaffected by the wrath of super cyclonic storm Amphan, which ravaged many districts in West Bengal and Odisha on Wednesday. As per the daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Thursday, light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in Bihar during the last 24 hours. The places which received substantial rainfall included Gaunaha (50mm) in West Champaran, Dhengraghat (30mm) in Purnia and Sono in Jamui, Suryagadha in Lakhisarai, Sahebpur Kamal in Begusarai and Jhanjharpur in Madhubani district (20mm each). Though Patna witnessed cloudy skies throughout the day, it received only 0.2mm of rain as per the local meteorological centre. Weathermen at the local meteorological centre said after making landfall at Sundarbans between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya islands in Bangladesh on Wednesday evening, cyclone Amphan moved towards north-eastern states and Bangladesh, causing very little impact on the weather in Bihar. “Except showers at some places in east Bihar, most other places in the state witnessed only cloudy weather. The wind speed also did not increase more than 20kmph in the state,” a senior Met official said. The official added that day temperature would surge Saturday onwards and it can go up to 41-42 degrees C in south-central and southwest Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/big-relief-as-cyclone-amphan-spares-state/articleshow/75873996.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||4 new AES cases, tally reaches 31||PATNA: Four more cases of Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES) were reported from Sri Krisha Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH), Muzaffarpur, on Tuesday evening, taking the tally of infected children this year to 31. SKMCH superintendent Dr SK Shahi said that one of the four fresh cases reported to the facility was discharged on Thursday after the health condition of the victim improved. “Three patients are still undergoing treatment in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) ward of the hospital,” Shahi told this newspaper over phone. Four children— Golu Kumar (4) of Ahiyapur, Roshani Kumari (3) of Kanti, Indrajeet (3) of Gaighat and Shivan (3) of Devaria—were admitted to the SKMCH in Muzaffarpur district on Tuesday. Medical tests confirmed them positive on Wednesday. “We are providing best possible treatment to the patients,” he added. The superintendent said that altogether 31 cases have been reported since January this year. Of them, 19 cases were reported from Muzaffarpur district, eight from East Champaran, two from Vaishali and one each from Sheohar and Sitamarhi districts. Among them nine children died during treatment in the hospital. Among the nine dead, five were from Muzaffarpur two each were from Vaishali and East Champaran district. Seventeen patients were discharged from the hospital after their health condition improved. “An alert has been sounded in the areas from where the cases of AES were earlier reported,” said a senior administrative officer. Last week, an eight-year old girl Chandani Kumari from Aurai in Muzaffarpur died at the SKMCH due to sheer neglect of a doctor posted at the Runnisaidpur community health centre in Sitamarhi district. The girl was first admitted to the Runnisaidpur hospital and referred to the SKMCH only when her condition deteriorated. Taking a strong exception to Dr Anil Kumar Singh’s callousness to adopt the SOP, the then health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar had recommended to the Medical Council of India (MCI) to cancel the former’s licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-new-aes-cases-tally-reaches-31/articleshow/75873502.cms||Ramashankar
May 22, 2020||Mangaluru||55-year-old man ends life in quarantine facility in Moodbidri||Mangaluru: A 55-year-old man who was kept under institutional quarantine at a school in Kadandale in Moodbidri was found dead on Thursday. The deceased along with seven family members had returned to district from Maharashtra on May 20, said Mangaluru sub-division assistant commissioner Madan Mohan. Authorities surmise that the person may have committed suicide due to personal issues. However, as a precautionary measure, his swabs have been collected and sent for testing. A call on carrying out his final rites will be decided once the reports come in, said police. Two other family members who had returned with them from Maharashtra had alighted in Udupi and had reported to institutional quarantine facility there, said the assistant commissioner, adding that the family of the deceased chose Kadandale since it was closer to their home. The official added that the deceased had lost his job in a hotel in Mumbai and was believed to be facing family issues. He is survived by three unmarried daughters. Financial uncertainty too may have forced him to take the extreme step, the official said. “However, we want to rule out any foul play in his death though reasons for the death may be apparent and so an unnatural death report has been registered,” he said. The body has been shifted to mortuary at district Wenlock Hospital for an autopsy. The official who appraised district in charge minister Kota Shrinivas Poojary of the situation said the minister has spoken to CM B S Yediyurappa and sought financial compensation for the distraught family. The administration has also taken steps to shift the family members of the deceased to an alternate quarantine facility as per their request, said Madan Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/55-year-old-man-ends-life-in-quarantine-facility-in-moodbidri/articleshow/75874384.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Returning migrants from other states, countries send Covid-19 cases surging in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Mangaluru/Udupi: The rise in fresh coronavirus cases in coastal districts continued to see a substantial hike with new cases reported from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Inter-state returnees primarily from Maharashtra and expats from Dubai on Thursday accounted for the biggest spike in a single day since the first positive case was confirmed in the state in March. With 32 cases including 26 in Udupi, day’s spike surpassed the last surge seen on May 15 when 21 Dubai returnees from the two districts tested positive. G Jagadeesha, Udupi deputy commissioner said while 28 people hailing from the district tested positive, two of them who were in institutional quarantine at Sirsi have been shifted to Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences, leaving the district with 26 new positive cases for the day. Out of these, 23 are those who came from Maharashtra, three from Telangana, one from UAE and the last one a patient from Kerala undergoing treatment at KMC, Manipal. The disconcerting fact, Jagadeesha said was that 16 of those who tested positive were children. The others included seven men and five women, he said. “Since children are considered to be in high risk category, they were specifically tested during their stay in quarantine and have tested positive,” he said. As on date, Udupi has 47 active cases and reported one death, that of a patient who succumbed to heart attack and was confirmed positive, post death. Six positive cases in DK were among 110 passengers placed in institutional quarantine by the district administration here and had arrived from Dubai on May 18. Five of the six are residents of the district and one is from Kalaburagi. Active cases in DK went up to 35 with 21 discharges and five deaths so far. The day also saw one patient, a 45-year-old man from Kulashekar (P-506) discharged. Referring to the 64 passengers who arrived at Mangaluru International Airport from Muscat on May 20, DC said 40 of them are in paid quarantine facilities identified by the administration. Out of these, 15 opted for free quarantine and have been accommodated at the government hostel facility of their choice, she said. Out of the remaining 24 passengers, 21 were escorted to Udupi and rest to Karwar in Uttara Kannada district, district administration Sindhu Rupesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/returning-migrants-from-other-states-countries-send-covid-19-cases-surging-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/articleshow/75874639.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Water seeps into shut shops at markets, damages goods||Kolkata: Cyclone Amphan has destroyed goods worth several crores stocked in shops that have been shut for almost two months. Many traders had been excited about reopening their shops on Thursday and had been eyeing some good business over the weekend before Eid. But during the cyclone, water seeped into their establishments, destroying their stock. Many traders managed to reach their establishments late on Thursday afternoon. They immediately set to work, draining the water — knee-deep in some places — in a bid to salvage as much of their wares as they could. Some of the markets that have been badly affected are Devi Prasad Market on Brabourne Road, Kajaria Market, Bagri Market, Raja Katra in Burrabazar, Sadasukh Katra in Posta and Bharti Market on Canning Street. In the past, when a storm or heavy rain was predicted, shop owners would move their stock to safety — to godowns or to an elevated place inside the shops. But due to the lockdown restrictions this time around, the owners could not visit their shops to save their goods despite the cyclone forecast. “This is the last nail in the coffin for us,” said Suresh Nathwani, a wholesaler of plywood and laminate sheets on CR Avenue. “When I arrived here around 11.30am on Thursday, there was knee-deep water inside the shop and plywood worth lakhs was destroyed. After keeping my business shut for almost two months due to the lockdown, I was hoping to reopen on Thursday. But this cyclone has destroyed me,” said Nathwani. Mohammad Farooque, the owner of Sunshine Optical on Canning Street, broke down on discovering that more than 50% of his stock had been totally destroyed. “My shop is on the main road and the boxes of spectacles and accessories were kept on the floor. The water accumulated inside, destroying all the boxes,” said Farooque. At Devi Prasad Market on Brabourne Road, the city’s biggest wholesale hub for bangles, ribbons and rubber bands, bags were found floating in the water in the morning. The market committee decided to open the premises and allow the owners to salvage their stock and move it to a dry place. “We are still in the process of removing goods out of the ground floors of the market and shift them to safety. The loss is going to be huge,” said Rajiv Pachisia, joint secretary of the market committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/water-seeps-into-shut-shops-at-markets-damages-goods/articleshow/75876450.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Travelling to be quite an expensive affair as fares go through the roof||Coimbatore: While trains and domestic flights are all set to resume operations in the next couple of weeks, it is doubtful whether they would attract enough patrons. If you are wondering why, they come at a price - flight fares are going through the roof and there won’t be any air-conditioned coaches in trains. A few websites and airlines have already opened bookings for flights from May 25. A flight ticket to Mumbai and New Delhi from Chennai is priced at anywhere between Rs 19,000 and Rs 30,000. With trains offering only non-air-conditioned journeys that too during the peak summer, road transport is likely to become the most preferred mode of travel.Stuck in the city since March 22, Shankari Nagarajan, a 72-year-old retired government employee from Chennai, was excited to hear about resumption of flight and train services. She was here to visit her daughter and grandchildren. “Being a senior citizen, my family feels I am in the risk category and flights are unsafe. It also looks like too expensive. While trains may resume operations, I don’t think l will be able to travel in a non-air-conditioned coach this summer.”The flight fares have come as a shocker to industrialists and corporates as well. Vasanth Samuel, an e-trucking service employee, said, “As the flight fares are too high, our firm is now asking us to somehow drive down to Bengaluru with a promise to reimburse fuel costs.”R Ramamurthy, president of Codissia, said unless flight fares are reverted to pre-Covid19 times, micro, small and medium enterprises won’t be able to afford flights. “A trip to New Delhi a month will exhaust their expense account. They can do road travel within the state or maybe up to Karnataka to look for vendors or clients and nothing beyond that. It is like pre-independence times when travel could only be afforded by the rich.”While road transport does seem like an attractive alternative, it won’t be cheap either. “A small rental car to Chennai would cost Rs 9,000 to Rs 11,000. Earlier, three or four people could share that expense. With only two people allowed in a car now, it would cost at least Rs 4,500 a person,” said a source with Apple Travels in the city.Another source with T20 Travels in the city said, “We get a lot of inquiries on quotations and best prices for trips to Chennai, Bengaluru and Kerala from private firms to transport their employees. While some of them don’t revert as passes are rejected, others go looking for cheaper options.”In fact, some cab services like Apple Travels is now offering to apply for e-passes for their clients with genuine reasons and documentation to back the same to improve the business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/travelling-to-be-quite-an-expensive-affair-as-fares-go-through-the-roof/articleshow/75877627.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Rumour sparks protest by 200 guest workers||Coimbatore: Around 200 guest workers from Bihar and Odisha staged a protest near Palladam in Tirupur district on Thursday, demanding the district administration to send them back to their home states. After rumours spread that tokens were being issued for the shramik special trains at the office of village administrative officer at Kunnangalpalayam Pirivu near Palladam, guest workers gathered there and staged a protest demanding tokens. S Murugavel, deputy superintendent of police, Palladam sub-division, and his team reached the spot and held talks with the guest workers. The team promised that they would collect the details of 200 guest workers and sent them to the revenue divisional officer (RDO). The revenue department will issue tokens to the guest workers to send them to their home states. Following the talks, the guest workers dispersed from the spot. The guest workers were working in garment units and construction sites. They were staying in rental rooms at Karaipudur and surrounding areas. A team of police has been sent to Karaipudur to collect the details of guest workers. “The details will be given to the RDO soon,” Murugavel said. As of now, six shramik special trains were operated to Bihar from Tirupur. One train for Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand were operated from Tirupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rumour-sparks-protest-by-200-guest-workers/articleshow/75877639.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs not to allow maids till May 31||Hyderabad: Days after the Telangana government allowed domestic helps to resume work, resident welfare associations have decided to not allow them until the nationwide lockdown which ends on May 31. RWAs are contemplating allowing the maids only after June 1. With the issue of allowing the maids into residential apartments, gated communities and other dwellings becoming a major bone of contention, some RWAs are now conducting internal polls to see if internal passes can be issued to the helps. A gated community in Nallagandla had decided to conduct an internal poll among all residents to take a final call on allowing the maids which, however, did not go well with some of the residents. Vanita Shekhar, a resident, sought to know the need for such a poll. “While the community has allowed the entry of plumbers, electricians and e-commerce vendors within the community, we don’t know why the RWA is conducting a poll for domestic helps. It’s high time maids were allowed,” she said. At a Manikonda apartment complex, residents said the decision to allow the maids solely lies with the owner as tenants do not have a say on the matter. “Our apartment has almost 60% tenants. The helps will be allowed only if the owners agree to it. How can someone not living here decide on such issues,” questioned Vinod Reddy, a graphic designer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-not-to-allow-maids-till-may-31/articleshow/75877666.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Business||StanChart extends staff mediclaim to LGBT partners||Mumbai: Standard Chartered Bank has decided to extend medical and domestic relocation benefits to LGBT+ partners of all employees in India. The employees can now declare an LGBT+ partner as an eligible beneficiary under the bank’s medical reimbursement policy. The declared partner will also get covered under the domestic relocation policy. In 2019, another multinational bank Citi had extended family benefits to all domestic partners, including live-in partners and LGBT  (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) partners. In the corporate sector, many companies — including Godrej Group, Accenture and IBM — have been offering medical benefits to same-sex partners. For multinationals, this is part of a global policy on being more inclusive. StanChart said it has been taking successive steps in ensuring an equal and inclusive workplace for LGBT+ employees over the past year, starting with the launch of its employee resource group (ERG) for LGBT and allies, called GLAD (gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, allies and advocates). After the launch of GLAD, the lender organised multiple sensitisation sessions for employees with the help of activists and NGOs. It also made available toolkits for employees to raise their awareness on LGBT issues and define the role they can play in ensuring all colleagues feel welcome at the workplace. The bank also participated in the first LGBT+ job fair in Mumbai held last year and the Mumbai Pride this year. According to insurers, it is possible to extend family benefits to LGBT partners in group policies as the corporate takes the responsibility of obtaining a declaration from the employee and identifies the beneficiaries in advance. “We are committed to having an inclusive, safe and open environment for all LGBT+ colleagues in the bank. Equity in employee benefits is one of the critical initiatives in ensuring that these workplace standards are met. Treating all colleagues, regardless of their sexual orientation, with dignity and respect is the right thing to do,” said Sachin Gupte, HR head, StanChart India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stanchart-extends-staff-mediclaim-to-lgbt-partners/articleshow/75876454.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM orders door-to-door screening of migrants||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday ordered door-to-door screening of all migrant workers on the lines of the pulse polio campaign and directed health department officials to expedite procurement and installation of coronavirus testing facilities in all identified districts and health facilities. The CM assured that money for the procurement of the kits and equipment would not be a problem. “The stress should be on keeping health infrastructure for testing and containing coronavirus pandemic in a state of readiness in view of the arrival of the large number of migrant workers,” Nitish said. He also said the state-level task force on creating employment opportunities for migrant workers should initiate both short-term and long-term measures after feedback from the workers. The task force should also point out the activities in which they could be engaged in the already functional industrial units, the CM added. Nitish issued the orders after a high-level review meeting on containment of coronavirus pandemic with chief secretary Deepak Kumar and heads of other departments. On the creation of job opportunities for migrant workers, the CM asked the state-level task force to give suggestions on changes required in the existing policies, besides recommending the policy framework for the creation of work opportunities in the new situation, when skilled, semi-skilled and other migrant workers are available in the state. He said the task force should give its recommendation as to the incentives required for the opening of the new units. Stressing the point on door-to-door screening of migrant workers, the CM said the teams should be immediately constituted in this regard with the instruction that they would have to screen them again after an interval so that symptomatic cases could be detected and identified in time. He directed health department officials to procure ventilators, testing kits, PPE kits, medicines and all the necessary equipment from all possible sources, adding that testing facility should be installed in the identified districts and health institutes without wasting any time so that testing could be maximized in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-orders-door-to-door-screening-of-migrants/articleshow/75874561.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Manpower crunch, lack of raw materials hit real estate sector||PATNA: Real estate sector in the state continues to bear the brunt of nationwide lockdown despite several relaxations given by the Centre for construction activities. Realtors said bookings for flats have plunged sharply and they are doing virtual site visits for the clients. President of Bihar chapter of Builders’ Association of India Sachin Chandra said even though construction work at most sites has resumed, the process is not so smooth. “Construction work is progressing at a snail’s pace due to reduced manpower. As a builder, I am required to take extra precautions because even if one worker gets infected, the entire project will come to a halt,” he said. Chandra added, “The only silver lining is that we are getting enquires from NRIs. Besides, some people who sold their flats in Patna three-four years ago are also looking forward to buying one.” Realtors said since the government has allowed certain activities to resume in the sector, it should also look after the availability of necessary raw materials. “Unavailability of raw materials and lack of workers, skilled as well as non-skilled, are big problems. The skilled workers have left the city,” said another realtor on condition of anonymity. As per guidelines for construction activities, workers are allowed to work for 14 days on rotation basis – one batch for 14 days and another batch for 14 days. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI)-Bihar vice president Sudip Kumar said work has been allowed at construction sites, provided workers stay on the premises and follow all social distancing norms. “Reduced number of workers at the construction sites has disrupted the projects. In addition, unavailability of raw materials is a major issue. Besides, prices of several materials, including cement, have increased by 20%,” he said. Kumar said booking of flats has witnessed a major downfall. “As people are not allowed to visit the construction sites, they are inspecting the flats via video calls. As a result, just four to five bookings have been made in the last two months,” he said. Asked about providing employment to migrants who have returned to the state from various parts of the country due to the lockdown, realtors said the sector would not be able to employ many workers. “The workforce in the state has definitely increased, but we do not have enough construction projects to accommodate all migrant workers. The government should definitely plan something else for them,” said Chandra. Meanwhile, people who have booked or are planning to book flats are finding it difficult to get bank loans. Uma Shankar Prasad, who booked a flat in a residential society located at Saguna Mor, said, “I am looking forward to cancelling my booking as it won’t be possible for me to get bank loans at this point of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manpower-crunch-lack-of-raw-materials-hit-real-estate-sector/articleshow/75873724.cms||Archi Rani
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Leopard scare in Valparai town||Coimbatore: The forest department has advised residents of Valparai town not to venture out of their houses before dawn and after dusk as a leopard is prowling in the area.“A leopard was spotted near the bus stand, residential areas and on main roads in the last 15 days. The animal was captured in CCTV cameras installed by the police department across the town,” an official said.The department has intensified patrolling during the night hours.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-scare-in-valparai-town/articleshow/75877676.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Low demand, price force tribals to stock produce||Coimbatore: The farmers at the Kallar tribal settlement in Anamalai Tiger Reserve near Valparai are ready with pepper and honey, among other produce, but much to their disappointment there aren’t many takers. J Rajalakshmi, who usually harvest and sell pepper during February-April every year, is forced to stock 150kg of produce at her house this year as she couldn’t sell the same due to lockdown.She says, “By this time last year, we had sold most of our produce to traders and 1kg pepper had fetched us Rs 450. But this year, we are forced to stock the produce for two reasons. First of all, there isn’t much demand for pepper and traders are quoting a price of Rs 200 to Rs 300 a kg, which is too low. Second, we can’t move the produce due to lack of transportation facilities.”Pointing out that they harvest pepper only once a year, Rajalakshmi says they are dependent on the income from it to make a living through the year. “It is not just my family, almost all the families in the settlement are struggling to sell their produce.”Other tribal hamlets too are facing the same problem. Sathish, a farmer from Kuzhipatti in Udumalpet range of Anamalai Tiger Reserve says, “It is during April-May that the collection of honey is high. We start collecting honey in April and the activity goes on until the onset of rain. This year, we could not sell the collected honey due to lack of transportation facilities.”He says their customers are quoting a price of less than Rs 500 a litre against Rs 650 last year. “There is no demand for most of the forest produce, including lemongrass oil, the price of which has dropped to Rs 900-Rs 950 a litre from Rs 1,500.”S Thanaraj, a tribal rights activist, has sought the intervention of the government to assist the tribals to sell their produce. “The produce that they cultivate fall under the minor forest produce category. Presently, they are selling the produce to middlemen. The government should fix minimum support price for the produce and help them sell the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/low-demand-price-force-tribals-to-stock-produce/articleshow/75877686.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||1 petrol pump worker axed to death, 1 injured, cash Rs1 lakh stolen||Nagpur: Masked robbers, armed with an axe, decamped with cash Rs1 lakh from a petrol pump on Hingna-Amravati Outer Ring Road after murdering 62-year-old Pandhari Bhandarkar, and leaving his colleague Leeladhar Gohote, 52, fighting for life. This is the first incident of robbery with murder during the lockdown period. Senior cops suspect robbery was the main motive behind the murder, as many people are in desperate need for cash due to serious unemployment in and around the city and in rural parts. The robbers also took away the CCTV recorder systems and damaged the locker before managing to lay their hands on the cash. Police said the robbers also struck the locker with an axe, leaving a deep mark on it. The workers, who were attacked in their sleep, were inside the office at the petrol pump, which operates round the clock. After three other colleagues left by 11pm on Wednesday, the two elderly workers had stayed back for the night shift. Gohote, whose condition is critical, was financing his son’s engineering studies by working at the pump. Petrol pump owner Sanjay Ugale has admitted him in a reputed private hospital. The goons, likely to be four in number, possibly came in a car. The investigating team suspects the robbers had earlier attempted to break open an ATM outlet at Bazaargaon, where their images have been captured in CCTV footage. The robbers had tried to use the axe to break the ATM open for over an hour but could not succeed. The same gang of robbers also appears to have attempted to break into a bank at Wadi, but failed there too. Experienced cops said the suspects could be from neighbouring talukas. They feel the goons were desperate after failing in their first two attempts. A trucker, who stopped to fill fuel, was the first to spot the gory scene with Gohote and Bhandarkar lying in a pool of blood splashed across the floor. Hingna police reached the spot and informed owner Ugale. Both the employees were lying motionless. As Bhandarkar was showing no signs of life, cops rushed Gohote to Government Medical College and Hospital, from where he was later shifted to a private hospital. Hingna and MIDC police, apart from crime branch, have started rounding up suspects. MIDC police have registered an offence of murder and robbery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-petrol-pump-worker-axed-to-death-1-injured-cash-rs1-lakh-stolen/articleshow/75877702.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 22, 2020||Varanasi||Auto, e-rickshaws likely to return with new norms||Varanasi: Auto and e-rickshaws are likely to return on city roads soon with new norms for boarding passengers during the period of lockdown. However, entry of overloaded goods carriers in the city and parking of trucks along highways are banned. Agencies like National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), PWD and UP Bridge Corporation have been directed to restart construction projects which were halted due to the lockdown. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma and SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary on Thursday convened a meeting with officials of traffic, regional transport department, NHAI, PWD and other agencies to finalise plans for traffic and restarting stalled projects. As per DM Sharma, number of auto rickshaws to operate in each locality—Bhelupur, Dashaswamedh, Kotwali, Adampur and trans-Varuna zones—will be fixed. No inter-zone operation of autos will be allowed, he said, asking RTO officials to develop an app through which auto drivers can select the zone where they will ply their vehicles. Stickers in separate colours will be issued to autos to paste on their vehicles. E-rickshaws will operate only in bylanes and streets and not on prominent roads. DM Sharma also asked to finalise police station area-wise list of vending zones. Regarding heavy vehicles, DM asked traffic SP to ensure that no overloaded vehicle enters city limits and damages the sewage and drainage pipelines. He asked to divert those vehicles on Kachhwa-Kapsethi road from NH-2. He also asked officials concerned to start repair work at the damaged bridge on Kachhwa-Kapsethi road at any cost from Friday. Sharma said that no parking of trucks along highways and roads linking the highways with city roads must be allowed from Friday. Besides, NHAI officials were asked to resume construction projects including construction of toll plaza and essential road repair at Tengramod. The agency was asked to instruct its contractors for arranging labourers from the villages to engage them in projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/auto-e-rickshaws-likely-to-return-with-new-norms/articleshow/75874536.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Couple from Mumbai adds to Goa’s tally of Covid-19 positive cases||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of Covid positive cases crossed the 50-mark as two more persons—a couple—tested positive on Thursday, taking the total tally of active patients in the state to 45. Seven patients, who had tested positive earlier, have recovered. “Both positive cases are of rail passengers, a couple who arrived in Goa on Wednesday in a transit train,” health secretary Nila Mohanan said. She said the couple “have given a local address”. Mohanan also said all the 417 seafarers, who arrived from Italy on Wednesday by three charter flights, have tested negative. On Wednesday, one of the seafarers had reported positive in the TrueNat screening test. But the confirmatory tests conducted at Goa Medical College turned negative. “We did the RT-PCR test (real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) twice on the seafarer. And both times it came negative. There are no positive cases among the air passengers who arrived in Goa yesterday (Wednesday),” she said. Mohanan also allayed fears over lack of personal protection equipment (PPE) and said they have received 5,000 PPEs on Wednesday and 5,000 more were on the way. “There is no shortage of PPEs. In GMC, too, there was never a shortage of PPEs,” she said. With a spurt in cases, Mohanan said they were well prepared in the fight against Covid as they had enough medical staff ready. “The GMC’s consultants are very much part of the Covid-19 management and directions have also been issued to the GMC dean,” she said. She also clarified that there was no case of Covid-19 reinfection reported in Goa. “There is absolutely no such incidence in Goa,” she said. She said all patients are doing well, including the seven who have recovered and discharged. “All seven have even completed their mandatory home quarantine,” she said. Mohanan said of the 775 samples sent for testing, 734 results were received, and all were negative. “We are awaiting results of 39 samples,” she said. On Thursday, 269 domestic road travellers were placed in home quarantine and 379 seafarers in the facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/couple-from-mumbai-adds-to-goas-tally-of-covid-ve-cases/articleshow/75878577.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Stalls to open at Pune railway station||PUNE: With only one direct train from Pune station from June 1 and a couple of trains which would pass through the station, an order has been issued to vendors selling food items, food plazas, stalls selling medicines and literature material to open their establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stalls-to-open-at-rly-station/articleshow/75878552.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Bihar man booked for raping minor||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur north all women police have launched a hunt for a 27-year-old Bihar native for raping a 17-year-old girl from Assam after she delivered a baby. The minor girl was working in a banian company at Anupparpalyam, police sources said. “She was in love with her colleague Ranith Mandal from Bihar and the couple was staying together in a rented house at Anupparpalyam. He raped her several times promising to marry her. Mandal left for Bihar four months ago and also switched off his mobile phone. The girl, who had become pregnant, was not able to contact him,” a police officer said. The girl, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for delivery on April 30, delivered a baby boy. Police have registered a case against Mandal under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bihar-man-booked-for-raping-minor/articleshow/75877659.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||1st 200 city Covid cases in 56 days, next 200 in 15 days||Nagpur: Twenty more persons from the city tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday taking the district’s tally to 407. The first 200 corona positive cases, including three deaths, were reported in 56 days, but the latest 200, including four deaths, came in just 15 days.Among the 20 who tested positive on Thursday, 12 are from Mominpura containment zone and seven from Gaddigodam containment zone. Number of cases from Mominpura containment zone increased to 219. Cases in Gaddigodam surged to 20.Total lockdown was implemented in the district from March 21. Of total 407 cases, 403 came during lockdown. This happened due to high number of cases in two hotspots — Mominpura and Satranjipura. Total number of cases from these two containment zones is 340, which is 83.53% of total cases in the district.The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) aggressive contact tracing and quarantining system planned by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and others helped detect large number of cases from the two hotspots.The biggest concern for the city now is surge in cases from Gaddigodam. Mominpura and Satranjipura have been containment zones from April 4 and 6 respectively. However, people reportedly met each other and roamed inside the containment zones, leading to many cases. But Gaddigodam was notified as containment zone only from May 16 onwards. A 65-year-old comorbidity patient from Khalasi Line, Gaddigodam, was admitted at GMCH on May 13, and tested positive on May 15. He was on ventilator and died on May 16. Therefore, chances of spread of coronavirus from Gaddigodam to other areas cannot be ruled out.Over 600 persons from this locality were quarantined as it is NMC’s model to contain spread within a slum or congested area, and stop transmission to other areas.One remaining positive case on Thursday came from Bajeria in Central Nagpur. It is a new area for Covid-19. “A girl was admitted at IGGMCH for consuming something in an attempt to commit suicide 3-4 days ago. Her samples were taken for Covid-19 testing and came positive on Thursday,” said NMC sources.Now, Bajeria will be a new containment zone increasing their number to 19 in existence in the city.Number of samples tested increased to 9,367 on Thursday. Thus, positivity rate is 4.34%. On Thursday, 580 samples tested negative, the highest number to test negative in a single day in the district. Earlier highest was 562 on March 12.Total nine corona positive patients were discharged, increasing the number of discharged persons to 310. Eight were discharged from GMCH and remaining one from IGGMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-200-city-covid-cases-in-56-days-next-200-in-15-days/articleshow/75876632.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana proves its IT clout, logs in big numbers in jobs, exports||HYDERABAD: In a clear indicator of Telangana’s growing IT clout, the state has logged an impressive 18% jump in IT exports for financial year 2019-20 at Rs 1,28,807 crore as compared to Rs 1,09,219 crore in 2018-19, as per figures released by the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Thursday. This growth is more than double the average national IT exports growth of 8.09% and over two and a half times that of the rest of the country’s average (India’s IT exports excluding Telangana’s) at 6.92%. Telangana’s share in India’s IT exports too grew from 10.61% in 2018-19 to 11.58% in 2019-20. India’s IT exports grew to Rs 11,12,496 crore in 2019-20 from Rs 10,29,248 crore in 2018-19.Excluding Telangana’s IT exports, the figure stood at Rs 9,83,689 crore in 2019-20 as against Rs 9,20,029 in 2018-19. In line with the growth in the sector, IT employment in Telangana also grew 7.2% to 5,82,126 jobs as compared to the national average employment growth of 4.93% and the rest of the nation’s average (IT employment figures excluding Telangana) of 4.59%. IT sector employment in Telangana went up from 5,43,033 jobs in 2018-19 to 5,82,126 in 2019-20. The figures were released by CMO after Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao and principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan met chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday and submitted the annual report on IT sector. KTR told the CM that Telangana recorded 17.93% growth despite the onset of Covid-19 during the last quarter of financial year 2019 -2020 (Jan 2020 - March 2020). “Telangana’s overall share in Indian IT export’s growth for 2019-20 is 23.53% and that in Indian IT employment growth for the fiscal is 19.07%. This clearly shows that Telangana is poised to be a preferred destination for IT investments in the future,” KTR said. The IT minister said Hyderabad’s IT ecosystem has the agility and resilience to overcome the after-effects of Covid-19. He said several investors were actively engaged in discussions with the IT department and there would be some announcements in this regard very soon. “The department will release the progress report on June 1, depicting all the achievements during 2019-20. This will be the sixth year in a row that the department has released the progress report,” KTR said. Informing the CM about the IT4TS campaign to raise funds for Covid-19 relief, Jayesh Ranjan said the proceeds were used to procure highend medical infrastructure for testing Covid-19, and other viruses subsequently, in government hospitals. “Several companies were involved in contributing towards the PPEs, ventilators, and other relief efforts. The IT fraternity in Hyderabad was able to raise over Rs 70 crore collectively towards the fight against Covid-19,” he said. As part of IT4TS, IT sector employees contributed one day or two day salaries with companies matching 1X or 2X the employee contribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-proves-its-it-clout-logs-in-big-numbers-in-jobs-exports/articleshow/75878579.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Technology to add zing to low key Eid celebrations||PUNE: The pandemic has dampened the celebrations planned for Eid-ul-Fitr this year as most people intend to keep the feasting low key. Not to be deterred, a number of people are planing to move the celebrations online to ensure social distancing norms are maintained. Usually, BPO employee Said Ahmed plans a trip to his hometown Dhule around Eid to celebrate the festival with his family. But that seems impossible now. “This is the first Eid since I started working in Pune that I will not be home for the celebrations. We aren’t planning a big celebration this year because of social distancing norms. We have all planned to get on a Zoom call together in the morning after we do our prayers at home,” he said. Despite the many restrictions, people plan to share Eidi with each other through digital wallets. Alina Mirza, a student, said, “I have five cousin sisters. All of us meet at a family get-together during Eid and get Eidi from all our relatives. This year, since meeting physically is not possible, I suggested to my parents to give out Eidi through Google Pay or Paytm. My cousins have told their parents the same.” This year, although the festival will be marked by low-key celebrations, there will still be merriment. IT professional Atif Ali chose to look at the silver lining. “Meat shops are open and we are getting groceries. Everyone plans to pitch in to help make the biryani. We can worship from home and technology has helped us stay in touch with our loved ones. Even without new clothes, as long as we are safe and healthy, this should be a good Eid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/technology-to-add-zing-to-low-key-eid-celebrations/articleshow/75878533.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra set to sizzle at 48°C this week||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh is likely to boil at 48° Celsius this week. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management (APSDMA) officials, temperatures are set to hover around 48°C from May 23 at a few places in Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, and East Godavari. This has been attributed to cyclone Amphan and north-westerly winds that have already started entering the state from north India, said S Stella, director, the IMD Amaravati Centre. “Super cyclone Amphan completely took away the moisture content in the atmosphere over the land, thus causing clear sky conditions. The north-westerly winds are also blowing from Thursday. This will continue till May 28. Later, there will be some rains associated with thunderstorms. People should take utmost care during this week,” Stella told TOI. When contacted, the APSDMA commissioner K Kanna Babu said that the government has taken all requisite steps to alert the public about the hot weather conditions in the days ahead. “A plan of action is being readied now. We have been alloted special funds from this year so there will be no shortage of funds. Dos and Donts have been circulated among the public,” Kanna Babu told TOI. The district administrations shall take necesary steps and organise a campaign and provide temporary shelters, water and buttermilk, and emergency medicines to mitigate the heat wave affect in the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-set-to-sizzle-at-48c-this-week/articleshow/75875183.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Autorickshaw drivers seek permission to operate||Coimbatore: MP PR Natarajan along with members of CITU Auto Union on Thursday urged collector K Rajamani to take steps to provide assistance to auto drivers and to grant them permission to operate from June 1. It has been over 50 days since they stopped plying autos, deputy general secretary of the union MK Muthukumar said. “It was difficult for them to manage day-to-day expenses. How will they manage for months without any income? We had petitioned both the state government and the district administration numerous times seeking relief fund for auto drivers. We had requested the government to grant Rs 5,000 per month for three months from the auto drivers welfare board,” he said.“The state government announced 1,000 for the auto drivers registered with the welfare board. But less than 1,000 are registered and only a few of them received the fund,” he said.Over 15,000 drivers are plying autos in the district, Muthukumar said. “The government is neither taking steps to assist us financially nor allowing us to operate autos. While it has issued guidelines to operate taxis in the state, no announcement regarding operations of autos have been made. If the government fails to pay heed to our requests, we would start plying autos from June 1.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/autorickshaw-drivers-seek-permission-to-operate/articleshow/75877650.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Teachers demand transportation for paper evaluation||Coimbatore: Schoolteachers want the state government to increase the number of centres for Class XII answer script evaluation, which begins on May 27, and arrange exclusive public transport facilities. Pregnant women, new mothers and those who have chronic illnesses should be exempted from evaluation duty in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, they said.State secretary of the Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers’ Association (TNPGTA) V M Michaelraj said the department should exempt teachers vulnerable to contract the infection, such as pregnant women, new mothers, people who have undergone surgeries and those who have chronic illnesses. “The state should announce that such people will be exempted from evaluation work,” he said.President of the Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers Association S Arunan said the state has increased the number of evaluation centres after they represented the issue. “As there is no proper public transport, the number of evaluation centres should be increased so that teachers can be posted at the nearest one. Proper public transport must be ensured,” he said. “Availability of safety measures such as masks and hand sanitisers at the evaluation centres should be ensured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-demand-transportation-for-paper-evaluation/articleshow/75877722.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Viral fever cases drop as people remain indoors||Coimbatore: Other than the lull in Covid-19 cases, the district has another reason to rejoice - the number of viral fever cases that require admission has dropped considerably since the lockdown began.As per the data available with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), just 170 people were admitted to hospitals in the district with fever in April, compared to 400 to 580 in the same period in previous years. The district had reported 547 admissions of fever patients in April 2019, 585 in 2018, 1,006 in 2017 and 412 in 2018.So far this month, the district has recorded only 78 admissions of fever patients, against 507 in the comparable period last year, 521 in 2018, 1,071 in 2017 and 296 in May 2016.Health officers and doctors attribute this drop to lockdown and fear of Covid-19 that kept people indoors and take immunity boosters. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says, “Fever is often caused by viruses, which people contract from others or touching a surface carrying fomites. Since people are remaining indoors now, they are not much exposed to such viruses.”Community medicine experts say there is a drastic drop in patients with cold, cough and mild fever. Dr Sudha Ramalingam, professor, community medicine, PSG Hospitals, says, “The number of people coming to our clinic with cold or cough has reduced to negligible single digits. Usually, the number of outpatients coming for consultation for these complaints is an indicator of a virus outbreak.”Some doctors say many of their patients, especially in the vulnerable age group, have begun taking extra precautions to stay safe. Dr Rajendran, paediatrician, Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital, says, “They are ensuring better hygiene by stepping out with masks, constantly washing hands, using sanitizer and consuming only boiled water that too in lukewarm temperature. So, we are not getting the usual high diarrhoea cases that we see this month.”However, the trend is not a state-wide phenomenon. For instance, private hospitals in Madurai continue to see fever cases. “While April and May are not fever seasons here, the number of cases with general cold, cough and fever is still coming to hospitals. It has not reduced much compared to last year,” says Dr Ramesh, Velammal Medical College and Hospital in Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/viral-fever-cases-drop-as-people-remain-indoors/articleshow/75877730.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||SHGs seek loan interest waiver||Coimbatore: Microfinance firms are demanding interest on interest for the moratorium period announced in view of the Covid-19 lockdown, representatives of self-help groups (SHGs) said and sought the intervention of the district administration.Representatives of SHGs from the district, along with members of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) and member of Parliament from Coimbatore P R Natarajan approached district administration officials with the issue on Thursday.AIDWA district secretary A Radhika said the state had announced that no interests on debt should be collected due to the lockdown. “While the moneylenders had not collected the debt for the lockdown period, now they are asking the women to pay the interest for the lockdown period, along with a compounded interest for the actual interest. They are also asking them to resume paying normal interest from June. Many SHGs are struggling to get back their businesses on feet. How can they pay the debt?” The most affected women are those who work in unorganised sectors, Radhika told TOI. “The women will pay the principal but the interest should be waived. We have informed district administration authorities about the issue.”Natarajan said the SHGs should be given a moratorium until the lockdown is completely lifted and normalcy returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shgs-seek-loan-interest-waiver/articleshow/75877715.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Area-specific supply of essentials on PMC radar||PUNE: The civic body is chalking out plans to streamline the supply of essential goods and vegetables in the newly carved micro containment zones in the city to tackle the spread of coronavirus infection. “We are exploring if the area-specific plan can be adopted to ensure that people do not face hassles in getting essential items because the situation in every containment zone cannot be the same. Some areas have seen huge spurt in cases. The administration will go for stricter measures in such areas. The grocery items may be delivered at homes to prevent people from stepping out in those places,” an official of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said. The PMC had implemented a similar model at the Manjulabai Chawl area in Bhavani Peth, where large number of cases were reported in a single building — a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) project. The PMC has 65 containment zones now. As many as 22 new containment zones were identified earlier this week following a spurt in fresh cases there. Another official said the PMC had distributed 70,000 kits containing basic grocery and essential items in most-affected slums in containment zones during the lockdown 3.0. “We are discussing with police how the measures can be executed during the lockdown 4.0, especially in new containment zones. We shall also take suggestions from local elected members,” the official added. Corporators from the containment zones stressed an interruption in the supply of goods and vegetables would create panic among residents. So, the administration should ensure adequate supply, they added. The civic administration in its latest order has not specified the timing for operations of vegetable, milk and grocery shops. Officials stated that steps would be taken to ensure that people got essential goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/area-specific-supply-of-essentials-on-pmc-radar/articleshow/75878581.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heat is on: City records 44.1°C||Ahmedabad: The city sizzled on Thursday with season’s first above 44°C temperature. While partial lockdown helped, the citizens felt dehydration, uneasiness and fatigue due to very high temperatures. India Meteorological Department (IMD) website mentioned that the maximum temperature of 44.1°C in Ahmedabad was 2.4 degrees higher than the average whereas minimum temperature of 26°C was 1.6 degrees higher. IMD forecast had mentioned heat wave for parts of Gujarat on Thursday including Ahmedabad. Deesa in north Gujarat was the hottest weather station with mercury touching 44.9°C as maximum temperature whereas Surendranagar came second with 44.6°C. ‘No large change in maximum temperature very likely over the region during next 24 hours, thereafter fall by 2-3°C very likely during subsequent two to three days,’ mentioned forecast by IMD on Thursday. Coastal areas of Saurashtra and south Gujarat recorded maximum temperatures in range of 33.4 degrees to 40 degrees. Out of 22 weather stations, 13 recorded temperature above 40°C. City-based occupational health officials said that extreme temperatures require suspension of outdoor activity. “Lockdown has surely helped in reducing number of heat-related emergencies in the state. Fall, vomiting or diarrhoea, nausea, headache, body ache, fatigue, etc. are most common signs of heat-related distress. If not addressed in time, it can lead to heat stroke,” said a city-based expert. Doctors advised consumption of lot of fluids in different forms throughout the day – even if the person is indoors – to prevent heat stroke and remain hydrated. “Citizens can consume lime juice, coconut water, fruit juice, etc. to ensure that they consume water in different forms. Likewise, it’s important to have light meals to avoid stomach ache or uneasiness,” said Dr Mehul Shelat, a city-based physician. “Avoid spicy, fried or high-fat food. Take periodic break in between work if it involves outdoor activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heat-is-on-city-records-44-1c/articleshow/75877061.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||SHGs seek loan interest waiver||Coimbatore: Microfinance firms are demanding interest on interest for the moratorium period announced in view of the Covid-19 lockdown, representatives of self-help groups (SHGs) said and sought the intervention of the district administration. Representatives of SHGs from the district, along with members of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) and member of Parliament from Coimbatore P R Natarajan approached district administration officials with the issue on Thursday. AIDWA district secretary A Radhika said the state had announced that no interests on debt should be collected due to the lockdown. “While the moneylenders had not collected the debt for the lockdown period, now they are asking the women to pay the interest for the period, along with a compounded interest for the actual interest. They are also asking them to resume paying normal interest from June. Many SHGs are struggling to get back their businesses on feet. How can they pay the debt?” The most affected women are those who work in unorganised sectors, Radhika told TOI. “The women will pay the principal but the interest should be waived. We have informed district administration authorities about the issue.” Natarajan said the self-help groups should be given a moratorium until the lockdown was completely lifted and normalcy returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shgs-seek-loan-interest-waiver/articleshow/75877720.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman riding pillion dies as tree branch falls on her||Coimbatore: A woman was killed and her husband and a few other motorists were injured after a tree branch fell on them on Lakshmi Mills-Puliyakulam Road here on Thursday afternoon.The Race Course (law & order) police identified the deceased as Gayathri, 38, wife of Raja, of Rangammal Kovil Street at Pappanaickenpalayam. She was a homemaker.According to a police officer, the incident took place when Gayathri was riding pillion on her husband’s motorcycle. They were on their way to a private school on Puliyakulam Road to get books for their daughters, who are studying in classes VII and III. When they reached Lakshmi Mills-Puliyakulam Road, a tree branch fell on them. She suffered severe head injuries as she was not wearing helmet. A few other motorists, including her husband, sustained minor injuries in the incident.”An autorickshaw driver, along with other motorists, alerted the 108 ambulance service. As the ambulance didn’t turn up even 15 minutes after the incident, the auto driver stopped a goods autorickshaw and took her to a private hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. The body was later sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for autopsy.The Race Course police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The officer said postmortem would be conducted on Friday morning and the body would be handed over to the family members after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-riding-pillion-dies-as-tree-branch-falls-on-her/articleshow/75877698.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Property tax waiver push||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Mayor Usha Dhore and BJP legislators Mahesh Landge and Laxman Jagtap on Thursday met municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and demanded that PCMC waive off property tax (commercial and non-residential) for three months. “PCMC has no powers to waive off property tax. We need the state’s permission,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-tax-waiver-push/articleshow/75878573.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ration scheme during lockdown under HC lens||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s ration distribution system for the poor during the lockdown came under the scanner of high court on Thursday, which questioned why e-coupon holders were left “high and dry”. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was hearing a petition that said thousands of needy people in the capital were not getting ration under the public distribution system (PDS) despite having e-coupons issued by the state government. It alleged that new coupons were being issued, even as existing coupon holders were still waiting for ration. The bench said it was “unacceptable that e-coupons were distributed in such a large number and yet e-coupon holders were left high and dry. Delhi government ought to have ensured that sufficient ration was available in proportion to number of coupons issued.” Brushing aside request from the state government to give it a weeks’ time, the court fixed a deadline of Friday evening, to provide ration to stranded e-coupon holders in Sultanpuri and nearby areas. The court acted on a plea filed by a third-year law student Shabnam, who argued that Delhi government had announced that e-coupons will be required to get ration immediately even if the person doesn’t have a PDS card. Yet, despite e-coupons being issued to 73 persons in Sultanpuri and 1,909 in nearby areas, they have not been delivered ration for the past one month. The state government conceded that there was a paucity of ration at some PDS centres, but efforts were being made to supply sufficient amount to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ration-scheme-during-lockdown-under-hc-lens/articleshow/75877708.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||‘Vehicle claims may not be cleared if insurance not renewed for lockdown’||KOLKATA: Leading insurers and insurance broking firms have appealed that cars submerged in water after the downpour on Wednesday should not be restarted before 24 hours after water recedes. For damaged property, the firms have advised owners to take photographs and videos before removing or clearing the area. A day after Cyclone Amphan ripped through Bengal, including Kolkata, leading insurance companies on Thursday said they expected a huge number of applications to settle claims for property and motor damage. Going by an even conservative estimate, they believe a few thousand cars were battered on Wednesday night. The number of houses in the city damaged were also pretty high but insurance companies deal in very few residential properties, as low as merely 1% in Kolkata. Mostly, commercial and industrial properties are usually covered. Bajaj Allianz, along with the likes of National Insurance and Bharti Axa, has started taking measures, such as sending messages to customers and preparing marketing team for settlement of claims in Kolkata, the biggest market among affected zones in cyclone. Milind V Kohe, chief of underwriting and reinsurance, Bharti Axa, said it has communicated internally for speedy settlement of claims. But Rahul Agarwal, founder of Ideal Insurance, one of the leading insurance broking firms, pointed out that some car owners, who were scheduled to renew their motor insurance in March to May but had not yet owing to the current lockdown, were not likely to get their claims cleared. “We have already received a lot of calls from car owners who have not renewed the insurance because of the lockdown. Most of them had thought of making the payment next month as they were not using the car at the moment,” he added. Agarwal pointed out if vehicles were submerged in water, it was advisable not to start the engines to avoid any chance of the claim being repudiated. Echoing him, head of motor (OD) claim of Bajaj Allianz General A V Padmanabha said if the water was above the level of tyres it was better not to restart the engine before consulting a technician. “There is a thing called engine lock. If that happens, it would further the damage,” he said. Padmanabha said insurers usually paid part of insured declared value (IDV) for motor damage but if the vehicles was found to be irreparable, the owner will get majority of its IDV, that would take into account depreciation as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vehicle-claims-may-not-be-cleared-if-insurance-not-renewed-for-lockdown/articleshow/75876678.cms||Udit Mukherjee
May 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: 13 firms likely to take part in ore e-auction on May 27||PANAJI: Thirteen companies are likely to participate in the directorate of mines and geology’s e-auctioning of around 2.5 million tonne iron ore lying at jetties and plots on May 27. A senior officer in the mines department said that the mining companies and traders that had participated in the last e-auction are likely to bid this time too. The officer said that the mining companies’ EMD (Earnest Money Deposit) is valid and are eligible to participate in the e-auctioning. The state government is hoping to generate Rs 100 crore revenue from the e-auction whereas mining company officers said that they may not bid for the ore as they would have to invest and wait till the monsoon is over to export the ore. “By the time all the processes are completed to start transportation of ore, monsoon will hit the state and thereafter it would be difficult to do shipment,” a mining company officer said. The ore is currently lying at different plots across the state, including Pale, Rivona, Collem, Advalpal, etc, and varies from low grade to high grade. In 2012, a Supreme Court judgment had declared mining after 2007 illegal. Ore lying at jetties and plots was subsequently declared state property. The government then identified 15 million tonne ore lying at jetties and plots, of which around 12 million tonne has been e-auctioned. In March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a SC order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. In January 2020, the apex court permitted export of ore extracted before March 15, 2018. In March, after a two-year hiatus, mining companies resumed transportation of royalty-paid iron ore in the state. Around six mining companies have got permission from both the directorate of mines and geology and the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) to transport ore. There is 1.45 million tonne of royalty-paid ore which the companies have started transporting and there is also another 7.7 million tonne on which royalty has not been paid, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/13-firms-likely-to-take-part-in-ore-e-auction-on-may-27/articleshow/75878583.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Family ill, hospital staff do last rites||Hospital staff at the cremation of Vadilal GandhiAhmedabad: When Vadilal Gandhi, 85, was cremated at a city crematorium, his son Kirit was not there to light his pyre and his relatives were not there to oversee his funeral. It was staff members of IKDRC who ensured that Gandhi’s last rites were performed according to his faith. Gandhi was a Covid-19 patient under treatment at IKDRC. Kirit is among the three family members who tested positive and are under treatment or in isolation at the Civil Hospital campus. When Gandhi died on Wednesday, Kirit was contacted. “Kirit told us that he called several relatives to ensure his father got the proper last rites but no one stepped up. Under the guidance of Dr Vineet Mishra, director of IKDRC, we made arrangements to ferry the mortal remains from the hospital to the crematorium and oversee the entire procedure,” said a senior IKDRC official. “Five of our staff members were pall bearers on behalf of the Gandhi family. They also ensured that the religious customs are followed. It was our privilege to be of help to the family in such testing times.” IKDRC officials said that all protocols for the last rites of Covid-19 victims were followed under the guidance of the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/family-ill-hospital-staff-do-last-rites/articleshow/75877798.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Surat||Garbage van knocks two, hits pole||Surat: Large parts of Dumas village were sweltering on Thursday as an electricity pole collapsed after a garbage collection van crashed into it.The electricity supply was restored late in the evening. Before crashing into the electricity pole, the van had knocked a senior citizen and a woman on the road.The van was going towards Bhimpore from Dumas when the driver Ramesh Vasava lost control over the vehicle as he suffered a convulsion, said a police officer at Dumas police station. The van crashed into the pole at high speed due to which the pole fell on the van.Vasava's leg got stuck in the vehicle and villagers rescued him. He was taken to the local hospital for treatment. The van had knocked down 62-year-old Nanu Patel who was sitting on his bike on the roadside and a pedestrian Jigisha Bhagat, who walking on the road. Both were admitted in the hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/garbage-van-knocks-two-hits-pole/articleshow/75875221.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Butibori power co asks 141 to resign amid Covid mayhem||Nagpur: Vidarbha Industries Power Limited (VIPL), a subsidiary of Reliance Power Limited, has made 141 out of its 170 staffers at the 600MW Butibori power plant tender their resignation. The plant was closed since January 2019 and the staffers were doing only maintenance and preservation work. The remaining 29 staffers will continue this work. Station director Rajendra Kale said the plant had closed down due to regulatory issues after Adani Power took over Reliance’s power distribution business in Mumbai. “We initially closed one 300MW unit and then had to close the second one too,” he added. Employees have been asked to work for another three months till August. The employees are distraught over the fear of not getting jobs due to the coronavirus pandemic-induced recession. “We had requested the station director to let us continue till December and then ask us to resign. By March 2021, economy would be back on track and we would get jobs elsewhere. However, at present the economic scenario is bleak. Moreover, due to the lockdown we can’t even go for interviews. The company has behaved in a heartless manner,” said an employee. Another employee said, “It is not our fault if the plant closed down. If the company was unable to run it why didn’t it sell off the plant. The new owner would have restarted the plant and our jobs would have been saved.” Employees alleged that company used pressure tactics to make them resign. “We were told that if we did not resign, we would not be given three months’ salaries and release letters. We had no option but to resign,” said a despondent employee. An engineer working at the plant said he had purchased a flat recently and was paying a monthly instalment of Rs28,000. “If I don’t get salary, how will I pay this amount? My two kids are in good schools and the fees is quite high. Besides, I will have to buy food items, pay electricity, water and mobile bills. All this needs money. I don’t know what I will do after three months unless I get a job,” he added. A technician said he did not have much savings and would find it difficult to feed his family after three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/butibori-power-co-asks-141-to-resign-amid-covid-mayhem/articleshow/75877757.cms||Ashish Roy
May 22, 2020||Trichy||Amma canteens in Trichy city served 5.86 lakh people||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has extended the initiative to provide food free of cost three times a day at the 11 Amma canteens in the city till May 31. Since the lockdown came into effect, 5.86 lakh people have availed the free food served in the canteens.The food is sponsored jointly by the former AIADMK MP P Kumar, tourism minister, Vellamandi Natarajan and backward class welfare minister, S Valarmathi. While P Kumar is sponsoring the food at six Amma canteens, the two AIADMK ministers are sponsoring food at five Amma canteens in Ariyamangalam and Srirangam zones. The expense incurred for serving food at the 11 Amma canteens in a day is estimated at Rs 1.37 lakh.Corporation officials said that though takeaway service is offered at several hotels after the lockdown norms were relaxed, there has not been a drop in the number of visitors at Amma canteens. “There is a bigger demand at Amma canteens for breakfast and dinner compared to lunch. As the peak summer has set in, the demand for curd rice is picking up in the canteens,” a corporation official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/amma-canteens-in-trichy-city-served-5-86-lakh-people/articleshow/75877723.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Trade bodies seek Andhra Pradesh CM’s intervention||GUNTUR: Various trade bodies have decided to lodge complaint against the Guntur district administration to chief minister. Traders are upset with the district administration for not relaxing lockdown conditions even in non-containment zones. “There seems to be different set of rules for different districts. The officials in Guntur district are taking unilateral decisions to continue stringent lockdown despite relaxation guidelines issued by the state government,” said Malleswara Reddy, a merchant. He said the merchants who were facing severe losses due to the piled up stocks should be allowed to open shops at least in non-containment areas in Guntur city. He asked why the officials wanted to keep the shops closed even after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy wanted to open up the economy. Chamber of Commerce president A Anjaneyulu objected to the way the officials were enforcing the lockdown in green zone areas. “There is no much relief despite we brought all the issues to the notice of the senior officials. We are planning to meet the chief minister to complain about the indifferent attitude of the district officials,” said Anjaneyulu. Source said that police were not allowing the shops to open in the green mandals even during the day. The state government had allowed many businesses to be launched even in red zones but the pictutre is different in Guntur. Sources said the police turned down a request by a legislator from the city to allow the opening of meat shops in Two-Town where there were no containment areas. In a letter to the state government, GR Srikanth, vice-president, retail super market Spencers, said their outlet in Chilakapuripet town, which is a green zone, was closed for 52 days due to the indifferent attitude of local authorities. “We got oral permission from the joint collector to open the shop. But the local inspector is threatening us not to resume operations,” he alleged. When contacted, Rural SP Ch Vijaya Rao said that they would allow the operations if the town was not in containment zone limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/trade-bodies-seek-cms-intervention/articleshow/75875217.cms||Samdani MN
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid +ve woman’s last rites marred by protest in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Notwithstanding government campaigns and specific guidelines, villagers of Bodigadithota and Vaikunthapuram in Nellore district on Thursday refused to allow the funeral rites of an elderly woman to be held. The 80-year-old woman tested positive for Covid and was admitted at Nellore Government General Hospital on May 12. She was later shifted to Narayana General Hospitals on May 13. Doctors said that she had comorbities like diabetes and hypertension which caused her condition to deteriorate rapidly. On Wednesday, she passed away. However, tension prevailed when locals raised objections while the body was being shifted to Kailasabhoomi for the last rites. They intercepted the ambulance and refused to allow them to conduct the funeral. The family members then called the police, who reached the spot and informed their higher authorities. Cops said they are trying to negotiate with the villagers to allow the funeral to be held. This is not the first time where locals blocked funeral proceedings of a Covid victim in the state. Previously, at least four such cases have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-ve-womans-last-rites-marred-by-protest/articleshow/75875171.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Dabolim airport ready for take-off, offers 30 landing slots to airlines||PANAJI: With domestic aircraft set to take to the skies from Monday, Goa International Airport has informed airlines and the director general of civil aviation that only 30 domestic passenger flights can land on a daily basis. Sources told TOI that the process of allocating landing slots for different airlines is being finalised at the Centre and tickets could be available for booking in a day or two. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has decided to offer 30 landing slots for airlines since the Union ministry of civil aviation, in its guidelines, has permitted only one-third of pre-lockdown operations to start in the first phase. Goa used to handle around 90 international and domestic arrivals per day. The ministry of civil aviation has issued a set of standard operating procedures for passengers, airlines and airports that need to be adhered to prior to being able to fly. Passengers will need to follow health protocols as decided by different states. Passengers arriving at Dabolim will be tested using rapid TrueNat test kits and may also be asked to quarantine themselves. “It is now for the airlines to decide whether they would like to operate and what places they want to connect. It is projected that passengers in metro stations will be more inclined to fly and then it is in the interest of airlines to see if they want to connect to other stations,” an official said. Domestic and international flights were suspended in March after a nationwide lockdown was ordered to check the spread of Covid-19. Resumption of flights comes after the Indian Railways’ move to gradually resume its services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dabolim-airport-ready-for-take-off-offers-30-landing-slots-to-airlines/articleshow/75878591.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Vegetable vendors selling at high mark-ups||AHMEDABAD: The lockdown and temporary ban on the sale of vegetables had sent the vegetable prices skyrocketing in the retail market. Vegetable vendors are now ascribing high prices to the wholesale market. Lemons were earlier selling for Rs 45 a kilo but they are now retailing for as much as Rs 250 depending on the area. Almost the vegetables are selling for a very high mark-up, about 200%, compared to the wholesale prices. Ask the vendors, and they say, “There is a shortage of supply in the wholesale market and as a result our prices are high.” Mamta Agarwal, a resident of South Bopal, said that with virtually no home delivery and malls having huge lines, residents are forced to buy from handcart vendors despite high prices. She said they are operating like a cartel and are selling at a common price so that there is no competition and the buyers have no option but to buy. Ravindra Marwadi, a vegetable vendor, said that due to lockdown they are forced to pay Rs 4,000 for transporting vegetables from Jetalpur and hence prices are on the high side. There is also a shortage of vegetables, he said. Agriculture market experts say that price of lemons have soared ever since the lockdown began. Earlier when the prices were Rs 50-60 per kg in wholesale market, it was Rs 100-150 per kg in retail. The high price is because of the demand-supply mismatch caused by the severe heat, with temperatures in the 42-43 degrees celsius region. Now, even when there is a decline in wholesale prices, retail prices are increasing. On Thursday, the price of lemon was Rs 45 in wholesale and Rs 225 to Rs 250 in retail. Even oranges and sweet lime are costing extra. Imported oranges were costing in Rs 150 in retail while the whole sale price was Rs 50. “Vendors are taking undue advantage of the lockdown and are passing the blame on to the farmers,” he said. The APMC does not have any control over the prices of vegetables, it is just a platform to facilitate the farmers. Even the government cannot control the retail price, and vendors sell at whatever price they want. Deepak Patel, the secretary of the APMC, said, “We have two sites, one at the riverfront and the other behind Doordarshan tower. Most sales are happening at these two places. Vendors may be raising prices and the APMC has no control over this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vegetable-vendors-selling-at-high-mark-ups/articleshow/75877056.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: 16,000 take police survey on lockdown||PUNE: Over 16,000 Puneites have responded to a survey undertaken by Pune police on their implementation of the lockdown norms. The police uploaded the survey form on May 19. Police said it was aimed at understanding the issues faced by people and to find new ways to check the spread of Covid-19. The respondents were asked reasons for stepping out of their houses, their fears about the pandemic and challenges faced during lockdown, as well as suggestions to contain the Covid-19 spread. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Sambhaji Kadam said the report would be released on Friday. Many residents of Pimpri Chinchwad too took the survey and urged the Pimpri Chinchwad police to undertake a similar survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/16k-take-police-survey-on-lockdown/articleshow/75878585.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Odd-even goes for a toss on Day 3 too||Hyderabad: GHMC officials are finding it hard to implement the odd-even plan for shops in the city. On third day too, the plan went for a toss as many shops and establishments adjacent to each other remained open. Clothing stores like South India Shopping Mall in Gachibowli and Chennai Shopping Mall in Mehdipatnam reopened. “Unlike regular shopping malls, the clothing outlets which are open do not have multiple stakeholders and are operating from standalone buildings. As per norms, it is not a violation,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. GHMC was, however, unable to mark all the shops in the city even on the third day of the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/odd-even-goes-for-a-toss-on-day-3-too/articleshow/75877773.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 22, 2020||Trichy||Air purifier that can detect coronavirus bags prize at fest||Trichy: A 22-year-old engineering student who has invented an air purifier that can detect the presence of coronavirus in an enclosed space has won the first prize at the Social Entrepreneurship Pitch Fest. The fest was held on the theme ‘Current and future social challenges posed by Covid-19’ and organised by the Department of Social Entrepreneurship of the Madras School of Social Work (MSSW), Chennai. Shalom Kingson, founder of Carbonhubs – a startup that works on controlling air pollution- had started his research on microbial disinfection long before the outbreak of Covid-19. “My idea was to prevent the cycle of infection like cold or cough among a group of people, be it at a school or an organisation, using an air purifier. The air purifier I initially devised trapped the bacteria or virus present in a closed space and prevented it from spreading to others,” Kingson said.As Covid-19 outbreak occurred early this year, he made some changes to his air purifier enabling it to detect coronavirus. The device will cost about Rs 1.5 lakh and can indicate the presence of the virus in a closed space so that people can take precautions to prevent it from spreading to more people. Shalom received a cash prize of Rs 7,500 for his idea. Piyush Poddar, another participant from New Delhi, was feted for his ‘Half Notebook’ initiative which aims to make notebooks from one-side used paper, which otherwise finds its way into the trash cans. The initiative promotes the idea of ‘reuse’ and such notebooks are provided free of cost to underprivileged children. The fest received over 130 entries from across the country. The ideas went through a rigorous round of screening in areas like intensity of the issue addressed, their proposed innovative solution to the problem and on the sustainability of their social entrepreneurship working model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/air-purifier-that-can-detect-coronavirus-bags-prize-at-fest/articleshow/75877744.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation school admission process goes online in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC) has opened admissions for Classes I to IX in 84 schools under its administration. Parents can apply for admissions online on http://forms.gle/9caEWry7YaW679xG6. CCMC operates 16 higher secondary schools, 11 high schools, a middle school, 13 upper middle schools, 42 elementary schools and one for hearing- and speech-impaired children. A communication from the corporation said parents can call 9842951127 or 9442075061 for more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-school-admission-process-goes-online/articleshow/75877739.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CBSE schools to support Gulf returnees’ children||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Council of CBSE schools, Kerala has decided to launch ‘Pratyavarthan’, an initiative aimed at providing financial concession for admission to the children of parents forced to come back to Kerala from the Gulf following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent loss of jobs. Schools have been advised by the council not to hike fees for the 2020-2021 academic year. The council has said that ‘Pratyavarthan-Operation Homecoming’ is specially designed to pledge solidarity with the Malayali expatriates, many of whom would find it difficult to raise enough funds for the admission of their children once they are back home."We have decided to come out with the initiative as a responsibility towards those who are forced to come back to Kerala following Covid-19," said Indira Rajan, secretary-general, national council of CBSE schools. "We have appealed to all our member schools to give as much financial concession as possible to the children of NRKS so that their re-integration with life in Kerala would be seamless," she added. "Our role is well defined. It is about coming to the aid of those families seeking admission of their children in CBSE schools in various parts of the state. Member institutions have pledged solidarity with this initiative. The council would be opening a single window facility to make the process simpler for those seeking concession," Rajan said. According to the council, the single-window facility would soon be opened so that parents can register the details highlighting any three schools of their preference in the locality where they are relocating to. The portal would share the requests with schools concerned and get back to the applicant with the details. The admission process would commence on May 27. For details about the initiative, contact the council over ccskmail@gmail.com. It has been informed that admission to schools would be subject to various rules and regulations set by CBSE. The council has over 750 affiliated CBSE schools throughout the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cbse-schools-to-support-gulf-returnees-children/articleshow/75875263.cms||B S Anilkumar
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||From first, Nagpur slips to 28th in Smart City rankings||Nagpur: From being No 1, the city has slid to No 28 in latest Smart City rankings announced by ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) on Thursday. Nagpur scored 46.35 points while Ahmedabad was first with 81.37 points. With a 78.22 score Agra secured second position. In March, Nagpur was in the first position followed by Ahmedabad. The rankings were based on various parameters including expenditure, project implementation and performance of civic bodies. Recently, Nagpur city failed to figure in MoHUA’s Garbage Free City ratings. Nagpur is implementing several projects under Smart City mission. It is working on tenderSURE project and Home Sweet Home project. The Nagpur Smart City had proposed development of a modern market in area-based development areas on 1,730 acres land in Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur in East Nagpur. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was not available for his comments. A senior official from Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSDCL) said earlier the ranking was based on 80% finance and 20% work on ground in ADB area. “Land for housing project was not procured still work order for Rs 220 crore was issued. tenderSure project too was a gimmick as without land in possession, NSSDCL issued work order for Rs 650 crore,” said a source. Because ofthat Nagpur city managed to be in either first or second positions. “MoHUA also changed evaluation criteria and now the ranking is based on actual work. As there was almost negligible work being implemented, NMC’s ranking slipped,” admitted the official. Citing an example, the official said of the 52 km of roads to be developed in ABD area, work on only 12 km has been started. Project Implementation rank:--27.05 score Fund Transfer rank:--6.67 Fund Utilisation rank:--12.63||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-first-nagpur-slips-to-28th-in-smart-city-rankings/articleshow/75877812.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bail for accused in special laws sought||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has demanded that all prisoners who face charges punishable up to seven years or less should be released on temporary bail due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation. It has urged the HC to quash the high power committee’s recommendation that prisoners of special cases like terrorism, offences against women etc. should not be granted benefit of temporary bail. It argued that all offences under special laws are not grave, and in lighter offences, accused should be granted benefit of temporary bail. It also seeks directions to Undertrial Review Committee to implement the SC order of granting benefit to prisoners facing jail term up to seven years. An NGO, Global Human Rights Protection Council, has filed the PIL and urged the HC to quash the Supreme Court-appointed committee’s recommendation that prisoners of all special laws should be excluded from extending benefits of temporary law. Upon SC’s direction, the committee on March 28 recommended release of undertrial prisoners facing IPC charges punishable up to seven years. But it said that persons detained with regard to case dealing with terrorism, narcotics, money laundering, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, GUJCOC, POCSO Act, NIA, economic offences, bank fraud etc. were not to be granted the benefit. The PIL said that the rationale behind the SC order to decongest prisons is to curb Covid-19 outbreak in prisons and to maintain social distancing among prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-for-accused-in-special-laws-sought/articleshow/75877052.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Six civil judges appointed in junior division||Panaji: Following recommendation of the departmental selection committee, the state government on Thursday appointed six civil judges in the junior division. The candidates appointed to the post of civil judge, junior division and judicial magistrate first class - Group A, include Ankita Nagvenkar, Queency D’Silva, Waseem Rizvi, Smita Sail, Manashree Naik and Shabnam Nagvekar. All the appointees shall be on probation for a period of two years, which may be extended by the appointing authority, stated the order issued by undersecretary law Amir Parab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-civil-judges-appointed-in-junior-division/articleshow/75878603.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: CBSE schools to support Gulf returnees’ children||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Council of CBSE schools, Kerala has decided to launch ‘Pratyavarthan’, an initiative aimed at providing financial concession for admission to the children of parents forced to come back to Kerala from the Gulf following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent loss of jobs. Schools have been advised by the council not to hike fees for the 2020-2021 academic year. The council has said that ‘Pratyavarthan-Operation Homecoming’ is specially designed to pledge solidarity with the Malayali expatriates, many of whom would find it difficult to raise enough funds for the admission of their children once they are back home."We have decided to come out with the initiative as a responsibility towards those who are forced to come back to Kerala following Covid-19," said Indira Rajan, secretary-general, national council of CBSE schools. "We have appealed to all our member schools to give as much financial concession as possible to the children of NRKS so that their re-integration with life in Kerala would be seamless," she added. "Our role is well defined. It is about coming to the aid of those families seeking admission of their children in CBSE schools in various parts of the state. Member institutions have pledged solidarity with this initiative. The council would be opening a single window facility to make the process simpler for those seeking concession," Rajan said. According to the council, the single-window facility would soon be opened so that parents can register the details highlighting any three schools of their preference in the locality where they are relocating to. The portal would share the requests with schools concerned and get back to the applicant with the details. The admission process would commence on May 27. For details about the initiative, contact the council over ccskmail@gmail.com. It has been informed that admission to schools would be subject to various rules and regulations set by CBSE. The council has over 750 affiliated CBSE schools throughout the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbse-schools-to-support-gulf-returnees-children/articleshow/75889496.cms||B S Anilkumar
May 22, 2020||Varanasi||‘No relaxation in curbs for Eid namaz, pray at home’||Varanasi: District administration has refused any relaxations in Lockdown 4.0 guidelines for allowing offering of namaz at mosques and Eidgahs in the district on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. In a meeting with Muslim representatives from different localities of city at his camp office Thursday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma ruled out any digression from the guidelines on restrictions and said, “There has been a massive increase in number of Covid-19 cases and hotspot areas in the district have also gone up. Saving lives of people is the first priority of district administration as well as every responsible person.” Making it clear that offering of namaz will not be allowed in mosques and Eidgahs since all religious places have been closed till May 31, he appealed to the people to offer namaz at their homes on the festive occasion as there cannot be any compromise with lives of people amid ongoing global crisis for celebrating a festival. Sharma, however, asked Varanasi Municipal Corporation, electricity department, Jal Kal and other departments to ensure proper sanitation, power and water supply in all localities on the festival. Officials were also asked to complete repair of damaged sewer and water supply lines. VMC officials were directed to ensure no stray animal is seen near religious sites in areas having Muslim population. When the Muslim representatives requested DM to allow resumption of health services in private and charitable hospitals, he said the chief medical officer has already been told to conduct training of doctors and paramedical staff of these hospitals on Covid-19 precautions. The services in these hospitals will be restored after the training is complete, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-relaxation-in-curbs-for-eid-namaz-pray-at-home/articleshow/75874571.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 22, 2020||Allahabad||Woman tests corona +ve after giving birth at hosp||Varanasi: A 23-year-old woman from Rohtas district in Bihar was tested positive for Covid-19 after she delivered a healthy baby at Banaras Hindu University hospital. Apart from her, three more persons of the city were confirmed infected after the BHU lab released 94 test reports on Thursday. While detection of four more positive cases took the figures of total Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi to 126, seven patients were discharged after getting cured. So far 77 patients have been cured in the district while four had died. Now, active cases in DDU district hospital and BHU hospital are 45. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Of 95 test reports received from BHU lab on Thursday, 91 were tested negative while four persons including three of Varanasi and a woman from Rohtas were found infected.” The woman from Rohtas had been admitted to BHU in pregnant condition on May 19 and she delivered a healthy baby, he said adding, but on noticing symptoms doctors took her sample for Covid-19 test in which she was found positive. After it she was kept in isolation ward while her baby was sent to NICU, where his sample will also be taken for Covid-19 test now. A 27-year-old youth of Shankardham Colony in Kabirnagar area of Bhelupur, who had returned home from Mumbai on May 16 by train, was also tested positive. A 30-year-old native of Tulsikua under Chetganj police station area was also found infected. After suffering problem of cold and cough he had gone to flu clinic of BHU, where his sample had been taken. His contact tracing to know how he became infected, could not become clear. A 19-year-old boy of Aidhey village, who had returned from Delhi by train on May 17, was also tested positive. DM said that with two consecutive report with negative remark, seven more patients of isolation ward of DDU district hospital were declared cured and discharged on Thursday. With the detection of three new cases from Shankardham colony, Tulsikua and Aidhey, these areas have also been declared as hotspots. Now, total number of hotspots in the district has become 58. Of it 20 have turned to green zones while total active hotspots are 38.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/woman-tests-corona-ve-after-giving-birth-at-hosp/articleshow/75874767.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||Video calls help 360 prisoners enjoy ‘e-mulakaat’ with kin||Vadodara: Vadodara Central Jail helped its 360 inmates stay in touch with their families despite lockdown through its video call facility, nicknamed the ‘e-mulakaat’ facility.According to jail officials, in March, 115 prisoners, while in April, 245 prisoners used this facility to contact their family members. Inmates facing rigorous imprisonment sentences have also been allowed to talk to their family members using the video call facility. TOI had reported before the lockdown came into effect that inmates have been appealed to use the broadband services of the jail to talk to their family members.“Besides video calling facility, inmates have also been let to talk to use telephones to call up their kin. Although inmates are not being able to meet the families in person, they have appreciated the video calling facility,” said jail superintendent Baldevsinh Vaghela. He added that even before the video calling was encouraged, infrastructure for it was already in place in the premises.Even before the first case was reported in the state, jail officials had put a cap on the number of visitors coming to meet inmates. Only two visitors were being allowed in the visitors’ room and that too after they wash and sanitize their hands. The meeting time was also reduced to five minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/video-calls-help-360-prisoners-enjoy-e-mulakaat-with-kin/articleshow/75873708.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Varanasi||Covid cases soar with migrants’ influx, more L1 hosps being set up in districts||Varanasi: The massive spurt in Covid-19 cases in surrounding districts of Varanasi, especially among migrant workers coming from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat, has pushed panic button in the administration and officials have started ground work for setting up more L1 facilities in all districts. From Wednesday night till Thursday afternoon, 18 new cases emerged in Ghazipur, 16 in Jaunpur, 15 in Azamgarh, three in Chandauli and one in Mirzapur while infection in two was confirmed after their death in Bhadohi. Providing details of new Covid-19 cases detected in Jaunpur, Ghazipur and Chandauli in past 48 hours, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “On Thursday, 16 new cases were reported from Jaunpur, including 15 migrants from Mumbai and one from Surat. They had arrived by train and their samples were collected on May 14 as they were symptomatic. The case tally in Jaunpur has reached 47.” “On Wednesday night, 18 cases were reported in Ghazipur. Seven of them are from Pritam Nagar locality. It is for the first time that Covid-19 case has been detected in city. Other cases are from Revati, Devkali, Sevrai, Mardah, Mohammadabad and Karimuddinpur areas,” he added. Among the 18, nine had returned from Maharashtra, six from Surat and three from Delhi. The case tally of Ghazipur rose to 54. “Three new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Chandauli district. Two of them had returned from Mumbai and one from Gujarat, increasing cases in Chandauli to 15,” said Agarwal. Bhadohi CMO Dr Laxmi Singh said the reports of an elderly from Sarpataha, Gyanpur, who had died in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh, and his body was brought for cremation, and a youth of Karod village in Suriyava, who died on May 11 after returning from Mumbai, have also come positive. All those who came in their contact have been quarantined and are being tested, Dr Singh added. In Azamgarh, 15 new cases came to light on Thursday. DM Azamgarh N P Singh said all the new cases from Jahanaganj, Maharajganj, Palhani and Lalganj blocks are migrants. In Mirzapur, a 40-year-old man of Naudiha, Lalganj, who had returned from Mumbai on May 13 with five friends in a truck, tested positive, pushing total cases to 23. CMO Mirzapur Dr O P Tiwari said the five friends of the man tested negative. “An additional L1 facility has been established in Jaunpur after number of patients in Varanasi’s L1 facility rose over 70. As more cases are coming, the number of beds in L1 facility at Jaunpur is being increased from 100 to 450,” said commissioner. Ghazipur has also been asked to keep its L1 facility ready to admit patients in case beds in Varanasi and Jaunpur become full.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-cases-soar-with-migrants-influx-more-l1-hosps-being-set-up-in-districts/articleshow/75874603.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Cyclone Amphan unearths silver treasure in East Godavari village||Kakinada: Cyclonic storm Amphan may have caused heavy damage in parts of Odisha and West Bengal, but the rains it brought in its wake helped unearth a treasure trove of silver coins of British India era in a village in north coastal Andhra. Most of the silver coins are of Rs 1 denomination. The intrinsic or metallic value of each coin today would be about Rs 560 as each coin weighs around 11 grams. However, their numismatic or heritage value runs up to Rs 6,000 per coin, according to numismatists. Heavy gales triggered by the cyclone damaged a few old and dilapidated houses in the fishing village of Konappapeta in U Kothapalli mandal of East Godavari district on Wednesday. The resultant rough waves then eroded the wall of a thatched house on the coast, exposing hundreds of silver coins minted at least 90 years ago. The sudden exposure of coins hidden in the walls of the old house came as a windfall as a number of villagers thronged the debris and took whatever amount of coins they could lay their hands on. The incident, that happened on Wednesday, came to light on Thursday. The treasure trove was first noticed by a villager, who went to the damaged house to take away essential goods. “Some silver coins have the image of King George VI. This means the coins were minted after 1936, the year he became the ruler. Some of the coins have 1941 as the year of minting,” said Timma Raju, assistant director of archaeology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cyclone-amphan-unearths-silver-treasure-in-east-godavari-village/articleshow/75875431.cms||Samson Raj
May 22, 2020||Allahabad||270 fires in three months, short circuits key cause||Prayagraj: The fire breaking incident inside an electronic appliance godown located near Johnstonganj crossing here on Thursday has once again set alarm bells ringing for fire department to check installation of advanced fire fighting arrangements at multi-storeyed buildings, godowns, shops, and commercial establishments. In the past three months, as many as 270 fire incidents were reported while 1200 cases had occurred in 2019. Majority of fire incidents (68%) were triggered by short circuits in godowns, residents, hotels and shops while cooking gas leakage was the second major cause of blaze (17%) that had reduced property worth lakhs to ashes. Chief fire officer RS Mishra said “A total of 270 cases of fire incidents were reported between March 1 and May 20 this year and among them most of the fire incidents were attributed to short circuits”. There has been a sudden spurt in incidents of transformers catching fire in summer season this year, he added. Last year, four major incidents of infernos at Nehru Complex, Kutchery Road, Dhoomanganj and Naini godowns were caused by short circuits, he further said. As per the fire department statistics, a total number of 733 and 690 cases of fire incidents were reported in three months (March, April and May) in 2019 and 2018 respectively, and firemen managed to save 72 and 75 lives in three months ( March, April and May ) in 2019 and 2018 respectively. This year, the firemen saved the lives of 65 persons in the months of March, April and May. In 2019, the highest number of fire mishaps (338) were recorded in May followed by 307 in April, 157 in June, 88 in March, 52 in January, 51 in November, 43 in February, 42 in July, 41 in October, 31 in December , 26 in August and 25 in September. Mishra said the incidence of short circuits often occur when a low-resistance path not suited to carry electricity receives a high volume of current resulting in damage to appliances. The fire department has chalked out a plan to check installation of advanced fire-fighting apparatus at shops/ godowns and other industrial units. However, to prevent electrical fires at multi-storeyed buildings, godowns and commercial establishments, the department has launched a campaign to educate people about the dos and donts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/270-fires-in-three-months-short-circuits-key-cause/articleshow/75874949.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Death of new mom lands nursing home in trouble||Udhagamandalam: Days after a woman died hours after delivery at a private nursing home in Ooty, the facility was on Thursday asked to stop new admissions and consultation of outpatients for time being. Dr D Suresh, revenue divisional officer, Ooty, said the woman had suffered blood loss after delivery, necessitating infusion of blood, which was taken from the Ooty government hospital’s blood bank. The woman, identified as Maya, 21, of Kandal area in Ooty, had delivered a baby girl at the nursing home on Tuesday morning. She died around midnight. The family members of the woman have lodged a police complaint, alleging medical negligence by the nursing home as the reason for her death. A police officer said, “We have registered a first information report and revenue officials would conduct an inquiry. The further course of action will be based on postmortem report.” On Wednesday, the new mother’s body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for autopsy. The newborn has, meanwhile, been taken to the Ooty government hospital for proper care. According to Suresh, the family members had initially refused to receive the body after postmortem, demanding financial support for the newborn for at least 10 years and compensation from the nursing home, which they said should be sealed. “We managed to pacify them. We have issued an order to the nursing home not to entertain outpatients and new admissions until the autopsy report is out,” he said. The postmortem report is expected in 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/death-of-new-mom-lands-nursing-home-in-trouble/articleshow/75877790.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 88,000 homeless in North 24 Parganas, 700 villages under water||GAIGHATA: As 36-year-old Samiran Datta sat in the yard of his Gaighata home, which had collapsed like a pack of cards under a large tree that had uprooted, he seemed lost in his thoughts, comparing the devastation wreaked by Cyclone Aila 11 years ago and Cyclone Amphan that pounded Bengal on Wednesday evening. “It was also May, 11 years ago, when Aila hit and we were robbed of a roof over our head overnight. We struggled for months before we could get back on our feet. I don’t know if we can survive the damage this time as we have nothing left,” said Datta, devastated by the destruction but grateful that none of his family members was among the four persons from North 24 Parganas who were found dead. According to the district administration, the deceased were Noor Jahan Bewa, Gopal Bhuiyan, Mahanta Das and Binapani Sarkar. Eighty-eight-year-old Sarkar from Mahajatinagar in Agarpara died after the corrugated-sheet roof collapsed when a tree collapsed on it. While her family ran out, she could not. “We tried to rescue her but in vain. Her lifeless body was found from under the debris on Thursday,” said her nephew, Debkanti Sarkar. More than 700 villages in North 24 Parganas went under water and 80,000 people were shifted to relief camps. As the day broke, a 30-km stretch of Jessore Road from Duttapukur to Gaighata on North 24-Parganas realized the havoc that the cyclone had wreaked on the area: large trees had uprooted, smaller ones flung away and homes reduced to a rubble. Till Thursday evening, the district administration estimated that at least 80,000 people had turned homeless. With communication channels collapsing and electricity yet to be restored to several villages, rescue and rehabilitation operations hit a wall. “I have never seen such a fierce storm in my life,” said Ashoknagar’s Bela Roy (43), pointing at a twisted electric pole lying on the road. “Look at that. It seems like a toy flung into the air and trampled on. When the thatched roof of our kitchen was blown away, we ran out to take shelter in a nearby pucca house. In the morning, we found a heap of debris that was once our home. We took years to build it but it was wiped out in a matter of a few minutes,” said Roy, heading for the panchayat office to ask for a plastic sheet. In Basirhat, a house was rare to come by that had not been damaged. Electric poles were uprooted and overhead wires snapped. Residents were seen making all efforts to push aside broken branches or tree trunks from their homes. “We do not know when power will be restored. It was not this bad when Aila had hit us 11 years ago,” said Ganesh Ghosh, a resident of Basirhat. According to the district administration, Hingalgunj, Sandeshkhali, Basirhat, Minakhan, Baduria, Habra and Ashoknagar were the worst affected there. Standing crop, worth Rs 14crore-Rs 15 crore, were damaged and embankments of the Ichchamati, Raymangal and Bidyadhari breached at many places. Arterial roads, such as Jessore Road, Taki Road, B T Road and Kalyani Expressway, had been blocked by uprooted trees at several places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-dead-in-n-24-pgns-700-villages-go-under-water/articleshow/75876695.cms||Kamalendu Bhadra
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: After Asaram, son Narayan Sai too denied temporary bail||AHMEDABAD: Like Asumal Harpalani alias Asaram, his son Narayan Sai too has unsuccessfully sought temporary bail from the Gujarat high court by citing Covid-19 as a ground for release. Sai, who has been imprisoned for life in a rape case by a Surat court, had sought bail through jail authority on the ground of outbreak of Covid-19 so that he could go and assist his family. Most prisoners have been seeking bail to assist their families in this pandemic, particularly after the Supreme Court suggested the government to release prisoners in order to reduce burden and risk of transmission of virus in prisons. However, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora was not convinced with Sai’s contention and rejected his plea on Tuesday. The court said, “No case is made out for the grant of temporary bail as prayed for by the convict through jail, more particularly having regard to the ground as urged in the application forwarded by the convict to this court through jail.” On March 30, the HC had denied temporary bail to Asaram. He wanted release from jail fearing that he might contract coronavirus infection if he continues to be behind bars. He had argued that considering his advanced age, he was more vulnerable to the Covid-19 pandemic. Asaram has been lodged in a prison in Jodhpur in Rajasthan, and a Rajasthan court has convicted him for sexual assault on a minor. He also faces rape charges in Gujarat and he is being tried in a Gandhinagar court. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-asaram-son-narayan-sai-too-denied-temporary-bail/articleshow/75877046.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Make arrangements for holding remaining state board exams at the earliest: Edu min||Dehradun: Education minister Arvind Pandey on Thursday asked the education department to make arrangements to conduct the remaining exams of the Uttarakhand Board Secondary Education (UBSE) at the earliest. The minister has asked to conduct exams by maintaining social distancing and declare the results by June end. Meanwhile, the education department has sent its report to the Uttarakhand high court on the investigation conducted by them on schools that were accused of forcing the parents to pay their ward’s fees during the lockdown. The report will be presented in the upcoming hearing which will take place next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/make-arrangements-for-holding-remaining-state-board-exams-at-the-earliest-edu-min/articleshow/75875264.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘Fiercer than Aila, Amphan has left us with nothing’||KAKDWIP: Scared that their thatched roof might collapse on their head, 70-year-old Prabhas Das and his wife Malati remained crouched under their charpoy and prayed for mercy as Cyclone Amphan raged on outside. They were spared their lives but their home was blown away—the corrugated-sheet roof and four thatched walls. “This bed is our only possession now. We stayed beneath it as it rained through the night. I have not had any job during the lockdown, and now, I didn’t have any money to repair the home,” said Das, sitting on the bed at Jhingerpole in South 24 Parganas on Thursday. Like Das, hundreds living on two sides of Kakdwip Road, between Diamond Harbour and Kakdwip, have been rendered homeless overnight. Hundreds of trees lay uprooted on two sides of roads, portraying a telling picture of one of the fiercest cyclones Bengal has witnessed. “The storm was way fiercer than Aila or Bulbul, during which, we somehow managed to hold on to our homes. But Wednesday’s cyclone left us with nothing. The entire roof and portions of the walls are gone. I have two small children,” said Purnima Mondal from Steamerghat Notunpara in Kakdwip. Her fisherman husband has been stuck in Kerala during the lockdown. Government figures say over 2,000 huts and lakhs of betel leaf fields in South 24 Parganas were damaged. Villages in Kakdwip, Namkhana, Sagar Island, Mousuni and Ghoramara were reportedly the worst affected, eight people said to be dead. “But we are yet to get the exact figure of damage. Dams at Patharpratima and Ghoramara gave way and destruction is extensive at Canning and Gosaba,” said local MLA Bankim Hazra. At a village beside Lot No. 8 of Kakdwip, from where people take ferries for Sagar Island, homes after homes have been flattened out. “While my son was trying to secure the roof with a rope, a bamboo shaft hit him in the eye. On Thursday, the doctor said his condition is critical. But there’s no transport to hospital,” said Sarbati Das of Kalinagar village in Kakdwip. Lakhs of people were rescued and were kept at schools and government houses, where social distancing norms went for a toss. “We can’t think about social distancing and masks when we don’t have food, home or clothes,” said Mitali Das, who has lost her home. She and her family have been living with 300 people in a school. “Now that the storm is over, we have been asked to go. But where will we go?” said Sabita Jana, another resident of Kalinagar village. —with inputs from Monotosh Chakraborty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fiercer-than-aila-amphan-has-left-us-with-nothing/articleshow/75876708.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Don’t need money or meals, allow us to board the train’||MARGAO: Minutes after the only Shramik Special left from Margao on Thursday evening, the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium at Navelim was filled to the brim with over 4,000 migrants, who were driven away from the railway station. Even as they were accommodated in the government-designated shelter home, 1,000 more were seen camping outside until late night. “We are trying to make meal arrangements as best as we can for those of whom we have accommodated in the shelter home,” incident commander of the Covid task force for Margao, Ajit Panchwadkar told TOI. This meant it was more than likely that most of the migrants, already weary and famished, would have to go without meals. As for the over 1,000 people camping outside the shelter home, there was hardly any chance of a meal coming their way. “We need no mercy, no meals nor money, just allow us to board a train home. We have been spending sleepless nights in the open for the last few days,” said one of the stranded migrants. As they have already left their rented rooms, there is no place where they can return to for the night. With no proper mechanism for dissemination of information to the migrants wanting to leave for their native places, the helpless and homeless workers are thronging the Margao railway station every day in the hope of catching a homeward-bound train. Thursday was no different. Over 2,000 migrants from Uttar Pradesh, who had been accommodated in the government shelter home on Wednesday night, were informed about the two trains scheduled to leave for UP from Karmali on Thursday. However, as there was no arrangement to ferry them across to Karmali, many converged at the Margao railway station adding to the rush. Many who had queued up were headed for various districts of Uttar Pradesh, but the only train departing from Margao was for Manipur. However, they were in no mood to listen to the cops manning the crowds and understandably so as they had been coming to the railway station for the past few days at day break, only to be driven away by the authorities by dusk. As the Margao-Jiribam (Manipur) Shramik Special train chugged out of the railway station at around 7.30pm carrying 817 passengers, nearly 6,000 migrants had still remained crowded at the railway station. The Margao-Jiribam train carried passengers from Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura, official sources said. Four hundred more passengers were expected to board the train in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-need-money-or-meals-allow-us-to-board-the-train/articleshow/75878602.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Food aggregators increase delivery charges in Chennai||CHENNAI: Food aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato have increased delivery fee in Chennai to compensate their smaller workforce for covering higher distances, but some workers say their wages haven’t increased. Prior to lockdown, aggregators collected delivery fee, ranging from Rs 10-Rs 40, if the order value was below a certain amount and if the restaurant was located faraway from the delivery location. But after the lockdown, distance fee was collected even for ordering food from nearby restaurants. R Siddharth, a resident of Nanganallur said that he usually order food from a private non-veg restaurant in Madipakkam, which is located 4 km from my home. “I never paid any extra fee. But now Rs 15 is collected for every order in the name of ‘distance fee’. Swiggy has increased the delivery charges without any prior announcement,” he added. Besides this, Swiggy has also done away with ‘Super’ scheme, which is a special subscription which allowed free delivery of food from nearby hotels and no surge pricing. As far as Zomato was concerned, it too collected Rs 20 to Rs 60 as distance fee for orders from hotels above 5km radius. While there was no response from Swiggy, Zomato said, “With curtailed supply and fleet availability in some areas, we have increased delivery radiuses. The increased distance fee compensates the extra mile our delivery partners have to go to ensure those deliveries”. But delivery executives in Chennai said that their salaries remained the same. “I used to get Rs 35 per order but this was reduced in late 2019. After that, there has been no change in payment or incentive,” said a delivery executive, requesting anonymity. But a Zomato executive from Madipakkam said that they get Rs 10 extra if they covered long distances at times and it was consistent and they depend on customer tips. Swiggy has added an option for customers to tip these executives after delivering the food. Both these aggregators have setup separate funds for welfare of employees duting the pandemic. Together, around 1,500 employees were laid off across the country in May and salaries were cut up to 50% for many other, according to TOI reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/food-aggregators-increase-delivery-charges-in-city/articleshow/75876706.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 22, 2020||Allahabad||Garments’ sale picks up ahead of Eid||Prayagraj: The sale of readymade garments surged ahead of Eid as more shoppers visited markets in SulemSarai, Katra and Civil Lines on Thursday — two days after shops re-opened following an eight-week gap in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. More people were seen flocking to shops selling computers and IT products which opened on Thursday. President of Civil Lines Vyapar Manal, Sushil Kharbanda said “ The sale of readymade garments and other cloths was picked up at three prime markets of the city due to Eid.” Manish Mehrotra, whose owns a shop selling laptops in Civil Lines, said “Due to the lockdown, we were unable to take orders from companies and are forced to sell only those items which are in stock. I have placed new orders, which would be arriving soon.” Not only readymade garments, but the sales of air conditioners and desert coolers also picked up in two past two days. At the same time, traders said that sales still remained low when compared to regular levels as many Prayagraj residents are still hesitant to visit shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/garments-sale-picks-up-ahead-of-eid/articleshow/75875017.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune mandals to cancel public, cultural events for Ganeshotsav||PUNE: The leading Ganesh mandals in the city have decided to tone down the grandeur of Ganeshotsav this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic by cancelling all public and cultural programmes. Only religious programmes like recitation of Atharvasheersha, Ganesh Yaag and rituals would be held, that too with limited head count. The 10-day annual festival will start on August 22 and end on September 1. Representatives of the five ‘manache’ Ganapati mandals, including Kasba Ganapati, Tambdi Jogeshwari, Tulshibaug and Guruji Talim, and other prominent mandals like Bhau Rangari, Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati Mandal and Akhil Mandai Mandal held a meeting through video conferencing on Wednesday to discuss the Ganeshotsav celebrations this year. “Public events and cultural programmes will not be organised. The decision about the immersion procession and how it would be arranged will be taken after considering the conditions then,” Shrikant Shete of Kasba Ganapati Mandal told TOI. The mandals decided that rituals would be performed with minimum people. Rules and regulations issued by the state and Union governments would be followed while organising any programmes. They also decided against having big decorations or dekhawe (theme-based installations) this year. “The mandals have considered this as their social responsibility and will take measures at their respective pandals throughout the festival period,” Shete said. Ashok Godse of the Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati Mandal said, “The city had faced the plague pandemic around 100 years ago. The Ganesh festival during that time, too, was a low-key affair. The same can be done this year.” The festivities were also toned down in 2009, when the city had become the epicentre of the H1N1 pandemic. The mandals have appealed to devotees and sculpture artists to avoid putting the mask on the face of Ganesh idols. Over 4,500 registered public Ganesh mandals organise the festival in the city every year. Several unregistered and small mandals also celebrate Ganeshotsav in a modest way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-mandals-to-cancel-public-cultural-events-for-ganeshotsav/articleshow/75878608.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Surat||Diamond cos open with 20% staff, plead workers to return||SURAT: While majority of the small and medium diamond cutting and polishing units in Surat are yet to start operation, the big companies, who have resumed operations with less than 20% workforce, have started contacting their workers in Saurasthra asking them to return within a week. According to an estimate, over 5 lakh people, majority of them diamond workers, have returned to their hometowns in Saurashtra and North Gujarat. Hitesh Patel, managing director of Dharmanandan Diamonds Pvt Ltd told TOI, “Our factory is running at less than 30% capacity due to shortage of workers. We have started contacting our workers who have gone to Saurasthra, to return within one week and start cutting and polishing work.” Patel added, “The global demand for polished diamonds is weak due to the coronavirus pandemic coupled with sluggish economy in various countries. But the show must go on and we want our workers to earn their livelihood by working.” Industry sources said that the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has postponed its decision for the one month ban on the import of rough diamonds in the country till June 1. There are many firms in Surat and Mumbai whose rough diamond parcels were stuck due to the lockdown. Ashit Mehta, chairman of Bluestar diamonds said, “Once big companies start functioning at 50% capacity, it will encourage the small and medium units to resume operations. The workers will be compelled to return to Surat and earn livelihood. The industry has got enough inventory of rough diamonds for the manufacturing job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-cos-open-with-20-staff-plead-workers-to-return/articleshow/75875279.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Finding safe key to unlock lockdown||The restrictions were firmly in place and people were learning to adapt when panellists had talked about life during lockdown in the last TOI Debate held in April. Now, standing at the crossroads, where choice has to be made between savings lives and the economy, it is better to evaluate and rethink before charting the path into an uncertain future, feel panellists at this month’s TOI DebateNagpur: The big question now is, has the lockdown proven effective, at least in Nagpur, and is it safe to open the economy? To begin with, almost every panellist agreed that lockdown can’t be stretched to the entire city, and should be restricted to containment zones only. For Rajan Agrawal, who owns a transport company, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has so far done a fabulous job along with cooperation of citizens. “Yes, there have been some exceptions, but largely it has been one of the best managed places across the country,” said Agrawal. Giving it a thumbs down, lawyer Tushar Mandlekar contended that NMC had clearly overstepped. “The municipal commissioner sidelined everybody and there was arbitrary detention in so-called containment zones. There was no distinction between high-risk and low-risk contacts. Behind one dead person, 2,000 people were quarantined in a week,” said the lawyer. To highlight what he termed as a contrasting approach, Mandlekar said that in one case only one floor was made containment zone in Mumbai and not the entire building. He also drew attention towards the front-line warriors, comprising over 2,000 cops, who are asked to detain and transport people, and man containment zones. “They haven’t got 50% of their salary yet and no tests are being conducted for them. There is discrimination even while opening shops. The civic chief is the only one taking the decisions,” said Mandlekar and added that guidelines of the centres were not followed. “People’s fundamental rights can’t be taken way,” he said. Agreeing with a couple of his points, entrepreneur Monica Bhagwagar was of the view that NMC did simple things right like constant patrolling and sanitization drives that proved to be very effective. “It is encouraging to see authorities taking care of people,” she said. She does feel for those living in containment zones, or migrants whose lives have gone haywire. “But people don’t listen without applying force. There is method to the madness, which is OK by me,” she said. Educationist Mrunalini Dasture said that the lockdown was a success. “Credit to the individuals and NGOs who are doing a lot of work for the needy,” she said. “Sentiments won’t work in such situation,” said orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sushrut Babhulkar, who felt many people are dying due to the lockdown. He gave example of patients who couldn’t reach hospitals due to strict lockdown rules. “Effective testing is missing and no realistic data given. Don’t enforce administrative decisions, instead first consult epidemiologists,” he said. To this, Mandlekar added that on April 4 ICMR had said it would conduct rapid tests but it is still not happening. “If done, it can be effective in remote areas,” he said. According to Dr Babhulkar, lockdown was to establish a system and prepare hospitals for the epidemic. “As soon as lockdown opens, things will explode,” he said while emphasizing on ramping up testing. Activist Jammu Anand voiced the concern of people in containment zones. “They don’t even understand what has happened. The administrator has too much power and everyone else was left out. Policies for conducting tests were not followed,” he said. In Agrawal’s opinion, everyone has a different approach towards work. “In contrast to that in Ahmedabad, the NMC chief has done well. But I don’t know what will happen if the lockdown is lifted,” he said. The migrant situation could have been handled better, is what resort owner Sandeep Singh felt. “It’s true that you cannot force a person to stop at one place. Transportation arrangements are in place now but already 70-80% migrants have left,” he said. Mandlekar added that India has failed to handle migrants well. “It was a complete chaos,” said Dasture and added that it seems there was no planning and later some played politics. “Centre should have given people time to understand the situation,” said Dr Babhulkar and added that the condition of migrants in Nagpur is better than other places. Regarding the exit policy for lockdown, Agrawal that restrictions should stay in containment and buffer zones while the rest should be opened. “Instead of sector, relaxations should be region-wise,” he said. Terming it a serious situation for seeking justice, Mandlekar said it was the first time courts were shut for two months and only corona related matters were taken up. Offering suggestions, he said let everyone start businesses and take everything online. But open with precautions, as there is also risk of increase in cases. Singh said every sector is important to the economy. “Hotels etc will come back to life but wildlife will be shut till October-November, a major loss for this segment, which impacts rural and tribal population. In an exception to the rule, maybe we can start safaris in rainy season for their livelihood,” he said. Bhagwagar foresees many more industries facing the same situation. “But don’t open everything in one shot, go slow and steady. There is going to be a spike in Covid-19 cases during festivals also,” she said. For Dasture, creating awareness holds the key to keeping infections in check after the lockdown is relaxed. “Focus should be on areas with low literacy levels. The government and political parties should identify individuals and agencies for the task. Also, take help of media,” she said. Putting forth plight of workers, Jammu Anand said trade unions are demanding cash transfers from government but it is not listening. “Labourers have lost livelihood. Provide them Rs15,000 a month for the next six months and open up all sectors,” he said. Anand added that front-line workers will have to be better equipped to handle any spike in cases. “ASHA and sanitary workers are now well aware of Covid distancing. It will be continuing process, but livelihood has to be put ahead,” he said. Dr Babhulkar called for taking action based on data and science, and not on emotions and economic concerns. “We decided to shut down based on experience of other countries but lockdown cannot teach us more now. Understand hotspots and risky areas. Rapid testing has to be rolled out immediately and quarantine people intelligently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finding-safe-key-to-unlock-lockdown/articleshow/75876822.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Allahabad||Massive fire breaks out in Johnstonganj||Prayagraj: Property worth lakhs of rupees was gutted when a fire broke out in two godowns storing electronic appliances and cardbord near Johnstonganj Crossing, under the limits of Kotwali police station, on Thursday afternoon. No casualties were reported in the incident. Chief fire officer (Prayagraj) RS Mishra said, “The fire broke out around 12.05pm and it took six fire tenders around one-and-half hours to put out the fire. The blaze was contained before it could annihilate another godown.” “The two godowns were located in the same building. While the one used for storing electronic appliances was situated on the first floor and the godown used for storing cardboard was located on the second flood of the same building” said the CFO. The CFO said that there were no fire-fighting equipment in the two godowns. “Prima facie, it appears that a short circuit might have led to the fire,” he added. As fire spread in the densely populated Johnstonganj, panic spread among other shopkeepers who tried to extinguish the blaze. “When we spotted smoke billowing from the building, we immediately alerted the godowns’ owners. Local shopkeepers also tried to put out the fire, but couldn’t do much,” said a shopkeeper in the area. “Police would soon launch a drive to check whether the owners of nearby shops have installed fire-fighting equipment or not,” said a senior police official. Police have cordoned off the area and have restricted the entry of commuters .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/massive-fire-breaks-out-in-johnstonganj/articleshow/75874979.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Allahabad||Spl trains bring hundreds of stranded migrants back home||Prayagraj: Hundreds of migrants stranded in different states because of the lockdown arrived at different rauilway stations of North Central Railway’s Prayagraj division via 12 Shramik Special trains on Thursday. Several Shramik Special trains also left Prayagraj Junction to take the migrant labourers stranded in the city to their respective hometowns. According to public relations officer of NCR’s Prayagraj division SK Gupta, eight Shramik Special trains arrived at Prayagraj Junction, two at Kanpur Central and one each at Mirzapur and Fatehpur railway stations. The trains which were operated by the division headed for Dadri, Dankaur, Govindpuri and Aligarh. The Shramik Special trains which arrived at Prayagraj Junction brought migrants from Jaipur, Udaipur, Ahmedabad, Surat, Ankleshwar, Bandra and Agartala. Each of these trains had 1,600 migrants on board. On arriving at Prayagraj Junction, the passengers were made ot undergo a medical check up, were provided with food and water and then sent to their respective hometowns via UPSRTC buses. At Kanpur Central, a train brought migrant labourers from Sambalpur, Guntakal. In Mirzapur, the special trains brought stranded migrants from Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/spl-trains-bring-hundreds-of-stranded-migrants-back-home/articleshow/75875040.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Subsidies to help Nilgiris go organic||Udhagamandalam: Farmers in the Nilgiris can avail the subsidies under the national horticulture mission to promote organic farming, a press release from collector J Innocent Divya said. Farmers cultivating spinach will be given Rs 2, 500 per hectare. Those cultivating cabbage and cauliflower in organic method are entitled for Rs 5,000 per hectare. Those growing climbing vegetables are eligible for Rs 2 lakh per hectare. Those interested should register at the office of the assistant director of horticulture in their taluk, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subsidies-to-help-nilgiris-go-organic/articleshow/75877807.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Loan shark threatens, assaults taxi driver||Ahmedabad: Sanjay Desai, a taxi driver from the Ghodasar area in the city, lodged a complaint with Vatva police that Govind Rabari of Vatva assaulted him because he was unable to pay the 10% monthly interest on his debt of Rs 5 lakh. He was unable to pay up because of the lockdown as taxis are not allowed to run. Vatva police lodged a case of extortion against the accused and are hunting for him. Desai had borrowed Rs 5 lakh at a monthly interest of 10% from Govind Rabari for his mother’s medical treatment. He used to make his payments regularly but with taxis not running during the lockdown, he had been unable to make payments for the last two months. Police sources said meanwhile Govind called Sanjay and demanded repayment of the interest and the capital. Sanjay promised to pay him in some time as he had no money at present. Govind then threatened Sanjay. “Sanjay went to meet Govind over the matter but the latter then abused and assaulted him. We have lodged a complaint of extortion against Govind and are hunting for him,” said a senior Vatva police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/loan-shark-threatens-assaults-taxi-driver/articleshow/75877043.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Goa government suspends testing nod to private lab||PANAJI: The state government has suspended the permission granted to SRL Diagnostic to collect swabs for Covid-19 tests. The decision was taken after three positive cases of industrial workers reported by it, proved negative when re-tested by the government at its own facility.  “We have officially decided to temporarily withhold permission granted to SRL Diagnostic. The decision was made today,” health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters on Thursday. Two months ago, SRL Diagnostic was certified as collection centre by the ICMR, while Goa government recently gave it permission to collect swabs of industrial workers. SRL used to send the swabs to a laboratory in Mumbai. The cases shown positive by SRL Diagnostic were added to the state’s tally, Mohanan said. She said that the collection centre will not be given the task of collecting swabs in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-suspends-testing-nod-to-pvt-lab/articleshow/75878627.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani urges citizens to join war on Covid-19||GANDHINAGAR: With an aim to ensuring that the state prevailed over the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday launched a state-wide campaign, “Hu Pan Corona Warrior” (Even I am a Corona Warrior) with the slogan — ‘Jitse Gujarat Harse Corona’ (Gujarat will win, Corona will lose). The launching of the campaign was made through a simultaneous video conference attended by leaders of society, religious leaders, and noted citizens from 33 district headquarters of the state. In his message, the CM stated that the war against the pandemic of Covid-19 is going to last long and, therefore, we must develop a mind-set having specific, disciplinary rules for living a normal day-to-day life to protect ourselves against the pandemic. Rupani further stated, “In this campaign, we have to rise above the self to take care of the family and society. We must be cautious and ensure that everybody ensures that transmission of the virus is contained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-urges-citizens-to-join-war-on-covid/articleshow/75877823.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Only 40% of stalled PWD projects resumed||Dehradun: Owing to shortage of construction material and labour, the public works department (PWD) has been able to resume only 40% of the work. Officials added that initially they will complete the projects that were supposed to be completed before the nation-wide lockown. Jagmohan Chauhan, executive engineer of PWD, said “We are completing major projects which includes multi-level parking project and re-carpeting of road in Mussoorie and Dehradun which will be completed before the monsoon and also some development works in Doon Vihar at Rajpur Road.” Officials added that efforts are being made at the administrative level to regulate the supply of construction material and availability of labour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/only-40-of-stalled-pwd-projects-resumed/articleshow/75875271.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Salem||School conducts classes for Class X students, sealed||Dharmapuri: The sub-collector of Harur division in Dharmapuri district sealed a private matriculation school on Thursday for conducting classes for Class X students during the lockdown period. He also directed the Harur police to register a case against the school management. Based on a tip, Harur sub-collector M Prathap inspected Indian Matriculation Higher Secondary School at Gobinathampatti. During inspection, he found nearly 200 students attending classes. “The students were not maintaining social distancing and none of them wore face masks, including teachers,” he told TOI. The school management had brought nearly 50 students from Tiruvannamalai and other neighbouring districts for the classes on Sunday, without obtaining any e-passes. “Travelling between districts without e-pass or any other permission from the district administration will be considered as illegal,” he added. The administrative block and classrooms were sealed. According to Prathap, he could not seal the entire school building as Class XII paper evaluation was going on in the school. “We should not disturb that work.” The Harur police registered a case against the school management. “We have registered the case under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code and section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897,” said a senior police officer from the Harur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/school-conducts-classes-for-class-x-students-sealed/articleshow/75877821.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Annual 61-day ban on mechanised fishing activities to begin June 1||Panaji: The state’s annual 61-day fishing ban will commence from June 1. The directorate of fisheries has prohibited fishing till July 31along the sea cost and territorial waters of Goa. An order directing the same was issued by the state government on Thursday. Once the ban is in force, fishing vessels fitted with mechanical means of propulsion, and with trawl nets and purse seine nets are banned from carrying out fishing activities. The ban however does not apply to registered motorised canoes that use gill nets only, and are fitted with outboard or inboard motors, of upto 10 HP capacity, as a means of propulsion. The ban, imposed annually, aims to facilitate sufficient time for fish breeding along the state’s coastal belt, throughout the spawning season. Meanwhile with the Covid-19- related lockdown in place, many trawler crew, comprising mainly migrant labours, who use the fishing ban period to return to their native places, have already started leaving the state. Fisheries officials said some migrant workers from Malim jetty have left on the Sharmik special trains organised by the centre and by Kadamba buses organised by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/annual-61-day-ban-on-mechanised-fishing-activities-to-begin-june-1/articleshow/75878636.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK worker hacked to death||SALEM: An AIADMK functionary was hacked to death by an autorickshaw driver near Mallur on Wednesday night. The Mallur police arrested the accused on Thursday. The deceased was identified as M Shantha, 50, of Sandhiyur Attayampatty village. She was running a sago shop in the city and functioning as the director of Peramanur primary agricultural cooperative bank. Around 6pm on Wednesday, Shantha went to Panamarathupatty on her scooter and did not return home even after 9pm. Shantha was found dead with hack injuries on roadside. The Mallur police sent the body to the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital for post-mortem. Preliminary inquiry revealed that she had personal enmity with autorickshaw driver ‘Kaluthai Balu alias Ramesh, 34, of the same village. “Ramesh was selling illicit arrack. Shantha acted against him with the support of police,” said an officer from Mallur police. Ramesh hacked Shantha to death as a revenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/aiadmk-worker-hacked-to-death/articleshow/75877825.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Power-packed punch leaves homes in dark||KOLKATA: Large swathes of south Bengal, including southern pockets of Kolkata and Salt Lake and New Town to the city’s east, remained without power 24 hours after Amphan had blown over, leaving behind mangled towers with high-tension power lines, twisted electricity poles and a mesh of low-tension power lines. While CESC officials said they would restore power in thousands of homes in Santoshpur, Patuli, Baishnabghata, Garia, Behala, Haridevpur, Thakurpukur, Maheshtala and Budge Budge within Saturday, WBSEDCL officials struggled to provide a timeline as the destruction of infrastructure in South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and parts of Howrah, Hooghly and Murshidabad has been extensive. “There is no power since Wednesday afternoon. I have called the power utility innumerable times but have failed to get through. No power means we cannot operate the pump and there is no water at home. We are in absolute misery,” recounted Bansdroni resident and private bank executive Abhishek Mitra. His woes were echoed in home after home that were without water or power. CESC officials acknowledged they couldn’t quite predict the extent of damage that the cyclone inflicted. “Amphan was a different beast. It was not just winds of 133km/hr but 244mm of rain in a brief duration that led to the extensive power disruption. While the wind felled trees that in turn affected overhead power cables, areas that have underground cable were affected by waterlogging. Though we had 5,000 men ready to move, rain through the night meant repair and restoration work in several localities could begin only on Thursday morning,” said the official. With trees, lamp posts and traffic signal posts blocking roads, workers and technicians made slow progress and had to often wait for DMG or KMC teams to arrive to clear the obstacles. “We are sending our men to check if there is a fault and then restart service. But if a fault appears, it needs to be repaired first before line is restored,” the official pointed out. While power in 85%-90% of the affected homes in Kolkata were restored by early Thursday, homes in Salt Lake and New Town remained without power for much of Thursday. In the rest of North 24 Parganas, South 24 Pargans, East Midnapore and parts of Hooghly and Howrah, the situation remains uncertain. “The WBSEDCL distribution network has been wiped out in some places. If an entire substation needs to be replaced, it will take a month. At several places, transmission towers that carry high-tension supply lines have buckled. They will take time to fabricate and install. In many areas, the power poles have been flattened. Repair and restoration will be slow and arduous,” the official said. Both utilities though acknowledged that they would have to prepare for cyclones of Ampahn’s intensity as extreme events are likely to happen more often due to climate change. “This cyclone may be the first of its kind we have experienced in Bengal in our lifetime. But there’s been an Aila 11 years ago and a Supercyclone in Odisha 10 years prior to that. So this could be a once-in-a-decade phenomenon,” a CESC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-packed-punch-leaves-homes-in-dark/articleshow/75876742.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||After armed police outpost near Lipulekh, Nepal preparing to open 3 more border outposts in area||Pithoragarh: Days after the Nepalese government opened an armed police border out post (BOP) at Chhangru village near the Lipulekh Pass — the first time that the neighbouring country had deployed armed police personnel on the border — sources said that preparations are afoot to start three more similar border outposts (BOPs) along the India-Nepal border in Uttarakhand. The move assumes significance in the wake of escalation of tension along the border after the Nepalese government registered its protest at an almost 80-km-long road that was inaugurated by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on May 8. The road will allow vehicular movement till near the Lipulekh Pass, which is regarded as the gateway to Tibet. Nepal has been claiming the Pass as part of its own territory. In the middle of last week, 25 armed personnel of Nepal Police had reached Chhangru by helicopter to set up the post which is situated some distance away from the Pass. Sources in Nepal who are privy to the recent development of three more BOPs becoming operational soon, confirmed to TOI that the border outposts are being set up at Jhulaghat, Laali and Pancheshwar — all bordering Pithoragarh district — and are expected to come up in the coming week. Notably, all these places also have bridges that are used in facilitating cross-border movement between the two countries. The Indian side of the border at all the three points is manned by the Sahastra Seema Bal. On the Nepalese side, till now, regular police personnel used to man the border. A source said that Jhulaghat is the most prominent BOP that is slated to come up since on an average, 200 people used to cross the border here before the lockdown came into effect. “A building has been taken on rent and the outpost is expected to commence shortly,” the source said, adding that there are also plans to establish customs offices at all the three BOPs by the Nepalese government. Meanwhile, Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande when queried on the issue said, “Jhulaghat, Laali and Pancheshwar are in Nepalese territory and it is upto them if they are upgrading their establishments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-armed-police-outpost-near-lipulekh-nepal-preparing-to-open-3-more-border-outposts-in-area/articleshow/75875297.cms||Prem Punetha
May 22, 2020||Trichy||Man blames Google Maps for marital discord, files plaint||Nagapattinam: A shopkeeper in Mayiladuthurai in Nagapattinam district has filed a police complaint against Google Maps, saying the app is getting his location wrong and, as a result, he’s getting into trouble with his wife. In the complaint, R Chandrasekaran, a resident of Lal Bahadur Nagar, Mayiladuthurai, said his wife tracks his movements using Google Maps, which shows him at places he’s not been to. The latest such incident happened on May 20, Chandrasekaran said, adding that this is creating problems for him. Chandrashekaran told TOI he and his wife have altercations when she asks him what he was doing at a particular place and he denies having gone there. She refuses to believe him and brandishes her phone, which has a sharing app that tracks him on Google Maps, as proof. When contacted, K Singaravelu, police inspector of Mayiladuthurai station, confirmed that Chandrasekaran ,who runs a ‘fancy store’ and is a local BJP functionary, had lodged such complaint. However, no FIR has been registered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-blames-google-maps-for-marital-discord-files-plaint/articleshow/75877838.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||100 trains from Jun 1||Ahmedabad: The Indian Railways will restore services of 100 pairs of passenger train from June 1. These trains will be started in consultation with the ministry of health & family welfare and ministry of home affairs. Out of the 100 pairs of trains, western railway will be running 17 pairs to connect Mumbai and Ahmedabad with other parts of the country. These trains will be mail/express type trains. Earlier, the railways had introduced one pair of trains from Delhi to Ahmedabad. With there being a major rush for the Delhi trains, the railways added one third AC and one 2 AC coaches in the Delhi special train. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/100-trains-from-jun-1/articleshow/75877850.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Networks snapped, Kolkata pockets remain cut off||KOLKATA: If cyclone Amphan battered Kolkata for over six hours on Wednesday, the city suffered the after-effects the day after as lakhs of citizens were left without power, water supply and other basic essentials of daily life. To add to their woes, connectivity — be it cellular or internet — remained snapped across the length and breadth of the city through the day. Power cuts for long hours were blamed for the zero cellular link, data disruption and other communication losses during and after the cyclone, say service providers and telecom infrastructure experts. Without a constant power supply, towers stop emitting signals and become dependent on backup batteries and generator sets. The cellphone sites are mostly shared by multiple cellular companies for emitting signals to their respective subscribers and managed/maintained by third-party tower operators, who arrange mobile DG sets and critical equipment spares at key locations. A senior official of a tower infrastructure outfit in the city told TOI that besides power cuts, two-three other factors were responsible for this communication mayhem. “High wind speed affected optical fibre lines, shifted angles of microwave antenna-routers and tore apart power cables, resulting in a complete link loss in most places,” he explained. However, sources said, of around 12,000 transmission towers dotting the city, not a single signal-emission site was destroyed, broken or blown away by the cyclone this time. But most of the cellular firms, cable TV networks and wired broadband internet providers are connected to their head offices via overhead optical fibres, which took a huge beating amid the cyclone and caused the largest communication lapse in Kolkata till date, said a telecom consultant. Cut off from the rest of the world in his single-room flat in Dum Dum on Wednesday night, Anindyo Samajpati was frantically looking for a way out beyond the usual text-data-cellphone-landline route to send across an all-important project file to his client by midnight. “I never felt so helpless. Normally, we try an alternative when we fail to get through the one. But, during and after the cyclone, we were at our wit’s end as all the avenues were closed. Over and above, there was a long power cut,” said Samajpati, a consultant working for a global HR firm. Ratna Majumder, a business woman from Jadavpur, complained about massive signal fluctuations in her cellphone. “Most in my family weren’t getting signals while my handset had intermittent network,” she said. A network official at a cellular service provider said that all handsets catch signal from the nearest tower but if it doesn’t always work that way, signals from other towers get through, causing fluctuations. Tower firms also alleged that some towers erected on the private premises are not allowed to use DG sets run by fuel. In a tweet on Thursday, Vodafone Idea admitted that ‘massive power outages have disrupted voice and data services. Vodafone Idea teams are working in extremely tough conditions to restore connectivity at the earliest’. A Reliance Jio official said that majority of sites were up and running but there were issues at few locations due to power outage and access to sites was a challenging task due to flooding. Other cellular operators, too, are claiming to be working 24x7 to restore the signal despite lack of manpower amid the lockdown and inclement weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/networks-snapped-kol-pockets-remain-cut-off/articleshow/75876732.cms||Sovon Manna
May 22, 2020||Kanpur||Baraat stuck in Bihar back after 60 days, quarantined||Kanpur: After spending nearly 60 days, the 11 member-marriage party along with the bride and the groom returned to their native place in Chaubeypur. All 12 members, including bride were sent for 14 days home quarantine. The marriage of the youth, Imtiyaz, hailing from Hakeem Nagar village of Chaubeypur area of the district was solemnised with Khushbu Khatoon of Begusarai in Bihar on March 21, but due to Janata Curfew on March 22 and further due to the nationwide lockdown, the baraat couldn’t move out and got stuck there along with the bride and the groom. “We contacted all helpline numbers but to no avail. Then, we contacted senior district officials who made available travel passes for us, Subsequently, locals arranged for a mini-bus, and it was dispatched to Begusarai Bihar on May 19 morning from Kanpur. The ordeal finally ended on May 20 evening when the baraat arrived at our native place,” said Mehboob, father of Imtiyaz. On their way back to Chaubeypur, volunteers on the highway provided marriage party cooked food and water while covering the over 800-km journey in about 20 hours. “It was an extraordinary marriage which we will never forget,” Mehboob told TOI. He further said, “Inspector Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari received us and our samples were taken by a team of doctors from Billhaur Community Health Centre for testing for coronavirus, result of which will come in next few days. Till then we have been asked to stay home quarantine for 14 days.” Hakeem Nagar villagers, who accompanied the baraat, said none of them would ever forget this marriage. “We did not have the slightest idea the trouble we will find ourselves into when we left our hometown on March 19.” “However, also we will never forget the love and hospitality of exhibited by the locals of Begusarai. They provided the girls parents with almost two months ration and other essentials. Thank you all for your kind help. We all have reached Kanpur safe and sound,” the marriage party members added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/baraat-stuck-in-bihar-back-after-60-days-quarantined/articleshow/75876912.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Awareness drive on prevention against dengue and malaria begins||The Dehradun municipal corporation began the awareness drive on prevention against dengue and malaria on Thursday. It has also identified areas where disinfectants would be sprayed to prevent the spread of the diseases. Apart from this, the area counsellors have also been given fogging machines. Municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey said “ Apart from fogging, we are also focusing on creating awareness among people to make sure that all the measures at household levels are taken to prevent the spread of dengue and malaria.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/awareness-drive-on-prevention-against-dengue-and-malaria-begins/articleshow/75875282.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Steep increase in domestic violence cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Figures from multiple women facilitation centres dealing with domestic violence and sexual harassment show that there has been a steep increase in the number of reported incidents during the lockdown period. The calls and complaints received in the toll-free numbers of Mitra, Sakhi one-stop centre, women’s commission, and Mahila Samakhya, reporting domestic violence, have shown a substantial increase as per figures compiled by the women and child development department. In 181 Mitra, which is the national toll-free number, the calls made and cases registered have doubled since March. While 220 calls were made to the number in March and 56 cases registered, the figures for April are 507 and 132 respectively. In Sakhi one-stop centre, 60 cases of domestic violence were reported between March 24 and April 21. In the next eight days, it shot up by 37 cases taking the total figure to 97. The cases that came to women’s commission also shows that domestic violence has been on the rise during this period. Of the 321 cases that came before the commission in April, 57 were domestic violence cases. According to Biju Prabhakar, secretary of social justice and women and child development, the main reason for such an increase, mostly in rural pockets, is the improper functioning of the 129 women service centres and district women protection offices that offer psycho-social counselling, legal advice, during the lockdown. However, a detailed study from the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) suggests there are other reasons too. KILA analysed complaints received from March 23 to April 18 and has found financial insecurity during the lockdown to be a reason. Based on 'field-level verification', the study also states that several cases were not reported to helpline numbers. The KILA study says due to curbs on movement during the lockdown, women who faced such violence could not take shelter elsewhere. Also, as they were constantly monitored at home, they could not call the helpline. A dip in cases registered under section 498A IPC for cruelty by husband or relatives substantiate these findings. Only 17 such cases were registered between March 24 and April 14. It was 155 during the same period last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/steep-increase-in-domestic-violence-cases/articleshow/75875331.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||KSRTC’s revenue on day one at Rs 35 lakh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KSRTC earned a revenue of Rs 35.32 lakh on the first day it resumed services after lockdown curbs were eased on Wednesday. A total of 1,319 buses operated on intra-district routes, covering 2,12,310km across the state. KSRTC incurred a loss of Rs 28.22/km as the average collection was Rs 16.78/km. North zone operated 207 services and received a sum of Rs 6,71,408. Central zone operated 478 services and the fare collection was Rs 12,41,586. South zone operated 634 services and received Rs 16,19,471. The bus fare hike did not reflect in the collection as few passengers travelled in these buses. KSRTC CMD MP Dinesh said that there were less number of passengers as bus services had started after an interval of nearly two months. "More than revenue, the services are part of a social commitment. The bus fare hike introduced during Covid-19 situation will bring some benefit if there are more passengers. People have to follow social distancing. The special services operated for government employees have included these norms in bus services. The buses will be operated based on demand," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ksrtcs-revenue-on-day-one-at-rs-35l/articleshow/75884495.cms||Anasooya.S
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||22-yr-old constable commits suicide||Ahmedabad: A 22-year-old traffic constable, Ravi Kalotra, of Vatva committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling hook on Thursday night. Police have not found any suicide note from Kalotra, who was married in January 2020. Police have registered a case of accidental death and are probing the reasons behind his suicide. In the past four days, four policemen have died — two from Covid-19, one from cardiac arrest and one has committed suicide. Inspector of Vatva police station H V Sisara said that Kalotra was deployed with J Division traffic police station and was also put in bandobust duty. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/22-yr-old-constable-commits-suicide/articleshow/75877041.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Even baby adjusts to warrior mom’s time||Rajkot: It was earlier always a battle of emotions when P V Sankhat, woman sub-inspector with Prabhas-Patan mahila police station of Gir Somnath district had to leave her three-year-old son crying and bawling while leaving for duty. However, after seeing his mom leave at odd hours for the past three months, Pratik knows he has to act brave and see his mom off calmly, at least on the surface. “My son doesn’t cry any longer. In all probability, his little mind could grasp that there is something unusual happening forcing his mother to leave him at home thus. He has become accustomed to living in my absence,” said Sankhat, who has been serving at Talala Chowkadi check post in Veraval since the beginning of the first lockdown order.For Sankhat, it was always duty before self, and now in the fight against Covid-19, the nation takes precedence over her family. “My son appears to have understood my predicament. By accepting my absence, he lends me his silent support,” said the mother, adding that her husband takes care of their son when she is on duty.Sankhat, who has been working tirelessly to ensure law and order 24X7, also couldn’t return home many a night while performing vehicle checking at the check posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/even-baby-adjusts-to-warrior-moms-time/articleshow/75875353.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kanpur||In noble gesture, Sikhs make freemasks from turbans for the needy||Kanpur:The Sikh community of the city is not only spending lakhs of rupees on food donation for poor during ongoing pandemic outbreak, but in a noble gesture the community has now donated hundreds of turbans from its ‘Turban Bank’ for making masks to protect poor from coronavirus. At present the community members dealing in garment manufacturing are busy giving turban cloth shape of mask. As per secretary of Gurdwara Bhai Banno Sahib, Kawaljeet Singh Manu, nearly 25,000 masks would be ready by the end of the week. “If anyone needs it, please contact us on mobile number 8317065446 and we can deliver it for free,” he said. “These are tough times for everyone. Sikh community strongly believe supporting each other is the only thing that will see us through to the other side of this crisis,” he said. To recall, in the 550th birth anniversary year of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev Ji, UP’s first turban bank was launched at Gurdwara Bhai Banno Sahib in the city in September 19. “As the pandemic is likely to persist for long, we came up with an idea and urged or turban bank management to prepare masks from turbans and distribute to poor and needy people. We urge people, particularly those who cannot afford to buy mask, to contact on the above mentioned number or authorities at Gurdwara Bhai Banno Sahib located on GT Road and avail it free of cost,” said Kawaljeet Singh Manu, secretary of Gurdwara Bhai Banno Sahib while talking to TOI on Thursday. He further said, “A traditional Sikh pagdi is usually a cloth six meters in length and one metre in width. We will procure nearly 10 to 12 mask from one turban.” “Not only will we distribute mask free of cost, but also aware people about the measures that should be followed and adopted for the prevention of the novel coronavirus infection,” he added. Manu said, “The turban, is an integral part of Sikh identity, in addition to the five Kes, Kara, Kanga, Kirpan, Kashera. It is worn by Sikh males, and some females. It covers, protects and crowns the head–the centre of wisdom. The turban also safeguards the uncut hair of a Sikh.” The management of Gurdwara Bhai Banno Sahib, which has members worldwide, said it would do everything to protect poor people from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/in-noble-gesture-sikhs-make-freemasks-from-turbans-for-the-needy/articleshow/75876955.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyclone enforces ‘social distancing’ on Behala||KOLKATA: Cut off from Kolkata, plunged into darkness and no connectivity ensured Behala remained inaccessible on Thursday. Water-logging woes, too, returned to make the situation worse. “There has been no electricity at our home since Wednesday afternoon and the road in front of my house is in knee-deep water. CESC officials said that unless the water recedes, they cannot repair the electrical lines as high-tension wires were snapped — thanks to a fallen tree. I have another accommodation at Tollygunge. But with no transport available, we cannot go there and will have to live in the dark, without a mobile phone connection for the next few days,” said Arijit Roy Chowdhury, a resident of Thakurpukur. Several roads and lanes continued to remain waterlogged till late on Thursday, leaving lakhs of Behala and Thakurpukur residents marooned at home. With no electricity or broadband connectivity and very feeble mobile phone connection, even work-from-home activities went for a toss. “I have not been able to log onto the system since I logged off on Wednesday afternoon. Worse, with no connectivity on my cellphone, I can’t even inform my seniors about my condition,” said Supratik Basu, a resident of Becharam Chatterjee Street in Behala, who works with a leading tech firm. Fallen trees and uprooted lamp posts blocked several roads as emergency calls went unanswered, several residents claimed. “A fire broke out at my house. I made an emergency call to the fire department, but no one came. When I checked with them again, fire officials said the fire engine’s path was blocked by a fallen tree trunk. By that time, we had doused the fire ourselves,” said Sanjoy Karmakar, a resident of Unique Park in Behala. Several houses were damaged. “One of our bedrooms, the kitchen and the washroom were flattened by two large trees that fell on our house last night. Thankfully, no one was sleeping there,” said Sutirtha Basu, a resident of Behala Manton. Kalidas Banerjee, a resident of Brajen Mukherjee Road, has been living in the dark since Wednesday. The octogenrian could not even charge his phone and had no way of contacting anyone. “Even on Thursday evening there was no electricity. We don’t have water in the taps as the pump could not be run and the streets are waterlogged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-enforces-social-distancing-on-behala/articleshow/75876771.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Operators struggle to restore cable lines in Kolkata||KOLKATA: With cyclone Amphan snapping cable TV wires across the city, more than 80% of Kolkata’s cable homes are left with blank screens since Wednesday evening. It could take three-four days to restore cable connections. Operators, who have already started restoration, were staring at a financial burden of replacing the snapped cables. Chetla resident Debjani Ghosh has been calling her cable operator frantically ever since her TV went blank during the cyclone. “I was following the news in the middle of the storm when my connection snapped. I had anticipated it and all my neighbours had the same experience. While you can’t blame anyone for this, steps should be taken to restore the connections,” she said. Kolkata has 30 lakh cable homes. Cable operators across the city had a tough time assessing the damage and gathering the snapped wires. Some have already started installing new cables. But the job is turning out to be difficult with lamp posts and trees that support the cables having collapsed. “Unless trees are removed and the posts erected, cables can’t be mounted on them. Also, with the lockdown still on, we don’t have enough people to do the job quickly,” said Tapash Das of the Ideal Cable TV operators’ Association. The association has started replacing cables in Bhowanipore and Harish Mukherjee Road. Restoration has begun in Tollygunge, Alipore, New Alipore and Chetla, too. But operators are wary of the cost of restoration that could be as much as Rs 500 for each subscriber. “Our earnings have been squeezed by the a la carte system that came into effect last year. We can’t afford to bear any extra cost and this burden will hit us hard,” said Das. Some operators said that replacing the wires will not bring the transmission back since cables carrying the MSO feed have also snapped. MSOs, on the other hand, said they have started repairs, too. SitiCable said 80% of the connections will be restored by Friday. “We hope to be able to resume the feed in 24 hours,” said director Suresh Sethia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/operators-struggle-to-restore-cable-lines/articleshow/75876756.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC’s revenue on day one at Rs 35 lakh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KSRTC earned a revenue of Rs 35.32 lakh on the first day it resumed services after lockdown curbs were eased on Wednesday. A total of 1,319 buses operated on intra-district routes, covering 2,12,310km across the state. KSRTC incurred a loss of Rs 28.22/km as the average collection was Rs 16.78/km. North zone operated 207 services and received a sum of Rs 6,71,408. Central zone operated 478 services and the fare collection was Rs 12,41,586. South zone operated 634 services and received Rs 16,19,471. The bus fare hike did not reflect in the collection as few passengers travelled in these buses. KSRTC CMD MP Dinesh said that there were less number of passengers as bus services had started after an interval of nearly two months. "More than revenue, the services are part of a social commitment. The bus fare hike introduced during Covid-19 situation will bring some benefit if there are more passengers. People have to follow social distancing. The special services operated for government employees have included these norms in bus services. The buses will be operated based on demand," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtcs-revenue-on-day-one-at-rs-35l/articleshow/75875364.cms||Anasooya.S
May 22, 2020||Trichy||46-year-old man sexually assaults toddler, held||Trichy: The city police arrested a 46-year-old man for sexually assaulting a one-and-a-half-year-old male child here on Wednesday. Fort all women police (AWPS) booked Prince alias Sudha Principal on charges of penetrative sexual assault on the child under sections of Pocso Act. Police said the boy had gone missing from home on Wednesday afternoon and his 20-year-old mother was looking for him. As she was searching the neighbourhood, the child came crying towards her from the house of Prince. Alleging that the boy was bleeding from his private part, she took up the matter with AWPS inspector Aruljothi who conducted an inquiry. Her team came to the conclusion that Prince had sexually assaulted the boy. The accused was married but had separated from his wife. The boy was taken for checkup to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital where he was treated and sent home. The accused was remanded in judicial custody. Reacting to the issue, Tamil Nadu state commission for protection of child rights (TNSCPCR) member P Mohan said, “Parents of the victim children would usually be bogged down by the social stigma towards them because of the sexual abuse. DCPO should provide them counselling and ensure the baby gets proper treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/46-year-old-man-sexually-assaults-toddler-held/articleshow/75877883.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Theatre script explores Varier’s healing touch||Kozhikode: For E P Rajagopalan, author and executive member of Kerala Sahithya Academy, Vaidyaratnam P S Varier’s life epitomises the ideal physician in the age of an epidemic. Rajagopalan’s new theatre script is based on the incidents in the life of the founder of the Arya Vaidya Sala, Kottakkal, the prestigious ayurveda centre in India, with a special focus on his activities during the spread of cholera in Malabar in 1918-20. “I conceived the play much before the emergence of Covid-19 but now I think that it assumes wider significance in the time of the pandemic,” said the author. The play ‘Sthapakan’ (Founder) directed by E V Haridas was supposed to be presented at Kottakkal on May 16 but was postponed in the wake of the lockdown. “Varier’s intervention at the time of the Cholera outbreak in Malabar was exemplary. He walked among the people of Eranad, handing out the medicine ‘Vishoochikari’ free. His service at the time of epidemic is recalled in the drama,” Rajagopalan said. Such efforts helped Kottakkal to come out of the threat of cholera to a great extent. “Now, the world is realising how important it is to have a medical system which is people-oriented rather than profit-oriented. Varier established a Dharmasupathri in Kottakkal where consultation, treatment, stay and food were provided free,” he said. Rajagopal said the profit from the Arya Vaidya Sala cannot be used for any purpose other than propagation of ayurveda and for study and research in the field. “The will he executed ensures it and this is how he rose above profit motive,” he said. Rajagoplan said Varier was a pioneer in popularising ayurveda medicines in bottles so that people could handle them easily. “He learned the practises of modern medicine and employed the methodology in manufacturing ayurvedic medicine. He tried to evolve an integrated system,” he said. Dr P Madhava Varier, member of the board of trustees of Arya Vaidya Sala, said Varier moved freely among the people at the time of the spread of cholera in Eranad. “He had a different perspective, which is not common now. Rajagopalan’s drama is a collection of the incidents from his life,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/theatre-script-explores-variers-healing-touch/articleshow/75875433.cms||Prashanth M P
May 22, 2020||Trichy||46-year-old man sexually assaults toddler, held||Trichy: The city police arrested a 46-year-old man for sexually assaulting a one-and-a-half-year-old male child here on Wednesday. Fort all women police (AWPS) booked Prince alias Sudha Principal on charges of penetrative sexual assault on the child under sections of Pocso Act. Police said the boy had gone missing from home on Wednesday afternoon and his 20-year-old mother was looking for him. As she was searching the neighbourhood, the child came crying towards her from the house of Prince. Alleging that the boy was bleeding from his private part, she took up the matter with AWPS inspector Aruljothi who conducted an inquiry. Her team came to the conclusion that Prince had sexually assaulted the boy. The accused was married but had separated from his wife. The boy was taken for checkup to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital where he was treated and sent home. The accused was remanded in judicial custody. Reacting to the issue, Tamil Nadu state commission for protection of child rights (TNSCPCR) member P Mohan said, “Parents of the victim children would usually be bogged down by the social stigma towards them because of the sexual abuse. DCPO should provide them counselling and ensure the baby gets proper treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/46-year-old-man-sexually-assaults-toddler-held/articleshow/75877887.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||T workers in Gulf pool Rs 15k to help man in distress||Hyderabad: While many of the Telangana workers in Gulf do not have jobs and are going through difficult times because of the lockdown, they helped a fellow worker who lost his wife, daughter and a relative in a road accident in Mancherial district. The workers contributed Rs 15,000 and handed it over to Potharajula Srinivas. On May 15, Srinivas’s wife Sujatha, daughter Kavya and relative Komariah had died in a road accident in Mandamarri. As he was unable to go back to Telangana from Dubai because of the lockdown, Srinivas watched the final rites in Luxettipet through a video call. As a grieving Srinivas expressed a desire to go home, his friends pooled the money as Srinivas does not have a job. He is expected to return home in a special flight on May 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-workers-in-gulf-pool-rs-15k-to-help-man-in-distress/articleshow/75877886.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||Ten held for extraction of gum from guggul trees||Vadodara: In what could be a rare case for violation of Indian Forest Act, 10 persons in Chhota Udepur were arrested by the forest department for extracting gum from guggul trees (Boswellia Serrata) using illegal methods. According to forest department, the accused were apprehended with 457kg of gum during regular patrolling from near the banks of Narmada river on Wednesday. During their interrogation, they revealed that they had been using ethephon, which is a plant growth regulator, on the trees. Officials said that ethephon is a chemical used for artificial ripening of fruits. “They had put holes in trees to insert this powder. Later they would remove barks of the tree from all sides and extract entire quantity of gum present in the tree,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. He added that as gum is one of the minor forests produces, tribal can extract it in small quantities. “But the method which they have applied is wrong and will kill the trees,” he said. The forest department have identified 35 trees which these accused had targeted. “We are using traditional method by applying a plaster of cow dung and sand and will water the stem daily. Within a month or two a new layer of bark will regrow,” Pandya said. There are around 2,000 to 3,000 such trees in district from which gum can be extracted. The gum is consumed by tribal as it has medicinal value and is also used in making ayurvedic medicines to cure joint pains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ten-held-for-extraction-of-gum-from-guggul-trees/articleshow/75873799.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan is fighting dual battle against coronavirus & locust||JAIPUR: Rajasthan is fighting a dual battle. On the one hand, it is on battle mode against coronavirus which is growing day by the day, while on the other hand, the locust swarms which entered the state from the western border in April are continuing its march towards eastern and southern parts of the state. So far, it has spread over 37,000 hectares of land in the state, while the agriculture department is bracing up to stop the advance of the insects to larger areas. The state had reported a locust invasion in May last year after a gap of 26 years and the attack continued until February this year, damaging Rabi crop across 6,70,000 hectare in 12 districts. The state put the loss due to the locust invasion at about Rs 1,000 crore. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot after a review meeting had directed the chief secretary to prepare an action plan to eliminate the insects. The state government had also sought the help of the Centre to fight the problem on the agriculture front. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria directed the officers of the agriculture department to launch a night operation to eliminate locusts by spraying pesticides at night as a campaign. The government is also planning to spray pesticides using drone. He said the state is ready to provide additional resources to fight the menace. Use local resources as well and seek full support of public representatives and farmers, he said. The only consolation for the state is the Kharif season is a few months away. But it had to eliminate it before the season begins in July. According to the agriculture department for the first time this year, on April 11, locust swarms had entered the state from Pakistan and till now about 37, 000 hectares of land in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Sriganganagar, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Ajmer, Pali, Bikaner, Sirohi and Bhilwara districts. Kataria said the agriculture department pressed in to service 70 Boleros, 45 Bolero camper utility vehicles, 600 tractor mounted sprayer and tractors and 3,200 tractor water tankers for the control and survey of locusts. A provision of Rs 5 crore has been made for the operation of vehicles on rent. A provision of Rs 10 crore has been made to provide plant protection chemicals to farmers as 100% grant, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-is-fighting-dual-battle-against-corona-locust/articleshow/75877890.cms||Joychen Joseph
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Cheated students to parents visiting kids return on Vande Bharat flights||Nagpur: Vijay Kalambe is happy that he could finally escape from Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur. He was stranded there with others promised jobs in five star hotels but ended up being cheated, he said. Kalambe had reached Kuala Lumpur on February 16 and in two weeks, Malaysia went into lockdown. He alleged he was cheated by an agent in Nagpur who took nearly Rs3 lakh from him promising a job-cum-training course in a 5-star hotel in Malaysia. “When I reached there, I found it was just a coaching academy and we were made to work in an ordinary restaurant. They promised to pay 1,500 Ringgits but gave only 1,200,” said Kalambe, a resident of Godhni now under quarantine at a hotel in Nagpur. Unable to pay the charges, he has agreed to forgo meals from hotel to get a reduction in tariff. “It was worse after the lockdown. For some days we ate at a Gurdwara where free meals were available. It was closed later. I got back to India, but others remain there,” he said. Kalambe is among the 109 stranded abroad who reached their homes in different parts of Vidarbha from Nagpur to Gadchiroli. They flew back from US, UK, Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia and Bangladesh in special flights arranged under government’s Vande Bharat scheme. A chunk of the returnees were students in Manila, the capital of Philippines. A number of them were undergoing medical education. The returnees have been kept in quarantine at hotels or government facilities depending on the arrangement made at each district. They reached Mumbai over a week ago and travelled to their homes by road in private taxis or buses arranged by the government. Forty four persons came to Nagpur. The least was just one — coming back to Gadchiroli — a student returning from Philippines. Those in Nagpur are under paid quarantine in three hotels. A senior official in state government said according to the procedure, all those returning from abroad are supposed to be kept at hotels which is a paid arrangement. Only those who cannot afford are sent to government facilities. “In Akola, the initial batch of three was kept at a hotel. As the numbers increased, they were shifted to PDKV hostels,” said the resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse. In Buldhana all seven returnees are in government facilities. Back at Nagpur, Pradip Kate who was at Princeton in US to meet his daughter who was due for a delivery, said everything worked out smoothly for him. “Our visa was valid till May 12 and we could manage to come back before that. Me and my wife were lucky to get a seat on the flight through lottery system,” he said. Hanuvant Deshmukh from Washim, whose son Pritish returned from Manila, said he was undergoing a MBBS course there. “Three months remained for the course to end but they had to return. First, the Philippines government did not allow them to exit as their visas had expired. They could not be extended because of the lockdown. However, the formalities were completed on intervention of Indian embassy and they could take off the next day,” he said. Pritish’s flight reached Ahmedabad and he was dropped till Maharashtra border in a bus. He reached Washim in another bus arranged by the state government from the border. The list in every district included returnees for Philippine, followed by those from Malaysia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cheated-students-to-parents-visiting-kids-return-on-vande-bharat-flights/articleshow/75876844.cms||Shishir Arya
May 22, 2020||Agra||Accused of molesting woman, man, 65, paraded in village with blackened face, garlanded with shoes||Agra: A 65-year-old man, who was accused of molesting his 56-year-old neighbour, was paraded with a garland of shoes around his neck and his face blackened through the entire village in Kasganj district on Thursday. After the incident, two cross FIRs were lodged by the two families, who are neighbours, in Alidanpur village under Sahawar police station. Three men have been arrested, police said. The first FIR was lodged by the sexagenarian’s son against five men, including three brothers, under IPC’s sections 147 (riots), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for assault), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement.), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 500 (punishment for defamation) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). In the FIR, the 60-year-old’s son alleged that the five men, armed with batons and sticks, barged into their home in the morning and assaulted his father. They painted his face black and forced him to walk through the village wearing a garland of shoes. He said a land dispute is the reason for the attack. After the FIR, three of the five accused were arrested. However, later in the evening, one of the arrested accused filed a counter FIR against the man, claiming that on the night of May 18, the elderly man had come to his house and molested his wife. Based on his written complaint, an FIR was lodged against the man under IPC’s section 354 (criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Following the FIR, the victim was brought to the police station for questioning. Sahawar SHO Ganesh Chauhan said, “One party claimed that their woman relative was molested and therefore, they taught a lesson to the elderly man. The second party alleged that due to an old rivalry, their family member was insulted and assaulted in front of villagers. Three men have been arrested and a medical examination of the victim has been conducted. Further investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/accused-of-molesting-woman-man-65-paraded-in-village-with-blackened-face-garlanded-with-shoes/articleshow/75875434.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Agra||Agra admin issues alert over locust invasion||Agra: Even as the entire district of Agra is struggling to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak, the administration has now issued an alert to farmers over a likely locust attack. Officials have issued the advisory as swarms of locusts have already reached neighbouring district of Dausa in Rajasthan. Reeling under the impact of the nationwide lockdown, the farmers would now have to deal with the invading pests which are likely to enter the district. The agriculture department has geared up to spray chemicals in order to prevent damage to the crops. Besides, an advisory has also been issued to the farmers. According to the agriculture department officials, locusts generally feed on plant materials. They are a huge problem because swarming locusts can easily strip an area of its vegetation, including the standing crops. Locusts very often live singly or in small groups, sometimes the numbers build up and they can do a great deal of damage to the crops. District agriculture officer Ram Pravesh said, “In search of food, millions of locusts from Pakistan migrated to Rajasthan earlier this month. Swarms of locusts have been spotted in the neighbouring Dausa district in Rajasthan. They are likely to enter Agra very soon. We have alerted farmers about the locust invasion. At present, there are no standing crops in the fields. However, vegetables are grown in 30,000 hectares of land in the district. We are updating farmers about suitable proportion of chemicals to be used for killing the locusts.” “An unsettled swarm is highly mobile and can travel as much as 150 km per day if the wind is in favour. They fly from 4 am to 8 pm consuming large quantity of vegetation and crops. We have arranged tractor-mounted chemical sprayers to destroy the pests,” he said. According to the advisory issued by the agriculture department, farmers can bang plates, tin or drums to scare away the locusts. They can also light fire to create smoke to prevent the produce from being consumed by the pests. Earlier, the Locust Warning Organization (LWO) of the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare warned of another attack in May-June this year. The first locust attack this year was reported in Ganganagar, a north Rajasthan district bordering Pakistan, on May 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-admin-issues-alert-over-locust-invasion/articleshow/75876815.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Officials on toes, trace contacts as migrant tests +ve||HYDERABAD: Officials are on tenterhooks after a migrant worker, who got treated by an RMP, tested positive for coronavirus in Kukatpally. The authorities are concerned about the patients treated by the RMP and are busy tracing out the contacts. The 60-year-old worker, walked all the way from Mumbai and fell sick once he arrived in the city. With symptoms of high fever, he approached an RMP, who conducted various medical tests and gave some medicines. But once the condition of the patient turned worse, the RMP, who is not a qualified doctor, sent the worker to the Chest Hospital where he was found to be positive for Covid-19. The sexagenarian was then shifted to Gandhi Hospital. On learning about the case history, authorities tried to contact RMP Pundareekam, who eluded them for two days before surrendering to police on Thursday. The RMP used to operate from a room behind a medical shop in Serilingampally. The authorities seized the medical shop as well as the diagnostic lab where the migrant’s samples were tested. “After he lost the job, the migrant feared that it would be difficult to survive in Mumbai. He then walked all the way from Mumbai and once he arrived in the city, he had symptoms of high fever. The RMP tried to treat him but once the situation got out of control, he advised the worker to go to Chest Hospital,” an official told TOI. So far, 11 contacts of the RMP and the worker were quarantined at the Chest Hospital. Significantly, all these 11 are found to be healthy. The RMP will be put under quarantine as well. In fact, this is the second such instance where a doctor treating a suspected coronavirus patient is under investigation. Few days back, the staff of a private hospital in Vanasthalipuram area were quarantined after a patient, who was treated there for lung problems, tested positive. Authorities heaved a sigh of relief after all staff members working at the hospital tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-on-toes-trace-contacts-as-migrant-tests-ve/articleshow/75877906.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 22, 2020||Agra||Agra: Rights panel notice to UP over kids carrying wood in used PPE||AGRA: Days after a video of two children carrying firewood in a discarded PPE suit surfaced, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued a notice to the UP’s health department and sought its reply within three days. The panel has asked the Agra administration and the UP health secretary to take necessary action in the matter and ensure that used Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits are disposed according to the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. NCPCR is a statutory body which comes under Union Ministry of Women and Child Development. The notice was issued by NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo, who also cited TOI report on the incident. On May 13 afternoon, two minor children were found using a discarded PPE suit to drag home a heap of dry wood in Agra Cantonment, a shocking visual which was captured by some Agra residents on mobile phones and shared widely on social media platforms. The boys, who were busy collecting firewood, found the “fascinating” white PPE suit in a pile of garbage near a graveyard. The place is about one km away from Railway hospital, which now doubles up as an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients. Child rights activist Naresh Paras had filed a complaint with the panel after which the direction was issued. He told TOI, “The matter of children carrying firewood in used PPE kit was not taken seriously by the district administration and health department. They didn’t investigate the matter. The purpose to file the complaint with the NCPCR was to ensure that such an incident is not repeated. Authorities must ensure that used PPE kits are disposed as per the guidelines of the Central ministry of health and family welfare.” Agra chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “We had found that the PPE in the hands of the children was not of government purchase. It had a different colour. We have a contract with a private company for the disposal of hazardous medical waste. All the medical waste generated at hospitals is collected in separate containers. It is sprayed with disinfectant and carried to a disposal facility on Firozabad road. All the waste is taken out of the vehicle and again disinfected. Finally, all the waste is thrown in an electric furnace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-kids-using-discarded-ppe-suit-rights-panel-seeks-reply-from-health-dept/articleshow/75876830.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hubballi||‘Suspend classes for a yr, protect kids’||Davanagere: With the state government clearing the decks for reopening schools for the coming academic year, Prof MS Hegde, former dean of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, sounded a warning about the consequences of children returning to classrooms. He called on the Centre to defer reopening of schools by a year. “Going by the current situation, it appears as though it would not be safe to reopen schools even from October. Instead, it would be safer to reopen educational institutions from March 15, 2021.” Hegde is not too enthused about online classes. “Nobody, including the teachers, is fully prepared for it. Rural students will be at a disadvantage with such a system. Full report on toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/suspend-classes-for-a-yr-protect-kids/articleshow/75854641.cms||SA Gangaraju
May 22, 2020||Kanpur||Owners of sweet shops, restaurants to give declarations||Kanpur: District administration on Wednesday had ordered opening of sweet shops and restaurants in the city but only after completing certain formalities like furnishing a declaration , downloading Aarogya Setu app and following other mandatory Covid-19 rules. According to shops and commercial registration department , all 754 sweet shops and 564 restaurants of the city have to furnish 10-point declaration based on 12 points under which they have to give an under taking to follow the rules, to sanitize shops or and their premises daily, to follow the hygiene rules and take precautions for Covid-19. As per declaration, the employees would have to cover their heads and use masks and gloves regularly and the person dealing with cash would not touch food products. Moreover, the shop owner is required to arrange hand sanitizer for public and liquid soap for employees. Designated officer, department t of food and safety and drug administration, Vijay Pratap Singh said the sweet shop and restaurant owners have to give declaration in two copies. The format of the declaration form would be available in the food safety and drug administration office situated at the collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/owners-of-sweet-shops-restaurants-to-give-declarations/articleshow/75876975.cms||Anant Chandak
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt ready, but shopkeepers reluctant to up shutters||Vijayawada: Measures taken by the state government to revive small and medium business activity have elicited tepid response. A majority of the shops and establishments on busy main roads on Thursday remained closed owing to soaring temperatures and and Covid-19 fear. Based on an order issued by the state government, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz gave directions to reduce containment zones across the city. Of 20 containment zones 12 were struck off the list and business was allowed in those areas. In the meantime, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has issued clear guidelines for the operation of shops. However, this seem to have little to no effect as except for a few shops, all commercial establishments on Mahatma Gandhi Road remained closed. “We hadn’t received any confirmation from the officials about opening the shops. Not many people were on the roads considering the restrictions on public transport. It is of no use to open shops without consumers,” said K Ramakrishna who runs an electronics store on Eluru Road. Soaring heat is another factor keeping shopkeeers from opening their door. “ We were directed to open shops with 50% manpower. But no worker is coming forward to work in this soaring heat. We have been incurring losses from the last two months owing to the lockdown. I hope our business gains pace in the coming days,” said B Malli, who runs a textile store on Besant Road. Meanwhile, 13 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the city on Thursday. Four out of them were reported from Krishna Lanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-ready-but-shopkeepers-reluctant-to-up-shutters/articleshow/75875451.cms||Venu Lanka
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||‘Asymptomatic patients spread Covid-19, home isolate them’||Dr Prashant P Joshi, a specialist of clinical epidemiology, is professor of general medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur. He is former temporary adviser to World Health Organization (WHO). According to him, a large number of asymptomatic cases are responsible for rapid spread of Covid-19 and such patients must observe strict home isolation. Otherwise, Covid-19 cases are expected to increase exponentially when the lockdown is lifted. Who are asymptomatic Covid-19 cases? Asymptomatic Covid-19 positive cases are people who have been infected but have no complaints or symptoms. Such people themselves don’t know that they are infected and hence they mix with other people and roam freely in society. Secondly, infected persons may be asymptomatic when they are in incubation period. This is the period from time of infection to the development of symptoms. During this period, a person can unknowingly infect other persons. This is also called the ‘Pre-symptomatic period’. Thirdly, people who have tested positive but showing no symptoms after 10-12 days can be asymptomatic carriers. How many of all Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic? About 80% of Covid-19 cases may either have no symptoms or have minor complaints like mild fever, cough or sore throat, which do not need hospitalization. Out of them, about 30% cases may have absolutely no complaint and 50% may have mild complaints. These patients who are otherwise healthy without co-morbid conditions may be treated on outdoor basis at home, but require isolation. They usually recover on their own. How important is it for asymptomatic patients to follow home isolation? Asymptomatic infection of Covid-19 seems to be common. As told earlier, 80% cases can be treated at home. This means, the disease is fought more efficiently at the community level than in the hospital. Hence, home isolation should be followed properly. If not, it can become difficult to control the pandemic. What is the spectrum of clinical features of Covid-19 cases? Spectrum of clinical manifestations of Covid-19 cases may range widely from being asymptomatic, to mild uncomplicated illness, uncomplicated mild pneumonia, complicated severe pneumonia, development of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) requiring ventilatory therapy to septic shock to multi-organ failure. Recent research has shown that coronavirus can cause blood clots and thrombosis which may precipitate heart attacks and paralytic strokes. Is there any relationship between Vitamin D deficiency and Covid-19? Two studies based on data from more than 20 countries found that Vitamin D deficiency may be linked to more severe disease. Researchers from both studies found that countries where people had lower levels of Vitamin D had a higher rate of severe Covid-19 than countries where people had higher levels of the vitamin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asymptomatic-patients-spread-covid-19-home-isolate-them/articleshow/75876928.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 22, 2020||Agra||Refrain from hugs, handshakes this Eid: Aligarh cleric||Agra: In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the shahar mufti of Aligarh on Thursday appealed to his community members to refrain from hugs and handshakes on the occasion of Eid and offer prayers at home to prevent the spread of infection. Shahar mufti Khalid Hameed said, “All Muslims should celebrate the festival at home and not throng mosques to offer namaz.” He also appealed that people should maintain social distancing norms and not shake hands or hug each other to exchange greetings. “We have to protect ourselves, our country and others too,” he said, adding that instead of spending on the celebrations, people should help the needy, “which will be an actual gift to God”. Aligarh district Magistrate CB Singh said that all religious places are closed as per the government order. “Our major areas are in containment zone. Hence, we appeal to the people to offer Friday and Eid prayers at home and don’t step out,” he said, adding that he had directed officials to closely watch the movement of people during the festival. SSP Muniraj G said that police force has already been deployed zone-wise for strict surveillance ahead of Eid. “We have already conducted a meeting with religious leaders regarding Eid prayers and asked them to spread awareness in their community,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/refrain-from-hugs-handshakes-this-eid-aligarh-cleric/articleshow/75876850.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mandi cess reduced||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday succumbed to the pressure of farmers and traders and reduced mandi cess. Agriculture produce which attracted 2% mandi cess has now been reduced to 0.5 per cent while those items which attracted 1.6% cess will now attract only 1%. Wool have been exempted from the cess. According to a release by the government, Gehlot took the decision after consultation with various food processing industry organisations. After the government introduced mandi cess to mobilise funds for kisan welfare, farmers and traders had gone on a strike recently. The chief minister said the state government had brought in the agriculture processing, business and export policy to encourage agri business in the state which would in turn benefit the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mandi-cess-reduced/articleshow/75877904.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 cases among migrants on rise||MEERUT/AGRA/ALIGARH/BAREILLY/PILIBHIT: Even though the Covid-19 lockdown is currently in its fourth stage in the country, the number of corona cases in western Uttar Pradesh continued to rise on Thursday - with most of the cases are of migrant workers, among others. In Covid hotspot Agra, six new cases were reported till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 837. A constable on duty at Sikandra police station and cancer patient of Malpura locality was among the fresh cases. Other cases were related to Prithavi Nath Phatak, Kagrol, Lohamandi, Basant Vihar Colony and Shahaganj locality. A 65-year-old senior doctor of a hospital in Rakabganj locality also tested positive. He was suffering from breathing difficulties and sent to a Delhi private hospital. Significantly, a 71-year-old retired bank employee died in Bulandshahr, with seven more positive in Bulandshahr, including a migrant worker. Also, nine tested positive in Meerut, four in Amroha and one in Hapur on Thursday. With this, the death toll in Bulandshahr reached two, with 103 cases, while 359 were in Meerut, including one found in Kanpur, 39 in Amorha and 89 in Hapur. Meerut's CMO Dr Raj Kumar said, “Nine cases were reported in Meerut on Thursday. Three of these are family members - including a five-year-old grandchild - of a private doctor who had tested positive recently and died earlier this week.” Moreover, a day after six migrant workers tested positive in Mainpuri, seven migrants were found infected among 11 new patients in the neighbouring district of Aligarh on Thursday. Till now, 55 patients have recovered and and nine have succumbed, out of total 115. CDO Anunay Jha said the seven migrants were found positive, with all of them returning from Gujarat and Maharashtra. The other four patients are women aged between 45 and 89. In Bareilly, four people tested positive while 17 cases were reported from Budaun district. Bareilly district surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “Four people, who returned from Mumbai to Bareilly on Tuesday, were tested positive. They were fruits and vegetables sellers in Mumbai.” With this, the Bareilly tally has reached 22. Four more positive cases were found in Pilibhit, taking the tally to nearly 30. Of the four, three are aged between 18 and 21 while the other is 34. They had come from other states. The health department has shifted them to Shahjahanpur. A temporary jail is also being mulled to lodge new prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-cases-among-migrants-on-rise/articleshow/75876840.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Trichy||Official on Covid-19 duty dies in accident||Trichy: A 51-year-old revenue inspector hailing from Thottiam in the district died in a road accident on Thursday while on his way home after completing duty at the Kallikudi Covid-19 isolation ward. The victim, P Sekar, a native of Thumbalam village, is survived by wife P Valarmathi and a son. He was returning home on a two-wheeler on Wednesday afternoon when an unidentified vehicle hit his bike as he was approaching Varatharajapuram village road on the Trichy-Salem state highway, leaving him seriously injured. He was rushed to a private hospital in Namakkal from where he was referred to MGMGH in the night. However, he succumbed to head injuries at the hospital on Thursday morning. District collector S Sivarasu visited the hospital and paid his respects. He also handed over a cheque of Rs 25,000 to his son for the funeral. It may be recalled that a 46-year-old village administrative officer (VAO) had also died in a road accident while returning after Covid-19 duty at Sethurapatti on May 14. His bike was hit by a truck on the Trichy-Chennai national highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/official-on-covid-19-duty-dies-in-accident/articleshow/75877912.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Mysuru||Three electrocuted||Mysuru: Three people were electrocuted after the truck in which they were travelling come in contact with a live wire in Keelanapura village under Varuna police limits on Thursday. Police said the truck was carrying grass and the victims were sitting on it. The deceased are Mahadev Swamy, 28, Teju, 22, and Mahadev Nayak, 42, all residents of Hosur village in T Narasipura talk. The bodies are sent to KR hospital in Mysuru for autopsy. Police suspect the truck driver’s miscalculation on crossing the live wire across the road caused the mishap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-electrocuted/articleshow/75875467.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Spike in biomedical waste in a week worries officials||Kochi: Two months after Kerala started handling Covid biomedical waste based on revised CPCB guidelines, the state has treated more than 100 tonne of waste from Covid-care centres. From nearly 91,000kg from 62 centres on May 13, the Covid biomedical waste rose to 1,04,185kg from 72 centres in a week’s time. Officials at IMAGE, which manages biomedical waste in the state, are alarmed as it has crossed 2-2.5tonnes/day in the past few days. The spike is attributed to the rise in number of cases and people coming from elsewhere in the country and abroad. “We won’t say we are overloaded with waste, because only 70% of our affiliated institutions have started sending us waste for treatment. Most diagnostic laboratories, dental clinics and small clinics are still closed,” said Dr Sharafudheen K P, secretary, IMAGE. The number of Covid-care centres sending biomedical waste rose abruptly from 76 centres on May 15 to 82 on May 18. The only time that numbers went so high was during April 6-10 when the number of Covid-care centres also rose to 75 and the highest collection was on April 10 at 2,125kg. Among the districts, Malappuram generated 14,688kg, followed closely by Thiruvananthapuram with 14,014kg and Ernakulam with 13,803kg during March 19 to May 19, 2020. IMAGE officials said the rise in number of quarantine people will not result in increase in Covid waste as it normally consists only of masks and gloves. “Only waste generated while giving treatment to a Covid-positive patient is considered as a Covid waste. The rest is just biomedical waste,” Dr Sharafudheen said. As of now, all biomedical waste is treated at a common biomedical waste treatment facility run by Indian Medical Association’s IMAGE in Palakkad. Recently, IMAGE received a piece of land for setting up its second facility at Brahmapuram in Kochi. Last month, the National Green Tribunal had asked the Centre to direct a team to supervise handling and scientific disposal of Covid-19 waste in accordance with the guidelines. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had asked hospitals to collect and store biomedical waste separately prior to handing over the same to Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment Facility (CBWTF). The waste from sample-collection centres and laboratories also had to be treated similarly. Dedicated collection bins labelled as Covid-19 has to be kept to store this specific waste. This set of waste had to be kept separately in a temporary storage room prior to handing over to authorised staff of the CBWTF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/spike-in-biomedical-waste-in-a-week-worries-officials/articleshow/75875480.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||1.4k quintal MDM quota rice given to students||Nagpur: The district education department has distributed 1,400 quintal rice, which was under midday meals (MDM) scheme quota, to eligible students in the city. The rice was part of the stock which could not be used due to lockdown that was imposed on March 25. The academic session for state board schools ends in second week of April. Gautam Gedam, district’s MDM scheme superintendent, said the distribution was in compliance with a state government order. “We distributed 1,400 quintal rice to around 90,000 students. This was done by the schools as the stock was lying with them,” said Gedam. Maharashtra government had last month decided to distribute the leftover stock as the lockdown was depriving students of the benefit of MDM. Since providing cooked food was not possible, the state education department directed all its district-level officials to handover the leftover raw stock to students. This way, the students’ families would have access to some basic ration. In some schools, leftover salt, spices etc were also distributed. MDM scheme is a popular initiative of the government which works as an incentive to students for attending school. Schools in rural areas and even in poor pockets of the city rely heavily on this scheme to ensure that even daily wage labourers send their kids to the classroom. It’s applicable for students up to Std VIII and is served in all government and private-aided schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-4k-quintal-mdm-quota-rice-given-to-students/articleshow/75877914.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||PMAY beneficiaries to get 90 days NREGA work: Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Thursday said beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Grameen (PMAY-G) must get 90 days of muster roll under MGNREGA at the time of sanctioning of their houses. “This will help the PMAY-G beneficiary get an additional benefit of Rs 19,800 by the end of 90 days of muster roll (work) under MNREGA,” said Pilot. Pilot held a video conference with the CEOs of all the Zila Parishads to review the progress of central government and state government-run rural development and panchayati raj schemes on Thursday. This is in addition to Rs 1.5 lakh the beneficiary gets under PMAY-G. He directed the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of all the 33 zilla parishads to expedite the work being implemented under various schemes of rural development and panchayati raj department and increase efficiency of the works. Pilot said scaling up the implementation of work under various schemes will provide employment to people living in rural areas, local residents, contractors and the business of material suppliers will increase and other related activities will get started. This will have positive impact on rural economy and boost the confidence of people who are suffering due to COVID-19 crisis. They will also be benefitted financially,” he said. He also said process of issuing job cards to the migrant workers, who have returned from other states, must be simplified and be issued immediately. He also asked to adopt rotation and roster policy for the functioning of the mates and also assign work to more than 50% women mates under MGNREGA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pmay-beneficiaries-to-get-90-days-nrega-work-pilot/articleshow/75877919.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||National Tiger Conservation Authority cuts funding for ‘Project Tiger’ by 15%, officials worried||Dehradun: In what might come as a double whammy for tiger reserves across the country this year, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has decided to slash funds by 15% for each state, officials in the know said. Already, the prime tiger tourism season from March to June 15 has fallen flat due to the lockdown. Park officials are worried that conservation efforts would suffer amid alert issued by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). In Uttarakhand, Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) earns about Rs 10.5 crore per annum and Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) earns around Rs 54 lakh a year from tourism-related activities. Earnings have taken a dip because of the lockdown for the otherwise self-sustaining tiger reserves. Uttarakhand was sanctioned around Rs 25 crore in the previous year by the NTCA, according to officials. Directors of Corbett Tiger Reserve and Rajaji Tiger Reserve feel reduced funds will adversely affect infrastructure-related works in the reserves. With the monsoon season round the corner, important road construction work will suffer. Internal road connectivity inside reserves is essential during the rainy season for effective patrolling to check poaching and other anti-forest activities. A source in the forest department said NTCA itself didn’t get its full share of funds and hence, it has no other option but to further cut funds for the states. Incidentally, budget of NTCA has been reducing since the past four years. For 2016-17, its budget was Rs 348.74 crore; for 2017-18, it was Rs 345 crore; for 2018-19, it was Rs 323.44 crore. In 2019-20, it was just Rs 280.66 crore. For 20-21, it has already indicated that the fund would be curtailed further. In 2019-20, NTCA had approved Rs 17 crore for CTR. “The cost-cutting measure has been taken as the lockdown has hit various sectors. May be, NTCA is also trying to strike a balance by pruning the funds by up to 15% for all the reserves,” said Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department. Besides, the prime minister’s ambitious project to develop a rescue centre in Ramnagar at Corbett Tiger Reserve has also been hit. “The Covid-19 lockdown has affected all our projects. With NTCA’s decision to cut costs, we will have to re-prioritize things as per the availability of funds,” said Rahul, director of CTR. Similarly, Rajaji Tiger Reserve, which had sent a proposal to NTCA for Rs 12 crore this year, might also get less. “We are hoping that our reserve will get at least the same amount that we had received the previous year, when Rs 10.13 was sanctioned,” said Amit Verma, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve. Surprisingly, NTCA officials are in a ‘denial’ mode. NTCA deputy inspector general (DIG) Nishant Verma said, “I am not aware of any such move, and we are not reducing any funds. The Annual Plan of Operations (APOs) are getting approved like before.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/national-tiger-conservation-authority-cuts-funding-for-project-tiger-by-15-officials-worried/articleshow/75875457.cms||Shivani Azad
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||24 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand saw the highest single-day jump of coronavirus cases on Thursday with 24 people testing positive, taking the tally to 146 in the state. Out of the 24 cases, 10 reported on Thursday, in which five belong to Tehri, four from Dehradun Bageshwar and Uttarkashi each, two from Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital each and one from Almora. Moreover, out of those new cases, 14 came from places like Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Gujarat, while the rest were primary contacts of already positive patients. The five cases from Tehri had travelled in the same bus from Mumbai on May 17 and reached Tehri on May 19. The health department team has done random sampling on 10 passengers among which six found Covid positive—one on Wednesday morning and five in the midnight. “We have placed all the passengers of the bus in isolation centre and they will be tested as well,” said Dr Jagdish Joshi from Tehri. Dr PK Panda from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) told TOI that one patient from Bijnor, who was admitted in the hospital on May 19, tested Covid positive. “The patient was admitted in surgical oncology department under the Covid restricted area and was suffering from carcinoma esophagus, commonly known as cancer of food pipe,” he said. With the rising cases, the doubling rate of Covid cases has been drastically reduced in the last one week. On May 14, the doubling rate was 23 days, while on May 21 it was 9.45 days, with 91 active cases. Doubling rate means the time taken for the virus to spread. The health department has sent 887 new samples for testing on Thursday after which 1,612 sample reports are awaited. Over 1,000 samples were tested on Thursday and the first case of Uttarkahsi district was recovered too, after which the number of total recoveries reached 54 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/24-new-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/75875471.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Financial distress leads to three suicides in Rajkot||Rajkot: A tempo driver, a factory labourer and a tailor, committed suicide in three separate incidents reported from the city and district in 24 hours ending Thursday. All these men took the drastic step due to acute financial crisis caused due to lockdown. In Rajkot, a 36-year-old labourer hanged himself to death in a factory on Kotharia Road in Rajkot city. “The deceased Praful Makwana’s family members told us that he drastic step due to financial crisis. His factory had closed down due to lockdown and he was jobless,” said MB Jadeja, head constable with Aji Dam police station. The second case was reported from Shakti Society locality of Rajkot where Ashraf Qureshi (30), a tempo driver, hanged himself from the ceiling in his house. Qureshi too committed suicide due to financial crunch. His wife Amina's told police in a statement that Qureshi was debt ridden. As his tempo service remained suspended due to the lockdown, he could not repay the loan taken from friends, said U B Puwar, assistant sub-inspector, Rajkot B division police station. In Jasdan, Dipen Vaghela (19) ended his life by consuming pesticides at his residence in Pushkardham Society. “Vaghela, who used to work as a tailor, had not been getting any work for the past two months. As a result he sank into depression and ended his life,” said an official from Jasdan police station. Meanwhile, in Wankaner town too , an 18-year-old girl Arti Dadal, residing in Bhatiya Society, attempted suicide by consuming acid. “Preliminary investigation revealed that Dadal had been suffering from depression caused by the lockdown period,” said an official from Wankaner police station. Dadal had been admitted to Rajkot Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/financial-distress-leads-to-three-suicides-in-rajkot/articleshow/75875474.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||This Ramzan, foodies miss aroma of Mominpura, Jafar Nagar food||Nagpur: Foodies from different parts of the city have missed the savouries at Mominpura and Jafar Nagar during the holy month of Ramzan this year because of the lockdown. Mangesh Khobragade (37), who runs an eating joint at Dhantoli, said he was missing kebabs the most. “Every 10 days, I used to visit Jafar Nagar during Ramzan to have a bite. We would eat at street stalls as well as a couple of restaurants,” he said. Itwari resident Pratik Hedau, a tutor, had covered many eateries at Mominpura and Jafar Nagar last year. “Desserts and a variety of sewais at Mominpura were good. At Jafar Nagar, we had different non-veg stuff. We are only rejoicing in the sweet memories,” he said. Zingabai Takli resident Sandeep Singh also visits Jafar Nagar and Mominpura during Ramzan. As Jafar Nagar evolved into a food hub, he stopped going to Mominpura. “Restaurants here are maintaining good quality. Many outlets have come up in the last two years. I am missing them all,” Singh said. Chandrashekhar Narayan Kher, a resident of Ramdaspeth, has planned a visit to Mominpura for biryani whenever lockdown is over. “On Eid eve, we used to take a tour of these areas. We foodies would get a variety of items,” Kher said. Fitness trainer Gyani Kaushik, who stays at New Gandhi Layout near Jafar Nagar, is missing the Ramzan atmosphere. “The mood is vibrant in Ramzan. The food is amazing in some of restaurants and you can find many stalls there,” Kaushik said. Similarly, stall and restaurant owners are missing their customers from Dharampeth, Ajni, Wardhaman Nagar and Pardi who gave them brisk business. Mohammad Sajid, owner of Jafar Nagar’s popular ‘Guddu Biryani’, said during Ramzan customers from areas like Dharampeth, Sitabuldi, Ajni, Wardhaman Nagar and Pardi used to come for his kheema samosa and chicken and mutton biryani. “Because of lockdown, these customers were missing. Right now, I am catering takeaways only to rozadaars,” he said. Mohammad Rafiq, the co-owner of Arabian Tandoor, is getting a lot of calls from his customers. “Every year, we are witnessing more and more visitors here, especially during Ramzan. People from all faiths come here to enjoy the food. We cook certain dishes like haleem, malpua and firni only during Ramzan. It’s tough time for all of us but we pray to Almighty to give us strength to face this unprecedented situation,” Rafiq said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/this-ramzan-foodies-miss-aroma-of-mominpura-jafar-nagar-food/articleshow/75876884.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM meets rebel Congress MLAs, asks them to prepare for by-polls||BHOPAL: Amid speculations over proposed expansion of state cabinet and preparations for by-poll on 24 seats in Madhya Pradesh, former MLAs and supporters of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia called on chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Thursday. The leaders claimed there is a clear wave in favour of BJP ahead of by-polls. In the meeting, leaders from Gwalior-Chambal region including Suresh Dhakad, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Jajpal Singh Jajji, Giriraj Dandotia, Brajendra Singh Yadav, Raksha Santram Sironia, discussed local issues and preparations for the forthcoming by-poll and problems in their area. The meeting also holds significance amid talks among BJP leaders over proposed cabinet expansion. Chouhan exhorted the former MLAs to get prepared for the by-poll by establishing personal contact and communication with the farmers, people from backward class, tribals and other voters. A combined strategy to counter Congress campaign against the rebel leaders, who had quit the old party to join BJP, was also discussed in the meeting. "We discussed with CM local issues and problems faced by public amid coronavirus crisis. We have decided to reach the public in person, redress their grievances and communicate with the voters to pave way for our victory on all 24 seats," former MLA from Phori (Shivpuri), Suresh Dhakad told TOI. Replying to a query on preparations for the by-poll, he said this is the time when everybody is reaching up to the voters to know their problems and brief them about the works done. The chief minister also called upon to gear up for the contest. "We have been asked to contact farmers, inspect mandis and the procurement centres to know the problems and lodge complains against irregularities if any. Chief minister also guided us on welfare works undertaken by the state government for the public in the region," he said. On Congress attack on individual leaders, Dhakad said that Congress has failed during its 15-month tenure. "Earlier, Scindia Maharaj (Jotiraditya) used to help us win the seat. This time the entire BJP is standing with us. We have Scindia and Shivraj ji as team leaders and Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, cabinet minister Narottam Mishra to support in the region. Besides, PM Modi and union minister Amit Shah as mentors," said Dhakad. During the day, chief minister also discussed with Satna Lok Sabha member, Ganesh Singh issues related to Vindhya region, apart from party's plan for the cabinet expansion and names of probables to be included in the team, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-meets-rebel-cong-mlas-asks-them-to-prepare-for-by-polls/articleshow/75875486.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||250 Indians stuck in South Korea, send SOS to PM for return||HYDERABAD: A group of 250 Indians, including 60 seafarers, are stuck in South Korea and appealed to the government of India to bring them back. Among those stranded is 31-year-old Syed Mohammed Mubeen from Hyderabad. In a video appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mubeen, a resident of Charminar, said: “I came here in January for the treatment of my nephew and got stuck. I am really worried as I do not have money to meet my expenses even for five days. Please help me.” Speaking to TOI, Mubeen said he had come to Seoul to get his nephew who is undergoing thalessemia treatment. While his nephew was able to fly back just before the lockdown, Mubeen, however, was stranded there. “I have spent close to Rs 3 lakh since January and I don’t have any money left,” he said. Like him, Madhu Arangam from Chittoor in AP is desperately waiting to come back with his family. “I left my job in Suwon, about 40 km from Seoul, and was looking to come back to India. But then, the lockdown was enforced,” he said. His said all those stuck in Korea are facing issues paying their rents. While a Vande Bharat flight has been planned for June 7, those stuck say they have not received any confirmation that they will be taking the flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/250-indians-stuck-in-s-korea-send-sos-to-pm-for-return/articleshow/75877930.cms||Uttara Varma
May 22, 2020||Agra||Woman delivers baby on road||AGRA: A pregnant women returning from district hospital after giving sample for Covid-19 testing delivered a baby on road. On getting the information, doctors rushed to the spot and provided urgent treatment. Later, the woman was admitted in the hospital where she delivered another baby. Meanwhile, a pregnant migrant worker having labor pain failed to get an ambulance. Later, Sachin Singh, assistant of the additional district magistrate (protocol) came forward to help the woman and took the woman to SN Medical College in his personal car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-delivers-baby-on-road/articleshow/75876867.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 22, 2020||Mysuru||Opposition is criticising govt for no reason: KSE||Mysuru: Taking a dig at KPCC chief DK Shivakumar and leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah, rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa on Thursday remarked sarcastically that from now on the government would consult them before making any policy decisions. Eshwarappa questioned their act of protesting in front of the Gandhi statue without permission. “They talk about the Constitution but they themselves are violating the law. They are opposing all schemes and decisions of the government just for the sake of it. The decision of amending the APMC Act and appointing administrators to gram panchayats has been taken in consultation with experts,” he said. The opposition has raised questions with regard to PM Narendra Modi’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic package whereas leaders all over the world are appreciating Modi’s way of handling Covid situation, he added. “Rs 40,000 crore package has been announced for the farming sector and guaranteed working days under MGNREGA have been increased to 150 from the current 100. Let the opposition leaders continue to criticise, we will continue doing the good work for the welfare of people,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/opposition-is-criticising-govt-for-no-reason-kse/articleshow/75875491.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Mysuru||First intra-state train after lockdown to chug into Mysuru on Friday||Mysuru: In what is a huge step towards return to normalcy, a train from Bengaluru will arrive in Mysuru at 12.30pm on Friday – the first intra-state rail journey since the enforcement of the lockdown. The train will subsequently leave Mysuru at 1.45pm. Regular passengers have appealed to the railway authorities to ensure that all safety norms are followed on the train in order to scotch any chance of the infection spreading on board the vehicle. Railway authorities, however, have decided not to alter existing seating arrangements on board the train, which means that there is no scope for social distancing during the journey. Moreover, the South Western Railway (SWR) authorities have decided to operate the LHB train between Bengaluru and Mysuru on Friday. Fearing transmission of the Covid-19 infection, commuters have petitioned SWR authorities to reconsider going ahead with filling all seats on the train. Hemanth Kumar, a Mysuru resident who travels to Mysuru regularly, called on the authorities to ensure that passengers sat a safe distance apart from one another. Ahead of recommencement of operations on the Bengaluru-Mysuru route, Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar, MP Pratap Simha and SWR, Mysuru division manager Aparna Garg visited the city railway station on Thursday and took stock of the readiness of the terminal to receive passengers. They inspected the measures taken to ensure social distancing, and the overall standards of hygiene. Aparna said that the LHB train trundling into Mysuru could seat 106 passengers in each coach — there would be 14 coaches on the train. “We have decided to keep only one entrance and one exit at the railway station. The subway at the Mysuru station will be closed. Passengers will be allowed on board the train only after they are subjected to thermal screening. We will not deploy additional security personnel on trains to enforce safety guidelines. We appeal to the passengers to adhere to the rules and stay safe,” Aparna added. Passengers are mandated to wear masks, come to the station 90 minutes prior to the departure in order to undergo thermal screening, etc. Tickets will not be distributed at the station, and all passengers will have to book them on the IRCTC website. Trains will not ply on Sundays, since the state government has decided to heighten restrictions on the last day of the week. SWR has decided to operate trains on two routes – between Bengaluru and Belagavi, and on the Mysuru-Bengaluru line. While the Bengaluru-Belagavi tri-weekly express will depart from Bengaluru at 8am every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, the train will leave the border district at the same time on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Services between Bengaluru and Belagavi will recommence from Saturday. The Bengaluru-Mysuru special train will depart from Bengaluru at 9.20am and chug into Mysuru at 12.45pm, and leave the Heritage City at 1.45pm on all days except Sunday. Trains on Konkan route from June 10 Meanwhile, trains will resume operations on the Konkan Railway route from June 10. The trains will be operated in accordance with the pre-monsoon schedule. The Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mumbai Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special (daily) will leave the Kerala capital at 9.30am and reach its destination at 5.45pm the next day. The train from Mumbai will leave at 11.40am, and reach Thiruvananthapuram at 6.25pm the next day. The Ernakulam-Nizamuddin superfast special (daily), meanwhile will leave the Kerala metropolis at 1.15pm, and reach the national capital at 1.15pm two days later, while the train from Delhi will depart at 9.15am and reach Ernakulam at 12.15pm on the third day of the journey. Train 02284 Nizamuddin-Ernakulam junction weekly Duronto special will leave Nizamuddin at 9.15pm on Saturday and reach Ernakulam Jn at 4.10pm on third day with effect from June 6 until further advice. Train 02283 Ernakulam Junction-Nizamuddin weekly Duronto special will leave Ernakulam Junction at 11.25pm on Tuesday and reach Nizamuddin at 7.40pm on third day with effect from June 9 until further advice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/first-intra-state-train-after-lockdown-to-chug-into-mysuru-on-friday/articleshow/75876541.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Prisoners coming after parole to be tested||Thiruvananthapuram: To ensure that there is no spread of Covid-19 in prisons, health department has decided to conduct mandatory tests on inmates returning to prisons after parole and new prisoners. For this, it has decided to constitute medical teams on call for all major jails in state. Medical team from nearby hospitals will be in charge of district jails to test the samples of prisoners. Already, as per DGP (prisons) Rishi Raj Singh’s order, isolation cells have been set up in all prisons. He had asked to shift prisoners with symptoms of fever and cough to these cells. As per the advisory from the department, RT-PCR tests will be conducted on all asymptomatic prisoners brought to jail after parole. Pool testing was also suggested. All prisoners who are coming after parole will be kept in a single separate cell till test results are obtained. If a prisoner coming after parole has influenza-like illness then RT-PCR test will be done and he will be isolated in a single cell. This will be done in case of new prisoner. However, the department advised that asymptomatic prisoner, who is on parole with epidemiological link (any Covid suspect) in the past two weeks, must be quarantined for 14 days. Any symptomatic prisoner with such link will have to be tested and put in institutional quarantine for 14 days. Also, nobody should use bathrooms used by prisoners kept in isolation. “If there are limitations, then after every use of bathroom, the user must clean it,” said the advisory. The common dining area should not be used by the prisoners under quarantine and authorities should give them separate vessels and utensils. Prison authorities should communicate immediately with the local health authority if a prisoner develops fever-cough symptoms or respiratory problems. The local PHC or DISHA helpline can be contacted for immediate help. Care takers will be responsible for daily monitoring of inmates. They should also take all kinds of precautions. The department also wanted restrictions on prison visitors, including family. No senior citizens or people with comorbidity should be allowed to meet inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prisoners-coming-after-parole-to-be-tested/articleshow/75875542.cms||Rajiv G
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Nurse accuses doc of abusing her while drunk||Nagpur: A staff nurse at rural government hospital in Deoli in Wardha district has filed a complaint with Wardha district civil surgeon against the superintendent doctor for allegedly abusing her while being drunk on duty.Civil surgeon P Madavi confirmed he has received a complaint against the doctor. “I have taken cognizance in the matter and sent a team of senior staff at the hospital to conduct an inquiry into the matter,” said Madavi.The copy of the complaint is in possession of TOI. The nurse, who hails from Nashik district, claimed in the complaint that she has been working at the hospital for ten years. On May 18, when she was on night duty the doctor came drunk and was very angry. The doctor abused the nurse and raised several questions about how the nurses work.The complainant claimed the incident had disturbed her mentally and now she feared for her life as she lived alone at the hospital headquarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nurse-accuses-doc-of-abusing-her-while-drunk/articleshow/75875508.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 22, 2020||Patna||Lockdown effect: Bihar’s revenue falls 82% in April||PATNA: The near-cessation of economic and trade activities in Bihar since the beginning of lockdown on March 24 to prevent spread of coronavirus caused a massive revenue loss of 82.29% to the state government in April this year when compared to the same month during 2019-20 financial year. If the revenue earnings of the state government from all its sources was Rs 2,542.23 crore in April last year, it plummeted to Rs 450.21 crore in April this year. The lockdown destabilised all the economic and revenue calculations of the state government pertaining to the current fiscal, as the expenditures on salary, pension, disaster management, social security, public debt repayment and grants to the panchayats remained unchanged. While the state’s total income was Rs 9,861 crore in April this year by way of revenue earnings from its own tax resources and share in the central pool of taxes and grants received from the Centre, the total expenditure was to the tune of Rs 12,202 crore. The expenditure, thus, was in excess of the income by Rs 2,341 crore. All these aspects came to light on May 18 when deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who also holds the finance portfolio, reviewed the revenue earnings made by the departments concerned in April. Following high expenditure and less income witnessed in April this year, the state government resorted to additional resource mobilization (ARM) measure and increased the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel on May 18 itself. However, the overall position of the government’s revenue earnings in May might not be as bleak as it was in April as the fourth version of the lockdown has seen some relaxations and comparatively increased economic and trade activities, including movement of vehicles. Industry minister Shyam Rajak said 4,252 industrial units have reopened in the state. Similarly, the revenue returns from the mines department is expected to increase following increase in number of vehicles engaged in mining and lifting of sand. Only around 10,000 big and small vehicles were pressed into service to lift sand in mid-April, mines department director Arun Prakash said. The earnings of transport and commercial taxes departments would also increase due the hike in VAT on petrol and diesel and opening of standalone shops and establishments as well as shops selling agriculture-related items. State transport department has incurred around 85% revenue loss due to disruption in the services during the lockdown. In last 50 days, the department has collected Rs 35 crore through fines and penalties under the Motor Vehicles Act and road tax of commercial vehicles, while the total revenue collection in April was only Rs 2-3 crore, according to the officials of the transport department. State transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the estimated revenue collection of the department was Rs 200 crore per month. “However, the department has managed only Rs 35 crore in last 40 days. The main source of revenue collection for transport department is registration of vehicles, driving licence, road tax and penalties for violating traffic norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-effect-states-revenue-falls-82-in-april/articleshow/75874196.cms||Abhay Singh
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 impact: Tourism paralysed in Pachmarhi||BHOPAL: Coronavirus induced lockdown has completely paralysed the tourism in Pachmarhi, one of the popular hill stations of Madhya Pradesh. Livelihood of about 10,000 people has been affected due to lockdown, leading to an estimated loss of over Rs 50 crore, claim sources Popularly known as Queen of Satpura, Pachmarhi, situated about 200 kms away from Bhopal at a height of 1067 metres, has been attracting tourists from across the world. Since the lockdown, over 500 gypsies ferrying tourists from one place to another, have stopped operating . The hotels are closed and there are no activities at various tourist spots of this hill station, which buzzed with people during summer months. The temple bells are quiet and the sunset point of Dhoopgarh has no viewers. The ripples of joblessness have reached the neighbouring districts of Narsighpur, Seoni and Chhindwara too, as large number of labourers , cooks, artisans and small-time traders have already left the city. Chankya Bakshi, a hotelier and former vice president of the Cantonment board, said, “People in Pachmarhi are totally depended on tourism and activities related to it. No agriculture or any activities of collection of forest produce is done here. Large quantity of vegetables grown in small towns around this hill station also have no takers now because all the hotels are closed.” Manoj Dubey , a social worker based at Pachmarhi said, “This is the peak tourism season in Pachmarhi and many people had invested a lot just before the lockdown. That money, perhaps, will never be recovered. Most of the smaller private hotels in Pachmarhi belong to middle-class people and this deadly virus has broken their backbone. While deciding on the relief measures for affected people, the government should also keep people of Pachmarhi in mind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-impact-tourism-paralysed-in-pachmarhi/articleshow/75875510.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hubballi||Build-up at borders as returnees from Maharashtra seek passage home||Belagavi: It has been a hostile homecoming for Kannadiga workers returning from Maharashtra, with their host state keen to send them home and their home state adamant on barring entry from the Covid-affected neighbour. The result: across checkposts on the Maharashtra border in Belagavi, Vijayapura and Kalaburgi, workers are arriving in batches and staying put, hoping to find a way in somehow. Majority of the workers – who were employed in Mumbai and five other districts – are desperate to return home as the lockdown has left them jobless and short on money. Many are headed to Hassan and Mandya – which, unfortunately, have borne the brunt of surging infections following the return of workers from Maharashtra. While the Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government is firm on not allowing entry, in a bid to curb the outbreak in the state, local authorities say Maharashtra is keen to wash its hands of the workers and is depositing them in the border areas. The influx started from May 15, comprising mostly daily-wage labourers without passes, desperate to get home. From May 8 to May 21, nearly 24,000 people have crossed the Karnataka border through Kanakumbi, Kagawad and Koganoli check-posts, said a revenue official at Chikkodi. With Lockdown 4.0, the state has barred entry from Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Around 300 people were stranded at Koganoli check-post till Wednesday, living in buses and on the roads, without toilets. Belagavi district authorities said they were under tremendous pressure as they had to arrange for food and basic facilities. Emergency permission was sought from the chief secretary and in an all-night operation, all workers were screened and allowed to board buses home. Ramdas and Preetu Gowda, who were on their way to Chitradurga and Mandya respectively, said more buses carrying guest workers are expected to arrive at the borders. “The Maharashtra government is sending guest workers out which is why we had to leave,” said Preetu Gowda. “Maharashtra is simply evading responsibility and allowing workers to move through the state without passes,” said a senior police officer in Belagavi who is at the forefront of handling borders. “With an entry ban in place, they have to accommodate guest workers and other returnees instead of dumping them at the borders.” Deputy commissioner S B Bommanahalli said, “Maharashtra has been callously leaving returnees near the Karnataka border to shift the onus on the state. The administration has faced a lot of difficulty arranging for food for the workers and convincing them to return. I have spoken to my counterparts in the border districts to restrict movement and hope they act upon our requests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/build-up-at-borders-as-returnees-from-maharashtra-seek-passage-home/articleshow/75876282.cms||Shreyas HS
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||Three declared dead over week after their deaths||Vadodara: These three aged men from the city had succumbed to Covid-19 over a week ago. Their final rites were also completed. But, for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), these patients ‘officially’ died on Thursday. The civic body eventually acknowledged the death of an 82-year-old man from Nalanda area on Waghodiya Road who died on May 8, a 72-year-old man residing in the Sardar Bhavan lane in Raopura who had died on May 10 and an 80-year-old man from Ajwa Road who had died on May 11. This delayed acknowledgment, blamed on preparing death audit reports, took the death toll due to Covid-19 in the city to 38. What’s more. VMC says these men died due to co-morbidities even as the patients had tested positive for Covid-19. According to VMC data, coronavirus has been the primary cause of death in only seven cases. Since Wednesday evening, 23 persons tested positive for Covidd-19 in the city and district. Out of these, six persons used to work for the agency that provides housekeeping and catering services to various organisations including hospitals as well as a major brand supplying vegetables, grocery and other essentials online. Some of the workers of the agency have also worked for the Bhailal Amin General Hospital. A major reason for concern was the detection of five Covid-19 cases in Shinor taluka of the district. Sources said that these cases were detected during random testing in the taluka. Thhe cases also belong to four different villages raising concern. Seven patients were discharged from three different hospitals and a Covid care facility in the city. This took the number of discharged patients up to 472 even as 263 persons are still under treatment. Eight of those under treatment are breathing with the help of oxygen while six are on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-declared-dead-over-week-after-their-deaths/articleshow/75873902.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Locusts back in Kutch, North Gujarat||Rajkot: A threat of another locust attack looms large over regions of Kutch and North Gujarat once again. Locusts have been sighted at isolated places in villages of Kutch, Bhavnagar, Banskantha and Patan, said respective district officials.According to the Locust Control Office (LCO) in Kutch, there have been reports of locusts in farmer of different villages of Rapar and Anjar talukas.Ashok Baraiya, platn protection officer at Kutch LCO said that there was not locust attack as such in these village. “The locusts have not come from outside areas like from Rajasthan or Pakistan. But these seems to be local species which might have developed from the eggs laid by the inscets that had attacked the region some months back,” said Baraiya.He added that since there is no standing crop, there cannot be any damage.Bhavnagar and Kutch districts had witnessed locust attack last year which had destroyed crops in huge numbers.The locust were also seen in the villages of Vallabhipur in Bhavnagar. The agriculture officer there, Sanjay Kosambi said, “We got locusts complaints from 2-3 villages, but the insects are very scattered. However, we have alerted our team and also guided farmers how to use pesticide on the locusts.” Meanwhile, small swarms of locusts was also reported in isolated parts of Banaskantha and Patan districts of north Gujarat over the past few days.The number of insects was much less as compared to the swarms that attacked parts of north Gujarat in December last year and damaged standing crops in 25,000 hectares of area.Banaskantha district agriculture officer P K Patel said that after nearly five months, smaller swarms of about 200 to 300 locusts have entered Banaskantha and adjoining Patan district.“Though we are not supposed to control such a small number of locusts as per international guidelines, we are spraying pesticides wherever we find the locusts. We sprayed chemical on a small swarm at a village near Deesa,” Patel said.He said these smaller swarms of locusts seen in Banskantha and Patan might have separated from the large swarms that have descended in the desert of Jaisalmer in Rajasthan, where an operation against the insects is underway.“Such smaller swarms are not a threat. They are naturally controlled by peacocks, crows and other birds. We have also deployed hand-held pumps to spray pesticides so that farmers do not panic,” Patel said.In December last year, locusts from desert areas of Pakistan descended in Gujarat districts like Banaskantha, Mehsana, Kutch, Patan and Sabarkantha and attacked several crops like mustard, castor, cotton, fennel, jatropha and cumin.The Gujarat government had then announced a compensation for farmers whose crops were damaged. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/locusts-back-in-kutch-north-gujarat/articleshow/75875503.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||After 2 months, hundreds of stranded Nepalese & Indians allowed to cross over via Dharchula bridge||Pithoragarh: Two months after the border between India and Nepal was closed owing to novel coronavirus-induced lockdown, the authorities opened the suspension bridge at Dharchula near the border on Thursday for seven hours for stranded Nepalese and Indians to cross over. About 266 people arrived in India from Nepal, of which 115 are Indian citizens and 151 are from Chhangru and Tinkar villages of Nepal, said AK Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Dharchula. The SDM added that other 225 Nepalese citizens, who were stuck in India due to lockdown, also crossed over to Nepal. This came a week after villagers of Tinkar and Chhangru of Nepal held protests, asking the Nepalese government to make arrangements to let them use the Dharchula bridge so that they can go to Sitapul near the border and from there, reach their villages in the upper Himalayas. “The Nepalese authorities had requested the Pithoragarh district administration to give permission to the migratory villagers to use the Indian roads. Following the permission from ministry of home affairs, the suspension bridge at Dharchula was opened,” Vijay Kumar Jogdende, DM Pithoragarh, said. Meanwhile, the Dharchula administration has sent ration to 100 Indians who are stranded in Nepal and unable to return, SDM Shukla said. Earlier in the day, more than 500 Nepalese citizens stranded in Champawat district held demonstrations in Banbasa, asking the government in Kathmandu to facilitate their return. “Police and the administration officials arrived at the spot to pacify them and sent them to camps,” said VC Pant, circle officer, Tanakpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-2-months-hundreds-of-stranded-nepalese-indians-allowed-to-cross-over-via-dharchula-bridge/articleshow/75875517.cms||Prem Punetha
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Rs 1,000 financial aid each to 2.5L people registered with tourism sector||Dehradun: The state government on Thursday transferred 16 IAS officers, including health secretary Nitish Jha, besides five PCS officers. The list also includes the names of officers, who hit controversy recently in issuing a pass to independent UP MLA Amanmani Tripathi to travel across districts during the ongoing lockdown. The charge of secretary health was withdrawn from Jha and given to Amit Singh Negi, who is also secretary finance. Similarly, the charge of commissioner transport was taken from Shailesh Bagauli and given to Deependra Kumar Chaudhary. The charge of ACS public works department and chairman BRIDCUL was withdrawn from additional chief secretary Om Prakash. The pass to Amanmani Tripathi was issued on a letter signed by the ACS. Principal secretary Anand Bardhan has been given additional charge of principal secretary planning and externally aided projects. IAS officer R K Sudanshu was given additional charge of secretary PWD and chairman BRIDCUL. Harbans Singh Chugh has been made secretary forest and environment. Arvind Singh Hyanki was named the new commissioner of Kumaon.The charge of DM Tehri was withdrawn from V Shanmugam and he was made additional secretary women empowerment and child development. DM Rudraprayag Mangesh Ghidiyal is now the new DM of Tehri district. In place of Ghildiyal, the state government has named Vandana as the new DM of Rudraprayag. Besides, the state government also transferred five PCS officers including additional mission director NHM Abhishek Tripathi. In his place, Jharna Kamthan has been appointed.Ram Sharan Sharma, ADM (administration) of Dehradun has been shifted to Rudraprayag as ADM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-1000-financial-aid-each-to-2-5l-people-registered-with-tourism-sector/articleshow/75875492.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 22, 2020||Agra||Molestation accused paraded, face blackened in Uttar Pradesh||AGRA: A 65-year-old man, who was accused of molesting his 56-year-old neighbour, was paraded with a garland of shoes around his neck and his face blackened through the entire village in Kasganj district on Thursday. After the incident, two cross FIRs were lodged by the two families, who are neighbours, in Alidanpur village under Sahawar police station. Three men have been arrested, police said. The first FIR was lodged by the sexagenarian’s son against five men, including three brothers, under IPC’s sections 147 (riots), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for assault), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement.), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 500 (punishment for defamation) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). In the FIR, the 60-year-old’s son alleged that the five men, armed with batons and sticks, barged into their home in the morning and assaulted his father. They painted his face black and forced him to walk through the village wearing a garland of shoes. He said a land dispute is the reason for the attack. After the FIR, three of the five accused were arrested. However, later in the evening, one of the arrested accused filed a counter FIR against the man, claiming that on the night of May 18, the elderly man had come to his house and molested his wife. Based on his written complaint, an FIR was lodged against the man under IPC’s section 354 (criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Following the FIR, the victim was brought to the police station for questioning. Sahawar SHO Ganesh Chauhan said, “One party claimed that their woman relative was molested and therefore, they taught a lesson to the elderly man. The second party alleged that due to an old rivalry, their family member was insulted and assaulted in front of villagers. Three men have been arrested and a medical examination of the victim has been conducted. Further investigation is on.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/accused-of-molesting-woman-man-65-paraded-in-village-with-blackened-face-garlanded-with-shoes/articleshow/75876895.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Patna||313 Covid cases in 24 hours, Bihar tally rises to 1,987||PATNA: Altogether 313 Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar in the past 24 hours, including 211 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 1,987 in the state. So far, 593 people have recovered from the coronavirus infection and 10 people have died. There are now 1,383 active cases in the state. Among those who tested positive on Thursday is a 30-year-old migrant worker who had committed suicide at a quarantine centre in Hajipur, Vishali. A health department official said, “The man had returned from Delhi and his sample report came a day after his death on Thursday.” According to the information shared by state health department principal secretary Uday Singh Kumawat, cases were reported from 16 districts. The districts which reported the highest number of cases on Thursday are Katihar with 19 cases, Rohtas 18 cases, Gopalganj 17 cases, Samastipur 16 cases and nine cases from Lakhisarai. One case was also reported from Paliganj in Patna district. As per the press release shared by the State Health Society, 55,695 samples had been tested till Thursday evening. The SHS release stated that 999 migrants had tested positive after May 5 in Bihar, which is more than half of the total number of cases. Most of the migrants who have tested positive are from Delhi with 296 cases, followed by Maharashtra with 253 cases. Another 180 cases are those with travel history from Gujarat, 66 from Haryana and 58 from West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/313-covid-cases-in-24-hrs-bihar-tally-rises-to-1987/articleshow/75874371.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Many labourers in Jaipur complain of not receiving ration kits||JAIPUR: Around 18 Bengali families living in the city’s Malviya Nagar area complained that despite enlisting their names for distribution of dry ration packets, the municipal corporation, responsible for distribution of ration, hasn’t distributed a single packet to them during the lockdown period. “We haven’t received dry ration kits even once. They (those who were involved in conducting survey) came and enlisted our names for the distribution of dry ration kits. None of the 18 families has got ration. I work as a construction worker in Durgapura and earn around Rs 200-250 each day,” said Vrindaban Barman, who is originally from Cooch Behar in West Bengal. Along with his wife and two children, Barman has four members in his family. Another construction worker, Suresh, living a few metres away from Barman’s house, also complained that his family hasn’t received dry ration packets from the local administration. “There are nine families living in the same building where we stay. We received it just once when a local person had distributed it about one-and-a-half month ago. It is very difficult to make ends meet during this crisis. We don’t get work on a regular basis,” said Suresh, who is a native of Cooch Behar district. He has five members in his family. In other areas, too, people complained that they didn’t receive dry ration packets even once despite their names being enlisted twice or thrice. “People from the local administration came twice to enlist our names. They had enlisted my husband’s (Dipak) name. But we haven’t got ration even once. Earlier, at least, they used to come to distribute the packets, now they have stopped that too,” said Mampi, who works as a domestic help at Anand Puri in Adarsh Nagar. Meanwhile, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has claimed that they have distributed 4 lakh dry ration kits in the city. “If anyone is eligible, they will definitely get the packets and nobody is left out. We also check if the family is in need of ration. Whenever we receive complaints at the JMC’s control room, state control room or the war room at the collectorate and on our website, we redress these issues immediately,” said JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-labourers-in-city-complain-of-not-receiving-ration-kits/articleshow/75877928.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
May 22, 2020||Surat||Air cargo service resumes at Surat||SURAT: After SpiceXpress, Indigo has started freighter services connecting Surat and Chennai starting from Thursday. A freighter aircraft of Indigo from Chennai landed at the Surat airport transporting shrimp seeds ordered by the shrimp farmers in Surat and south Gujarat region. Official sources said that about three metric tonnes of shrimp seeds was transported from Chennai to Surat by the Indigo freighter aircraft. The aircraft departed from the airport with about 300 kilogram of general cargo including masks, sanitisers etc. bound to Delhi. There is an annual demand of 500 tonnes shrimp seeds in Surat and south Gujarat region. About 70% of the shrimp seed demand comes from Surat and nearby areas including Olpaad, Sayan, Mandroi, Ichhapore and Dumas. A senior official of Indigo cargo department said, “Surat has a huge potential for cargo due to the huge presence of shrimp farmers in Surat and south Gujarat. We transported shrimp seeds from Chennai to Surat on Thursday. We plan to operate the freighter aircraft as per the demand.” “The Indigo will start the commercial operation of passenger flight starting from May 25. At present, we will start with single passenger flight between Surat and Delhi and gradually we will increase the frequency,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/air-cargo-service-resumes-at-surat/articleshow/75875529.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Bihar-bound special trains already fully booked||Nagpur: On Day 1 of start of online bookings for mail/express trains, two trains that will pass through Nagpur towards Bihar were already showing waiting list.This is despite the fact that Nagpur Central Railway operated at least 15 Shramik Specials for migrants most of them to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The Indian Railways has decided to operate 200 trains across the country from June 1. Of these, seven will pass through Nagpur. Online bookings started at 10 am on Friday. Bookings have been brisk showing people are willing to travel. These special services shall be in addition to the existing Shramik Specials being run since May 1 and 30 special AC trains being run since May 12.These seven trains are 02723/24 Delhi-Hyderabad-Delhi, 02809/10 Howrah-Mumbai-Howrah Mail, 02833/34 Ahmedabad-Howrah-Ahmedabad, 02805/06 Vishakapatnam-Delhi-Vishakapatnam, 02285/86 Secunderabad-Nizamuddin Duronto (weekly), 02295/96 Danapur-Bengaluru-Danapur & 02971/72 Secunderabad-Danapur-Secunderabad.Railways announced stringent guidelines for passengers for these trains. Other regular passenger services including all mail/express, passenger and suburban services shall remain cancelled until further notice.There will be no unreserved coaches in these trains. Fare shall be as normal and for general (GS) coaches being reserved, second class seating fare shall be charged and seat will be provided to all passengers. Only online e-ticketing will be done through IRCTC website or through mobile app. No tickets will be booked across the reservation counter on any railway station. Besides, the advance reservation period (ARP) shall be maximum 30 days.“Only passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter the railway station and screening will be done before boarding. Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board,” they said.Concessions for four categories of Divyangjan concession and 11 categories of patient concessions are permitted in these special trains. On arrival, the travelling passengers will have to adhere to health protocols as prescribed by the destination state. No linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the train.Officials said RAC and wait list will be generated as per extant rules. However, wait listed ticket holders shall not be permitted to board the train. No unreserved (UTS) tickets will be issued. Besides, no tatkal and premium tatkal booking shall be permitted.All passengers must wear face covers/masks at the entry and during travel.Guidelines for passengers* Passengers shall reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening* Only passengers found asymptomatic will be permitted to travel* No catering charges shall be included in the fare. Passengers are encouraged to carry their own food* All static catering and vending units/stalls etc at railway stations will remain open||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bihar-bound-special-trains-already-fully-booked/articleshow/75875518.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Classes for new admissions in colleges to begin from Sept 1||Dehradun: Higher education secretary Anand Vardhan on Thursday announced that the classes for new admission for the academic session 2020-21 will commence from September 01. The government has also ordered all the universities and degree colleges to ensure that the syllabus of all the classes is completed via online latest by June 07 and the institutions must ensure that exams are conducted within one month, starting from July 01 this year. The classes for old students would start from August 01.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/classes-for-new-admissions-in-colleges-to-begin-from-sept-1/articleshow/75875506.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||3 Vande flights bring back 300||Hyderabad: Three more special flights, with Indian nationals, arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on Thursday as part of the ongoing Vande Bharat Mission. Close to 300 people, stranded in Jeddah, Singapore and the US, returned to Hyderabad — each of whom was sent to government-identified city hotels, being used as quarantine facilities. The first Air India flight of the day, AI 1914, from Jeddah via Vijayawada landed at RGIA around 12.24 am with about 68 citizens on board. This is the first flight from Jeddah operated under the Centre’s mission. The second flight from San Francisco, with a 174 passengers reached Hyderabad via Bengaluru at 12.16 pm. As many as 82 passengers disembarked at Hyderabad. The remaining were Bengaluru passengers. Air India’s third flight for Thursday, AI 1347, was between Singapore and Hyderabad. The flight touched down at 8.35 pm with 149 passengers on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-vande-flights-bring-back-300/articleshow/75877942.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Liquor sales in Rajasthan crash by 50 per cent so far in May, beer sees 65 per cent drop||JAIPUR: Liquor sales in Rajasthan have crashed by 50% so far in May compared to the same period last year with many attributing the fall to the closure of bars in restaurants and hotels, restrictions in social gatherings especially in the evening, and the impact on economy cratered by the virus. The liquor retail outlets were opened on May 4 after 40 days of lockdown. As of March 20, 17.49 crore cases have been sold against 35 crore cases during the same time last year. Each case contains 12 bottles. Sources in the industry said beer sales have been hit the hardest, falling by 65%. In value terms though the sales have declined by a lower margin of Rs 35 crore as the government had hiked additional duty by up to 15% in April this year. In the 17 days of May, the government has received sales revenues of Rs 464 crore against Rs 499 crore during the same period last year from IMFL (Indian-Made Foreign Liquor). Nilesh Mewara, president of Rajasthan Liquor Welfare Society, said the shutdown of businesses has reduced the purchasing power of people and there are many in the working class who are unsure of their income which has led to the decline in demand. “The prime reason for the fall is the reduction in purchasing power of people caused by the loss of economic opportunities. Also, people are uncertain about their incomes and jobs which has played a part. We don’t see the demand picking up any time soon, unless business activities gain momentum,” Mewara said. He said the new timing of closing the shops at 6pm is another reason why the sales have fallen. “About 70% of the liquor was sold during evening hours which has been advanced to 6pm. Also, the prices of liquor have gone up by 15-20%. All these contributed to the lower sales,” Mewara added. The drastic fall in consumption of beer, especially in summer, is a new trend. Some attributed this to coronavirus. “People are skipping beer due to coronavirus. There is nothing conclusive if alcohol can play role in reducing chances of getting infected with coronavirus, but a substantial number of people switched from beer to other drinks. That’s why beer sales have seen big fall,” said an outlet owner. Again, as movement of people was not allowed after 7pm, there was no scope for get-togethers in the evenings and parties at home. The fall in liquor sales will be a worry for the state government as it is unlikely reach even closer to its revenue target of Rs 12,500 crore. Sources in the industry said there have been discussions in the government to levy a corona tax on liquor. The Delhi government had imposed 70% corona tax on liquor but it withdrew the tax on Thursday. But Rajasthan does not have much scope to raise the taxes as liquor in Haryana is 20-25% cheaper. Any increase in tax will mean shifting the business to the neighbouring state. Sources said prices of liquor is almost 50% cheaper than in Rajasthan if one buys large quantities and that will surely lead to increased bootlegging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-sales-crash-by-50-so-far-in-may-beer-sees-65-drop/articleshow/75877948.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Lessons from past cyclones helped us tackle Amphan’||Special relief commissioner P K Jena speaks to Sujit Bisoyi on the challenges of preparing for a cyclone amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. Excerpts: n How difficult was it to handle a cyclone at this time? It was a big challenge for the government machinery. Odisha has never experienced the simultaneous occurrence of a natural disaster and a pandemic. The need to observe mandatory norms such as social distancing, wearing of mask and maintenance of personal hygiene was a problem. Since many of the cyclone shelters have been converted into temporary medical camps in view of Covid-19, we asked the collectors to identify alternative structures for evacuation of the people from vulnerable areas. We identified 567 unused cyclone shelters and more than 7,000 other structures for use as temporary shelters for evacuees. n What steps were taken to maintain social distancing during the evacuation? We created facilities for the evacuation of 11 lakh people in 12 coastal and adjoining districts, if required. As per the final report, we evacuated around two lakh people. Most of them have returned to their homes by now. To maintain social distancing, we put fewer people in the temporary shelters. n Did the state government aim at zero casualty this time too? When we say zero casualty, the idea is to put in place a system to minimise the number of deaths as far as possible. We have received report of one death and are awaiting the postmortem result. We can only comment on the death after we receive the postmortem report. There is no report of any other deaths in the state. n What is the extent of the damage caused? We have received report of damages to kutcha houses, standing crop and power infrastructure. The collectors have been asked to submit final reports within 48 hours. The impact was not as severe as we had prepared for, since the cyclone passed around 120 km east of Paradip. We left no stone unturned in terms of preparations, however, as the Met department said it would be a super cyclone. Deployment of response teams was done accordingly. This helped in quick restoration. n PM Narendra Modi appreciated the response of the officials The administration worked as a team to face the cyclone. All the concerned departments used their resources strategically. The collectors worked very hard in terms of evacuation and pre-positioning of response teams of NDRF, ODRAF and fire services. Our learning from past cyclones helped us a lot in tackling this disaster effectively. I was in constant touch with IMD DG Mrutyunjay Mohapatra and his team here. Their prediction was precise, which helped us a lot. n What lessons have you learnt as a result of the simultaneous disasters? We have started a detailed process to document our response to this strong natural disaster in the middle of a pandemic. We will feature all our efforts, learning and mistakes (if any) as part of the documentation. It may help other states and countries learn a lot. n Will the government request for assistance from the National Disaster Response Fund? Let the collectors submit the damage assistance reports first. We will compile them and then take a call. So far, no decision has been taken on submitting a report to the Centre for assistance form the fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lessons-from-past-cyclones-helped-us-tackle-amphan/articleshow/75875530.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Fishermen block road over unpaid salaries||Rajkot: Fishermen up in arms against boat owners blocked road at Kamnath Mahadev temple in Jafrabad of Amreli district on Thursday. As the crowd got unruly, police lobbed eight tear gas shells to disperse the agitating mob. “As the fishermen resorted to stone pelting, we had to lob tear gas shells to disperse them,” said an official from Jafrabad town police station. The fishermen were protesting against the owners of the boats at Jafrabad Port who had allegedly withheld their salaries for the past two months. There was no injury among the cops or fishermen reported in the incident, and the police did not register any case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fishermen-block-road-over-unpaid-salaries/articleshow/75875571.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Family of 4 migrants found dead in Telangana||WARANGAL: Four members of a migrant family were found dead in a well on Thursday. According to Geesukonda inspector Shivaramaiah, Maqsood had been living in Kareemabad area for the past 20 years and made a living repairing gunni bags. He was out of work due to the lockdown. A shop owner, Santosh, gave the family shelter. On Thursday morning, locals noticed the bodies floating in the well. Police reached the spot and retrieved the bodies on being alerted. The deceased were identified as Maqsood 50, his wife Nisha, 45, their daughter and 2-year-old son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-of-4-migrants-found-dead/articleshow/75877950.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Queued up from 3am to join family before Eid||Nagpur: With the sun beating down hard and having had nothing to eat, Mohd Sadiq, 13, was sapped by noon. His zeal to reach home in Bihar, though kept him going despite being queued up at Pachpaoli police station since 3am on Thursday. Around 102 students from different madrassas in north Nagpur boarded a Bihar-bound train in the evening. The desperation to reunite with their families before Eid next week was writ large on their faces. Many did not care to wear footwear, and almost all of them were bereft of water bottles on a day which was one of the hottest in the season. The eagerness to reach home was at fever pitch among the likes of Sadiq, his friends Mohd Muzammil and Mohd Murshid Raza — all aged between 13 and 15 years. They had turned up at the police station in the wee hours of the day just to ensure that their exit from the city was unhindered. “We will reach home just before Eid. I initially thought we might miss being with our families this time,” said Sadiq. “A day earlier, we had come to the police station but there was some problem for which we had to return. Today, we did not want to take any chances and boarded whatever was available to go home,” he added. Around 144 students from different madrassas in city were sent back to their native state of Bihar — most of them belonging to Kishanganj — with the initiatives of city police, NGOs and some social workers in the last couple of days. It’s learnt that the students, all from economically weak families of Bihar, were supposed to return home before the onset of Ramzan, but their tickets were for the following day of janata curfew, when the lockdown had already commenced. It was additional commissioner of police Nilesh Bharne, who started coordinating with police station in-charges and NGOs to send these children back. A couple of days ago, 42 students of madrassas from Kamptee and Satranjipura had left in a bus offered for the cause by its owner Mohd Saad, with the diesel being sponsored by Altaf Ahmed. Mushtak Pathan, district child protection officer, along with NGO workers, too reached Pachpaoli police station, from where the students were supposed to take a bus to the railway station. “We distributed food packets, footwear and some masks for the children and also inquired about their health,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/queued-up-from-3am-to-join-family-before-eid/articleshow/75876945.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: How train, flight passengers will travel in the new normal||BHOPAL: With the announcement of starting trains and domestic airlines, several guidelines have been issued for the travellers. Bhopal airport authorities have even released a video on social media displaying the new rules. However, the railways is yet to issue guidelines for passengers to follow at stations. Guidelines for travellers at Raja Bhoj airportAirport director Anil Vikram said a video has been made with an objective to help the flyers understand the changes before boarding a flight. “Everywhere, from chairs to check-in counters, full care is being taken for social distancing. Some chairs have taps and ribbons to keep distance between passengers,” said Vikram. As per the changes made for the flyers, a spacing of around 2 m will be ensured at the lounge so that passengers stay away from each other. Due to this, passengers have to reach the airport three hours before the flight take-off. All passengers will be required to wear masks. Check-in and security check will be contactless at the airport. Passengers must follow social distancing when entering the main gate of the airport terminal. For this, marking has been done at a distance of 1.6 metres. This is where the passenger's baggage will be disinfected, traveller will sanitize his hands, after which he/she will have to go through the thermal screening. During this time, the traveller will also have to fill a health declaration form. From here, the passenger will pick up his luggage and go to the CISF counter at the main gate itself, show the ticket and ID proof in a contactless way. For this, the passenger has to show his valid ID proof and ticket in front of the camera. After this, the passenger’s luggage will be scanned by a machine by CISF and then by the airline company. From here, the traveller will go to the counter to take his boarding pass. The check-in luggage tag will be given through a machine. At the security check too, social distancing has to be followed. The passenger will have to show his boarding pass to the CISF jawan, after which the jawan will check him with a metal detector. For this, the CISF has extended the metal detector length by placing an external rod so that the passenger could be examined from a distance. After completing the security check, the passengers will have to get their hand sanitized and then sit in the waiting area following social distancing. Similarly, exiting passengers will also have to inform the authority about their health status and travel history at the counter, following social distancing. Guidelines for travellers at Bhopal stationBhopal railway division PRO, AS Siddique, said that comprehensive guidelines for passengers will be issued soon. “Thermal screening, social distancing will be there obviously. However, comprehensive guidelines are yet to come,” said Siddique. As of now, major guidelines issued are of ticket reservations. The entire train will be run with reserve coach. General coaches will also be reserved, in which two sleeper category tickets will be issued. The fare will be normal. Tickets will be booked online through IRCTC website and mobile app. Railway or IRCTC agents will not be able to book tickets with their IDs while reservation counters will start functioning at the stations from Friday. The advance reservation period will be for a maximum of 30 days, that is, passengers can book tickets up to 30 days in advance. These ticket will be issued according to RAC and waiting ticket rules. Passengers holding waiting list tickets will not be allowed to board the train. No Tatkal or Premium Tatkal booking will be allowed in these trains. Current booking can be done online. The first chart of these trains will be made four hours before the time of departure of the train and the second chart will be made two hours before, which used to be 30 minutes earlier. Concession tickets will be issued for four differently-abled and 11 categories of sick passengers. But concession tickets will not be issued in the category of student, senior citizens, art and sports person, journalist, awardee, war widow, medical professional and such others. Refund policy will be same as before. Catering charges will not be added to any ticket. Prepaid meal booking, e-catering will be closed. No blanket will be provided to any passenger during the journey. This information will be given to the passenger while booking the ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/how-train-flight-passengers-will-travel-in-the-new-normal/articleshow/75875578.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Gram pradhans stage dharna in protest against statement given by cabinet minister||Uttarkashi: Gram pradhans in Uttarkashi district staged a symbolic dharna outside the quarantine centres of their respective villages on Thursday, in protest against a statement given out by cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik. Parvati Ramola, Naveen Rana, Naresh Chauhan – among other gram pradhans – alleged that in an interview, the cabinet minister gave out a false statement that the state government has provided sufficient budget to gram pradhans for the effective management of quarantine centers in villages. The statement, they alleged, created havoc as villagers and quarantined migrants started demanding enhancement of facilities in quarantine centres, along with distribution of safety equipment like masks, gloves and sanitisers. District president of Gram Pradhan Sangathan Pratap Rawat said, “We have not received a single penny or any other support from the government till now. The pradhans are managing from their own pockets. However, the false statement given by the cabinet minister has misguided the villagers and quarantined migrants, which has resulted in unnecessary clash. Due to this, a gram pradhan of Manpur village in Bhatwari block was thrashed by a drunk villager and his two sons a few days ago. They were later booked by the police.” “Due to lack of money and facilities, the situation here keeps getting more difficult for gram pradhans. Therefore, government should provide sufficient budget at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gram-pradhans-stage-dharna-in-protest-of-statement-given-by-cabinet-minister/articleshow/75875591.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
May 22, 2020||Udaipur||With four more deaths, Covid-19 toll in Rajasthan breaches 150 mark||JAIPUR: Four persons died while 212 others including 151 migrants tested positive for Covid-19 bringing the infected count to 6,227 in the state on Thursday. While two deaths were reported from Jaipur, one each tok place in Sikar and Bharatpur. As of now, the state’s casualty figure stands at 151 while that of the state capital at 75. A 67-year-old man from Halena of Bharatpur, who had suffered from a stroke, died at his home on May 19. A 70-year-old woman, resident of Chandeli Ka Bas of Dantaramgarh in Sikar district, was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur on May 18 and died on Wednesday. She had suffered head injuries in an accident. An 85-year-old man, resident of Chaura Rasta of Jaipur, admitted to SMS Hospital on May 15 died on Thursday. He was suffering from co-morbid conditions of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. One 57-year-old man from Purani Basti of Jaipur, who was brought to SMS Hospital on Wednesday, died on the same day. Health department officials said that he did not have any co-morbid conditions. SMS Hospital administration has taken an initiative for providing death certificates of those who died there to families. Districts which reported cases are Dungarpur (42), Jalore (22), Jaipur (21), Nagaur (16), Jodhpur (14), Udaipur (13) Bhilwara (10), Pali (10), Sirohi (8), Churu (8), Rajsamand (7), Ajmer (7), Barmer (6), Bikaner (6), Sikar (5), Alwar (4), Pratapgarh (3), Jaisalmer (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Kota (2), Chittorgarh (1), Bharatpur (1), Jhalawar (1), and one from another state. In Jaipur, more inmates of central and district jails tested positive. Eight inmates were found infected with the virus in central jail while three were from district jail. However, one each case was found in Murlipura, Jhotwara, Kachhi Basti of Jawahar Nagar, Renwal, Lalasar, Ghat Gate, Surajpole Bazaar, Adarsh Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Mina Pada. Overpriced masks, claims ex-health minister Former health minister and Malviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan Saraf on Thursday said he had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to bring into his notice about the corruption in purchasing masks by the state government. Saraf said in 2018, the state government had a deal of supplying masks at 88 paisa eash. The tenure of contract of supply was to end in June 2020. But, the company broke the contract and stopped supply. He said no action was taken against the company and despite that they decided to sign a fresh contract with another company to buy masks at Rs 6.5 per mask. “The masks costing Rs 19.2 lakh were bought for Rs 1.25 crore,” said Saraf, appealing to the state government to take action against officials involved in it. He also appealed to the state government to blacklist companies involved in it. Quarantine troubles A leader of employees’ union of 108 ambulances response services was allegedly picked up from his home and sent to a quarantine facility at a private university on Thursday. The leader alleged that the officials present at the university did not take him inside saying they did not receive any instructions to quarantine him. However, the leader of the employees alleged that since he had raised his voice in support of an ambulance driver, who was tested positive for Covid-19, he was facing all this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/with-four-more-deaths-covid-19-toll-in-state-breaches-150-mark/articleshow/75887625.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sabitri Brata shoppers throw caution to wind||Bhubaneswar: The easing of restrictions in lockdown 4.0 has brought people out on the streets, throwing social distancing norms out of the window. Thursday witnessed huge crowd in the city markets as people were busy doing last minute shopping for Sabitri Brata puja. Heavy rush was witnessed in garment stores and saree shops. It was a similar scene at fruit stalls and grocery stores. Several people were seen without masks, a public offence in the state in the time of Covid. The people, who had a subdued Odia new year besides muted Ram Navami and Good Friday celebrations becasue of Covid-19 restrictions, seemed to have been suddenly set free after two months as they flooded markets and shops. “We had to step out from home because Sabitri Puja is a very important festival and celebrated in every household. It is also a cultural practice that parents send to their daughters new clothes, fruits and other stuff on the occasion. But with so many people in the market, it is difficult to maintain social distancing” said Harapriya Mohanty, a shopper. Odisha will celebrate Sabitri Amabasya on Friday. With Eid to be celebrated on Sunday, people from the minority community were also seen shopping. “It won’t look nice to celebrate Eid in a grand manner with people suffering” said Md Ussunullah, a shopkeeper in Unit-1 market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sabitri-brata-shoppers-throw-caution-to-wind/articleshow/75875580.cms||Minati Singha
May 22, 2020||Ajmer||With four more deaths, Covid-19 toll in Rajasthan breaches 150 mark||JAIPUR: Four persons died while 212 others including 151 migrants tested positive for Covid-19 bringing the infected count to 6,227 in the state on Thursday. While two deaths were reported from Jaipur, one each tok place in Sikar and Bharatpur. As of now, the state’s casualty figure stands at 151 while that of the state capital at 75. A 67-year-old man from Halena of Bharatpur, who had suffered from a stroke, died at his home on May 19. A 70-year-old woman, resident of Chandeli Ka Bas of Dantaramgarh in Sikar district, was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur on May 18 and died on Wednesday. She had suffered head injuries in an accident. An 85-year-old man, resident of Chaura Rasta of Jaipur, admitted to SMS Hospital on May 15 died on Thursday. He was suffering from co-morbid conditions of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. One 57-year-old man from Purani Basti of Jaipur, who was brought to SMS Hospital on Wednesday, died on the same day. Health department officials said that he did not have any co-morbid conditions. SMS Hospital administration has taken an initiative for providing death certificates of those who died there to families. Districts which reported cases are Dungarpur (42), Jalore (22), Jaipur (21), Nagaur (16), Jodhpur (14), Udaipur (13) Bhilwara (10), Pali (10), Sirohi (8), Churu (8), Rajsamand (7), Ajmer (7), Barmer (6), Bikaner (6), Sikar (5), Alwar (4), Pratapgarh (3), Jaisalmer (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Kota (2), Chittorgarh (1), Bharatpur (1), Jhalawar (1), and one from another state. In Jaipur, more inmates of central and district jails tested positive. Eight inmates were found infected with the virus in central jail while three were from district jail. However, one each case was found in Murlipura, Jhotwara, Kachhi Basti of Jawahar Nagar, Renwal, Lalasar, Ghat Gate, Surajpole Bazaar, Adarsh Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Mina Pada. Overpriced masks, claims ex-health minister Former health minister and Malviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan Saraf on Thursday said he had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to bring into his notice about the corruption in purchasing masks by the state government. Saraf said in 2018, the state government had a deal of supplying masks at 88 paisa eash. The tenure of contract of supply was to end in June 2020. But, the company broke the contract and stopped supply. He said no action was taken against the company and despite that they decided to sign a fresh contract with another company to buy masks at Rs 6.5 per mask. “The masks costing Rs 19.2 lakh were bought for Rs 1.25 crore,” said Saraf, appealing to the state government to take action against officials involved in it. He also appealed to the state government to blacklist companies involved in it. Quarantine troubles A leader of employees’ union of 108 ambulances response services was allegedly picked up from his home and sent to a quarantine facility at a private university on Thursday. The leader alleged that the officials present at the university did not take him inside saying they did not receive any instructions to quarantine him. However, the leader of the employees alleged that since he had raised his voice in support of an ambulance driver, who was tested positive for Covid-19, he was facing all this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/with-four-more-deaths-covid-19-toll-in-state-breaches-150-mark/articleshow/75887628.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Farmer activist alleges torture by crime branch||Rajkot: Farmers’ activist Pal Ambaliya was allegedly thrashed by Rajkot crime branch sleuths on Wednesday night after he and four others were detained for holding demonstration over plight of onion and cotton growers.When Ambaliya was produced before mamlatdar of Rajkot west zone on Thursday, he gave the details of being beaten up by the cops. Ambaliya and others were holding a protest at the collector’s office against the decision of wholesale traders to reduce the prices of onion and cotton. The condition of farmers is pitiable due to extremely meagre returns for their produce.Soon after their detention, the police released all the five persons. However in the evening, police summoned Ambaliya to the crime branch office. “They called me on the pretext of taking my finger prints and then arrested me under section 151 of Indian Penal Code. Then they beat me up with sticks in the lock-up,” alleged Ambaliya. The mamlatdar sent Ambaliya to Rajkot Civil Hospital for treatment, from where he was shifted to a private hospital. Meanwhile, Manoharsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police, zone-II, told reporters that police will probe into the allegations levelled by Ambaliya, but only after he lodges a written complaint. “If Ambaliya lodges a complaint, we will investigate the case,” said Jadeja. Modhvadia said, “This is a blatant case of custodial torture. Police did not take him to hospital at night though he complained of pain. The civil hospital doctors have also confirmed his injuries. We demand strict action against crime branch officers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-activist-alleges-torture-by-crime-branch/articleshow/75875601.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Flow of non-Covid patients increases in private hospitals||Nagpur: As norms are eased in the fourth lockdown, allowing inter-city movement of people, the flow of patients has increased at private hospitals in the city. Some hospitals have found this surge mysterious while others have attributed it to relaxation on movement within as well as outside city limits. Emergency patients with abdominal pain, headache, vertigo, fever, chest pain, renal colic and due deliveries are flocking to private hospitals again. In bigger cities of the state, a similar trend has been observed but it has been due to shortage of beds and doctors in government and civic-run hospitals, which are mainly catering to Covid patients.At the same time, while IGGMCH has not seen much of an increase, number of patients at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has gone up substantially. “This is because of seasonal change and people getting fed up of putting up with their suffereing,” a senior GMCH doctor said.Medical superintendent at Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) Dr Noorul Ameen said gradually footfalls are increasing. “Emergencies for a variety of reasons are increasing. In last two days, the flow has increased. During first three lockdowns, less people ventured out of home. I feel fear psychosis seems to have lessened. OPD and casualty patients have increased,” Dr Ameen said.Dr Ameen added that people are no more able to bear their pain and are therefore rushing to hospitals. Managing director of Kingsway Dr Prakash Khetan said there has been a gradual increase in number of patients as people have been allowed to travel across the state border. “People have started going for elective surgeries. They wanted to come but were unable to travel. Both new and old patients have started coming. Majority of our patients come from Rewa, Satna and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh,” he said. Vidarbha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) administrator Dr Mona Hinduja said their being a multispecialty hospital all types of patients are coming. “When lockdown started there was a drop and now it is increasing. But patients are not giving their proper history and identity, fearing we wouldn’t admit them and refer them to government hospitals,” she said. Private hospitals are also facing staff shortage as many staff members have returned gone back home. Dr Khetan said they had sent nurses from Kerala on “elective vacation” as there was no workload. “But we are functioning smoothly. As the load increases, the staff will return and will be compensated with additional work hours,” he said.Dr Hinduja said they have to send ambulances to ferry staff members living on the outskirits. “Yet we are facing shortage of manpower in every shift. We didn’t force anyone, we managed in whatever staff is available.”OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said, “We are working with 1/3rd staff only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flow-of-non-covid-patients-increases-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/75875597.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Medicine, anaesthesia docs under stress due to Covid work, say state Govt||Nagpur: Doctors treating Covid-19 patients are exhausting and they need assistance now, a circular issued by the state government said. The circular, issued by state medical education and drugs department on May 19, states that the doctors of medicine and anaesthesia departments are under stress as they have to treat Covid-19 patients in government hospitals. On the other hand, doctors from other clinical departments are not contributing, the circular adds. It has directed deans to include doctors of all streams and assign them periodic duties. Signed by the assistant secretary of medical education and drugs department, this circular mentions that the government has observed the fact that doctors other than medicine and anaesthesia departments are not coming to the hospitals and conducting their designated duties. “Apart from treating Covid-19 patients, the doctors have other works like information sharing, online data management, updating ICMR portal, coordination with the district collector and other officials, and assistance to the treating doctors. Hence, the doctors other than medicine and anaesthesia departments are directed to remain present daily in their duty hours and perform the work designated by the dean,” reads the circular. TOI tried contacting two government medical colleges in Nagpur for fact checking. A senior officials refused to comment on the issue. But, a very senior official of one of the two GMCs in Nagpur told TOI that doctors of several other departments as well as non-medical staff, who are not involved in the Covid-19 service, had started running their departments on 50% staff. Now, after this circular, the deans of medical colleges may issue internal notices to these doctors. The circular further states that doctors and health workers who deny performing duties designated by the dean may face strict disciplinary action. “Doctors and health officials will face action if they remain absent without reason and fail to perform duties designated by the dean. They will be penalized under the Epidemic Act,” the circular reads. At present, the frontline workforce that has been treating the Covid-19 patients in both the GMCHs in city are resident doctors. Senior doctors of medicine and anaesthesia departments are also working. These doctors have been working since last two months tirelessly. If they get exhausted just ahead of the peak of Covid-19 which is predicted to happen in next two weeks, it would be a disastrous situation for the citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/medicine-anaesthesia-docs-under-stress-due-to-covid-work-say-state-govt/articleshow/75875582.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Call to focus on disaster management department||AURANGABAD: City activists have demanded that the state government give special attention to district disaster management department to handle disasters like Covid-19. Currently, there are only two staff members in this department. They urged that such glaring lapses may be discussed for corrective measures during important official review meetings lined up during the weekend. “The Disaster management department has to play an increasingly important role in the age of Global Warming and Climate Change. The current pandemic type situation due to Covid 19 further puts a separate set of challenges,” said civic activist Rajendra Datey-PatilThe government must ensure that district-specific action plans are charted out for Disaster management department and provide necessary manpower and training,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/call-to-focus-on-disaster-mgmt-dept/articleshow/75874260.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 22, 2020||Jodhpur||With four more deaths, Covid-19 toll in Rajasthan breaches 150 mark||JAIPUR: Four persons died while 212 others including 151 migrants tested positive for Covid-19 bringing the infected count to 6,227 in the state on Thursday. While two deaths were reported from Jaipur, one each tok place in Sikar and Bharatpur. As of now, the state’s casualty figure stands at 151 while that of the state capital at 75. A 67-year-old man from Halena of Bharatpur, who had suffered from a stroke, died at his home on May 19. A 70-year-old woman, resident of Chandeli Ka Bas of Dantaramgarh in Sikar district, was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur on May 18 and died on Wednesday. She had suffered head injuries in an accident. An 85-year-old man, resident of Chaura Rasta of Jaipur, admitted to SMS Hospital on May 15 died on Thursday. He was suffering from co-morbid conditions of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. One 57-year-old man from Purani Basti of Jaipur, who was brought to SMS Hospital on Wednesday, died on the same day. Health department officials said that he did not have any co-morbid conditions. SMS Hospital administration has taken an initiative for providing death certificates of those who died there to families. Districts which reported cases are Dungarpur (42), Jalore (22), Jaipur (21), Nagaur (16), Jodhpur (14), Udaipur (13) Bhilwara (10), Pali (10), Sirohi (8), Churu (8), Rajsamand (7), Ajmer (7), Barmer (6), Bikaner (6), Sikar (5), Alwar (4), Pratapgarh (3), Jaisalmer (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Kota (2), Chittorgarh (1), Bharatpur (1), Jhalawar (1), and one from another state. In Jaipur, more inmates of central and district jails tested positive. Eight inmates were found infected with the virus in central jail while three were from district jail. However, one each case was found in Murlipura, Jhotwara, Kachhi Basti of Jawahar Nagar, Renwal, Lalasar, Ghat Gate, Surajpole Bazaar, Adarsh Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Mina Pada. Overpriced masks, claims ex-health minister Former health minister and Malviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan Saraf on Thursday said he had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to bring into his notice about the corruption in purchasing masks by the state government. Saraf said in 2018, the state government had a deal of supplying masks at 88 paisa eash. The tenure of contract of supply was to end in June 2020. But, the company broke the contract and stopped supply. He said no action was taken against the company and despite that they decided to sign a fresh contract with another company to buy masks at Rs 6.5 per mask. “The masks costing Rs 19.2 lakh were bought for Rs 1.25 crore,” said Saraf, appealing to the state government to take action against officials involved in it. He also appealed to the state government to blacklist companies involved in it. Quarantine troubles A leader of employees’ union of 108 ambulances response services was allegedly picked up from his home and sent to a quarantine facility at a private university on Thursday. The leader alleged that the officials present at the university did not take him inside saying they did not receive any instructions to quarantine him. However, the leader of the employees alleged that since he had raised his voice in support of an ambulance driver, who was tested positive for Covid-19, he was facing all this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/with-four-more-deaths-covid-19-toll-in-state-breaches-150-mark/articleshow/75887627.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||With four more deaths, Covid-19 toll in Rajasthan breaches 150 mark||JAIPUR: Four persons died while 212 others including 151 migrants tested positive for Covid-19 bringing the infected count to 6,227 in the state on Thursday. While two deaths were reported from Jaipur, one each tok place in Sikar and Bharatpur. As of now, the state’s casualty figure stands at 151 while that of the state capital at 75. A 67-year-old man from Halena of Bharatpur, who had suffered from a stroke, died at his home on May 19. A 70-year-old woman, resident of Chandeli Ka Bas of Dantaramgarh in Sikar district, was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur on May 18 and died on Wednesday. She had suffered head injuries in an accident. An 85-year-old man, resident of Chaura Rasta of Jaipur, admitted to SMS Hospital on May 15 died on Thursday. He was suffering from co-morbid conditions of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. One 57-year-old man from Purani Basti of Jaipur, who was brought to SMS Hospital on Wednesday, died on the same day. Health department officials said that he did not have any co-morbid conditions. SMS Hospital administration has taken an initiative for providing death certificates of those who died there to families. Districts which reported cases are Dungarpur (42), Jalore (22), Jaipur (21), Nagaur (16), Jodhpur (14), Udaipur (13) Bhilwara (10), Pali (10), Sirohi (8), Churu (8), Rajsamand (7), Ajmer (7), Barmer (6), Bikaner (6), Sikar (5), Alwar (4), Pratapgarh (3), Jaisalmer (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Kota (2), Chittorgarh (1), Bharatpur (1), Jhalawar (1), and one from another state. In Jaipur, more inmates of central and district jails tested positive. Eight inmates were found infected with the virus in central jail while three were from district jail. However, one each case was found in Murlipura, Jhotwara, Kachhi Basti of Jawahar Nagar, Renwal, Lalasar, Ghat Gate, Surajpole Bazaar, Adarsh Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Mina Pada. Overpriced masks, claims ex-health minister Former health minister and Malviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan Saraf on Thursday said he had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to bring into his notice about the corruption in purchasing masks by the state government. Saraf said in 2018, the state government had a deal of supplying masks at 88 paisa eash. The tenure of contract of supply was to end in June 2020. But, the company broke the contract and stopped supply. He said no action was taken against the company and despite that they decided to sign a fresh contract with another company to buy masks at Rs 6.5 per mask. “The masks costing Rs 19.2 lakh were bought for Rs 1.25 crore,” said Saraf, appealing to the state government to take action against officials involved in it. He also appealed to the state government to blacklist companies involved in it. Quarantine troubles A leader of employees’ union of 108 ambulances response services was allegedly picked up from his home and sent to a quarantine facility at a private university on Thursday. The leader alleged that the officials present at the university did not take him inside saying they did not receive any instructions to quarantine him. However, the leader of the employees alleged that since he had raised his voice in support of an ambulance driver, who was tested positive for Covid-19, he was facing all this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-four-more-deaths-covid-19-toll-in-state-breaches-150-mark/articleshow/75877962.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Five-year-old girl raped in Bhachau; accused at large||Rajkot: A five-year-old girl was raped allegedly by an unidentified person in Bhachau of Kutch district on Wednesday evening. Police said the accused had allegedly abducted the girl who was playing near her hut in Yashoda Dham locality of Bhachau, had taken her to the bushes behind the survivor’s house and had committed the crime. “The accused fled after committing the crime. When the girl, with blood in her private parts, came home crying, her mother realized that she had been raped and took her to Bhachau Civil Hospital from where she lodged the complaint,” said an official from Bhachau police station. “We have focussed our probe on the labourers living in the area. The survivor’s parents are also labourers. We are quizzing the labourers to find out if anyone of them had seen the accused taking the girl,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-year-old-girl-raped-in-bhachau-accused-at-large/articleshow/75875614.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Free consultation by gynaecologists||Due to lockdown, many patients are unable to seek medical help in time and there are many who need medical consultation for various reasons. Women from cities as well as neighbouring towns and villages are affected a lot in this situation. Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynaecological Society (NOGS) has launched ‘ISHA’ — a social initiative under which consultant obstetricians and gynaecologists will provide free telephonic consultation to the needy and socio-economically weak women who are unable to access quality health care near their homes. “As per the time table, doctors will take 1 hour slots each and give medical advice free of cost to such patients who call them on the given numbers,” said Dr Vaidehi Marathe, president o NOGS. “The word ‘Isha’ means one who protects. Our doctors will be a ray of hope to protect and help women selflessly,” she added. Throughout the week, qualified specialists will be available to needy women which is a massive step in improving the accessibility of health care in these difficult times. Want free consultation? Call 93566 32671 or 9923310847.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/free-consultation-by-gynaecologists/articleshow/75875605.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 22, 2020||Cuttack||ECoR, Bhubaneswar airport getting ready to resume services||BHUBANESWAR: Authorities of the Biju Patnaik International Airport (BPIA) are ready for the resumption of domestic flights from Monday. Similarly, the East Coast Railway (ECoR) is also prepared to start scheduled trains from June 1. BPIA director V V Rao said contact-less procedures were being readied at the airport. “We have been prepared for resumption of flights since last week. We are looking after social distancing issues and sanitization of baggage as well as the buses taking them to the flights. We are ensuring complete touch-free mechanism at the airport,” he added. Rao said security personnel would check passengers’ documents at the entrance of the terminal through a glass barrier or on a monitor fitted with a camera. “We have marked circles where passengers can stand to maintain social distancing. We have also arranged chairs in such a way that fliers can maintain distance from each other. We are yet to get information about the number of flights starting from Bhubaneswar,” he added. ECoR, too, is preparing to run and receive 10 trains from June 1. Sources said four trains would originate from stations under ECoR jurisdiction and three would pass through Odisha. The originating trains are Bhubaneswar-Mumbai Konark Express, Jan Shatabdi Express between Bhubaneswar and Howrah, Purushottam Express from Puri to New Delhi and Duronto from Puri to Sealdah (Kolkata). The trains to run through ECoR jurisdiction are Howrah-Secunderabad Falaknuma Express, Dhanbad-Alleppey Express and Howrah-Yesvantpur Duronto. “Apart from this, Howrah to Mumbai, Howrah to Ahmedabad and Howrah to Barbil special trains will also run through Odisha. The routes and schedule of the trains will be announced shortly,” said ECoR sources. No Shramik Special train left Odisha for other states on Thursday. Only one train carrying migrant workers from Thiruvallur in Tamil Nadu reached Rourkela on the day., said an official. Two trains — one from Erode in Tamil Nadu for Balangir and another from Bolarum near Secunderabad for Balangir — are expected to reach on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/ecor-city-airport-getting-ready-to-resume-services/articleshow/75890425.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||ECoR, Bhubaneswar airport getting ready to resume services||BHUBANESWAR: Authorities of the Biju Patnaik International Airport (BPIA) are ready for the resumption of domestic flights from Monday. Similarly, the East Coast Railway (ECoR) is also prepared to start scheduled trains from June 1. BPIA director V V Rao said contact-less procedures were being readied at the airport. “We have been prepared for resumption of flights since last week. We are looking after social distancing issues and sanitization of baggage as well as the buses taking them to the flights. We are ensuring complete touch-free mechanism at the airport,” he added. Rao said security personnel would check passengers’ documents at the entrance of the terminal through a glass barrier or on a monitor fitted with a camera. “We have marked circles where passengers can stand to maintain social distancing. We have also arranged chairs in such a way that fliers can maintain distance from each other. We are yet to get information about the number of flights starting from Bhubaneswar,” he added. ECoR, too, is preparing to run and receive 10 trains from June 1. Sources said four trains would originate from stations under ECoR jurisdiction and three would pass through Odisha. The originating trains are Bhubaneswar-Mumbai Konark Express, Jan Shatabdi Express between Bhubaneswar and Howrah, Purushottam Express from Puri to New Delhi and Duronto from Puri to Sealdah (Kolkata). The trains to run through ECoR jurisdiction are Howrah-Secunderabad Falaknuma Express, Dhanbad-Alleppey Express and Howrah-Yesvantpur Duronto. “Apart from this, Howrah to Mumbai, Howrah to Ahmedabad and Howrah to Barbil special trains will also run through Odisha. The routes and schedule of the trains will be announced shortly,” said ECoR sources. No Shramik Special train left Odisha for other states on Thursday. Only one train carrying migrant workers from Thiruvallur in Tamil Nadu reached Rourkela on the day., said an official. Two trains — one from Erode in Tamil Nadu for Balangir and another from Bolarum near Secunderabad for Balangir — are expected to reach on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ecor-city-airport-getting-ready-to-resume-services/articleshow/75875594.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Man test positive for Covid-19 two days after death in Nashik||NASHIK: Nashik city recorded its third Covid-19 death after the throat swab sample of a person, who died on Tuesday, tested positive for the contagion on Thursday. According to senior officials at the Nashik civil hospital, the 73 year-old person, a resident of Prabhat Vasahat of Sanjeev Nagar, on Satpur-Ambad Link Road had a heart attack for which he was rushed to the hospital on Tuesday. He also had diabetes. The condition of the patient was quite critical and he died the same day. Health officials collected the throat swab samples of the deceased and sent it for Covid-19 analysis. The reports returned positive on Thursday. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has traced as many as 56 people who were in close contact with him and have put them in quarantine. The building where the deceased lived has been sealed. Meanwhile, two more people from Nashik tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday taking the tally of positive patients in the city to 51. The two people who have tested positive for the contagion are the 20-year-old youth and 42-year-old woman, who happen to be the son and wife of a patient who was treated for Covid-19 earlier. 8 more test positive in MalegaonAs many as eight more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Malegaon on Thursday, taking the tally of positive patients in the textile town to 673. While 504 patients have recovered from the viral infection and been discharged, 43 people have succumbed to the infection. One more person tested positive for Covid-19 in Ahmednagar on Thursday. Official sources said that the person was admitted in hospital on Tuesday. Of the 32 peopl who had contracted the viral infection in Ahmednagar, 28 have recovered and four are still undergoing treatment at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-test-ve-for-covid-two-days-after-death-in-nashik/articleshow/75874253.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||For them, work’s a pill that makes them chill||Nagpur: For Shailaja (name changed), a nurse at Government Medical College (Nagpur), it’s been over two weeks that she last saw her two year-old daughter. Shailaja is on the frontline of the war against Covid-19 and has currently been put up at a city hotel along with 120-odd health professionals, so that they do not put their families at risk and can also respond to emergency calls faster. “My husband is also a brother at the same hospital. I see him from a distance whenever our shifts coincide and we wave to each other. My mother is taking care of my daughter and I make sure that I call her daily, to just hear her babble. She cries too and I miss her a lot,” said Shailaja, who will return after completing one month’s stay here. But she has no regrets because of the awareness of a greater role she is playing in the fight against the pandemic that’s swept the world.Her colleague, Sonali Waasey, has also been here for the same time, but her arrival has another interesting story. “I live in Rameshwari and just a day after I left, the entire area was declared a containment zone after a positive case was found. The day I was leaving, everybody at home was saying that I must take care of myself. Now, I call them and ask them to take care,” said Waasey.Dr Shreya Tiwari, also a Nagpurian, too, shifted to the hotel in the first week of May. “I shifted for the safety of my fellow residents and my family. In my first year, I wanted to go back home every single day from the hostel, but now it’s different. I get encouraged to carry on the work at the hospital by remembering the oath we all took and the encouraging video messages from friends and family,” said Tiwari.Dr Mukul Deshpande, president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), said they are trained to keep going, regardless of how stressful the situation is. “Residency is like military training. You are exposed to high stress situations and that prepares you to handle any calamity. All my colleagues are extremely enthusiastic about serving in the current situation because this is something we believe in. It’s what we have always wanted to do,” said Dr Deshpande.His colleague, Dr Rajat, said that regardless of the pressure and being away from family, the overarching principle of duty carries them through. “You have to put it in your mind that this is something you will be coping with. At times like these, you have to stand up for the ideals you have always believed in, which is about saving lives,” said Dr Rajat.Dr Dharam Prasad said living away from his family is indeed something that bothers him, but that’s the call of duty he has to answer. “I’m originally from Tamil Nadu and my father is diabetic and hypertensive. So there is the issue of comorbidity. As doctors we have to care for the health of those around us and not let anything else effect that,” said Dr Prasad.Dr Arpit said stress builds up because of work and being away from family but that’s what they signed up for. “We became doctors to treat people. That’s a promise we made to ourselves and the world. So regardless of the situation, we will keep going and serving people,” said Dr Arpit. Dr Shrijit S feels staying away from family is probably the best thing they can do. “We come here straight from the hospital and head back during the next shift. We are at the frontline and by staying separately at a hotel, we are keeping our near and dear ones safe,” he summed up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-them-works-a-pill-that-makes-them-chill/articleshow/75875617.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Bodies of woman, daughter found in lake||Palanpur: Bodies of a 30-year-old woman and her two-year-old daughter were found floating in Sharmishta lake in Vadnagar town on Thursday.The deceased were identified as Mangu Thakore (30) and her daughter Tanna. She belonged to Sulipur village and was living in Arjanbari locality. The woman had gone missing from her house on Wednesday, said MG Rathod, sub-inspector, Vadnagar police station.The reason for their death will be known after investigation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bodies-of-woman-daughter-found-in-lake/articleshow/75875654.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Nashik airport gears up for take-off as operations to start soon||NASHIK: The Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (LTD), which manages the Nashik airport, has started preparing strict safety norms to be followed once the air services resume. HAL sources said passengers have to arrive at least three hours before the departure of the flight. Earlier, they were allowed to come 45 minutes before the departure of the flight. The counters of the airlines will be closed an hour before departure of flights so that the airport and airlines will be able to take all the safety measures from the screening of passengers to maintaining social distancing. “Markings are being made at passengers’ queue at the departure area so that physical distancing norms are adhered to. The passengers arriving at the airport will have to following the markings outside and inside the airport terminal building,” said sources from HAL. As per the guidelines of the civil aviation ministry, passengers will have to wear masks and hand gloves as a precautionary measure. Passengers above 80 years and those with high temperature will not be allowed to travel. Arogya Setu App has been made mandatory. Only check-in baggage under 20kg will be allowed. HAL officials said that the airport would implement all standard operating procedures issued by Civil Aviation Ministry. “We will sanitise the whole airport terminal building before the air service begins, said the sources. Nashik is connected to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune at present by air. Alliance Air is operating in Pune, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad sectors from Nashik airport, TruJet is operating in Nashik-Ahmedabad sector daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-airport-gears-up-for-take-off-as-ops-to-start-soon/articleshow/75874294.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||Dahod girls from Bengaluru, Andhra Pradesh return||VADODARA: While most started returning home from places where they were stranded due to lockdown, six girls from Dahod were caught in a quandary as they could not find means to return home. They were staying at three different locations in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and thus it was a daunting task to bring them together. Dahod district administration mounted an operation to bring back the girls stranded in Bengaluru in Karnataka as well as Nellore and Ongole in Andhra Pradesh. It roped in a social worker who had earlier helped in bringing 27 nursing students back from Hyderabad to Dahod. Activist Rajesh Sisodiya, who had overseen the entire process, said four girls from Nellore and Ongole had contacted the district administration after hearing about the story of 27 girls. Dahod district collector Vijay Kharadi assured the girls of all support and the administration then contacted Sisodiya. “We managed to find a multi-utility vehicle with a seating capacity of 10 people. The owner of the vehicle could drive and he also identified another person. We also identified two girls who were stranded in Bengaluru. It was decided to bring all of them together in the same trip,” he said. The father of one of the girls also accompanied the crew of the vehicle. The vehicle first went to Bengaluru and from there to Nellore and Ongole. After picking up all the six girls, it returned to Dahod via Hyderabad and Solapur in Maharashtra. It travelled 4,060km in the process. The girls were taken to a hospital for screening and advised home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dahod-girls-from-bluru-andhra-return/articleshow/75873950.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Health workers protest over wages with black bands||AURANGABAD: The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu), has called upon all health workers in the district to cover their mouths with black bands instead of masks on Friday to push for various demands including clearance of wages. The anganwadi sevikas in Aurangabad have not received payments since the last five months while workers in the private sector, including rickshaw drivers and small entrepreneurs, were out of work due to lockdown imposed across the country. The protest aims to seek wages for these workers for March, April and May, among other demands. Union leaders Uddhav Bhawalkar, Mangal Thombre and others have appealed to people to send photographs of them working with black bands. This is the second protest held by health workers in a month. Earlier, health workers around the state marked their protest against the state government by wearing black ribbons on May 11, 12 and 13 for non-implementation of approved wage hike. The Accredited Social Health Activists or Ashas, who are at the forefront of Covid-19 control, work for Rs 33 a day for a period of 12 hours. “Maharashtra government had approved increase in wages to a minimum Rs 10,000 a month for Asha workers in September 2019. However, it has not yet been implemented. Also, the anganwadi sevikas which work to provide midday meals in schools have not been paid since five months,” Thombre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/health-workers-protest-over-wages-with-black-bands/articleshow/75874297.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plea against sedition charges admitted||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday admitted the quashing petition filed by journalist Dhaval Patel, who is facing sedition charges for publishing news report on his web portal speculating a change of guard in the Gujarat government. After admitting the quashing petition, Justice Sangeeta Vishen sought reply from the state government and posted further hearing on May 26 to decide whether investigation against Patel may be stayed as requested by him. The state government vehemently opposed the quashing petition arguing that the investigation is at a nascent stage. The prosecutor argued that even disaffection, contempt or hatred towards the government in a speech constitutes the offence of sedition. He also contended that the nature of punishment of sedition under section 124A of the IPC should not weigh with the court while considering the FIR and the content of the article published on the portal. Patel’s advocate Anand Yagnik argued that to attract sedition, the article has to be one which incites violence and hatred against the state. But this was completely missing in the article. The state government stressed on a judgment in Patidar leader Hardik Patel’s case, in which the HC had refused to quash sedition charges. Advocate Yagnik pressed into service three different judgments to stress that invocation of sedition charges against the journalist is not proper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plea-against-sedition-charges-admitted/articleshow/75877038.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Arrival of migrants pushes up Covid-19 cases in Puri||BHUBANESWAR: Puri has seen a sudden spurt in Covid-19 positive cases in quick time. This is a matter of concern as Puri is gearing up for the Rath Yatra on June 23. Of the total 45 positive cases detected till date, 44 were reported between May 10 and May 21. Three patients have recovered and Puri’s active cases stand at 42. Puri’s first Covid-19 positive case was detected in Pipili on April 3. At a time when other places, especially Khurda, had been recording a rise in positive cases almost every day, Puri witnessed a long period of zero cases till May 9. Even the Centre appreciated the Puri administration’s Covid-19 management plan. Asked about the reason for the rapid growth of Covid cases, the district administration attributed it to the mass return of migrant labourers from other states in the past one week. An official source said more than 7,000 migrant workers from different states had reached Puri in the past one week. They have been put up in institutional quarantine centres or temporary medical centres (TMCs). Puri collector Balwant Singh ruled out the possibility of community transmission. “There is no worry of community transmission as 40 of the 42 active cases were reported from institutional quarantine centres or TMCs. While one case was detected from a particular locality, the other one (an undertrial prisoner) was detected in Puri jail. We are strictly following the standard operating procures (SOPs) to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus,” Singh said. The district collector said awareness is being conducted at the community level to keep Covid-19 at bay. “We have increased the testing capacity and kept a close watch on communities. We appeal to people to adopt precautions at an individual level. Our responsibilities have increased following relaxation of several restrictions imposed during different phases of the lockdown,” Singh said. While the state government will take the final call on the conduct of the Rath Yatra, the district administration has started conducting Covid-19 test on Maharanas and Bhoi sevaks (carpenters) engaged in chariot work. “Those reports that reached us have returned negative. The test is being conducted in a phased manner,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/arrival-of-migrants-pushes-up-covid-19-cases-in-puri/articleshow/75875664.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||60 more Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad; tally at 1,179||AURANGABAD: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district jumped to 1,179 on Thursday with 60 new cases being reported. The death toll in the district stood at 41 as of Thursday evening. The new cases include one each from Garam Pani, Shivraj Colony, Kailas Nagar, Sauda Colony, Harsul Jail, Khadkeshwar, Adarsh Colony, Dhangarwadi in Kannad, Kabra Nagar ,Ram Nagar, Pisadevi, Cidco N-7 and N-5, and Hudco N-12, two each from Rahemaniya Colony, Azam Colony, Roshan Gate, Maqsood Colony, Nyay Nagar , Colony, Khivansara Park, Katkat Gate and Ulkanagari three from Osmanapura, four each from Padegaon and Mira Nagar, five each from Hussain Colony and Mukundwadi, six from city chowk, and 11 from Jaibhim Nagar. A man working in an industrial unit in Cidco N-5 contracted Covid-19 infection on Thursday. His wife who works as a nurse working at a private hospital, along with their daughter, have been taken to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Covid Care Centre for swab collection. Meanwhile, Kabra Nagar, Adarsh Colony, Khadkeshwar, Khivansara Park and Dhangarwadi in Kannad saw their first Covid-19 cases on Thursday. According to Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), a 48-year-old man from Asefiya Colony died at 11.30 on Wednesday. “He was later detected with Covid-19. The cause of death is bilateral pneumonitis due to Covid-19 with hypertension,” Gaikwad said. He added that nine Covid-19 patients were in a critical condition at the GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/60-more-covid-19-cases-in-aurangabad-tally-at-1179/articleshow/75874348.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 22, 2020||Nashik||8 trains to pass via Nashik from June 1||NASHIK: As many as eight trains originating from Mumbai and going to the northern and eastern parts of the country will stop by Nashik Road railway station as per their schedule from June 1. After the nationwide lockdown was introduced on March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19, it is for the first time in two months that passenger trains will be allowed to run on select routes. Sources from the Central Railways said, “Since we are still in the grip of Covid-19 outbreak and chances of infection spread are still high, the Railways has announced starting trains only on select routes with social distancing and cleanliness norms.” The officials further said that only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to travel in the trains and that those who do not have confirmed bookings would not even be allowed in the station. Advanced booking counters will open on Friday. Officials will decide on the number of counters to be opened depending on the demand for tickets. The entry points have been restricted to ensure every passenger entering and leaving the station is thoroughly screened. “Since the screening is mandatory, the people are expected to be at the station well before the time limits,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-trains-to-pass-via-nashik-from-june-1/articleshow/75874342.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||SU to hold online general knowledge test||Rajkot: In order to prepare its students for competitive exams like Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC), Career Counselling and Development Centre (CCDC) of Saurashtra University has organized a smart general knowledge online test on Saturday (May 23).The day on which the test is organized happens to be the 54th Foundation Day of the Saurashtra University. “There will be an online free material video link sent to the students which will have information about Gujarat, Gujarati language, cultural heritage, mathematics and reasoning,” said Professor Nikesh Shah, coordinator of the CCDC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/su-to-hold-online-general-knowledge-test/articleshow/75875673.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed sees 17 new Covid-19 cases, Jalna three||AURANGABAD: As many as 17 new cases were added in Beed district between Wednesday and Thursday, taking the total number of Covid-19 positive patients to 26. On Thursday, three positive cases were reported in Jalna, while in Latur only one person tested positive for Covid-19. The total number of cases in Jalna and Latur stands at 44 and 66 respectively. Of the 17 cases reported in Beed, four were reported on Wednesday night while the remaining 13 were detected on Thursday. According to the district administration, areas like Patoda town, Wahali Chikhli, Savargaon Ghat, Nivdunga, Vagharvasti, Saprevasti and Vadvani town have been sealed after detection of new cases. Health workers were also seen asking the residents in containment zones to stay at home and follow physical distancing norm if they are stepping out for any essential work.According to Jalna district health officer Vivek Khatgaonkar, 11 patients have so far recovered and discharged. “64 teams of health workers have screened 13,917 people from 2,955 houses in 13 containment zones of Jalna,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-sees-17-new-cases-jalna-three/articleshow/75874334.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 22, 2020||India||Covid-19: Experts want govt to fund vaccine, medicines||NEW DELHI: Health experts, including Niti Aayog member VK Paul and ICMR chief Balram Bhargav, have suggested the establishment of a contingency fund to help meet vaccination and medicine costs in the battle against Covid-19 as the drugs are expected to come with a hefty price tag.  The issue was flagged during a meeting of the high-level group on health sector set up by the 15th finance panel on Thursday. Sources said that the experts suggested a flexible use of the funds to ensure that individuals were not burdened. The details of how the fund will be set up were not immediately available.  The panel has reconvened after the Coronavirus pandemic to assess the impact on government finances and the road ahead. NK Singh, chairman of the 15th finance commission chairman said that health spending would have to go up in the coming years from the current level of around 0.9% of GDP, and FM Nirmala Sitharaman had already announced measures that would strengthen the system.  Bhargav told the meeting that the government was working on a differential peaking time and differentiated fatality time to ensure that the peaking was dispersed. Containment and testing facilities are proposed to be developed at the block level to ensure that cases are contained.  While masks and PPE kits are now available in large numbers, ventilators was an area that the experts identified for a possible ramp up with healthcare professionals to manage the equipment being another area of scarcity. There were suggestions to deploy final year students.  "There is a wide disparity in the availability of health personnel across states and use of technology to address this gap was suggested. The other area of discussion was around how to address the needs of rural areas," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-experts-want-govt-to-fund-vaccine-medicines/articleshow/75879650.cms||Sidhartha
May 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Snan Purnima to go ahead, with rider||Bhubaneswar: The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration on Thursday decided to go ahead with June 5 Debasnan Purnima, a key festival in the run-up to Rath Yatra, with very limited number of servitors. Since the extended lockdown 4.0 still prohibits religious congregations at public places, the temple administration will take the final decision whether or not to allow participation of devotees after the lockdown is lifted on May 31. “Unlike previous years, we will not allow large number of servitors to perform Debasnan Purnima rituals in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. We have requested different Nijogs (associations of servitors) to select minimum numbers of servitors, who can perform the rituals. If they share their names by May 25, we will examine the list and release the final names. The servitors, who will perform the rituals, will undergo Covid-19 test,” temple’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar said after holding a meeting with district officials and representatives of different nijogs at Puri. On Debasnan Purnima, the giant wooden idols of Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra are carried in arms by servitors in Pahandi to Snan Mandap, an elevated bathing platform inside the temple, facing the Grand Road. According to the tradition, deities are given ceremonial bath on the auspicious occasion and later confined in isolation (kept in Anasara Ghar) for a fortnight, supposedly suffering from fever after the grand bath. Devotees are normally not allowed for darshan of the deities during the isolation period. The temple that has been shut to devotees since March 20 due to Covid-19 pandemic may find it difficult to maintain social distancing norms among servitors during the Pahandi procession of the deities from the sanctum sanctorum to the bathing mandap. Usually a sea of devotees gather on the Grand Road to watch the bathing ritual of the deities on Snan Mandap. “We will take a decision whether to allow participation of devotees or not this time only after the revised guidelines are issued after end of May 31 lockdown,” Puri district collector and temple’s deputy chief administrator Balwant Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/snan-purnima-to-go-ahead-with-rider/articleshow/75875680.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 22, 2020||Goa||Chaos ensues with no traffic signal at Merces junction||PANAJI: Motorists have been maneuvering their way across the Merces-Santa Cruz link road, colloquially known as the Niyaz junction, with great difficulty ever since the construction of the underpass, which is part of the highway expansion project, has resumed. It appears to be a death trap for traffic since the uneven road is rife with blind spots – courtesy the monstrous construction. To add to their woes, the traffic signal had been put off at the spot in order to facilitate the construction works. “We were not informed about the traffic signal being switched off. The first day, we thought there must’ve been a malfunction but when it continued to be off for two more days, we realised that there is a problem,” manager of a business establishment at the junction said. PWD executive engineer Narayan Mayekar, who is looking over the project, said that putting off the traffic signal was necessary to ensure that the system did not interfere with the movement of the horizontal beams or girders. “We are casting a slab at the underpass and in order to reinforce it, we must finish the task before the onset of monsoon. We must place the girders first, so that the slab can be placed there accordingly. To shift those girders and avoid disturbance to the crane executing the work, the signal has been switched off for the time being,” he said. “It may take another week or so for the work to complete, following which, the signal will be switched on again,” the PWD executive engineer added. Until then, citizens continue to negotiate their way through the path with two-wheeler especially being at risk. “So far, there has not been any untoward incident but if the traffic police do not manage the situation strictly, there is a likelihood of an accident. The Goa police must at least deploy additional staff to manage the situation or put up a warning signage,” a Merces resident said. The traffic cell however said that owing to the lockdown responsibilities, they cannot spare extra police officials at the junction. “We are currently going through a crisis and it is difficult to put additional staff there, right now.” North Goa DySP Dharmesh Angle said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chaos-ensues-with-no-traffic-signal-at-merces-junction/articleshow/75878137.cms||Nida Sayed
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||JDS demands Rs 10,000 each for 2 crore families||AURANGABAD: The Janata Dal Secular on Thursday demanded financial assistance of Rs 10,000 from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for about two crore families who have suffered during the lockdown so they can meet their daily needs for at least two to three months. In a representation made to the chief minister, the JD(S) office-bearers including Sharad Patil, B G Kolse Patil, P D Joshi Patodekar and Ajmal Khan said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared Rs 20 lakh crore package and when the finance minister began to clarify, it turned out that the actual benefits could be of around Rs 2 lakh crore. They said that Thackeray could make history by extending direct financial assistance to the families. JDS functionary Khan said that they have also suggested the chief minister to give Rs 10,000 to the families, of which Rs 5,000 can be given as a loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jds-demands-rs-10k-each-for-2cr-families/articleshow/75874355.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 pandemic delays cleaning of drains in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The ongoing Covid-19 crisis has delayed the process of awarding contracts for cleaning the drains in the city. With monsoon just one-and-a-half-month away, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has finally given contracts for cleaning the drains, but officials fear that the work would not be completed before the arrival of the monsoon. Last year, the contract was given in February. There are more than 850 small drains in the city and 20 big nullahs that will have to be cleaned by the contractors before monsoon. During monsoon, water clogging is a major problem in the city because of which drains are cleaned at least five months in advance and there had been complaints last year that JMC was not able to clean all the drains before monsoon. Chief engineer of JMC Anil Singhal said, “The Rs 2.5 crore-contract has been signed in which all the drains will be cleaned before the arrival of monsoon. The time is less because we were busy in the pandemic, but we are positive that we will complete the work before monsoon arrives.” However, some officials in JMC said special orders have been given to clean drains in lanes where water clogging is a bigger issue during monsoon. There are many areas where water clogging had been a reason for road accidents, so JMC is focusing on such drains. In case of big nullahs, there were complaints last year that they were not cleaned properly, but this year JMC officials said special instructions have been given to clean them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-pandemic-delays-cleaning-of-drains-in-city/articleshow/75878070.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Cancer care to change in Covid times||KOCHI: If a cancer patient or a person undergoing diagnostic evaluation for cancer tests positive for Covid-19 , he/she would be first provided treatment for the virus infection before receiving cancer treatment. The state government has come out with cancer care treatment strategy for coronavirus-affected or suspected patients in Kerala amid fear that the influx of Malayalis from other states and countries might change the Covid scenario in the state. Cancer patients fall in the vulnerable group and are at an increased risk of catching the coronavirus infection. More than 1 lakh people are being treated for cancer in the state and most of them are above the age of 55. Studies have shown that cancer patients have a higher risk of Covid-19 infection compared with the community population. As per the new treatment strategy, life-threatening cancer emergencies can be carried out in any hospital offering cancer care, irrespective of Covid status by making sure that universal high-risk infection precautions are taken by healthcare workers. However, biopsy or surgery in Covid positive patients may be deferred till they test negative. But a final decision on it will be taken by the multi-disciplinary medical board (MDMB) based on the nature of the cancer, possibility of cure and risk involved. A cancer patient or a suspect with coronavirus infection would preferably be treated at medical colleges and will not be referred to non-Covid cancer centres such as the Regional Cancer Centre, the Malabar Cancer Centre and the Cochin Cancer Research Centre. After lockdown relaxation, the number of cancer patients approaching hospitals for treatment has seen a steady increase. But hospitals are not encouraging walk-ins and insisting on prior appointments. “We are taking all necessary precautions, ensuring social distancing at the hospital and discouraging too many bystanders. We also advise patients on the precautions they need to take to protect themselves,” said RCC medical superintendent Dr Sajeed A. Even in private hospitals, the situation is no different though many of them are discouraging follow-ups, unless they are unavoidable. Also, medicines are delivered to homes of patients after online consultation. Hospital admissions and recurrent hospital visits are potential risk factors for Covid-19 infection. “We encourage only chemo patients to come to the hospital. Hospital visit increases risk, and lung cancer patients are more at risk,” said Dr K Pavithran, head of the department of medical oncology and hematology, Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cancer-care-to-change-in-covid-times/articleshow/75874368.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man beats wife for not cooking biryani||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Juhapura area of city on Wednesday thrashed his wife for not cooking biryani at home. After this, she left the home and went to her cousin’s place. Later, when her two elder brothers went to strike compromise with the accused, he attacked one of them with a sword. In her FIR with Vejalpur police, the woman, 35, stated that she had got married with the accused, who works as automobile mechanic in Juhapura, in 2003. Later, she gave birth to three daughters and one son. She said that her married life ran smoothly for two years, but later her husband began taunting and harassing her on frivolous issues, mainly for her cooking. She said that she had raised this issue before her two brothers but they told her to tolerate everything. On Wednesday morning, when the family was having their meal in their house in Sankalitnagar in Juhapura, the man picked up quarrel with his wife for not making biryani. She tried to make him understand that it was not possible to cook biryani every day as he gets meagre earnings from his job at an automobile garage but this made him more aggressive and he thrashed her badly. Aggrieved with this, the woman took along her children with her and went to her cousin’s home. She later told her brothers about the incident, who went to meet her husband to strike compromise again. But as they went to the accused’s home and asked on why he had beaten their sister, the accused became aggressive, came out with a sword with which he attacked one of them. The complainant’s brother suffered injuries in his fingers and was taken to Civil Hospital in Sola. She later approached Vejalpur police and filed a complaint of assault and domestic violence against her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-wife-for-not-cooking-biryani/articleshow/75877096.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district administration files plaint over rumours||NASHIK: The district administration, taking strong objection to the rumours being spread on social media claiming that Nashik will remain closed from May 22, has lodged a complaint with Sarkarwada police. The district administration had issued a notification in the backdrop of lockdown 4.0 saying that movement of people from 7pm to 7am would be strictly prohibited except for the essential services from May 22 to 31. “Some unidentified person used the same notification to spread the rumours saying that the district would be closed and nothing except essential things would be allowed during the period,” resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode said. The message has lead to confusion among people who started rushing to the market places to buy things, resulting in overcrowding in some areas of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-admin-files-plaint-over-rumours/articleshow/75874358.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Police gives clean chit to MLA in assault case||BHUBANESWAR: Baghamari police in Khurda district registered a case against BJD MLA from Bhubaneswar-Central constituency Ananta Narayan Jena on Wednesday for allegedly misbehaving with a woman on Tuesday. Police, however, on Thursday gave a clean chit to the ruling party MLA and said the charges against him were false. “We had received the complaint of assault and misbehaviour with a woman against the MLA and two of his associates. We immediately registered a case against the three persons. But, during inquiry we found that the woman lodged false case against them. She wanted to settle a score with the MLA in a personal case,” Khurda SP Ajay Pratap Swain told TOI. Jena was booked under sections 448 (house trespass), 294 (obscene act), 354-B (assault on woman with intent to disrobe), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (crime committed by several persons) of IPC. Police said the woman complainant was aggrieved and vindictive following arrest of her husband for allegedly attacking Jena’s relative following a dispute on Tuesday. “We had arrested the woman’s husband and another person for attacking the MLA’s relative (a retired army officer). The duo attacked the ex-army officer as he denied to pay them extortion. The duo had also been harassing the ex-army officer for carrying farming on his land,” the Khurda SP said. Contacted, Jena refuted the allegations. “The woman’s husband along with his henchmen attacked my close family relative. I rushed to Baghamari village and accompanied him to the police station to lodge a complaint. Since police took action against the woman’s husband, she framed me in the false case. The accused is a habitual offender and extortionist in the locality,” Jena told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/police-gives-clean-chit-to-mla-in-assault-case/articleshow/75875742.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government withdraws order against doctors’ stay in hotels||NEW DELHI: In a big relief to many doctors and paramedical staff posted in Covid-19 ward at Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi government on Thursday withdrew its recent order cancelling quarantine facilities for them in hotels. The order issued by the health department had prompted the hospital authority to ask the doctors and paramedic staff to vacate the hotels by Thursday afternoon where they were kept for quarantine purposes or pay from their own pockets. This had created a stir among them. Lok Nayak Hospital has put its order on hold for now. Around 90 doctors from the hospital are staying in a five-star hotel and around 120 paramedics in different budget hotels because they are deployed in the Covid wards of the hospital and are not supposed to go home without 14-day mandatory quarantine. About 60 doctors and 70 paramedical staff from Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital are also staying in hotels for quarantine purposes, but the hospital administration had not issued any vacate order by Thursday. LNJP issued the vacate order on May 20 in the wake of the direction issued by Delhi government on May 18. The government’s order stated that “regular quarantine of healthcare workers after performing duty in Covid-19 areas is not warranted.” “All categories of staff on quarantine are directed to vacate the hospital-provided accommodations in hotels/dharamsalas latest by 12pm on May 21. The hospital will not bear any extra charges accrued thereafter and the same shall be borne by the guests overstaying,” read the hospital order. “We are living in hotels due to helplessness. We cannot go home straight from the Covid ward because that way we may end up infecting our children and other family members. After working in the ward for two weeks, we are required to stay in quarantine for two weeks so that we do not become the source of the spread of virus,” said a doctor who added that a recent guideline issued by the ministry of health and family welfare prompted Delhi government to issue such an order. The resident doctors’ association also wrote a letter to union health minister Harsh Vardhan in this regard on Thursday. The letter stated that a recent guideline mandated provision for quarantine of only high risk contacts either who managed Covid patients without proper PPE kits or those who became symptomatic. It has revoked the facility for all other doctors and healthcare workers on Covid duty. “It has put the healthcare workers in a dilemma with remarkable consequences,” the letter stated. The doctors said that a post-duty quarantine of 14 days for all healthcare workers, irrespective of being asymptomatic or using PPE kits, is an essential measure, withdrawal of which greatly increases the risk of viral transmission among doctors, their families, patients and community at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-withdraws-order-against-docs-stay-in-hotels/articleshow/75878120.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ten-fold hike in demand for dishwashers in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: ‘Bartan dho liye?’ (read: Did you do the dishes?) echoed in our ears over the past 60 days of lockdown and indeed gave nightmares and backaches to one and all. Seeing no long-term and sustainable respite from either Covid-19 or the domestic drudgery, Amdavadis have chosen the smart way to deal with their woes while most continue working from home. As soon as the lockdown was eased and electronics and home appliances retailers resumed business, people thronged the stores asking not for ACs and coolers but dishwashers. According to city-based electronics retailers the demand has gone up by at least ten-folds. “Against barely five pieces sold in a month before the lockdown, now I have at least 60 inquiries about getting dishwashers. Unfortunately, due to low demand earlier, we don’t have enough stock at this point,” said Bankim Mehta, who manages a multi-brand electronic retail store in Prahladnagar area of the city. Even during the lockdown, multi-brand electronic retailers were getting several inquiries about dishwashers and vacuum cleaners. “We had several inquiries from customers by the first week of May itself and accordingly we began placing orders to companies. As supply chain issues continue, the stock will arrive in batches,” said a source. “Several residential societies have imposed restrictions on allowing domestic workers; while some families are apprehensive of letting their helpers in. After the gruelling task of doing the dishes for two months, people have chosen to rather invest in dishwashers and free themselves of the hassle once and for all. The demand has been good however, we have asked for more stock from manufacturers. At least 15 customers have made advance payments for dishwashers and there are at least three to four inquiries in a day,” said Bhavesh Waria, president, Ahmedabad Electronics Dealers’ Association (AEDA). Industry players also said that apart from dishwashers, a number of first-time purchases were also made for washing machines as well as vacuum cleaners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bai-pass-solution-ten-fold-hike-in-demand-for-dishwashers/articleshow/75877110.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman without mask refuses to pay fine, booked||Ahmedabad: Sector-7 police of Gandhinagar on Wednesday booked a 40-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 5, for not wearing mask and for refusing to pay a fine of Rs 200 for the offence. Sub-inspector Asha Gamit of Sector-7 police stated in the FIR that she along with two other women police constables were deployed on bandobust duty when she spotted a woman moving on road without wearing mask.When Gamit asked the woman, identified as Ami Soni, why was she not wearing a mask, Soni did not give any proper answer and said that she would not pay the fine. After which, she was charged for violation of notification issued by government servant along with the epidemic act.Inspector Jitendra Sindhav of Sector-7 police said that Soni, who went out to buy vegetable after 7pm, asked the cops on why they were stopping and questioning her.“She began asking police how did they get the power to stop her and where is the rule of wearing mask. Our police personnel tried to convince her that she had broken the law and went out of the house after 7pm which is prohibited, but she kept accusing police,” said Sindhav. A police official said that the woman alleged that he was a fake cop and began shouting at him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-without-mask-refuses-to-pay-fine-booked/articleshow/75877105.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||We do not have pending bills towards construction workers: IIM-A||Ahmedabad: IIM-Ahmedabad, country's premier B-school, on Thursday claimed that they have no pending bills towards workers at construction site on the new IIM-A campus. The institute came out with a statement after a meeting of top officials on Thursday.‘We have verified that all due payments have been made to workers,’ mentioned the statement. ‘Work on construction site stopped by May 7 in deference to the wishes of the workers...Workers from UP and Bihar were provided trains but unfortunately the public authorities did not arrange for trains to Jharkhand and West Bengal.’The statement also termed the point in legal notice about non-payment of minimum wages and payment of amount due ‘baseless,’ adding that their records are open for verification.‘We appeal that rather than defame us the way the legal notice is seeking to do, it benefits the worker who we all seek to impact positively, that the facts be checked, the circumstances understood, and only then is it appropriate for the matter to be raised in the way that it has been,’ mentioned the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-do-not-have-pending-bills-towards-construction-workers-iim-a/articleshow/75877111.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nashik||RTO begins registration of vehicles||NASHIK: The Nashik regional transport office (RTO) has re-started the process of registration of new vehicles which was halted for nearly two months since the lockdown was imposed. “The exercise has started from May 18. So far, we have collected over Rs 60 lakh as registration fees,” said RTO sources. According to RTO officials, their staff members are being sent to vehicle dealers in the city for completing the registration formalities. “We are not undertaking the registration formalities in our office since we are working with skeleton staff and also to avoid any kind of gathering at our office premises,” said officials, adding that more vehicles will be registered once the lockdown is withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rto-begins-registration-of-vehicles/articleshow/75874378.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Lockdown not a reason to deny bail, says Kerala HC||KOCHI: Bail cannot be denied to an accused citing the reason that police could not file a final report in the case due to the lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19, the Kerala high court has held. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan V issued the ruling after considering a bail application (BA No. 2856/2020) filed by Mohammed Ali of Kannur through advocate Mansoor B H. Police had contended in court that even though investigation in the case is complete, a final report could not be filed as the magistrate court was not functioning due to the ongoing lockdown. Prosecution relied on a directive of the Supreme Court on March 23 that period of limitation prescribed under the general law of limitation or under special laws will stand extended from March 15 until further orders. As per section 167 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), investigation in cases involving offences punishable with death, life imprisonment, or imprisonment for not less than 10 years should be completed within 90 days. For other offences, the probe must be concluded and final report filed within 60 days. Opposing prosecution’s argument, advocate Mansoor argued that CrPC does not contemplate any extension of the statutory period within which final report is to be filed on any grounds whatsoever. The court pointed out that the Supreme Court’s directive is applicable to petitions or applications or suits or appeals and other proceedings where the period of limitation is prescribed under the general law or special laws. Where any special or local law prescribes a different period of limitation, such limitation would apply, the court held. Section 167 of CrPC does not prevent the police from conducting the investigation but only bars detention of the accused, the court noted. “If the submission of the learned public prosecutor is accepted, the very same contention can be taken by the investigating agency and they can very well contend that they can detain the accused in custody for more than 24 hours which would clearly be violative of Article 22(2) of the Constitution and Section 57 of the CrPC. They can also demand that they are entitled to get police custody even beyond the period of 15 days from the first remand. This will result in serious deprivation of the rights of the accused and most certainly will be misused in certain cases,” the judgment said. Rejecting prosecution’s argument, the court granted conditional bail to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdown-not-a-reason-to-deny-bail-says-hc/articleshow/75874407.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Teachers hold up board answer sheets||AURANGABAD: Teachers from Hingoli, Jalna, Beed and Parbhani districts have refused to come to Aurangabad for handing over the evaluated answer sheets of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC, Class XII) examinations, citing the Covid-19 spread in the city. The Aurangabad division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHE) had prepared a time-table for all the districts to submit the answer sheets. However, the teachers from these adjoining districts have refused to comply with the order expressing apprehensions over travelling to Aurangabad, which is in the red zone category of districts with regards to Covid-19 spread. As per the official schedule, the collection of answer sheets is slated to begin with different talukas of Aurangabad district city from May 22 to May 24, followed by Jalna district Parbhani district. Beed district and Hingoli districtRavindra Patil, leader of state-level association of teachers from junior colleges in Maharashtra, said around 700 teachers from these districts would have to reach Aurangabad for handing over the answer sheets. “The MSBSHE should have worked out an alternative arrangement of collecting answer sheets of HSC. In Nashik division, the state board authorities collected the answer sheets from the district places instead of asking teachers to come all the way to Nashik amid outbreak of the pandemic,” he said. When contacted, MSBSHE Aurangabad division chairman Sugata Punne said necessary solution for collection of answer sheets would be worked out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teachers-hold-up-board-answer-sheets/articleshow/75874383.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC rejects Sanjiv Bhatt’s discharge plea in drug planting case||Ahmedabad: Justice B N Karia of the Gujarat high court on Thursday rejected a petition filed by ex-IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt seeking discharge from the 1996 drug planting case in Palanpur town, in which he was arrested in September 2018.Bhatt had approached the HC in December last year after a trial court in Banaskantha rejected his request for discharge on various grounds, including that he has a protection under section 197 of the CrPC because the alleged act was in the line of his duty, sources said.Bhatt was arrested for framing a Rajasthan-based advocate, Sumersingh Rajpurohit, in a false drug planting case in 1996. The investigation took place two decades later at the HC’s behest in response to two petitions filed by former HC judge R R Jain and Bhatt’s subordinate in the operation, I B Vyas. They had sought further probe in the case. This was because Rajasthan police had investigated the case on the lawyer’s complaint of abduction from his home town, Pali.Bhatt has been arrested on allegations of framing the lawyer in order to pressurize him to vacate a shop in Pali. The property belonged to Justice Jain’s sister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-rejects-sanjiv-bhatts-discharge-plea-in-drug-planting-case/articleshow/75877118.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Mumbai||200 ‘homesick’ Kerala nurses leave Mumbai, call hospitals insensitive||MUMBAI: Over the past few days, nearly 200 nurses have left Mumbai and Pune for their Kerala homes. Their reasons for leaving range from homesickness and completion of contracts to their employers’ insensitivity when they tested positive for Covid-19. “Five buses with 25 nurses each have left these two cities and a few more meant only for nurses will be operated over the next few days,” said a United Nurses Association official. Kerala state government has organized buses for several groups, including nurses, to travel back home from other states. The association said nurses had not left their jobs in Mumbai or Pune, but had simply decided to not renew their lapsed contracts. “Many would have liked to stay back but they are upset with how several private hospitals just dumped them in government quarantine centres when they tested positive for Covid,” said a nurse from a south Mumbai hospital. Nurses from Kerala make up for 70% to 80% of the workforce in most hospitals. It is estimated that Maharashtra has around four lakh nurses. It is learnt that 12 nurses from three south Mumbai hospitals that witnessed an outbreak of Covid will board a bus on Friday. A young nurse said her hospital hadn’t even bothered to test her for Covid despite an exposure. “I kept asking my seniors to get me tested and they assured me it would be done, but nothing happened,” she said. Most of these nurses are aged between 22 and 28. “They are homesick. They have finished a stint in Mumbai and will apply for foreign jobs after relaxing at home for a few months,” said the association official. Dr Swati Rane of the Clinical Nursing and Research Society who spoke to the leaving nurses said, “The nurses felt the work environment wasn’t safe. And, if they had been treated properly, they would have agreed to renew their contracts.” Dr Rane added nurses deserve a better work environment as they are professionals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/200-homesick-kerala-nurses-leave-city-call-hosps-insensitive/articleshow/75878118.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||Hydrogen balloons help cops monitor red zones||Vadodara: Lockdown may have been lifted but police continue to monitor areas that fall under red zone in the city. The police have released four hydrogen balloons equipped with cameras in four areas affected by coronavirus. Cops are able to keep an eye on each and every lane in these areas and enforce lockdown strictly. “We have launched hydrogen balloons in Nagarwada, Tandalja, Wadi and Panigate areas. We monitor these zones round the clock and also conduct regular patrolling. If cameras fitted in these balloons see people flouting lockdown rules in these areas, a team of cops reach the spot,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. The balloons are also fitted with public announcement system that conveys message to citizens. Gahlaut said the new method has been effective and has helped in increasing safety measures for policemen on duty in the red zones. “Earlier, we had to visit every nook and corner for patrolling in these areas. Now we visit the spots only when we find people flouting lockdown rules,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hydrogen-balloons-help-cops-monitor-red-zones/articleshow/75873967.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Trade unions to join nationwide stir against suspension of labour laws||AURANGABAD: Different trade unions and organizations in Marathwada would join the nationwide protest call given by the workers’ action committee to oppose the government’s decision to suspend 44 labour related laws for three years. They also demanded that the central government should directly extend financial assistance to the people suffering in the aftermath of lockdown on account of Covid-19 pandemic. Rajan Kshirsagar, a senior CPI and AITUC leader, said that the AITUC took the initiative to bring together 109 different trade unions and organizations to launch the protest. “Workers from small businesses, banks and other sectors would take part in the protest by sporting black bands to press for their demand to scrap the suspension of labour laws. The government wants to destroy trade unions and workers to impose privatization in all the sectors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/trade-unions-to-join-nationwide-stir-against-suspension-of-labour-laws/articleshow/75874400.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Madurai||No bail for 24 people who attacked cop||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of 24 people in a case which was registered against them for pelting stones on police personnel. Several people, including the 24 petitioners had gathered to receive free essential commodities such as rice, dal, which were distributed by an NGO at Kanyakumari district during the lockdown. When police officials requested the petitioners to maintain social distancing, they had pelted stones on them and damaged the police van. Following this incident, the Puthukkadai police had registered a case against several people including the petitioners under sections - 143, 147, 148, 341, 353, 294(b), 332, 506(ii), 188, 269 of the IPC. They were also booked under Section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. The petitioners who apprehend arrest in this case moved the high court Madurai bench seeking anticipatory bail. Hearing the plea, justice G Jayachandran observed that the act committed by these petitioners was breaching social distancing norms during the lockdown period. The judge observed that since the petitioners had also attacked the Covid-19 warriors, they do not deserve anticipatory bail. Hence, the judge dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-bail-for-24-people-who-attacked-cop/articleshow/75877123.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Smart city works worth Rs 450 crore begin after two-month wait||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) has resumed various smart city developmental works worth Rs 450 crore which were earlier halted due to the nationwide lockdown. These works include road development in the gaothan areas, beautification of Godavari as well as river de-silting projects along with installation of 800 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the city. The Godavari beautification and river de-silting projects cost around Rs 73.72 crore and Rs 10.54 crore respectively. The development of internal roads in the gaothan areas of the city is being carried out under the area based development (ABD) plan at the cost of Rs 237.21 crore. The work had started a few months back; however, it was stopped in view of lockdown. Since the lockdown rules have now been relaxed by the government allowing some units to operate, all the works have been restarted with the necessary permissions. Also, social distancing and other norms are being strictly followed. At present, the work of internal roads in the city has been undertaken at the Ashok Stambh, Ramwadi and the Amardham area, said smart city officials. “We have sought all the necessary permission and are also practising social distancing among the workers. Over 100 workers are posted at different sites in the city under the smart city project,” said smart city officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/smart-city-works-worth-rs-450cr-begin-after-two-month-wait/articleshow/75874410.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Bid to smuggle gold, HC dismisses bail plea of 3 Lankans||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of three Sri Lankan nationals who were arrested while attempting to smuggle gold near Dhanushkodi in Ramanathapuram district. According to the prosecution, the coast guard had intercepted a Sri Lankan vessel which had crossed the Indian border. During interrogation, it was found out that the three Sri Lankan nationals - Antony Suganth, Vinisto and Luis Alocious - in connivance with four Indian nationals attempted to smuggle gold and GPS equipment. The petitioners were booked for offences under sections of the Customs Act, Foreigners Act and Passport (Entry into India) Rules. The trio moved the high court Madurai bench seeking bail. While the counsel sought for bail citing that the petitioners are willing to abide by any condition imposed by the court, the additional public prosecutor strongly opposed it on the ground that the investigation was yet to be completed. Hearing the plea, justice G Jayachandran observed that the nature of offence indicates cross-border smuggling of contraband and the investigation is yet to be completed. The judge said that since the matter involves foreigners, grant of bail is not appropriate during investigation stage and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bid-to-smuggle-gold-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-3-lankans/articleshow/75877130.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolhapur||BJP plans protest; stop playing politics: NCP||KOLHAPUR: State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil has announced a day-long state-wide agitation against the Uddhav Thackeray-led government on Friday while accusing it of “gross failure in curbing the spread of Covid-19”. Reacting to BJP’s call for agitation, Maharashtra NCP president Jayant Patil, who is also the state water resources minister, said that BJP should stay away from politics in times of coronavirus pandemic. The BJP leader on Wednesday night said that the agitation would be held under the banner, ‘Mera Aangan, Mera Ranangan’ and appealed to party members and citizens to stand in balconies or courtyards of their houses wearing black clothes or wave black flags or cloth. “The chief minister of Maharashtra has quarantined himself at Matoshree and the state government is being run by bureaucrats,” Chandrakant Patil told reporters in Kolhapur. “It’s time citizens protested against the gross failure of the state government,” said Patil while justifying his call for the day-long agitation. The state BJP chief said that it was expected that the chief minister would lead the state from the front by hitting the ground wearing a mask, gloves and personal protection equipment (PPE), but Uddhav Thackeray has locked himself inside Matoshree. “How can one expect the common man to fight against coronavirus when the CM has shown no courage and is defensive in his approach”, he said. Patil said the party units in each district and city will decide on the time slots for the protest while taking into account the local situation and containment zone norms in each locality. Jayant Patil of the NCP hit back at the BJP on Thursday and said, “Our party never criticised PM Narendra Modi, who was busy attending to US president Donald Trump when coronavirus had already hit India. The BJP is posing questions to the Thackeray government while forgetting that we never asked the Modi government a single question,” Jayant Patil told reporters through a video conference on Thursday. “The state BJP chief is announcing an agitation while former CM Devendra Fadnavis is busy meeting the governor to keep himself in the limelight. Fadnavis must have the telephone number of Uddhav Thackeray. He should talk to him and make suggestions. That is what is needed now, and not politics,” he said. The NCP leader said that though the Maharashtra government made arrangements for transport of migrant workers to their respective states, many BJP-ruled states did not allow their own people to enter. “Instead of wasting time in agitations and publicity stunts, the state BJP leaders should ask their counterparts in other states to allow passage to these migrants,” the NCP leader added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-plans-protest-stopplaying-politics-ncp/articleshow/75874427.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara registers 11 new Covid-19 cases||KOLHAPUR: As many as 11 new cases of Covid-19 were registered in Satara late on Wednesday, taking the tally to 181. Out of 181, 106 people have recovered and discharged from the hospital, while 71 are still undergoing treatment. The district has so far recorded five deaths due to the contagion. According to a district administration official, of the new cases, few have travel history from the covid-affected areas, while few are close contacts of earlier positive patients. As per health department report, the new patients were admitted to Satara district hospital (4), sub-district hospital in Karad (3), sub-district hospital in Phaltan (2), rural hospital in Wai and Krishna Medical College (1 each). Satara district collector, Shekhar Singh urged to all those who have returned from Mumbai and Pune to comply with all the home quarantine guidelines laid down by the administration. He has also appealed to the senior citizens with co-morbid conditions to take extra precautions . The collector also issued lockdown relaxation rules in the district. The state transport’s inter-district movement has been allowed with 50% passenger capacity, while market will be allowed to remain open from 9 am to 5 pm. 3 positive in Sangli Sangli district recorded three more Covid-19 positive cases late on Wednesday. Of these two have a travel history, while the third is from the city and the source of infection is being investigated. With this, the total number of positive patients in Sangli has reached to 62, while active cases stand at 23. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said that over 1,700 small and medium businesses have started their operations across Sangli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-11-new-covid-cases/articleshow/75874433.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Kothe: Increase manpower at NMC’s isolation hospital||Nagpur: Officiating mayor Manisha Kothe on Thursday directed the civic administration to increase manpower at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)’s isolation hospital in Imamwada. At present, due to staff crunch, the hospital staff is forced to work for 12 hours at a stretch. Kothe, standing committee chairman Vijay (Pintu) Zalke, ruling party leader Sandeep Jadhav, health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja, Dhantoli zone chairperson Lata Kadgaye, deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradeep Dasarwar, and medical officers of the hospital were present on the occasion. The hospital, which is under renovation, also provides medical services to the poor and needy. On being informed about lack of availability of anti-rabies injections at the hospital, Kothe expressed anguish and directed the NMC’s medicine department to ensure immediate replenishment of stock. The officiating mayor also visited NMC’s Babulkheda urban primary health centre (UPHC). She expressed concern over the broken compound wall of the UPHC, and said it should be repaired at the earliest for safety reasons. Kothe also discussed the facilities of other hospitals in the city with the medical officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kothe-increase-manpower-at-nmcs-isolation-hospital/articleshow/75875941.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Bail plea of man held for making country bombs dismissed||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of a man who was arrested for making country bombs to murder a member of a rival gang at Tuticorin district.On February 25, there was an explosion in the abandoned house owned by the petitioner, Pradeep alias Pradeep Pandian. When police went to the spot and conducted investigation, it was found out that country-made bombs were stored at the house. The petitioner who is arrayed as first accused in the case was arrested by the Sipcot police. He confessed that he, along with a few others had conspired to eliminate a member of a rival gang, however, the bombs accidentally exploded. Police further arrested two more people and are yet to arrest the remaining persons involved in the incident.Hearing the plea, justice G Jayachandran observed that the court is not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner by taking into consideration the gravity of the alleged crime. Hence, the judge dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-plea-of-man-held-for-making-country-bombs-dismissed/articleshow/75877137.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Pregnant Keralite woman in US finally set to return||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Much to the relief of the pregnant Keralite woman nearing her due date and stranded in the US, as reported in TOI recently, she has finally received a nod from the Indian consulate in Huston, Texas, to take a flight to Kochi on May 23. A native of Thiruvananthapuram, Neena Ajitha is now in her eighth month of pregnancy and with limited scope for medical assistance there. She had been seeking immediate evacuation. Besides, it would be technically impossible for her to board a flight after May, as she would be in her ninth month of pregnancy by then. “We received the call from the Indian consulate (in Huston) on May 19 saying that we could board the Kochi-bound flight from San Francisco scheduled under the Vande Bharat Mission. We are now awaiting confirmed tickets from Air India,” said Ajitha’s husband Prashanth Venugopalan, an IT professional whose six-year H-1B visa expired recently. Once the tickets get confirmed, the family, including their six-year-old daughter Bhadra, will take a 4-5 hour flight from Huston to San Fransisco and catch the Kochi-bound flight. “My wife is in good health and physically fit to travel now. After May, she wouldn’t have been able to board a flight,” Venugopalan said. Around 100 Keralites will be among around 250 passengers (from regions including Chicago, New York, Atlanta, Huston and San Francisco) travelling in the flight which will have a technical stop in Delhi before heading for Kochi. The flight will be proceeding to Ahmedabad with the remaining passengers. With the Covid-19 pandemic ruining their travel plans in March from Huston back to Kerala after the expiry of the visa, the family had written to Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan seeking immediate evacuation, besides registering with Norka and the Indian embassy. According to reports, there are scores of Malayali pregnant women, aged people and students in the US who are awaiting travel back to Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pregnant-keralite-woman-in-us-finally-set-to-return/articleshow/75885186.cms||Salim Joseph
May 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pregnant Keralite woman in US finally set to return||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Much to the relief of the pregnant Keralite woman nearing her due date and stranded in the US, as reported in TOI recently, she has finally received a nod from the Indian consulate in Huston, Texas, to take a flight to Kochi on May 23. A native of Thiruvananthapuram, Neena Ajitha is now in her eighth month of pregnancy and with limited scope for medical assistance there. She had been seeking immediate evacuation. Besides, it would be technically impossible for her to board a flight after May, as she would be in her ninth month of pregnancy by then. “We received the call from the Indian consulate (in Huston) on May 19 saying that we could board the Kochi-bound flight from San Francisco scheduled under the Vande Bharat Mission. We are now awaiting confirmed tickets from Air India,” said Ajitha’s husband Prashanth Venugopalan, an IT professional whose six-year H-1B visa expired recently. Once the tickets get confirmed, the family, including their six-year-old daughter Bhadra, will take a 4-5 hour flight from Huston to San Fransisco and catch the Kochi-bound flight. “My wife is in good health and physically fit to travel now. After May, she wouldn’t have been able to board a flight,” Venugopalan said. Around 100 Keralites will be among around 250 passengers (from regions including Chicago, New York, Atlanta, Huston and San Francisco) travelling in the flight which will have a technical stop in Delhi before heading for Kochi. The flight will be proceeding to Ahmedabad with the remaining passengers. With the Covid-19 pandemic ruining their travel plans in March from Huston back to Kerala after the expiry of the visa, the family had written to Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan seeking immediate evacuation, besides registering with Norka and the Indian embassy. According to reports, there are scores of Malayali pregnant women, aged people and students in the US who are awaiting travel back to Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pregnant-keralite-woman-in-us-finally-set-to-return/articleshow/75874441.cms||Salim Joseph
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Widow pleads to arrest alcoholic son||Tuticorin: “I don’t want my son to die young like my husband. The police are only warning my alcoholic son for harassing me. The collector should take steps to arrest my son and also close down Tasmac outlets. He was a good boy till Tasmac outlets reopened five days ago,” said M Thalapushpam, 62, a widow, of Athimarapatti in Tuticorin district. Her husband M Muniyasamy was also a drunkard. M Chinnathurai, 35, her son who has been harassing her, is married and has a teenage daughter and son. “After getting drunk he used to beat his wife Jeba and the children and even threatened to kill them with a knife and spear,” the woman lamented. Unable to bear it any longer, his wife and children went undercover and their whereabouts are not known. As a mason, Chinnathurai earned Rs850 a day and saved money when the Tasmac outlets were closed. “He was a good boy. Once the liquor shop opened he is back to his old ways. He sold every brass and silverware, electronic gadgets and even the gas cylinder to consume liquor,” she added. From Monday she frequented the Muthaiahpuram police station every day seeking arrest of her son as she was left starving without money or food as he destroyed all at home. “Police gave him a few beatings on Monday and sent him back home. Now he has gained confidence that he will not be arrested,” she said. After walking 10km, she sat in front of the collector’s car with her plea. She petitioned an official at the collectorate and retuned home. She said that she will not mind ending her life in front of the secretariat if that would make the CM decide to close down Tasmac outlets permanently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/widow-pleads-to-arrest-alcoholic-son/articleshow/75877154.cms||M K Ananth
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Act giving 45 per cent of developed land to owners notified||JAIPUR: The long-awaited Land Pooling Act, which among other things gives 45% of the developed land as compensation to owners, came into force on Thursday. The urban development and housing (UDH) department has notified the rules and regulations for the same. With this, Rajasthan joined other states such as Punjab, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu in implementing the Act. Owners whose land has been acquired will now receive 45% of the developed land as compensation. This was earlier at 25%. As per the provision, the civic body will give developed proportionate piece of land with all necessary infrastructure, including roads, parks and open spaces, to the land owner. While as the facilitator, it can earn revenue by way of its share (including development cost) even as landowners get good value for their share of land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/act-giving-45-of-developed-land-to-owners-notified/articleshow/75878138.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Swab tests of symptomatic people only in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district administration, which has a huge number of pending throat swab samples, has decided to collect throat swab samples of only symptomatic people, who have returned from the red zone. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline also recommends collection of throat swab sample for only symptomatic individuals, while Kolhapur health department in the initial phase had collected all the returnees’ throat swab samples, which resulted in piling of over 8,500 throat swab samples at some point. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “Collecting only symptomatic patients’ throat swab samples will save us a lot of time. We are also making sure that the asymptomatic returnees are put under home quarantine. District collector Daulat Desai on Wednesday said that since they had collected all the returnees’ throat swab samples, there was a significant jump in the number of Covid-19 cases, however, it has not spread in the community level. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district has reported 27 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 206 by Thursday evening. Almost all the patients have travel history to Covid affected areas. Results of over 5,000 throat swab samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/swab-tests-of-symptomatic-people-only-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75874443.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Astronomers discover oldest disk galaxy formed over 12 billion years ago||PUNE: A massive rotating disk galaxy that formed just 1.5 billion years after the Big Bang has been discovered. Scientists from National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) in Pune, Germany and the US who made the discovery published the research in Nature journal recently. The galaxy named Wolfe Disk after astronomer Arthur M. Wolfe is the most distant rotating disk galaxy ever observed. The Atacama Large Millimeter /submillimeter Array radio telescope in northern Chile was used to make the observation. Most formation theories say massive galaxies form through the merger of smaller galaxies and only begin to show a clear disk around 6 to 10 billion years after the Big Bang which occurred 13.8 billion years ago. That astronomers found such a disk galaxy when the universe was 1.5 billion years old indicates that other mechanisms must have been responsible for the formation of massive galaxies. Galaxies that have been detected at similar times in the universe look a mess, said co-author Nissim Kanekar of NCRA, Pune. “They seem to have undergone violent merging events, making it hard to form the beautiful rotating disks like the Milky Way or the Andromeda galaxy. The Wolfe Disk appears to have grown via steady accretion of gas, rather than by merger events,” he said. According to the scientists, as reported in the paper appeared in Nature, Wolfe Disk, is one of the most productive galaxies in the early universe. “Most galaxies in the universe are detected via the emission from their stars or gas. However, our team originally found the Wolfe Disk in absorption, against the light from a more distant quasar. The light from this background quasar was seen to be absorbed as it passed through a massive reservoir of hydrogen gas surrounding the galaxy,” Kanekar said. The team then used ALMA observations to identify the galaxy that produces the absorption, and later new ALMA observations reported a detailed modelling of the rotation of the galaxy. The fact that the scientists found the Wolfe Disk using the absorption method tells us that it belongs to the population of normal galaxies that was present at very early times. “When our new ALMA observations showed that it is rotating rapidly, we realized that early rotating disks are not as rare as thought, and that there should be a lot more of them in the universe,” Kanekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/astronomers-discover-oldest-disk-galaxy-formed-over-12bn-years-ago/articleshow/75878134.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks to conduct Eid special prayers at mosques||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madras high court seeking to conduct Eid special prayers for two hours by maintaining social distancing at all the mosques in Madurai district on May 25.The petitioner, A K Sahulhameed, president of a social movement named Islamiya Sevai Sangam based at Madurai, stated that following the announcement of lockdown on March 24, all religious places were closed. For the past one month, Muslims are observing Ramzan fast and Eid falls on May 25. The petitioner said that it is the religious belief of the Muslims to conduct Eid special prayers at mosques and public places. In Madurai, such special prayer is conducted every year at Tamukkam Ground and at Mahaboopalayam.However, this year it would not be possible due to lockdown, due to which prayers must be allowed to be conducted at the mosques for two hours from 9am to 11am on May 25. He said that there are nearly 100 mosques in Madurai district and all have sufficient space to conduct prayers by maintaining social distancing. Since, there was no response to the representation submitted by the petitioner, he moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to grant permission for prayers. The PIL is to be taken up for hearing on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-to-conduct-eid-special-prayers-at-mosques/articleshow/75877147.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Kharif sowing to be on 6.33 lakh hectare||NASHIK: The state agriculture department has projected kharif cultivation on 6.33 lakh hectare in Nashik district this season and has made arrangements to ensure that farmers get adequate seeds and fertilisers.. Maize, cotton, bajra, moong, urad, soybean, jowar and bajra are the major kharif crops in the region. In the 2019 kharif season, the state agriculture department had projected kharif sowing on 6.36 lakh ha in the district . “This year, we have projected 6.33 lakh ha. We are also planning to promote sowing of moong, tur, urad and soybean acreage in the district instead of maize and bajra,” said agricultural department officials. Maize is the second largest crop under kharif cultivation in the district. This year, sowing of maize has been projected on 2.25 lakh ha. Actual kharif sowing of maize last year was 2.23 lakh ha. Bajra sowing operations are expected to be undertaken on 1.05 lakh ha as against 1.10 lakh ha last year. The paddy plantation of bajra, which is the third major kharif crop in the district, is expected to be done on 88,000ha this year, against 93,000ha last year. Apart from this, soybean and cotton have been projected on 75,500ha and 45,000ha, respectively, while other crops will be cultivated on 95,200ha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kharif-sowing-to-be-on-6-33-lakh-ha/articleshow/75874435.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 22, 2020||Madurai||7 booked for posts against temple fest||Madurai: Seven people were booked in two separate cases for making derogatory remarks against the celestial wedding held at the Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple. The celestial wedding took place on May 4 in a minimalistic manner, without the usual grandeur associated with the event. Many criticized the event through social media sites including Facebook. Some people also made derogatory comments about the event. Online complaints were registered against these people at various police stations. Based on a complaint from Anandan from Erode, a case was registered at the Meenakshi Amman Temple station against Manoharan, Siva, Rajini, Selvendran and Aravindan. In a complaint filed by VHP Madurai district president Chandrasekaran, a case was registered at the SS Colony police station against Anto Leony and Kaleem Mohammed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-booked-for-posts-against-temple-fest/articleshow/75877168.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Woman, sons injured in bomb attack, dog dies||Madurai: A 34-year-old woman and her two sons suffered injuries when her brother and his friend allegedly hurled country-made bombs at them at Palamedu in Madurai district on Thursday. The woman’s dog, which bit one of the bombs, died on the spot. Police arrested one of the accused, and are on the look for the other. The accused have been identified as M Murugan, 30, and his friend T Chinnadurai, 55. Police identified the injured as S Selvarani, 34, of Sadayaperumal Kovil Street in Ramakavundanpatti and her sons S Kathiresan, 12, and Kavinbarat, 10, both are studying in a local school in class six and five. According to Palamedu police, Selvarani’s younger brother Murugan often visist her after boozing. He was consuming alcohol quite regularly, which did not go well with her. On Wednesday an angered Selvarani asked him not to visit her again. Murugan went to his friend Chinnadurai and narrated the incident. The two decided to threaten Selvarani so that she would not question him again. They took four bombs to Selvarani’s house. When she came out, Chinnadurai picked up a quarrel with her and hurled the bombs one by one. Only one of them went off with a big blast injuring the three. Her dog bit one of the bombs and it went off killing dog on the spot. Selvarani and her injured children were treated in a nearby hospital. On being alerted, a police team from Palamedu station rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry.  They recovered the remaining two bombs. A police officer said that an FIR has been registered based on a complaint by Selvarani under IPC Section 307 – attempt murder and under the Sections of Explosives Act 1884.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-sons-injured-in-bomb-attack-dog-dies/articleshow/75877162.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||Restaurants have suffered loss of hundreds of crores in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The restaurant industry, which has recorded a slump after estimated hundreds of crores of rupees loss in the lockdown, resumed partial operations on Thursday to a moderate response. With business restricted to home delivery and not enough manpower, owners could cater to only a few customers. Only half of the total organized restaurants in the city opened. Businessman Sandeep Ahuja, who runs a major restaurant in Hazratganj, said that the response was decent on the first day with 30-35 customers ordering in. “Our industry has suffered a great loss, but we are hoping that we will revive it soon,” he said. However, city-based entrepreneur Rahul Khanna, who runs 10 outlets of his restaurant chain, said that due to low customer response, his restaurant might shut operations after a week. “From sanitisation of our outlets to the sanitisation of our kitchen, medical checks of our staff members and maintaining proper hygiene, we have done it all. Our staff is not here, only 10% of our local staff is working. Due to the virus, the customer response is slow. People are not comfortable with restaurants and eateries the way they were before. Looking at the current scenario, we are opening our outlets for a week, and depending on the response, we will continue or discontinue our work,” said Khanna. According to UP Hotel and Restaurants Association, the hospitality industry in the state has suffered losses of hundreds of crores in the past two months and doesn’t see a road to revival before 2021. General secretary of the association Garish Oberoi said, “Businesses are struggling to find a way to pay their employees and rent. Most landlords demand a fixed monthly rent, which along with manpower, consumes 40-50% of restaurant revenues. Another challenge the industry is facing is that deliveries will only add up to a small percentage of the usual profit the eating outlets make. Big food chains have their SOPs in place but small eating joints will have to make countless amends. The hotel, restaurant and tourism industry was the first to be hit by the pandemic and will be the last to revive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/restaurants-have-suffered-loss-of-hundreds-of-crores/articleshow/75878145.cms||Aditi Singh
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Video calls to help clear RTI appeals||PUNE: In a first of its kind move, Amravati division information commissioner Sambhaji Surkunde has decided to start hearing cases using video calls to reduce pendency during the pandemic. Over 60,000 Right To Information (RTI) cases remain pending in the state. From June 1, a new software will be used to clear pendency, assign cases and status, Surkunde told TOI. With more than 8,000 cases pending in the division, Surkunde said that he has chalked out a detailed plan for the hearing schedule. “All information commissioners can start this process. One has to learn to find alternatives and help address the situation,” he said. Surkunde has also issued a master notice to address the situation so that all information officials must first reply to the cases. This would help clear up 90% cases. Eventually, the process will be completed via a video call. The special software will assess all pending cases and provide the person a hearing date on the video call. The concerned government departments have been alerted on the same. Chief information commissioner Sumit Mullik said that directions would be made available on the website. Cases under section 7 (1) that involve life and liberty can be emailed to the authority and a hearing would be held via video conferencing. “Mumbai being an epicentre of the pandemic, we have to keep a proper perspective as all departments are involved in helping out during the pandemic. Next month onwards, we will see whether video calls can be worked out,” he said. He further added that 60,000 cases had been pending for the last three years. Mullik said efforts had been made to appoint all commissioners as well as create three additional posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/video-calls-to-help-clear-rti-appeals/articleshow/75878136.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur administration ropes in private hospital to treat Covid-19 patients||KOLHAPUR: Solapur city has registered 18 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday with the total count (city and district) going up to 488. The district administration has now roped in a private hospital from the city to treat Covid-19 patients. Out of the 18 new cases, 11 are of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) while rest are close contacts of positive patients. In an order issued on May 20, district collector Milind Shambharkar has instructed the health department officials to get the private hospital ready with all the required facilities and equipment to treat critical patients. The order, a copy of which is with the TOI, stated that the Solapur Municipal Corporation (SMC) had sent a proposal of taking over the city-based Shri Markandey Solapur Co-operative Hospital and Research Centre and convert it to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The new facility will have bed capacity of 200. “The district civil surgeon has been asked to make all the necessary arrangements and check if all the protocols are being followed. The staff members, including the medical officers, should be trained accordingly. The decision has been made mandatory as per the disaster management act, 2005,” the order further stated. When contacted, Solapur dstrict civil surgeon Pradip Dhele told TOI, “They have taken over the said hospital as a precautionary measure. If required, more hospitals will be taken over in the future.” He added that they had also received complaints from some areas of the city that the outpatient department (OPD) of the private hospitals are not functional and many hospitals and clinics are closed, after which we have advised the private hospitals to keep their operations on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-admin-ropes-in-pvt-hosp-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/75874475.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Safety measures help men in khaki to keep Covid-19 at bay in Nashik||NASHIK: At a time when around 1,300 policemen from across the state have been infected with Covid-19 and some have even succumbed to the infection, not a single personnel from the Nashik city police have contracted the viral infection. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil told TOI that he had adopted a three-pronged strategy to safeguard 3,300 police personnel and 290 officers from the infection. “So far, my plans have yielded positive results as no one from the Nashik police has got infected. Since the virus is here to stay, I have told my entire team to continue taking precautions. We cannot be lax by ignoring the precautions that we have been taking so far,” said Nangare Patil. So far, as many as 51 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the city. Many policemen accompanied the health workers while tracing the hogh-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. Many were also deployed in containment zones to ensure people did not venture out of their homes needlessly. Despite the huge pressure of enforcing the lockdown in the city, the police commissioner ensured that no one worked beyond eight hours. “We planned our deployment in a proper manner during lockdown so that policemen could go home after eight hours of duty and get adequate rest. We also distributed homeopathy and Vitamic C tablets among the entire police force to boost their immunity,” said Nangare Patil. He also used about Rs 13 lakh from the police welfare fund to provide new thermos flasks to the entire team so that they could have lukewarm water to quench their thirst while on duty. Of the latest measures taken to ensure the safety of the personnel, the policemen were provided with special wrist watches which provided information about their body temperature, blood pressure, etc that was connected through a server to a dashboard at the police head office which was monitored by senior police officers. Nangare Patil said that the safety of his entire team would continue to be one of his top priorities amid the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/safety-measures-help-men-in-khaki-to-keep-covid-19-at-bay-in-nashik/articleshow/75874446.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||24-year-old arrested for raping his 7-year-old niece in Kheri||Bareilly: A 7-year-old girl was raped by her uncle inside her house in a village in Dhaurahra of Lakhimpur Kheri late on Wednesday. A complaint was registered by the victim’s mother at Dhaurahra police station on Thursday. The girl was then sent for treatment and medical examination, after which, police launched a massive manhunt in the village and caught the accused while he was trying to leave the village.According to police, the girl lives in a joint family, in which the breadwinners — her father and her uncle — are farmers. On Wednesday night, the girl was sleeping next to her uncle, who is unmarried, while her parents were sleeping in the courtyard of the house. She was raped sometime during the night. Next morning, she complained of pain in her private parts and told her mother that her uncle had “touched her”.Figuring out what had happened, the mother took her to the police station and had an FIR registered without informing her husband. Dhaurahra circle officer Seetanshu Kumar told TOI, “We immediately registered an FIR under sections of rape and POCSO Act. The accused has been arrested and will be sent to jail on Friday. The girl’s medical examination was done by a government doctor, and her condition is stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/24-year-old-arrested-for-raping-his-7-year-old-niece-in-kheri/articleshow/75875881.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man held on charge of live-in partner’s murder||PUNE: A 28-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday from Kasarwadi for strangulating his live-in partner to death on Tuesday night. The suspect, Mahesh Khandagale, on Wednesday morning informed the victim’s mother that her daughter had ended her life by hanging from the ceiling. During the questioning, Khandagale admitted to have killed the woman as he suspected her fidelity. Senior inspector Shankar Autade of the Bhosari police said the woman had deserted her husband and lived with Khandagale. “Her mother had given her permission to marry Khandagale,” he said. Autade said Khandagale revealed that he was pursuing the woman for marriage, but she was reluctant. “He had started suspecting her fidelity. They had a brawl on Tuesday night over the issue and Khandagale strangulated the woman to death in a fit of rage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-live-in-partners-murder/articleshow/75878141.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Mumbai||HC sets aside $3.5m arbitration award against Jackie Shroff, calls it ‘perverse’||MUMBAI: In a legal win for actor Jackie Shroff, Bombay high court has set aside a November 2014 arbitration award that would have required him to pay $3.5 million (around Rs 26.5 crore) in liquidated damages to a former business partner. In its May 19 judgment, an HC bench of Justice S C Gupte said the award and its conclusion, passed by a former Supreme Court judge as a sole arbitrator, “is not just plainly wrong but exhibits an unmitigated perversity and is shocking to the conscience of the court, to say the least.” Justice Gupte said the award “is partly based on no evidence, partly on non-application of mind, and partly by a wholesale misapplication of law resulting in miscarriage of justice”. The award against Shroff was based on a finding that a letter his wife Ayesha had written amounted to a breach of one of the dispute settlement terms. The term allegedly flouted was to not complain again about allegations Shroff had made in a criminal complaint against his former partner. The arbitrator found Ayesha had written a letter as his agent. The HC said there was no evidence to indicate she was his “agent’’ and there was “no proof’’ that any loss was caused because of the letter. Shroff and R S Iyer were shareholders in an Indian company and entered into a joint venture in 1995 with a broadcasting group to set up a television channel. In 2005-06, a dispute arose and in 2010, Shroff filed a complaint with the economic offences wing. In 2011, a settlement deed was executed between the shareholders to withdraw the complaint and, on its withdrawal, $1.5 million was to be released to Shroff from an escrow account and an additional $2 million was to be kept in another escrow account to be released on completion of sale of the shares. While Shroff’s counsel Arif Bookwalla and Shyam Dewani argued that the award be set aside, Iyer’s counsel Rahul Narichani and Ankita Singhania opposed his petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-sets-aside-3-5m-arbitration-award-against-jackie-shroff-calls-it-perverse/articleshow/75877173.cms||Swati Deshpande
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: 4 women held, minor girl booked for attacking policemen||PUNE: The Yerawada police on Thursday arrested four women and booked a minor girl for pelting stones at four policemen and abusing them when they had gone to arrest a criminal on record at Laxminagar around 2pm on Wednesday. The criminal — Dada, alias Vinod Kamble — wielding a sickle was in the process of looking for his neighbour to attack him as the man had filed a complaint against him, when a police team of five reached the spot to arrest him. “The police team chased Kamble but he rushed into his house. The five women deterred the policemen from taking Kamble into custody by hurling abuses and pelting stones at them,” said sub-inspector Shubangi Magdum from the Yerawada police. “Constable Sagar Kotwal sustained a minor injury on his left hand. Amid the commotion, Kamble fled from his residence,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-women-held-minor-girl-booked-for-attacking-policemen/articleshow/75878139.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 22, 2020||Delhi||As parks reopen, Delhi takes corona restrictions in stride||NEW DELHI: West Kidwai Nagar resident R K Beniwal, an orthopaedic surgeon, hadn’t been able to go for his morning jogs for two months and was making do with yoga at home. On Thursday, he had a pleasant surprise at Lodhi Gardens. “I was here by chance,” he said, elated to see that the green space favoured by early-morning walkers had reopened But it wasn’t quite the regular sight that the 52-year-old saw around him. When the garden opened at 7am after the Covid-19 closure, as did Nehru Park a couple of kilometres away, the regulars who congregate there for exercises and the casual visitors alike were protected by face masks, face shields, even surgical caps. “This is the new normal. We have to live with Covid-19 for two-three years at least,” Dr Beniwal remarked. “This is a good start to regaining normalcy.” On Wednesday New Delhi Municipal Council had issued an order reopening parks and gardens in its areas, including Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park and Talkatora Garden, “for the limited purpose of walking, jogging and running on the walking tracks from May 21 till further orders”. These green areas are to be open between 7am and 10am and from 3.30pm and 6.30pm. At Talkatora Garden, however, the gates were still closed. “Kagaz nahi aaya humare yaha (We are yet to receive a written order to reopen),” a guard said. Nakul Gill, 31, who lives in Gole Market, was disappointed. Drinking “herbal juice” at a stall nearby, he said, “I will come tomorrow. Hopefully, the kagaz will have come by then.” Naveen Gupta had no such problems at the sprawling Nehru Park. Deprived of his daily workout, he persevered at home using apps for instructions. He read the news about the reopening and was there on Thursday. “Reopening is a good idea provided we take precautionary measures and maintain social distancing,” the 46-year-old Sarvapriya Vihar resident said. Many people met their walking buddies “after ages”, but kept a safe distance from each other. Some came with their dogs, others to feed the stray canines in the parks. A few jogged, but most walked on the manicured, if slightly unkempt, pathways. Some performed yoga, while a 25-year-old could be seen shadowboxing. There were a couple of cases of spitting detected, despite an enhanced fine of Rs 1,000 since April under the Disaster Management Act for urinating and/or spitting in the open, both acts that risk visitors to Covid-19 infection. “People just don’t seem to care,” rued Lajpat Nagar resident Sonam Tobgyal, 50, who was there with his 17-year-old son Deva. “In these troubled times, you must care about yourself and for those around you.” Delhi has over 18,000 parks and gardens spread across 8,000 hectares. While globally, experts remain divided about whether opening of green spaces will lead to crowding or spreading of infection through touching of park equipment, many argue for resumption accompanied by capping of visitors. “Walking is a must for immunity,” insisted B K Narula, 64, of Defence Colony, a regular at Lodhi Garden since 1983.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-parks-reopen-delhi-takes-corona-restrictions-in-stride/articleshow/75878164.cms||Ritam Halder
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||MP: After sweet shops, eateries; salons & beauty parlours to open from today||BHOPAL: If you are itching for a haircut or desperate for a shave, there is some good news for you. After sweets’ shops, eateries, hotels and restaurants, state government has allowed opening of salons and beauty parlours across MP, including the red zones, from Friday. Bhopal is among the 10 red zone districts in the state. An order issued by principal secretary, home, L N Mishra, however, puts stringent hygienic conditions for the salons and beauty parlours to operate. It includes use of hand sanitizer before entry into a salon or a beauty parlour, use of face mask, mandatory head cover and apron by the barbers, use of disposable towel/paper for each customer, sanitizing of machines and equipment after each use, sanitizing of hand by the barber after each haircut and disinfecting common area, floor, lift, lounge, stairs and handrails. Meanwhile, sweets’ shops, eateries, hotels and restaurants, which have been allowed to operate in the lockdown-4 for takeaway facility, are attracting good crowd though the managers at these places have ensured that a crowd doesn’t assemble at the counter or the restaurant’s gate. Coffee House near Jyoti Talkies has put all the chairs upside down so that nobody sits on them while Manohar Sweets is not allowing anyone to come in, giving you the “take home menu” in your vehicle itself, the guards taking orders and serving it in the vehicle itself. The “take home menu” is quite a curtailed one -- getting a samosa or jalebi is still difficult. However, unlike eateries, hardware, electrical shops, electronic showrooms and opticians, which also have the permission to operate through home delivery, have not been able to find customers. Ahead of lockdown-4, district collector, Tarun Pithode, had said that these shops, too, can give “take home” facility by taking order online and providing goods to a customer “off counter” when he comes to the shop to fetch his order. Praveen Singh, who has an optical shop, has been opening his shop for the past few days, but is disappointed at the lack of response from customers. “What do we do? I am keeping the shop open from morning to 7 pm, but there are no customers. I feel it has more to do with the people’s mindset. In the past two months, people are not buying anything but essential goods. In the summer, you expect people to buy sunglasses, but as of now, it is “non-essential”. The lockdown mindset will take some time to wear off and then only you can expect people to go shopping and markets to pick up. ‘Home delivery’ methods won’t help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-sweet-shops-eateries-salons-beauty-parlours-to-open-from-today/articleshow/75875883.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 22, 2020||Jodhpur||1,000 migrants test Covid-19 positive since May 1 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Migrants who tested positive for Covid-19 breached the 1,000 mark in the state, with 151 new cases on Thursday. Since May 1, as many as 1,141 migrants have tested positive for the virus after coming to the state from hotspot districts in states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. The state government, expecting Covid-19 figures to rise with the movement of migrants, had created adequate quarantine facilities. ‘Rajasthan welcoming migrants with open arms’Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier told TOI that there were ‘chances’ of cases rising not only in Rajasthan, but in all other states, and having adequate screening/testing and quarantine facilities was the way forward. After May 1, the state reported 3,606 positive cases, with migrants accounting for 1,141new patients. The state government had made 14-day home quarantine or institutional quarantine mandatory for migrants. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said, “Rajasthan welcomes migrants with open arms and will provide them all support, including the best possible healthcare. Many who travelled from hotspot districts in other states are being screened for influenza like symptoms at borders and being quarantined as per protocol. With early detection and quality care, we expect all to be treated and discharged soon.” Singh said that since migrants are travelling from hotspots like Mumbai, Indore, Surat, Ahmedabad, the possibility of them testing positive cannot be ruled out. Tribal-dominated Dungarpur district is the most affected, where scores of migrants have come over the past few days, leading to a spike in Covid-19 cases. “There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur four days ago, but now the cases have increased to 275, out of which 261 are migrants. They came in buses mostly from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. The other districts which are affected by migrants are Jalore (120), Pali (111), Nagaur (85), Sirohi (70), Rajsamand (64) and Jodhpur (60). A health department official in Pali said that eight tested positive on Thursday. Out of those, six had travelled from Mumbai by train and reached here. As many as 36 tested positive on Wednesday, who had travelled by trains from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Keeping a close eye on the movement of migrants, health minister Raghu Sharma said, “At least 7.25 lakh migrants have reached Rajasthan and are kept in home quarantine. However, 35,000 migrants have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities in different districts.” The state government is expecting more migrants. Officials claimed that 13 lakh have registered to enter the state and six lakh to go out to other states. Sharma said workers coming from other states , should follow quarantine norms properly so that others, who have spent two months in lockdown, do not get affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/1k-migrantstest-covid-19positive-sincemay-1-in-state/articleshow/75887574.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Udaipur||1,000 migrants test Covid-19 positive since May 1 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Migrants who tested positive for Covid-19 breached the 1,000 mark in the state, with 151 new cases on Thursday. Since May 1, as many as 1,141 migrants have tested positive for the virus after coming to the state from hotspot districts in states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. The state government, expecting Covid-19 figures to rise with the movement of migrants, had created adequate quarantine facilities. ‘Rajasthan welcoming migrants with open arms’Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier told TOI that there were ‘chances’ of cases rising not only in Rajasthan, but in all other states, and having adequate screening/testing and quarantine facilities was the way forward. After May 1, the state reported 3,606 positive cases, with migrants accounting for 1,141new patients. The state government had made 14-day home quarantine or institutional quarantine mandatory for migrants. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said, “Rajasthan welcomes migrants with open arms and will provide them all support, including the best possible healthcare. Many who travelled from hotspot districts in other states are being screened for influenza like symptoms at borders and being quarantined as per protocol. With early detection and quality care, we expect all to be treated and discharged soon.” Singh said that since migrants are travelling from hotspots like Mumbai, Indore, Surat, Ahmedabad, the possibility of them testing positive cannot be ruled out. Tribal-dominated Dungarpur district is the most affected, where scores of migrants have come over the past few days, leading to a spike in Covid-19 cases. “There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur four days ago, but now the cases have increased to 275, out of which 261 are migrants. They came in buses mostly from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. The other districts which are affected by migrants are Jalore (120), Pali (111), Nagaur (85), Sirohi (70), Rajsamand (64) and Jodhpur (60). A health department official in Pali said that eight tested positive on Thursday. Out of those, six had travelled from Mumbai by train and reached here. As many as 36 tested positive on Wednesday, who had travelled by trains from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Keeping a close eye on the movement of migrants, health minister Raghu Sharma said, “At least 7.25 lakh migrants have reached Rajasthan and are kept in home quarantine. However, 35,000 migrants have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities in different districts.” The state government is expecting more migrants. Officials claimed that 13 lakh have registered to enter the state and six lakh to go out to other states. Sharma said workers coming from other states , should follow quarantine norms properly so that others, who have spent two months in lockdown, do not get affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/1k-migrantstest-covid-19positive-sincemay-1-in-state/articleshow/75887573.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||1,000 migrants test Covid-19 positive since May 1 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Migrants who tested positive for Covid-19 breached the 1,000 mark in the state, with 151 new cases on Thursday. Since May 1, as many as 1,141 migrants have tested positive for the virus after coming to the state from hotspot districts in states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. The state government, expecting Covid-19 figures to rise with the movement of migrants, had created adequate quarantine facilities. ‘Rajasthan welcoming migrants with open arms’Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier told TOI that there were ‘chances’ of cases rising not only in Rajasthan, but in all other states, and having adequate screening/testing and quarantine facilities was the way forward. After May 1, the state reported 3,606 positive cases, with migrants accounting for 1,141new patients. The state government had made 14-day home quarantine or institutional quarantine mandatory for migrants. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said, “Rajasthan welcomes migrants with open arms and will provide them all support, including the best possible healthcare. Many who travelled from hotspot districts in other states are being screened for influenza like symptoms at borders and being quarantined as per protocol. With early detection and quality care, we expect all to be treated and discharged soon.” Singh said that since migrants are travelling from hotspots like Mumbai, Indore, Surat, Ahmedabad, the possibility of them testing positive cannot be ruled out. Tribal-dominated Dungarpur district is the most affected, where scores of migrants have come over the past few days, leading to a spike in Covid-19 cases. “There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur four days ago, but now the cases have increased to 275, out of which 261 are migrants. They came in buses mostly from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. The other districts which are affected by migrants are Jalore (120), Pali (111), Nagaur (85), Sirohi (70), Rajsamand (64) and Jodhpur (60). A health department official in Pali said that eight tested positive on Thursday. Out of those, six had travelled from Mumbai by train and reached here. As many as 36 tested positive on Wednesday, who had travelled by trains from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Keeping a close eye on the movement of migrants, health minister Raghu Sharma said, “At least 7.25 lakh migrants have reached Rajasthan and are kept in home quarantine. However, 35,000 migrants have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities in different districts.” The state government is expecting more migrants. Officials claimed that 13 lakh have registered to enter the state and six lakh to go out to other states. Sharma said workers coming from other states , should follow quarantine norms properly so that others, who have spent two months in lockdown, do not get affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1k-migrantstest-covid-19positive-sincemay-1-in-state/articleshow/75878151.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Exodus raises concerns about migrant kids’ education||Bengaluru: The largescale exodus of migrant labourers has triggered concerns about the education of their children, who too are leaving the city and the state. While some educationists say there could be a rise in the number of out-of-school children, others think it’s too early to understand the impact.“Families from north Karnataka and Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border are likely to return to the city and their children might get back to school. The worry is about those who have gone back to north India. Many of them may not return soon,” said Rizwan Ahmed, Gubbachi Learning Centre, that works with migrant children. Mom Banerjee, founder of Samridhdhi Trust said: “While those who are in the higher classes might continue schooling once they return, the uncertainty is around new enrolments. Even if a migrant labourer comes back to the city, he might not bring his family along the first time. A child aged six or seven, who is to enrol this year, might not join school at all and this may affect enrolment figures.”Educationists also point to the possibility of low-income parents pulling their children out of low-budget private schools. “Pushed to the wall, budget schools will be forced to collect fees from parents. With livelihoods affected, many may not be able to continue with private schools and might get their wards shifted to government institutions,” said Rizwan.Government school principals say they have to wait and watch to understand the numbers in schools next year. “Of the 600 children in my school, around 100 come from migrant families. Many of them have gone back to their hometowns. If reopening of schools gets delayed by several months, they might decide to stay back in their natives,” said Neelakantappa, headmaster, Government Higher Primary School, Doddakannelli.Malathi P, headmistress of Government Lower Primary School, Kasavanahalli, where 40 of the 125 students are from migrant families, said she is unsure of their return. “I did not create any WhatsApp group for parents. Considering many are struggling even to get basic ration, how can they afford data? I have advised them to stay safe,” she said. However, Dileep Ranjekar, CEO, Azim Premji Foundation, believes it’s too early to judge the impact. “We do not have data on the number of children (of migrant labourers) in the city, how many moved out or how many are bound to return. Numbers in schools might change either because of the largescale migration or because parents may not be wanting to send their children to school fearing virus spread,” he said.Education department officials said the Student Achievement Tracking System will help the department track all students in the state. A student can get enrolled in a school in his hometown or village using the nine-digit track number. The Karnataka government had drafted a new education policy — Rights of Children of Migrants and Migrant Labourers-2019 — for children of migrant labourers.TIMES VIEWChildren of migrant labourers have always lived on the margins, often turning dropouts after a few years of formal schooling. The mass migrant displacement will only exacerbate their condition. Back to their hometown, many might have to discontinue schooling, more so because of the dire financial straits their families find themselves in. While the real picture will emerge only when schools reopen, the missing footprints from campuses will take India back by decades. Our education system cannot afford to blur out this section of the populace, for the consequences will be hugely detrimental to the country’s growth story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/exodus-raises-concerns-about-migrant-kids-education/articleshow/75877143.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Colleges allow students to take term-end exams from home||Bengaluru: After online classes, some city colleges have decided to let students take exams from home. Some institutions will conduct end of semester exams online to avoid delay in the academic calendar. Christ (deemed to be university), which held its admission test through the virtual mode, will conduct final-year exams online in June. It may be recalled that the varsity’s first attempt to hold the test online was marred by technical glitches and it had to change the implementing agency to successfully conduct it the second time. “Students will not be able to visit the campus in June or July for exams. Apart from their safety, we are also concerned about their future, including placements. Students from 60 countries will take the exams. Students with internet connectivity issues, like those in Jammu and Kashmir, will get a chance to sit for offline exams later. We will do a mock test a week before exams,” explained Fr Abraham V, vice-chancellor, Christ (deemed to be university). Around 7,000 students will take the exams beginning May 26. Oxford College of Science, affiliated to Bangalore University, has conducted two days of online exams. “The first step was to create a question paper that will not help students if they consult books or other resources. All faculties worked overtime to prepare question papers in regular university format: one section of multiple-choice questions and two sections of descriptive ones,” said a release. “The institution partnered with Campus.Technology to develop an app-based solution. The app is specifically designed to work on low bandwidth high latency environment. Faculties upload regular question papers on the portal with text and images. Students log in through the mobile app, and once the assessment is enabled, they can start submitting answers. The system will automatically prevent submission of answers once the time is over and assessment is disabled,” it added. NLSIU to hold open-book examsNational Law School of India University will go ahead with exams as per schedule, though not online. “Though we evaluated vendors, we realised internet network is not robust everywhere, especially for a long period. NLSIU has a history of successfully conducting open-book exams for several years. While it was a small community taking such exams, the option will be mandatory for all this time. Draft guidelines have been sent to students on how exams will be taken from home,” said Prof Sudhir Krishnaswamy, VC, NLSIU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colleges-allow-students-to-take-term-end-exams-from-home/articleshow/75875745.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Biodiversity flyover open to public||Hyderabad: The Biodiversity junction flyover (level-1) was thrown open to public on Thursday. It was inaugurated by education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy in the presence of MAUD minster KT Rama Rao. “The first level flyover at Biodiversity would ease traffic congestion by providing free movement at the junction. It will provide relief to traffic moving on Old Mumbai Highway from Gachibowli to Mehdipatnam (Raidurg),” read a statement by GHMC. KTR instructed Serilingampally MLA Arekapudi Gandhi, Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan and GHMC officials to spruce up the Khajaguda lake into a lake front. The ongoing works pertaining to link roads in GHMC’s Serilingampally zone were also inspected by the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biodiversity-flyover-open-to-public/articleshow/75877603.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Snake spottings on the rise since start of lockdown in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With wildlife wandering into the city becoming a regular feature during the lockdown, many citizens have reported spotting snakes in the city over the last few weeks. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials walking into gated communities, to check if home quarantine guidelines are being adhered to, received numerous complaints from residents over the presence of serpents in their residential complexes. A few days back, a snake was rescued from Meenakshi Sky Lounge on Hitex Road. In April, society members of the same building had complained about snakes in their residential complex when civic officials visited their place to review the status of foreign returnees under home quarantine. “The snake was rescued by pest control services staff. I request the government to clean the lake adjacent to our society and treat the water too,” said G Prashant, a resident of the housing society. Meanwhile, Friends of Snakes Society (FSS), an NGO, received around 60 calls from residential localities in the city on an average each day, since Monday. Members of the society said that before the lockdown was imposed, most of the calls they received would be from factories. However post lockdown, calls are coming in from residential localities too. “I have seen a snake at least six times inside my apartment complex since the lockdown began. It has not been rescued yet, ” said Ridhima V, a resident of Trendset Sumanjali on Road No 5 in Banjara Hills. A resident from Kukatpally Housing Board Colony said that his family and neighbours were living in fear until the snake in their apartment was rescued on Monday. “As people are not venturing out, they are spotting more snakes,” said Friends of Snake Society general secretary Avinash Visvanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/snakes-have-free-run-as-people-stay-indoors/articleshow/75877550.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||No Juma-tul-Vida prayers in Hyderabad for first time in 423 years||HYDERABAD: For the first time in 423 years the historic precincts of Mecca Masjid, Jama Masjid and Charminar will not witness the congregational Juma-tul-Vida prayers on Friday due to the coronavirus induced lockdown. The landmark monuments of Hyderabad will not reverberate with the prayers and supplication of the devout on May 22, the last Friday of Ramzan. Charminar was the first mosque after the city was founded in 1591 CE. Seven years later Jama Masjid, the first congregational mosque was constructed and the Mecca Masjid joined these two in 1694. For the last four centuries, these three iconic structures have always been the centre of the observance of the fasting month of Ramzan, Eid shopping and prayers. Though there had been three instances of mosques being closed during Ramzan in 429 years of Hyderabad — due to outbreaks of plague, Spanish influenza and cholera — there are no such records to show that the two grand mosques — Mecca Masjid and Jama Masjid — were closed. Even during major calamities including 1908 Musi Deluge and the breakout of World War I in 1914 in which princely Hyderabad had actively supported the British. When the kingdom of Golconda was under siege by the Mughal army led by Aurangzeb in 1687, congregational prayers were offered at the Jama Masjid adjoining Charminar. The Mecca Masjid was still under construction then. A look at historical data reveals that Juma-tul-Vida coincided with the siege of Golconda that lasted for about eight months. The siege ended on September 22, 1687. That year Ramzan began on July 11 and Juma-tul-Vida fell on August 8. Aurangzeb and his army had camped at what is now Fateh Maidan and drank water from the Hussainsagar lake. The siege and associated political uncertainty and military tension did not deter people from offering congregational prayers. While Juma-tul-Vida occurred on August 21, 1914 after World War I began on July 28. Ramzan occurred two months after the World War II began on September 1, 1939 and Juma-tul-Vida fell on November 10 that year. The Ramzan of 1948 was observed under tension and threat of military action in 1948. Forty-seven days after Juma-tul-Vida the Police Action began leading to the merger of princely Hyderabad with Indian Union. On all these occasions the prayers went on at the three historic monuments — Charminar, Mecca Masjid and Jama Masjid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-juma-tul-vida-prayers-in-hyd-for-first-time-in-423-yrs/articleshow/75877662.cms||Syed Akbar
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Upset husband of patient sets ablaze vehicles in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Upset over his wife testing positive for coronavirus, a 26-year-old painter set ablaze three vehicles while under the influence of alcohol at Bapunagar in Langar Houz on Tuesday night. Police booked him for arson and sent him for quarantine along with two of his friends. Last Saturday, the painter’s wife went to King Koti hospital after experiencing coronavirus symptoms. While her husband was also tested, the hospital sent him home. On Tuesday, her results came back positive and she was sent to Gandhi Hospital. Upset over this, he started consuming alcohol with his two friends and set the vehicles ablaze. “We have registered a case for arson. Along with him, two of his friends were sent to King Koti hospital for quarantine,” Langar Houz inspector K Srinivas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/upset-husband-of-patient-sets-ablaze-vehicles/articleshow/75877614.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Sports physio masters handwriting for therapy||VADODARA: Do you know that your handwriting reveals you? No? Well, Neha Karnik, a sports physiotherapist, came to know about the secret behind handwriting’s Ps and Qs and so has been asking all the Indian athletes to send her handwritten notes. “I learnt graphology from graphologist Shruti Kadakia during the lockdown as I wanted to utilize my time better and this basic course will help me understanding my patients’ personality and their psychology through their handwriting,” said the 34-year-old Barodian, who recently got offer to be physiotherapist of an Olympian Indian athlete. In the profession of treating athletes since 12 years, Karnik has decided to apply graphology – a study of handwriting and symbols – and would be one of the first physiotherapists to use this special technique. Karnik, who has been a physiotherapist for Indian women’s cricket team too, added that athletes frequently suffer physical injuries and have to undergo treatment several times. “I am now emailing the athletes whom I have been treating for the past few months to submit their handwritten notes to me. I will study these and try to understand their psychology and mental health. It will help me in healing their body effectively,” Karnik told TOI. “Injuries affect athletes’ psychology too. Many of them feel depressed or face mental trauma that aggravates their physical problems. I have added another tool of graphology in my kit to ensure that I heal their injuries and keep them mentally fit for playing the sport,” she said. Karnik completed her Bachelors in Physiotherapy from Bangalore before getting Certification in Advanced Sports Rehabilitation from Australia. She has served as a faculty at National Cricket Academy and also treated swimmers, football and badminton players. When asked how she came up with the idea of applying graphology in physiotherapy, Karnik said, “I was treating a 12-year-old boy who plays badminton in January. His father told me that he wasn’t able to focus on field while the father wanted to make him a star. During the treatment, I realised that the boy made no eye contact at all and was filled with rage. But he kept suppressing it thus affecting his behaviour.” It was then that Karnik spoke to a friend who is a graphologist. She studied his handwriting and gave me valuable inputs about the boy’s personality which helped me treat him effectively. “That made me decide on learning graphology,” added Karnik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/physio-turns-handwriting-expert/articleshow/75874030.cms||Tushar Tere
May 22, 2020||Hubballi||Academician calls for suspending classes for an entire year||Against the backdrop of the state government clearing the decks for reopening schools for the coming academic year, Prof MS Hegde, former dean of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru has sounded an ominous note about the consequences of children returning to classrooms. The veteran academician, who is the convener of Talent Development Centre in Chitradurga, the extension unit of the IISc, called on the central government to defer reopening of schools by one year. Prof Hegde expressed fears of Covid-19 spreading to lakhs of people across the country with the easing of the lockdown. “Opening schools and other educational institutions will bring a large section of the populace on the roads for commuting, and this will result in the novel coronavirus infecting more people. It would be a disaster if a large number of children contracted the infection,” Prof Hegde told TOI. Stating that the need of the hour was to protect children from the threat of Covid-19, he added, “Going by the current situation, it appears as though it would not be safe to reopen schools even from October. Instead, it would be safer to reopen educational institutions from March 15, 2021.” All schools and educational institutions have been shut since March 15 this year, and examinations cancelled for students from classes I to IX in Karnataka. Prof Hegde is not too enthused about covering syllabi via online classes. “Nobody, including the teachers, is fully prepared for it. Rural students will be at a disadvantage with such a system. Therefore, it is better to suspend all classes for one year, and have students remain at the same level. They must be exposed to more innovative learning processes, without the stress and pressure that writing examination entails. In this intervening period, they can be taught how to keep their homes clean, growing plants in small space. It is much better if they can do all of this within their homes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/academician-calls-for-suspending-classes-for-an-entire-year/articleshow/75871281.cms||SA Gangaraju
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Emotional homecoming for hawaldar from jail duty||Nagpur: It was a happy moment for Gajana Solanke and 101 other jail staffers, who clapped and shouted ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’, as they stepped out of Nagpur Central Jail after staying inside for 21 days, on Thursday. These staffers were part of the first batch of staff posted inside the jail on May 1, when it became the eighth prison in Maharashtra to go into a ‘lockdown’ mode to stop spread of coronavirus.It was a momentous occasion for Gajanan (50), a hawaldar, as he has undergone an angiography some years back and also suffered a mild paralytic attack in 2018. But he successfully completed this duty in the tense lockdown period.Initially, it was decided that these personnel would stay inside the prison for seven days, but the stay was extended to 21 days. On Thursday, they were replaced by another batch of officers and staff, who would remain on duty inside the jail till further others.Even the new jail inmates are now first placed in a community hall close to the jail. The stay in temporary jail ensures the new inmates do not carry coronavirus into the jail.A lady officer said this was a unique experience for her and the team as they were cut off from the outside world. “We performed the duties with full alertness and are now happy to come out, go home and meet our families. The staffers performed all duties as per jail manuals,” she said. These staffers would again join regular duties outside the jail from Friday.The homecoming itself was an emotional occasion for the Solanke family. Gajanan, who has put in 27 years of service, hails from Kavsa village in Akot taluka of Akola district, and stays in a small quarter in the Hawaldar Colony in Central Jail Premises. His mother Kamal (90), two physically challenged children, Ganesh (22) and Shubham (20), both studying in Dhanwatey National College, and wife Sadhana were eagerly waiting for Gajanan him to return home.Sadhana and her niece Jaishree, who has been stranded at their place since the lockdown, were ready with an aarti thali to welcome Gajanan at the entrance. It was an emotional moment when Gajanan touched the feet of his mother Kamal, to take her blessings. She embraced him with tears in her eyes.Ganesh said, “It is a proud moment for our family that my father, who himself has gone through such hardships in his life, didn’t care for his health and performed his duties, We are proud of him.”Anuskha Thakare, a neighbour, and many other kids from the colony too gathered in front of Solanke’s house and clapped for him and the whole family, who had both tears and smiles on their faces. Anup Kumar Kumre, superintendent of Central Jail, said the lockdown mode ensures inmates are safe and secure from coronavirus in jail. “This helped us keep inmates and also our staff safe from the pandemic. We had earlier also provided sanitizers and masks to inmates and staffs since the lockdown was first announced in March,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/emotional-homecoming-for-hawaldar-from-jail-duty/articleshow/75877175.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Citing TOI report, HC raps Telangana over abnormal price hikes||HYDERABAD: Stating that tamarind and lentils are two essential ingredients for south Indian households, the Telangana high court on Thursday found fault with the state’s civil supplies department and police authorities for their inability to arrest the abnormal rise in prices of the two commodities during the lockdown. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy which converted a news item carried by TOI — in its edition dated March 24, 2020 — into a PIL, said that it was unfortunate that while state had managed to restrict people inside their homes, it could not send hoarders and black marketers behind bars. “No one should be allowed to exploit the helplessness of the people during this pandemic,” the bench said. The bench went through the report of additional DGP (legal) Rajiv Ratan and said that only 290 cases were booked against black traders all over the state till May 13. “There are scores of people who are responsible for the abnormal (price) increase in the essential commodities and the state could lay its hands on only a few people,” the bench said. The bench which had earlier got the markets studied by state legal services authority’s member secretary sought corrective action from the state machinery because the report suggested huge hikes in the prices of several vegetables, fruits and mutton. “State is not invoking its own circulars issued under the provisions of Essential Commodities Act and the less number of cases booked show that the state is not serious enough to tackle the menace,” the CJ said. “...The report of the ADGP spoke only about Hyderabad and Cyberabad and nothing was stated about the rest of the state,” he added. Advocate general BS Prasad told the bench that the state machinery is taking action against errant players whenever it came across incidents of unlawful price hikes. The CJ reminded him about the price of dal which is said to be selling at Rs 200 per kilo and the sharp rise in the price of tamarind. The CJ directed the state to file a fresh report by May 26 and posted the case to May 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citing-toi-report-hc-raps-t-over-abnormal-price-hikes/articleshow/75877456.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Higher education dept officer among 27 new cases in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The state capital on Thursday reported 27 new COVID-19 cases. It included an officer on special duty (OSD) in the department of higher education. The office is at Satpura Bhawan, where more than 50 COVID-19 cases were reported among health department employees in March-April earlier this year in the same multi-storey building. According to reports, a number of officials and employees are expected to be tested for COVID-19 following the new case at Satpura Bhawan. The higher education department is housed on the third and fifth floor of the building. Only recently, a directive was given fir 50% of the staff to start coming to the office. Around one dozen people have been sent into quarantine. The OSD found COVID-19 positive was looking after the department’s legal cell. The health department and Directorate of Medical Education (DME) is located on the fifth and sixth floor. In other cases, a woman who got married recently has tested positive for COVID-19. She was admitted to a Bairagarh hospital. It was informed that the bride was infected at Jatkhedi in Bhopal and 35 members of the marriage party have been quarantined. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that as per the guidelines, outside of infected areas, a maximum 25 persons from bride and groom side each are permitted to attend marriages. However, wedding ceremonies and marriage parties will not be permitted. FIR will be registered in case of violation of the rule. So far, Bhopal has reported 1,115 coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/higher-education-dept-officer-among-27-new-cases-in-city/articleshow/75875903.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, PG medical students to move HC over its fee order||HYDERABAD: The post-graduate (PG) medical aspirants are now planning to move the Telangana high court again seeking clarification over the interim order given by a Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan-headed bench on Wednesday. The aspirants said that they were aggrieved with the portion of the order that said that students have to pay half of the enhanced fee over and above the fee prescribed as per the government order of 2016. “When the overall understanding during the hearing was that students can secure admissions by paying half of the enhanced free, the interim order carrying an additional provision about the 2016 fee would actually take the fee burden to 70 per cent of the enhanced fee,” they claimed. “Our counsel could not hear the last part during video conference hearing and hence left it unopposed,” the students added. When their counsel made a mention before the CJ on this, he assured that they would take it up if the students file their objection in the form of an affidavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-pg-med-students-to-move-hc-over-its-fee-order/articleshow/75877485.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop succumbs to coronavirus in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In the first instance of a policeman succumbing to the novel coronavirus in Telangana, a 2007 batch constable died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment in Gandhi Hospital. Hyderabad police said that the constable, who had been undergoing treatment since May 13 at Gandhi Hospital, died at around 10.30pm. Meanwhile, 40 of his contacts were tested of whom 28 tested negative. Results on the rest are awaited. Confirming the cop’s demise, Telangana DGP M Mahendar Reddy in a tweet said: “#PoliceConstableOfficer Dayakar Reddy a #Covid19FrontLineWarrior of @hydcitypolice died of #CoronaVirus last night @ GandhiHospital. My Heartfelt Condolences to the bereaved family members. The Govt & #TSPolice will standby & support the family in #TheHourOfDistress by all means (sic).” “We suspect that he would have contracted the virus during the enforcement duties, especially when he was in check post duty,’’ Hyderabad police said. Sources said he was suffering from fever in the last 15 days but continued to report for duty. On May 13, when he went to the police station concerned where he is attached, his higher-ups directed him to go to Nature Cure Hospital. Later, he was taken to King Koti Hospital from where he was shifted to Gandhi after testing positive. The cop is survived by his wife and two children. He was cremated late at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-succumbs-to-coronavirus/articleshow/75877607.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||One held for vandalizing vehicles in Pune||PUNE: The Bibvewadi police on Wednesday night arrested a man with criminal records and booked five others, including two minor boys, for vandalising four vehicles at Upper Otta SRA scheme compex. The history-sheeter, Sunny alias Hrishikesh Shinde, and his aides vandalised two cars and autorickshaws of around 4.15am on Wednesday under the influence of alcohol. “Probe revealed that Shinde and others vandalized the vehicles parked along the road for no apparent reason. We have arrested Shinde and a search for the others is on,” sub-inspector Prakash Waghmare from Bibvewadi police said. One of the vehicle owners, Avinash Kadam (26) from Bibvewadi, in his FIR stated that the damage caused to the four vehicles was worth Rs14,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-vandalizing-vehicles/articleshow/75878150.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Videos on TikTok worry netizens; demand to ban platform trends||BENGALURU: #BanTikTok is gaining pace on social media platforms after users have started highlighting problematic videos on the popular app. The content on the platform has worried both parents and users. The platform was in the eye of a storm recently after a video glorifying acid attack went viral. The video was created by a popular TikTok ‘star’ based in Mumbai. The National Commission for Women has asked TikTok India to remove it and Maharashtra police to act against the maker of the video. The app’s rating has crashed from 4.5 stars on May 16 to 1.3 stars on May 20. Bengalureans have taken to Twitter to express their disgust over TikTok videos promoting domestic violence, cruelty towards animals, racism and other issues. Neelam Solanki, mother of a 14-year-old, said TikTok is proving to be a new kind of peer pressure. “I was okay with some harmless challenges earlier, but the perverted content on the platform is giving me sleepless nights,” she said. Subhash Kumar, a businessman, said he realised the gravity of the situation after stumbling upon a TikTok video shared on WhatsApp. “I don’t have the app, but I have seen my kid and his friends making videos. The TikTok video which was shared on WhatsApp made me force my child to delete the app,” he said.  Deepak Kumar, a Twitter user said: “Why doesn’t India TikTok review the content on their platform? Animal abuse, child abuse, vulgarity, objectifying women, (even things that are illegal as per the law), are being promoted and in fact, being glorified there.” TikTok’ s take “Over the last few days, we have acted on several pieces of content that violated our policies. We have taken action including taking down content, suspending the accounts of concerned users and are working with law enforcement agencies, as appropriate,” a TikTok India clarification issued on Tuesday said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/videos-on-tiktok-worry-netizens-demand-to-ban-platform-trends/articleshow/75877167.cms||Farheen Hussain
May 22, 2020||Hubballi||Since lockdown, 74 child marriages prevented in Ballari dist||Ballari: District officials have stopped as many as 74 child marriages from the day the lockdown was declared. While FIRs have been registered in 14 cases, undertakings have been collected from parents in the 60 other instances. Officials however say several child marriages have been conducted in the same period across the districts by parents who took several measures to ensure the weddings do not attract any attention. The parents arranged weddings within the family, did not print wedding cards and avoided relatives and neighbours, officials said. Recently, a 17-year-old girl studying in PUC contacted police and said her parents wanted to get her married without her consent and sought help. A resident of Ballari, the girl had been hidden in Malakanadoddi a remote village of Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh. Ballari officials contacted their counterparts in Kurnool and ensured the girl was rescued. Officials said, this was a rare occasion in which a girl voluntarily requested to stop her wedding, adding that the girls’ boyfriends, neighbours, relatives and the general public tip them off about child marriages. Deputy director of women and child development department R Nagraj said, “Of the 74 child marriages that we stopped since the lockdown, the highest were at Sandur taluk at 26 followed by 18 in Ballari. Twelve of the rescued girls have been kept in a juvenile home for further proceedings.” District child right protection officer Syed Chand Basha told TOI, “At Kolagallu village, parents had taken permission for the wedding of a legal age couple. When we went to the marriage site, we were shocked to see that the parents were also getting a pair of underage children married.” Hosapete CDPO Amerash sought the support of the public to help prevent child marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/since-lockdown-74-child-marriages-prevented-in-ballari-dist/articleshow/75872562.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kozhikode||First batch of NRIs to move out of IQ||Kozhikode: A total of 24 non-resident Indians, who have been staying at quarantine centres in the district, will move to their own houses on Friday. Of them, 22 are staying at the hostel of National Institute of Technology, Kozhikode, and two at paid facilities. They have completed the mandatory quarantine stipulated by the health department. They will leave for their houses in own vehicles. District medical officer Dr V Jayasree has informed that those who are leaving the institutional quarantines should spend another 14 days in home quarantine. After completion of the quarantine period they can contact nearby public health centre for a completion certificate. District administration has arranged 22 quarantine centres for NRKs. Of these, 13 centres are now functional. Besides these, there are four paid centres in the district. In Thrissur, 34 people will be going home on Friday. Five more recover  in WayanadFive Covid-19 patients, including two policemen, who were under treatment at the district hospital at Mananthavady in Wayanad, were discharged on Thursday. Among those who left the hospital include the son and son-in-law of the truck driver who tested positive after his return from TN’s Koyambedu market. A 29-year-old expat from the Gulf too got discharged. With this, the number of patients under treatment in the district has come down to 11. Seven others are under observation in the hospital. The district has not reported any fresh positive case for the last six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/first-batch-of-nris-to-move-out-of-iq/articleshow/75874497.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Reactor blast in chemical unit at Bollaram leaves three injured||Hyderabad: Three persons were injured when a reactor exploded in a chemical unit in IDA Bollaram on Thursday evening. A thick smoke billowed out of the factory for some hours after the blast. Locals in IDA Bollaram and Ameenpur areas were visibly shaken. TSPCB officials said Sree Harsha Organics had leased out the unit to PNM Life Sciences. It took the fire services personnel 20 minutes to control the fire after they were informed about the blast in the PNM unit at 6 pm. Fire officials said the blast occurred in one of the reactors during the solvents’ recovery process. Divisional fire officer, Sangareddy, V Srinivas said three persons were injured and the processing shed collapsed. Senior officials from the factories department and TSPCB also rushed to the spot. Ravi Kumar, environmental engineer, TSPCB, said: “The accident occurred during the recovery of piperazine, an organic compound, from one of the reactors.” Joint chief environmental engineer, TSPCB, inspected the unit.  “It felt as if an explosion occurred beside my house. I saw a thick smoke coming out from the direction of IDA Bollarum,” said RK Yadav, a resident of Narendra Nagar Colony in Ameenpur. Surendra Uplanchiwar from the same area said he heard a loud sound. “I live about 3 km away from the factory site. The explosion felt like the lift at my apartment crashing,” said Surendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reactor-blast-in-chemical-unit-at-bollaram-leaves-three-injured/articleshow/75877694.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Experts call for conservation of biodiversity hotspots||AURANGABAD: Nature experts have appealed for join efforts to protect the few biodiversity hotspots in the city like the Salim Ali Lake, Himayat Baugh, areas in and around the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) and on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) campus. Terming these spots as the lungs of Aurangabad, experts have called for official measures for improving the biodiversity at these places. On the eve of the World Biodiversity Day on Thursday, nature expert Milind Giridhari said the local biodiversity hotspots were facing threat due to the rapid development as well as official neglect. “The biodiversity hotspots in urban limits are as important as those in protected areas for good air quality and other ecological benefits. Aware citizens must create pressure on government to not only protect the existing hotspots, but also to create new ones,” he said. Salim Ali lake is exposed to encroachments and alleged direct release of sewage into the water body while Himayat Baughhas been allegedly at the receiving end of official neglect having lost its fortification wall over the last few years.  The WALMI premises, nestled in a mountain range, has been witnessing rampant construction activities including road works for highways. And the Bamu campus, according to experts, has been losing its diverse biodiversity due to air-pollution and lack of proper conservation approach. “The green-belts proposed in the city can be also developed as biodiversity hotspots, but lack of scientific approach is proving a roadblock. The few green-belts exist only for namesake where exotic trees can be found in abundance instead of indigenous trees,” conservationist Kishor Pathak said. Vijay Patil, garden superintendent for AMC, did not respond to phone calls or text message sent to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/experts-call-for-conservation-of-biodiversity-hotspots/articleshow/75874466.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ajmer||1,000 migrants test Covid-19 positive since May 1 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Migrants who tested positive for Covid-19 breached the 1,000 mark in the state, with 151 new cases on Thursday. Since May 1, as many as 1,141 migrants have tested positive for the virus after coming to the state from hotspot districts in states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. The state government, expecting Covid-19 figures to rise with the movement of migrants, had created adequate quarantine facilities. ‘Rajasthan welcoming migrants with open arms’Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier told TOI that there were ‘chances’ of cases rising not only in Rajasthan, but in all other states, and having adequate screening/testing and quarantine facilities was the way forward. After May 1, the state reported 3,606 positive cases, with migrants accounting for 1,141new patients. The state government had made 14-day home quarantine or institutional quarantine mandatory for migrants. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said, “Rajasthan welcomes migrants with open arms and will provide them all support, including the best possible healthcare. Many who travelled from hotspot districts in other states are being screened for influenza like symptoms at borders and being quarantined as per protocol. With early detection and quality care, we expect all to be treated and discharged soon.” Singh said that since migrants are travelling from hotspots like Mumbai, Indore, Surat, Ahmedabad, the possibility of them testing positive cannot be ruled out. Tribal-dominated Dungarpur district is the most affected, where scores of migrants have come over the past few days, leading to a spike in Covid-19 cases. “There were only 15 cases in Dungarpur four days ago, but now the cases have increased to 275, out of which 261 are migrants. They came in buses mostly from Mumbai,” said a senior health department official in Dungarpur. The other districts which are affected by migrants are Jalore (120), Pali (111), Nagaur (85), Sirohi (70), Rajsamand (64) and Jodhpur (60). A health department official in Pali said that eight tested positive on Thursday. Out of those, six had travelled from Mumbai by train and reached here. As many as 36 tested positive on Wednesday, who had travelled by trains from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Keeping a close eye on the movement of migrants, health minister Raghu Sharma said, “At least 7.25 lakh migrants have reached Rajasthan and are kept in home quarantine. However, 35,000 migrants have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities in different districts.” The state government is expecting more migrants. Officials claimed that 13 lakh have registered to enter the state and six lakh to go out to other states. Sharma said workers coming from other states , should follow quarantine norms properly so that others, who have spent two months in lockdown, do not get affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/1k-migrantstest-covid-19positive-sincemay-1-in-state/articleshow/75887576.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Education department slaps showcause notice on 163 schools for hiking fees||BENGALURU: A total of 163 schools in Bengaluru have been issued showcause notice by the education department for increasing fees for the upcoming academic year, despite the government repeatedly prohibiting them from doing so. The government, in a circular dated April 28, had asked all schools in Karnataka not to hike fees this year in view of Covid-19. Thus far, institutions had been allowed to raise academic fees by 15% every year. However, when schools continued to increase fees despite the warnings, complaints from parents started pouring in, prompting the department to start a helpline for parents to register their grievances. It has received 829 complaints against 163 schools in the past 10 days. Bengaluru South accounted for the highest complaints — 710 against 116 schools. Of these, 261 complaints have been resolved. “All schools have been issued showcause notice. In cases that have been resolved, institutions have withdrawn the hike and informed parents through email or text about their decision,” said an education department official. In Bengaluru North, 45 schools received showcause notices as 113 complaints were registered against them. Apart from 10, all other complaints have been resolved, according to department data. In Bengaluru Rural, two schools came under the scanner as six parents complained against them. All cases have been disposed off. Schools that received notice include popular ones like Vibgyor High. Four of its branches — Horamavu, Marthahalli, Doddanakundi and Katamnallur — were issued notice on May 20. “In order to maintain high standards of academics and overall educational excellence, the decision on annual school fees was taken and parents were informed in February 2020. To ease financial burden for all parents, we further introduced the option of a monthly payment with no extra charge; we are also evaluating the rollout of scholarship schemes and waivers for parents whose earnings are impacted by the pandemic...It’s important that faculty remunerations keep flowing, especially for effective delivery of quality education. In the post-Covid situation, we would want to accentuate academics with digital learning,” said an official response from Vibgyor. Asked whether the school would revoke the fee hike, the school responded: “To maintain continuity in education, our schools have heavily invested in digital assets, which we wish to continue through blended learning. This, in turn, would go a long way in amalgamating different modern methods of learning and benefit children as effects of the pandemic will lead to immense changes in the dispensation of education. We are assessing the situation and will take an appropriate decision in the interest of all stakeholders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dept-slaps-showcause-notice-on-163-schools-for-hiking-fees/articleshow/75875690.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 22, 2020||India||20L migrants return to UP, 10L more expected||LUCKNOW: Over 20 lakh migrant workers have so far returned to UP, almost double of what the government was initially expecting, according to figures available with the administration till Thursday. In the next 10 days, another 10 lakh or so are expected to return.  With nearly 2.6% of symptomatic migrants who have been tested turning Covid-19 positive, districts where a large number of people have returned are proving to be a cause of worry for the administration. Many returning from states like Gujarat, Maharasthra and Delhi belong to the districts which lack industrial development and are considered backward. Districts like Siddharth Nagar, Balrampur, Ambedkar Nagar and Maharajganj have seen around one lakh people or more returning over the past weeks. "A team has been in touch with officials of all districts, councillors and gram pradhans to monitor the home-quarantine situation. It has been making calls to all 75 districts. In districts where a large number of people have returned, we are alerting DMs and ensuring that community surveillance is extremely strong," said an official.  Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi on Thursday said that he has appealed to people coming from other states and the families of these people to come forward if they are showing any symptoms so that their treatment can be started at the right time.  "CM Yogi Adityanath has also said that due to the large number of migrants returning, testing capacity should be increased to 10,000 samples daily. The health department is doing about 7,000 tests every day," Awasthi said. As many as 841 trains carrying migrant workers have arrived in UP till now, including 355 from Gujarat, 181 from Maharashtra, 144 from Punjab, 28 from Rajasthan, 36 from Delhi and 33 from Karnataka. Another 313 are either on the way or will arrive in a couple of days. Awasthi said 11 trains are being operated from Delhi on a daily basis now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/20l-migrants-return-to-up-10l-more-expected/articleshow/75879693.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh: Sri City buzzes with activity amid lockdown lull||HYDERABAD: While the coronavirus pandemic has changed the day-to-day lives and stopped the economic activity in ways one could never have anticipated, Sri City or Satyavedu Reserve Infracity Private Ltd, one of the largest SEZs in the country, in Nellore — where metro coaches to matchboxes to sambar powder to breakfast cereals are made — has bounced back in the midst of an extended lockdown. Around 75 units have commenced work in Sri City, which is not far away from Sullurpet, which is a red zone owing to a series of Covid-19 positive cases reported in the small town. Out of the 148 industrial units in Sri City, located 50 km north of Chennai, popular brands like Kellogg’s, Alstom which manufactures metro coaches, Cadbury, Bluestar, Isuzu, Colgate Palmolive and others — around 100 — are ready to kick-start their operations. While the workforce of around 6,000 have been waiting in the wings, Sri City authorities said the units that have commenced works are strictly complying with the standard operating procedures. As the units are permitted to deploy only those staff residing outside the containment clusters, all the manufacturing industries are facing a severe shortage of workforce. Ravindra Sannareddy, founder MD, Sri City, said works at the industrial park will pick up pace soon. “We are optimistic that in a week’s time situation will improve and the percentage of workforce will go up significantly.” He said Sri City has emerged as one of the leading ‘Make in India’ hubs in the country. “Because of difficulties in bringing employees from green zones and the cumbersome exercise in obtaining inter-state permits for staff to commute, some units are working with minimal staff,” he said. Construction activity is also gradually picking up at different work stations within the industrial city. Sandeep Deoghare, plant manager, Kellogg’s, said the pandemic and the nation-wide lockdown had brought the supply chain to a grinding halt. “We worked with governments to secure permissions to kick off two manufacturing units, including the one in Sri City,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sri-city-buzzes-with-activity-amid-lockdown-lull/articleshow/75877182.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune universities to design online courses for foreign students||PUNE: Universities in Pune have told their foreign students to stay put at home as they are preparing a framework for an online semester, and possibly the whole year. The universities have yet to finalise the mode of assessment and get it approved from the regulatory bodies. Kirti Mahajan, director, International Students’ Cell Bharati Vidyapeeth (deemed to be university) said, “We plan to have an entire semester online for international students. All rules and regulations have to be framed and approved by various governing bodies within the university like the board of studies. If the situation remains grim, we may extend the online classes to another semester as the health of our students is our first priority.” The number of foreign students coming to Pune has declined from 1,804 in 2016 to 1,449 in 2018-2019. Covid-19 cases in the city may further affect the number. An official from Savitribai Phule Pune University said they expect a 20% drop in admissions of international students in the universities in the city due to the pandemic. Bharati Vidyapeeth University had 581 students in 2016-17 but 453 in 2019-20. From 859 students in 2016-17, the number came down to 610 in Savitribai Phule Pune University in 2019-20. Mahajan said Pune had stiff competition from Bengaluru. “Bengaluru and other cities will take advantage of the Covid-19 situation in our city. Many parents and students will prefer these destinations from the safety point of view,” added Mahajan. Vijay Khare, director of the SPPU’s international centre, said they may have online modules for one semester for international students for all non-professional courses. “We have the resources for quality online material. We will take help from affiliated colleges for content creation for under-graduate courses. For postgraduate courses, the departments within the campus can design the content. The assessment process will also be done online for the first semester. We are hoping that by the end of the year, things will improve, and international students will be able to come to Pune for the next semester,” Khare said. Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society said the Covid-19 situation will affect the admission of international students in the universities. Their university was also planning to convert the first semester into an online semester so that international students can come to Pune in the second semester. “At this point, if 120 students took admission last year, the number is 90 now. On the other side, reputed Indian universities and colleges will also see a spurt in the number of our own students applying as many who would have gone abroad will choose to study here,” Yeravdekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/universities-to-design-online-courses-for-foreign-students/articleshow/75878168.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown passes misused for smuggling narcotics||CHENNAI: The Ramanathapuram police have unearthed rampant misuse of lockdown relaxation passes issued by the government for trafficking a range of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and have arrested nine people from Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts. Drugs like methamphetamine, amphetamine, methaqualone, opium, heroin and ecstasy worth more than Rs 5 crore were seized from them on Wednesday evening. The seizure has blown the lid off a major racket involved in trafficking drugs from India and Afghanistan to Australia via Sri Lanka. The drugs were sourced from Afghanistan, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal through dozens of intermediaries in Goa, Bangalore, Coimbatore and Pollachi, police said. The drugs were to be transported to Sri Lanka via Thondi, a coastal village in Ramanathapuram district. Police intercepted the gang in Thiruvadanai sub-division when they were going to Thondi. Those arrested include the kingpin, G Arul Das of Ilayangudi in Sivagangai district. The contraband was to be ferried across Palk Straits in a country boat owned by A Ajmeer Khan of Thondi. Seven others – A Ajmal Khan, J Abdul Kalam Azad, D Abdul Wahab, M Abdul Rahim, R Muthuraja, S Suresh Kumar and A Kesavan, all from Sivaganga district – were involved in transporting the drugs from various places to Thondi. Cases have been booked under Sections 34 and 120 B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 17 (c) and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. Investigation has revealed that they were involved in smuggling several drugs in the past. One auto-rickshaw, two two-wheelers and a car used for smuggling the contraband have been seized. Police had started working on the case almost two months ago. When a consignment of red sanders was seized from a gang based on a tip-off received by Ramanathapuram superintendent of police Varun Kumar, police stumbled upon the information that drugs were also being smuggled through Ramanathapuram district to Sri Lanka. “I got some calls from a few informers sometime in May about the people involved in the racket. The district special branch and serious crime squad were roped in to pursue the case and eight special teams were formed to nab the gang. The ongoing lockdown delayed our investigation a bit,” Kumar told TOI. As transfer of Thiruvadanai DSP Pugazhenthi Ganesh, who led the investigation, gave some hiccups, DGP J K Tripathy stepped in to put Ganesh’s transfer on hold till the case was cracked, sources said. “We were working under severe constraints as 33% of the force was under quarantine. But the quality of information was good and that made our job easy,” said a sub-inspector involved in the investigation. Of late, informers are calling senior police officials directly with specific information. Kumar, whose personal mobile number is widely publicised in Ramanathapuram district, said, “We have cracked many sensitive cases based on tip-offs received on my mobile phone. We ensure that our informers are never exposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-passes-misused-for-smuggling-narcotics/articleshow/75877184.cms||Jayaraj Sivan
May 22, 2020||Madurai||60% Covid cases in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin are Maha returnees||Tirunelveli: The number of Covid-19 positive cases, which was 604 between March 22 and May 13 in the 10 southern districts, has jumped to 1,076 on Thursday. The 78% increase is primarily due to the influx of people from other states, predominantly Maharashtra. This has resulted in cases spiking in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin. Tirunelveli has the most number of cases in the south. It includes 153 cases (60%) from Maharashtra. The first positive case in the district was on March 22, a man who returned from Dubai. There was an escalation in the cases in the district – especially in Melapalayam in the city – who were people who had returned from Delhi and their contacts. The last local contact person who tested positive was a pregnant woman from Pathamadai and her mother. She delivered a baby, recovered and was discharged two weeks ago. “So far (till Wednesday) 3,200 people have returned from other states. Samples were collected from them at the Gangaikondan check post and sent to taluk level temporary quarantine facilities,” Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said. She said that efforts have been taken to ensure that the results were given in eight hours or the latest by a day. “The facilities can accommodate 800 people. Around 200 passes from other states are awaiting approval in Tirunelveli. We are calling them to check for the need to return to ensure that those in dire need are getting it first. Some say they are finding it difficult to get food and we approve it immediately,” she added. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said that after the 27 initial positive cases in the district, there was no case in the district for 20 days till the influx from other states. The 135 positive cases in the district till Thursday included 91 (67%) from other states. Eighty-eight are from Maharashtra and the majority is from Mumbai. Three others are from Gujarat. Eight people who tested positive are those who returned from Chennai and Chengalpattu. He said that 1,494 have returned from other states. “Around 1,000 have come from Maharashtra. On an average 120 to 150 people are coming on a daily basis in various vehicles. “Vigil has been stepped up at the 15 check posts of the district,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/60-covid-cases-in-tirunelveli-tuticorin-are-maha-returnees/articleshow/75877181.cms||M K Ananth
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Recovery rate in Tamil Nadu at 44 per cent amid Covid-19 carnage||CHENNAI: The number of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu on Thursday touched 13,967, with 7,588 people in isolation at hospitals, care centres and homes. The recovery rate went up to 44% as 6,282 people, including 400 on Thursday, were declared cured and discharged. The recovery rate figure is four percentage points more than what it was a month ago. During the same period, the number of active cases went up by eight times. About 5,681 of those infected, three-fourths of the total figure, are in Chennai. Many things have spurred the recovery rate, including the increase in incidence, change in testing and treatment protocols by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), point out health department officials. A month ago, when the state had 1,596 cases, there were 398 people in Chennai. The Koyambedu market cluster and living conditions in certain zones pushed up cases in Chennai. On Thursday, even as the four state-run medical college hospitals struggled, patients trickled in from Chengalpet, which had 416 active patients, Tiruvallur (413) and Kancheepuram (106). Tirupur, Namakkal and Erode, which were hotspots last month, had no cases along with Tiruvarur. Ten other districts had cases in single digits. A month ago, many hospitals took more than 14 days – the recommended isolation period – to discharge patients. This changed on May 10, when ICMR changed the protocol. "Until recently, we ensured all patients did the exit test on the 14th day. We did not discharge patients until two consecutive tests turn negative," said health secretary Beela Rajesh. The revised ICMR guideline now allows hospitals to discharge patients with no fever for 10 consecutive days. This reduces waiting time for patients and expedites discharge. "In addition, some people who continued to test positive even after 40 days can now be sent home if they have no symptom. They were testing positive because the debris of the virus was still in the body. But they can no longer infect others." Hospital deans say more than 95% of patients experience mild or no symptoms. Until now mortality has been less than 1% and less than 20% of patients require support such as oxygen. "Every hospital has at least 50 doctors and nurses working in three shifts," said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. "We may have to ramp up beds within the hospital soon." The state medical council has urged self-financing medical colleges and deemed universities in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet to admit and treat Covid-19 patients. "Each of these hospitals has at least 500-600 beds," said president Dr K Senthil. In an epidemic, the numbers are expected to go up and it will take some time before we flatten the curve, says Greater Chennai Corporation nodal officer J Radhakrishnan. "We are screening and testing more people. We may find more cases in the coming days. But then, high recovery rates do bring smiles to our faces," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/recovery-rate-in-tn-at-44-amid-covid-carnage/articleshow/75877180.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 22, 2020||Pune||Two NDRF teams airlifted for rescue & relief work in West Bengal, Odisha||PUNE: Two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were airlifted from the Pune base to carry out rescue and relief works in the cyclone-hit West Bengal and Odisha. NDRF officials told TOI that one team would head to Odisha, while the other to West Bengal. The teams carried necessary equipment with them for the rescue and relief operations as they would fight two emergencies during their deployment in the two states, cyclone and Covid-19, the officials said. The teams were airlifted by the Indian Air Force aircraft from the Lohegaon airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-ndrf-teams-airlifted-for-rescue-relief-work-in-west-bengal-odisha/articleshow/75878152.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Sachkhand Express to restart from June 1||AURANGABAD: The Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express, passing through Aurangabad among a few other stations from Marathwada, is among 100 selected trains that will be made to run by the Ministry of Railways amid relaxed lockdown norms from June 1. “Besides, nine other trains that do not pass via Aurangabad are also among the trains to restart and will either originate or terminate at South Central Railway (SCR),” an official release said. Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of SCR, on Thursday said that screening of passengers will be done before boarding and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train. As per official time-table, Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express will depart daily from Nanded at 9.30 am. In return direction, the train will leave from Amritsar at 5.30 am on a daily basis from June 3. “The booking for trains to be started from June 1 has commenced from Thursday. All these trains will be fully reserved trains having both AC and Non-AC coaches. No tatkal and premium tatkal booking shall be permitted in these trains and there will be no unreserved coach in the train,” an official release said. It further added that only e-ticketing will be done through IRCTC website or through Mobile App. The Advance Reservation Period for restarting trains will be maximum 30 days and only passengers with confirmed reservation tickets shall be allowed to enter the railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sachkhand-express-to-restart-from-june-1/articleshow/75886188.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||Shops of electronics register dazzling sales in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The electronics sector, which suffered a loss of over Rs 900 crore in the lockdown so far, breathed easy on Thursday as a huge rush was seen in shops selling electronics goods. According to Lucknow Traders’ Association, over 90 shops and distributors of electronic items in the city sold 117 coolers, 223 fans, 85 ACs and 37 fridges worth over Rs 6 crore on Thursday. Suresh Jha, owner of an electronic shop at Hazaratganj, said, “We have sold 17 coolers and five ACs worth over 2 lakhs which is almost double the sales as compared to normal days. We are also following all safety guidelines.” Arvind Jain, owner of an electronic shop at Alambagh, said, “Our sales peak between April and July every year. This year, we have lost two months due to the lockdown. We are planning to give discount of 10% on all appliances to increase our sales.” “We have received at least 15 calls since morning from our customers asking us to send technicians for servicing ACs. We have sold 12 coolers and have booked 10 ACs since morning,” said Naveen Agarwal, electronic shop owner at Mahanagar. According to Lucknow Traders’ Association, over five lakh coolers, eight lakh fans, three lakh fridges and one lakh ACs worth about Rs 900 crore were sold last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shops-of-electronics-register-dazzling-sales/articleshow/75878159.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
May 22, 2020||Goa||With inter-state export hit, good quality mancurad mangoes treating Goans||Panaji: The peak season of mancurad mangoes is upon us and with export being hit amidst the over two-month lockdown, Goans are feasting on the best quality of mangoes grown in Goa. Fruit vendors said the blow on inter-state export has resulted in good quality mancurad mangoes flooding the market this year. “The supply chain is hit since largescale exports are not being carried out the way they used to before the lockdown. The top quality fruit is therefore being sold locally and hence, the fruit available in the market is of better quality,” a vendor, Nisar Nandihaldi , said. Customers too seem to agree with the point of view. “The flesh of the mangoes available in the market this year seems denser than usual. Also, there are fewer numbers of soft fruits owing to which I don’t have to negotiate with the vendors asking for firm mangoes like the previous years,” a senior citizen S Mohammad said. While the king of fruits is bringing a wider smile on consumers’ faces this season, the ripple effects of lockdown restrictions may dampen the overall sale of mangoes. “The sale of mangoes is not as rapid as it has been annually because of fewer walk-ins,” a fruit vendor said. “Due to coronavirus, there is still fear among people to venture into the market. We need to sell the mangoes, especially the mancurad variant soon because it has a shorter shelf life as compared to the other variants,” another vendor said. This has also resulted in lower prices of all variants of this summer fruit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-inter-state-export-hit-good-quality-mancurad-mangoes-treating-goans/articleshow/75878174.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Fire destroys good worths Rs 15L in TT Nagar godown||Bhopal: A major fire broke out at a godown on the top floor of a three-storied building in TT Nagar on Thursday. As the building was locked no casualty or injury was reported in the incident. It took 18 fire tenders and more than five hours to douse the flames. Goods worth around Rs 15 lakh were gutted. Prima facie short circuit was said to be reason behind the fire. SHO TT Nagar Sanjeev Chouksey said at around 1.45 pm, people saw heavy smoke billowing out of Kundan Chawla’s godown at EWS-50 Banganga near Dussehra Maidan in TT Nagar. Acting on information police reached the spot and called fire brigade. BMC fire officer Sajid Khan told TOI that the fire was on the top floor of the building and firemen had to struggle to reach there as goods were kept on the stairs too. Fire quickly spread in inflammable electric material stored in large quantity on the top floor of the building. He said that no fire safety measures were followed due to which the building was filled with heavy poisonous smoke emanating from burning electrical goods. Firemen had to use ladder and broke the tin shed from sides to make way for passage of smoke. The intensity of heat caused by fire was such that the neighbours could not stay on the upper floors of their buildings. Around 18 fire brigades were pressed into duty which struggled to completely douse the fire till 8 pm in the evening. Godown owner Kundan Chawla told TOI that the godown is being operated by his nephew so he could not assess the actual loss caused by fire.  But goods worth around Rs 15 lakh were gutted, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fire-destroys-good-worths-rs-15l-in-tt-nagar-godown/articleshow/75875894.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||Finally, Bareilly sees 0% cases of deadly malaria PF strain in April||Bareilly: The rate of plasmodium falciparum (PF), a deadly strain of malaria, has reduced from 12% in January to 0% in April this year in Bareilly district, according to an epidemiological report. In the same period in April 2019, the PF rate of Bareilly was 6.3%. The report also noted that the total number of malaria cases had decreased in April. According to the data compiled by the health department, 24 malaria cases were reported in April this year in Bareilly district while 252 cases were reported during the same period in April, 2019. Director (health) Dr Rakesh Dubey said, “We have directed health staff to focus on malaria. The suspected cases are being examined. We are making blood slides and using rapid diagnostic kits to screen patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/finally-bareilly-sees-0-cases-of-deadly-malaria-pf-strain-in-april/articleshow/75875932.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||Basic education dept to run online classes during summer vacation too||Bareilly: Even though most of the students in rural areas of the district are unable to attend online classes as their families do not have smartphones, the basic education department has ordered extension of online classes till June 30. The classes will remain functional during summer vacation.The secretary of Basic Shiksha Parishad, on Wednesday, wrote a letter to Basic Shiksha Adhikaris (BSAs) that the online classes should be continued till June 30 - even during summer vacation.Following the lockdown in the country, the basic education department started online classes through WhatsApp groups and DIKSHA app and students were also asked to listen or watch educative programmes on radio and Doordarshan. BSA, Bareilly, Vinay Kumar, said, “Of the total 3,21,000 students registered in primary and upper primary schools of Bareilly district, 42,387 students are currently attending online classes. The number of students attending online classes are, in fact, increasing daily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/basic-education-dept-to-run-online-classes-during-summer-vacation-too/articleshow/75875920.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Sachkhand Express to restart from June 1||AURANGABAD: The Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express, passing through Aurangabad among a few other stations from Marathwada, is among 100 selected trains that will be made to run by the Ministry of Railways amid relaxed lockdown norms from June 1. “Besides, nine other trains that do not pass via Aurangabad are also among the trains to restart and will either originate or terminate at South Central Railway (SCR),” an official release said. Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of SCR, on Thursday said that screening of passengers will be done before boarding and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train. As per official time-table, Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express will depart daily from Nanded at 9.30 am. In return direction, the train will leave from Amritsar at 5.30 am on a daily basis from June 3. “The booking for trains to be started from June 1 has commenced from Thursday. All these trains will be fully reserved trains having both AC and Non-AC coaches. No tatkal and premium tatkal booking shall be permitted in these trains and there will be no unreserved coach in the train,” an official release said. It further added that only e-ticketing will be done through IRCTC website or through Mobile App. The Advance Reservation Period for restarting trains will be maximum 30 days and only passengers with confirmed reservation tickets shall be allowed to enter the railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sachkhand-express-to-restart-from-june-1/articleshow/75874490.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||Shops still shut, fish sellers’ hopes sink||Lucknow: Fish lovers and sellers are disappointed as the administration has not allowed them to operate as yet. Majority of the fish markets in Kaiserbagh, Narhi, Bhootnath, Mawaiyya and Khurramnagar wear a deserted look. Treasurer of Fish Association in Lucknow Syed Furquan, in the trade for 40 years, is highly disappointed with the decision of the administration to open only one shop in Alambagh for home delivery. “We have around 5,000 fish sellers in the city. Some of them have sold their belongings to survive and others are searching for different avenues to earn a livelihood,” he said. Furquan also said the administration should have allowed sale of fish as an essential item. Besides, he also alleged licences for fish shops have not been given for five years. This is the time of the year when fish lovers expect to buy their favourite variety for a slightly lesser price than at other times of the year, leading to a surge in business. However, Covid-19 has played spoilsport. HAL resident Rudra Roy, who ate fish daily, said, “The administration could have allowed fish parlours if not markets.” Sritama Banerjee in Naka Hindola said, “Why has the government allowed fruits and vegetables to be sold? Fish is an essential food item. It prevents many heart diseases.” Rishabh Verma, a pescatarian, said that due to lockdown, hilsa and pomfret were absent and only option was rohu, available in one store. Owner of Fish Galaxy, the only shop open, Basantu Kashyap said, “I used to sell least 4 quintals of fish daily barring Thursday and Tuesday have orders have dropped to 25% of that since the shop opened on May 10.” Additional district magistrate (trans-Gomti) Vishwa Bhushan Mishra said that all shops selling food items with licence could operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shops-still-shut-fish-sellers-hopes-sink/articleshow/75878176.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||People struggle to stay fit indoors by trying out various exercise forms||PUNE: People staying indoors owing to the lockdown are trying out different ways to keep themselves fit. For some it is a round of suryanamaskar or breathing exercises, for others it is 45 minutes of yoga.Naveen Rale, a regular gym goer, considers himself lucky. "I have some equipment like dumbbells, weights, straight and curl rods and a bench at home and that has helped to keep in shape," he said. Shaima Shaikh said that she was taking the help of internet to do some exercises at home. "I have nothing much to do at home, so I have prepared a schedule. In the morning, I do five rounds of suryanamaskar, followed by around 20 minutes of skipping ropes. During evening, I spend around 30 minutes doing push-ups, squats and some other exercises, which I have learnt from different websites," she said. Shoaib Shaikh, a fitness instructor by profession, advised exercises like planks, squats and lunges. "These workout forms can be done at home easily and they are really helpful to keep the abs strong. Also, push-ups and pull-ups can be done easily.," he said. Shivaji S. Mate, a Kondhwa resident, said, "My son made me learn how to watch YouTube videos and I have been going through different forms of simple yoga and breathing exercises and performing them in the morning and evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-struggle-to-stay-fit-indoors-by-trying-out-various-exercise-forms/articleshow/75878175.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Van Vihar releases rescued leopard||Bhopal: Van Vihar National Park on Wednesday released a leopard in the wild after getting permission from the wildlife department. Veterinary doctors at the national park had restored the injured big cat to good health. The leopard was brought to Van Vihar in January for treatment after it was rescued from a field in Raisen, where it had got stuck between barbed wires and suffered several injuries. “The condition of the leopard was serious when it was first brought here. Even after the vet Dr Atul Gupta cleaned its wounds and administered medicine, it refused to eat anything at all for 13 days and started growing weak. We all were worried, but the vet at national park did not lose hope and it was restored to good health in a few weeks. The leopard was released in the wild after four months,” said assistant director, Van Vihar, A K Jain. The team of rangers carried the male leopard to the Painjhir beat of Berkheda forest range after due processes at 9:25 am on May 20. Last week, the national park had released another leopard brought to the Van Vihar for treatment after being rescued from Narsinghpur forest range where it was caught in barbed wires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/van-vihar-releases-rescued-leopard/articleshow/75875922.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||T to set up SEZs for food processing units||Hyderabad: The Telangana government will set up special economic zones (SEZs) for food processing units across the state. The food processing units include rice mills, dal mills, oil mills and other units. At a review meeting with ministers, district collectors, corporation chairmen, chairmen of Rythu Bandhu Samithis, agriculture officials and agri-scientists on Thursday, chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao directed district collectors to identify land for setting up SEZs in their respective districts. He said godowns, including cold storages, should also be constructed besides the SEZ and that there should be no residential houses near the godowns. The CM said all the newly-formed 125 mandals in the state should have godowns for storing agriculture produce. The CM asserted that the regulated farming policy was only aimed at ensuring that the farmers benefit by getting remunerative prices for their produce, and added that a survey conducted by the government revealed that majority of the farmers were welcoming the state government’s decision on the new farming policy beginning this monsoon season (Vanakalam). “All the farmers will continue to receive the Rythu Bandhu assistance but the cultivation of crops will have to be on the lines suggested by the government,” he said. He said the agricultural scientists and agri-business firms have compiled data on the crops that have demand in the market, which crops should be preferred in which season and where. “The farmers are not getting good price for their crops as all the farmers were cultivating similar crops, which is resulting in a drop in the demand,” KCR said. The CM announced that he would construct a farmer’s facilitation centre (Rythu Vedika) in his agriculture cluster at Erravelli with his own money where an office for agriculture extension officer, computer and facilities for holding video-conferences would be provided. He said all the 2,602 clusters should have Rythu Vedikas in the next four to five months. “If any person or organisation donates land or cash, it should be named after them or the names suggested by them,” he said. Stressing on the importance of spreading awareness among the farmers on regulated farming, he said that all elected representatives should organise awareness programmes at the agriculture cluster level. KCR also warned of stern action against the traders and companies that sell spurious seeds to gullible farmers, by invoking PD Act as it was leading to farmers’ suicides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-set-up-sezs-for-food-processing-units/articleshow/75877187.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: SET deferred till further notice||AURANGABAD: The State Eligibility Test (SET), which was scheduled on June 28, has been postponed till further notice due to outbreak of coronavirus. Satish Dandge, the SET coordinator for Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), on Thursday, said a total of 8,724 candidates had registered for the examination. “The examination was to be conducted across 18 centres in Aurangabad for those studying within the jurisdiction of Bamu. The schedule of the test will be announced after taking a review of the current situation,” he said.Candidates have been requested to visit setexam.unipune.ac.in for further updates. The University Grants Commission (UGC), while prescribing the revised pay scale for teachers in colleges has prescribed that the person being appointed shall qualify for the new scales provided he/she clears the eligibility test in addition to the minimum qualifications. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/set-deferred-till-further-notice/articleshow/75874502.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Man, nephew killed over cricket complaint during lockdown||BAREILLY: A man and his nephew were hacked to death by a youth in Bhulanpur village for not agreeing to bear witness in a complaint that said a local game of cricket broke Covid-19 lockdown rules. It all started when the accused had made a complaint against a few locals who were playing cricket and the victims were eyewitnesses in that complaint. They later, however, refused to give a statement which angered the accused. The incident occurred under the jurisdiction of Neemgaon police station in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Kheri SSP Poonam visited the village to calm the locals. On Wednesday afternoon, the accused Anil Maurya, 22, had an argument with the eyewitnesses - Brij Bihari Maurya, 45, and his uncle Ramgopal Maurya, 65 - over the same issue and later at night, he allegedly killed them with an axe. Police have caught the accused on Thursday and he claimed that he lodged the complaint only after getting an assurance from the victims who belonged to the same neighbourhood. Notably, the accused had made the complaint against a few locals for playing cricket earlier in the month. He had prepared a video clip as well. On Monday, the locals playing cricket had allegedly beaten up Anil and asked him to withdraw his complaint and later police booked both the parties for "disturbance of peace". SHO of Neemgaon police station Raj Kumar told TOI, “We have arrested the accused Anil Maurya. The victims were known to him. The accused has admitted to his crime. We have recorded the statement of a few eyewitnesses and he will be presented in court on Friday.” In a late development, SSP has transferred sub-inspector Haridas Chaurasia, in-charge of Behjam police outpost, to reserve police lines for "negligence". Chaurasia has been replaced by SI Dinesh Kumar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-nephew-killed-over-cricket-complaint-during-lockdown/articleshow/75875944.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||Man booked for second marriage in Bareilly||Bareilly: An FIR has been lodged against a man who allegedly married his cousin when his first wife was stuck at her parental home during lockdown in Bareilly. The complainant, Naseem, claimed that she got married to Naeem six years ago and had three children with him. The woman alleged that her husband and his family members would often harass and beat her for dowry. According to the complainant, Naeem dropped Naseem to her parents’ house on March 19. She alleged that Naeem married his cousin taking advantage of the coronavirus-induced lockdown while she was stuck at her parents’ house. However, after the son informed Naseem that the cousin has started living with them, she reached her in-laws house and learnt about the second marriage. She claimed that her husband threatened her for life. Prem Nagar SHO Balbeer Singh said, “We have lodged an FIR on Thursday against Naeem and his six family members under IPC sections 398A (husband or relative of husband subjecting woman to cruelty), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife) and sections of dowry prohibition act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-second-marriage-in-bareilly/articleshow/75875939.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt wants domestic flights grounded till May 31||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has opposed the ministry of civil aviation’s announcement of resumption of domestic flights on May 25, saying it should be held off until May 31. The TN government, however, made a request to the Centre on Wednesday to commence four evacuation flights a week, along with Shramik special trains and Rajdhani express twice a week. The state health department has found 66 positive cases among returnees from abroad and other states, who took the air and train route in the last 10 days and were kept under institutional quarantine. The aviation ministry’s decision is a clear case of Centre not heeding to the request of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference recently. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday chose to announce on Twitter the government’s decision to resume domestic service and told the airports and carriers to get ready for the operations from May 25. This has surprised service providers, who presumed that the operations would commence from June 1. The Chennai Airport is buzzing with preparations for the arrival of passengers. Chief secretary K Shanmugam said the government would write to the ministry, renewing its plea not to resume regular services before May 31. "We cannot handle the passengers. They are talking about 60 flights a day, which means 12,000 passengers a day. All of them must be tested and placed in institutional quarantine as per protocol. For that, we will require two lakh quarantine facilities. Testing 12,000 passengers a day is impossible," the officer told TOI. The state has been seeing high Covid-19 positive cases every day. The state had on Wednesday requested the ministry to operate only four evacuation flights a week. At least ten flights landed in Chennai and Trichy from Dubai, Kuwait, Kuala Lumpur, Muscat, Chicago, Dhaka, Manila and London in the last ten days. "The state has handled them. We have requested the ministry to operate evacuation flights, and extend the service to Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai," Shanmugam said. The state government believes inter-state movement is possible only when situation is under a semblance of control. Last week, the Railways and the Tamil Nadu government locked horns over who would have to quarantine the passengers arriving by the Ragdhani express to Chennai. When railway minister Piyush Goyal said the railway infrastructure was developed for transportation, the state finally gave in. The railway has agreed to operate Ragdhani express twice a week. "There are 170 passengers per flight, but there are 1,400 passengers per train. The situation will be reviewed by the chief minister and a decision will be taken after May 31," the chief secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-govt-wants-domestic-flights-grounded-till-may-31/articleshow/75877193.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu man arrested for sharing child pornographic material||SIVAGANGA: The Karaikudi all-women police have arrested a 25-year-old man from Sivaganga district for sharing child pornography material on social media. The accused has been identified as K Kalaiarasan from TM Street in Karaikudi. Police sources said that Kalaiarasan was working in Krishnagiri district and recently returned to his native place due to lockdown. He has been sharing child pornography material through various WhatsApp groups for the past six months. Based on information, police conducted an inquiry with him on Wednesday. When they checked his mobile phone, they found the information true. A case was registered on Wednesday based on a complaint from sub-inspector Pandeeswari. He was booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Information Technology Act. He was produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-arrested-for-sharing-child-pornographic-material/articleshow/75877192.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Online education beyond means of poor families||Madurai: With school education set to go online at least for some time, it has caused concern among many parents who cannot afford computers or wifi connections at home. Many are going out of the way to ensure that their children get the gadgets. “I spent Rs 30,000 on a second-hand computer and a smart phone internet connectivity, since my daughter who is going to Class X, was told that classes would be conducted online,” said R Gopi, a parent and an electrician, who says that this is an unexpected cost beyond his means. He had admitted his daughter in a private school from Class VI. While the school fees has been a challenge annually, now this additional spending has made him fall into debt. He says that he cannot afford a wifi connection and will have to keep recharging the phone regularly, as power shutdowns are also becoming frequent across Madurai city now. Advisor, Computer and Media Society of Madurai, A Muthusamy, says that inquiries for computers for the purpose of learning and working from home, has increased by 50% ever since the lockdown started. “Each dealer is receiving more than 150 calls a month which is very good, but there are no branded equipment for supply. We don’t know when we will get the stocks as major brands have to get them from China,” Muthusamy says.  A basic machine could cost about Rs 3000 as of now, and there is no immediate price increase. Sivaganga district secretary of the Tamil Nadu Primary School Teachers federation, A Muthupandi says that online education will never be feasible for government school students. “There are villages that do not have broadband connectivity, and direct interactions are a must for proper learning of these students. Only a shift system for schools could be the best solution now,” he says. A Asokan correspondent of T Muthusamy Higher Secondary School, a government-aided institution says that none of his 850 students have computers at home.  “They come from very poor backgrounds. Our association purchased 15 computers which we allow them to use in school,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-education-beyond-means-of-poor-families/articleshow/75877198.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Madurai||1,600 guest workers start to Bihar in Shramik special||Madurai: A total of 1,600 guest workers from Ramanathapuram and Madurai districts returned home to Bihar by the Ramanathapuram – Supaul ‘Shramik Special’ train on Thursday. The train left Ramanathapuram at 1pm with 456 people and reached Madurai, from where it left with 1,144 more passengers at 3.45pm. In Madurai, the passengers were screened at the World Tamil Sangam and taken by bus. They were provided with food and water for the journey. They are expected to complete the 2,600km journey at 5.15pm on Saturday. This is the 6th Shramik Special from the southern districts Madurai district collector T G Vinay, additional divisional railway manager of Madurai railway division Lalit Kumar Mansukhani and railway and revenue department officials were present when the train was flagged off. The collector later visited the Madurai railway hospital and inspected the conversion of dormitory type wards into cubicles, extension of centralized oxygen supply, reception and segregation arrangements. Lauding the preparations, he stressed the need for frequent disinfection of toilets and common areas. Railway officials said that the out-patient department (OPD) in the isolated building will continue to function as usual to treat around 25,000 railway employees, retired personnel and their families. The railway hospital isolated block will be used only as last resort for Covid-19 management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1600-guest-workers-start-to-bihar-in-shramik-special/articleshow/75877204.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||HMWS&SB gears up for monsoon||Hyderabad: Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board is preparing action plan to tackle sewerage issues during monsoon. HMWS&SB MD M Dana Kishore on Thursday directed officials to fix safety grills on 1.5 metres deep manholes by June first week and to barricade dangerous manholes with warning signboards. The board has identified 185 water stagnation points. Those who find manholes without covers can contact customer care at 155313, said water board official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmwssb-gears-up-for-monsoon/articleshow/75877203.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Guddu has stooped low, says Silawat||Bhopal: Minister for water resources, Tulsiram Silawat has sharply reacted to former Lok Sabha member Premchand Guddu’s remarks stating that Guddu is trying to get political mileage ahead of bypolls in the state by criticising Jyotiraditya Scindia. The public is aware of his drama and false propaganda, he said. "I never try to cross limits by attacking an individual on personal issues. But, the way Guddu is raking up the issue, it is clear, that he is trying to get political gains by naming Scindia ji and me. He has stooped too low but, public is aware of his political tactics," reacted Silawat on Guddu's remarks. Guddu had been attacking BJP leaders including Scindia and his close confident Silawat, who is likely to contest from Sanwer assembly seat in Indore district in the forthcoming bypoll. A day after Guddu's remarks, Silawat rejecting all allegations said, "People know about Guddu's political background and history. They know how serious politician he is. Better not to indulge in any argument with him," said Scindia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/guddu-has-stooped-low-says-silawat/articleshow/75875937.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Residents seek self-care tips to boost immunity||CHENNAI: With the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, Indian medicine practitioners in Tamil Nadu are being inundated with calls from anxious people asking for self-care measures to boost immunity against the infection as they ready to head out of their homes and resume normal life. Practitioners said panic-stricken callers, many of whom have co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, are seeking simple home remedies as prophylactic intervention for improving immunity. Dr K T Jayakrishnan, chief medical officer, Shanta Ayurveda Hospital, said he advises patients to follow general measures such as drinking boiled water, jeera water or dry ginger water to prevent inflammation caused due to high levels of acid in the body. "When your body is hot because of your food habits and diseases, you are vulnerable to degenerative diseases. Your blood becomes acidic and this leads to diseases. So we suggest our patients to keep their body cool by following an alkaline diet with fruits and vegetables, reduce masalas and ensure a healthy intestine, which is important for strengthening your system," he said. "Though people come with different complaints, they all ask the same question about boosting immunity. We prescribe tablets and tonics for our regular patients, while we recommend others to come in for a consultation to assess their overall health," he said. The ministry of ayush has recommended several self-care measures to boost immunity -- yogasana and meditation, drinking herbal tea, and oil pulling. The Tamil Nadu government has been promoting the consumption of kabasura kudineer as an immune boosting drink. However, experts advise people to buy them from government or private hospitals, which prepare the drink with all the 15 herbs, and has to be consumed within three hours of preparation. Siddha practitioner Dr Selvin Innocent Dhas said he recommends amukkara chooranam and nellikai legiyam and a concoction of herbs such as adhi madhuram, tulasi, kandamkathiri, pepper, long pepper, cloves, amla, turmeric, ginger as they are as effective as kabasura kudineer. "Kabasura kudineer is a not medicine exclusively for Covid-19. We have been receiving calls from people due to fake messages being shared. In siddha, kabasura kudineer is prescribed for kabasuram, one of the 47 diseases which has symptoms similar to Covid like cough, cold and fever. So this formulation is prescribed for coronavirus," he said. "But there have been volunteer organisations that are buying several kilograms of the concoction for free distribution. Many of them do not have all the 15 herbs. For instance, agaraharam is an expensive herb and many shops prepare and sell kabasura kudineer powder without this," he added. Dr P Parthiban, joint director, directorate of Indian medicine and homeopathy, Tamil Nadu, said they have distributed more than 5.5 lakh 50-gram packets of kabasura kudineer powder in containment zones across the state. "We give clear and simple instruction to prepare the drink and have doctors to follow up on all the people. We tell people that kabasura kudineer is not a cure to the infection," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/residents-seek-self-care-tips-to-boost-immunity/articleshow/75877201.cms||U Tejonmayam
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh man donates PPE kits to doctors as part of father’s last rituals||BHOPAL: A man presented PPE kits to a local hospital in Khajuraho on the Terahvin -- the 13th day rites after death – of his father on Wednesday. The donor, Surendra Singh of Khajuraho, said his father died at 98 and instead of observing the Terahvin in traditional manner, he decided a better tribute was to buy PPE kits worth Rs 10,000 and offer them to doctors fighting against Coronavirus. Singh, a retired chemical engineer, said he handed over the kits to block medical officer Dr Pankaj Rastogi and Covid-19 nodal officer of the hospital Dr Vineet Sharma on Wednesday. He had ordered the kits, in advance after expressing his desire to donate them to the doctors. He had ordered the kits, produced by a self-help group (SHG) of Rajnagar, run by the panchayat and rural development department, in advance after expressing his desire to donate them to the doctors. Of late, many SHGs in MP have started stitching PPE kits under the supervision of chief medical and health officers of the districts. Appreciating Surendra’s gesture, the BMO said, “It will inspire others to join forces to fight against the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-donates-ppe-kits-to-docs-as-part-of-fathers-last-rituals/articleshow/75875958.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt rejigs 16 IAS officers, including health secretary||Dehradun:The state government on Thursday transferred 16 IAS officers, including health secretary Nitish Jha, besides five PCS officers. The list also includes the names of officers, who hit controversy recently in issuing a pass to independent UP MLA Amanmani Tripathi to travel across districts during the ongoing lockdown. The charge of secretary health was withdrawn from Jha and given to Amit Singh Negi, who is also secretary finance. Similarly, the charge of commissioner transport was taken from Shailesh Bagauli and given to Deependra Kumar Chaudhary. The charge of ACS public works department and chairman Bridge, Ropeway Tunnel and Other Infrasructure Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (BRIDCUL) was withdrawn from additional chief secretary Om Prakash. The pass to Amanmani Tripathi was issued on a letter signed by the ACS. Principal secretary Anand Bardhan has been given additional charge of principal secretary planning and externally aided projects. IAS officer R K Sudanshu was given additional charge of secretary PWD and chairman BRIDCUL. Harbans Singh Chugh has been made secretary forest and environment. The charge of Kumaon commissioner was taken from US Nagar DM Neeraj Kharwal and Arvind Singh Hyanki was named the new commissioner of Kumaon. The charge of DM Tehri was withdrawn from V Shanmugam and he was made additional secretary women empowerment and child development. DM Rudraprayag Mangesh Ghidiyal is now the new DM of Tehri district. In place of Ghildiyal, the state government has named IAS officer Vandana as the new DM of Rudraprayag. Besides, the state government also transferred five PCS officers. The charge of additional mission director NHM was withdrawn from Abhishek Tripathi and given to Jharna Kamthan. Ram Sharan Sharma, the ADM (administration) of Dehradun has been shifted to Rudraprayag as ADM. When asked about the transfer of the health secretary on a day when the state witnessed its sharpest spike in Covid-19 cases, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “It is a routine transfer of IAS and PCS officer. Jha had been requesting a break from health department for the past few months, therefore he was given other departments. The CM takes these decisions keeping several factors in mind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-rejigs-16-ias-officers-including-health-secretary/articleshow/75874504.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||Now, spiritual leaders take ‘satsung’ to online platforms||Bareilly: To check spread of Covid-19, several spiritual leaders have started ‘satsung’ online to ensure that their devotees stay connected with them and also gain peace of mind. A spiritual leader said, “Several devotees, especially women, were unhappy for the last two months. Kirtan, satsung will bring them peace of mind and they will have interaction with other devotees as well.” Another spiritual leader told TOI, “Satsung is held over internet where users can download the meeting app and login using meeting ID and password. Almost everyone is using a multimedia mobile phone or laptop at this time. We are providing uplifting inspiration to people who join us for satsung. The devotees are being made part of special prayers to heal the world and enlighten the hope during pandemic. There is no charge for joining the ‘satsung’ online as our intention is to spread peace and positivity in the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-spiritual-leaders-take-satsung-to-online-platforms/articleshow/75875959.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Firing on anti-Sterlite protesters: Panel to resume inquiry in July||Tuticorin: Around 400 witnesses and officials are yet to be examined by the one-member commission headed by retired Justice Aruna Jagadeesan probing the anti-Sterlite protest case. The commission was formed to probe the 100th day anti-Sterlite protest and police firing that claimed 14 lives on May 22, 2018. So far, 492 witnesses have been examined in 20 sittings since July 2018. The last sitting was held from March 17 to 19. Due to the extended lockdowns, the sitting could not be conducted in April and May and the next sitting is likely to be held only in July.“Witnesses examined and cross-examined so far include kin of those killed in the incident, victims who suffered injuries, those who took part in the procession, political participants, traders and public, activists and advocates who filed writ petitions before the high court. Examining journalists was under way in the last sitting,” commission’s counsel Arul Vadivel said.Doctors who treated and conducted autopsy on the victims, forensic and ballistic experts who submitted reports, revenue officials, Sterlite employees who have submitted affidavits to the commission and the police are to be examined.Since many revenue and police personnel including the then district collector and superintendent of police, deputy inspector general of police and inspector general of police have been transferred, they will be summoned to appear before the commission. Rajinikanth who was summoned in February could not appear then and is likely to be summoned in July.  Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri said not more than five people will be allowed to assemble for the second anniversary on Friday, as Section 144 promulgation is in place. “An additional strength of 1,000 police personnel will be deployed for bandobust,” he said and added that senior police officers and revenue officials including the collector will monitor the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/firing-on-anti-sterlite-protesters-panel-to-resume-inquiry-in-july/articleshow/75877206.cms||M K Ananth
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||NHRC asks SSP Bareilly to file report on Izzatnagar lathicharge in 4 weeks||Bareilly: Taking cognisance of a complaint filed by activist Dr Nutan Thakur in the matter of alleged police atrocities in Bareilly’s Izzatnagar, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought a status report from the SSP within four weeks.On April 6, after several locals had gathered outside the police outpost in Izzatnagar and reportedly tried to set it on fire, police lathicharged the mob and booked around 200 people. Fearing further police action, all the men in the village vacated their premises for several days. Thakur said NHRC has accepted her complaint and ordered SSP Bareilly to file a status report in the matter, with the next hearing scheduled for June 28. The order says if the report is not received within the stipulated time, the SSP Bareilly would need to make a personal appearance before the commission.SSP Shailesh Kumar Pandey said, “I’m yet to see the notice, but necessary action will be taken within the given timeframe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nhrc-asks-ssp-bareilly-to-file-report-on-izzatnagar-lathicharge-in-4-weeks/articleshow/75875951.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh water war: Central meet in June||HYDERABAD: With both Telangana and AP at loggerheads over new lift irrigation projects and sharing of river water, the Centre has decided to iron out contentious issues between the two Telugu states. This development comes a day after the National Green Tribunal, southern zone, on Wednesday stayed the construction of a lift irrigation project proposed by AP. The apex council headed by Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is expected to convene a meeting in the first week of June with chief ministers — K Chandrasekhar Rao and YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The department of water resources wrote letters to Telangana and AP governments on Thursday to send agenda points for the coming meeting of the apex council, which would follow the guidelines of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. Under-secretary of the ministry of jal shakti AC Mallick, in his letters, said: “As per the minutes of meeting held in January 2020 to discuss issues of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB), both states had agreed to submit their agenda points for the next meet. These are still awaited from both states.” Meanwhile, a three-member KRMB committee is meeting irrigation officials in Hyderabad on Friday, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ap-water-war-central-meet-in-june/articleshow/75877199.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||BJP MLA’s FB post on barber shops draws flak||Dehradun: A post put up on social media by BJP legislator from Badrinath Mahendra Bhatt is drawing flak for insinuating that people should "visit barber shops owned by only Hindus". In the post put up on May 19, Bhatt wrote that people should “take their towel along with them and check if they are not making a mistake". Quoting a verse from Hanuman Chalisa, he added that "now an idol of Lord Hanuman would be in all barbershops". Reacting to the post, state Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, "On one end, the top leaders of BJP are saying that coronavirus does not identify with any religion but at the same time, their legislators are trying to spread hatred among people." He added, "Presently, the economy is in shambles and the entire country is affected by Covid-19 but Bhatt is more interested in creating divide among people. This is not for the first time that BJP is using religion as a tool to mislead people." Reacting to the allegations, Bhatt, who is a top contender for a cabinet berth, told TOI, "I have not written anything controversial. Nowhere in the message I have said anything about religion or asked people to go to selected shops Hanuman is a god who is not just of the Hindus and there is nothing wrong in having his photo or statue in a shop. Sensing an opportunity, the opposition is targeting me, but I stand by my statement.” Meanwhile, in a related development, the Dehradun unit of the Bajrang Dal has also prepared a list of ‘Hindu service providers’ including barbers. Providing a justification for compiling such a list, Vikas Verma, the city’s Bajrang Dal convener alleged that this was done “after requests from people, who were afraid of calling people from minority community to their homes for salon services in the wake of rise in number of Covid-19 cases among members of the Tablighi Jamaat.” Meanwhile, cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that the saffron party doesn’t associate with such action. "We don’t support such discrimination and will take action if necessary," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-mlas-fb-post-on-barber-shops-draws-flak/articleshow/75874523.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Students use pocket money to help needy during lockdown||Madurai: A group of students and a few who recently passed out from city colleges, who are members of an NGO, have contributed their pocket money to help poor people in villages around Thirumangalam, who were severely affected by the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. So far, they have reached out to 250 families in distress in 19 villages. Besides students, few members, who are IT employees, also make generous contributions from their salaries to help the needy.Nizhalalagam, the NGO, was started by Abinaya Sundarapandian from Thirupparankundram in 2018 while she was doing her MBA from a city college. There are 200 volunteers in this forum, which is managed by six members.It was started with the intension of feeding the needy. The volunteers are into various social activities including taking tuition for underprivileged students and engaging government school students in spoken English classes. Those, who cannot afford monetary contribution, give their talents and manpower, Sundarapandian said.“We have not collected money from people outside our group so far. We mobilize money from members, whoever can contribute. While students contribute from their pocket money, those who are employed, share a part of their salary. Although, many have faced salary cuts due to lockdown, they still contribute whatever they can,” Sundarapandian said.Members of Nizhalalagam said that there are many out there to help the needy in city areas, but there is no one to take care of the people in rural areas. The NGO members join hands with social workers from villages to identify the needy so that the contributions reach them. Most of the people, who received help, are sanitary employees, daily wagers and members of 100-day work scheme, Sundarapandian said.“Anna Nagar assistant commissioner of police, Lilly Grace is helping us with food through district administration,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-use-pocket-money-to-help-needy-during-lockdown/articleshow/75877212.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Most lawmakers get acquitted of charges||Hyderabad: Most cases against MPs and MLAs are ending up in acquittals in Telangana due to defective chargesheets and failure of prosecution to produce evidence. Out of around 300 criminal cases registered against lawmakers in the state, only 118 have been transferred to the special court. A Right to Information Act (RTI) reply from the special sessions judge court has revealed that out of 118 cases, 30 have been disposed of wherein the lawmakers are either acquitted or discharged over the last two years. On February 24, 2020, BJP MLA Raja Singh has been acquitted by the special court. AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi, MIM MLA Mumtaz Khan and minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav have also been acquitted, while the case against TRS MLA Mynampally Hanumantha Rao has been discharged. Legal experts said the purpose of setting up special courts is defeated if prosecution fails to prove the case. M Padmanabha Reddy of Forum for Good Governance said the cases in the court were acquitted or discharged due to defective chargesheets filed and not producing the witnesses. “If this trend continues, no MLA or MP will get punishment,” he said. Around 52 criminal cases are pending against Adilabad MP Soyam Bapu Rao and 42 against A Revanth Reddy, Malkajgiri MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-lawmakers-get-acquitted-of-charges/articleshow/75877225.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur gangster shot dead by 4 bike-borne assailants||Rampur: Infamous gangster Anurag Sharma was shot dead by unidentified bike-borne assailants on Wednesday evening while he was returning from Jwalanagar to his home in COD Farm, Aghapur.Later in the evening, inspector general (IG) of police (Moradabad range) Ramit Sharma, accompanied by other senior police officials, reached Rampur district hospital, after being informed that Anurag Sharma’s “well-wishers” had gone on a rampage inside the premises, after he was declared “brought dead” by doctors.Sharma had over a dozen cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder, robbery and kidnapping, were registered against his name at different police stations in Rampur itself. He was also once associated with the city’s Shiv Sena unit. Speaking with TOI, Rampur SP Shagun Gautam said, “There are a total of 38 criminal cases involving heinous offenses, including murder, attempt to murder, rape and robbery, registered against Anurag Sharma. The Gangster Act had also been imposed on him. On the complaint of his wife, Civil Lines police registered an FIR against unidentified assailants in the murder, and have launched an investigation in the matter. Four police teams have been formed to pursue the culprits.”Police officials said the FIR, based on the complaint by Anurag Sharma’s wife Shalini, was registered against four unidentified bike-borne assailants who arrived on two bikes and shot the gangster dead. Shalini Sharma is also the councilor of ward no. 4 in Jwalanagar. Rampur DM Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “Those who ransacked public property inside the hospital will also be booked and stringent action will be taken against them as per law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-gangster-shot-dead-by-4-bike-borne-assailants/articleshow/75875970.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Makeshift wholesale markets set up to aid jasmine producers||Madurai: Temporary wholesale jasmine markets have been established on the outskirts of Madurai to help farmers facing losses as the flowers are fetching a very low price during lockdown. Minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar, inspected one of the makeshift markets established at a private arts and science college, in the presence of Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay, on Thursday.While inspecting the wholesale centre, the minister said that the government is trying its best to help the farmers. About 700 farmers have been benefitting through these centres. While jasmine’s production is high in the villages around Madurai district this season, the flowers that sell for not less than Rs 800 per kg, are selling for Rs 200 per kg as on Thursday at the Madurai Matuthavani flower market. Coordinator of the Madurai flower market traders’ federation, S Ramachandan said that the flower cultivators will see improvement only when the lockdown is lifted from everywhere and places like temples reopen.Industrialist N Jegatheesan said they are trying to help the farmers to market their produce closer to the place of production in Thirumangalam and Thiruparankundram. He said they had decided to help the farmers through wholesale centres as soon as the lockdown was announced. They have also been exporting about 600 kg of jasmine four times a week to Dubai and Singapore through cargo flights regularly since the lockdown came into place. “Perishable products like flowers will see better prospects only when markets open up completely,” said Jegatheesan.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has announced that water would be released for the delta region in the Cauvery River on June 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/makeshift-wholesale-markets-set-up-to-aid-jasmine-producers/articleshow/75877209.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 patient’s cremation stirs row, wife tweets he’s missing||HYDERABAD: Twenty days after a 42-year-old grocer died of Covid-19 at Gandhi Hospital, his wife has claimed her husband was missing, while the government clarified that civic authorities performed his final rites after informing their relatives. A controversy erupted after Madhavi tweeted claiming “her husband was missing” after admission at Gandhi Hospital and even tagged IT minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday night. After the post went viral, Gandhi Hospital authorities said that relatives were informed and health minister Eatala Rajender said that the wife and her two daughters, who were also under quarantine, were not immediately informed as relatives cautioned that she may go into shock on hearing the news. Madhusudhan (42), a grocery store owner from Vanasthalipuram, was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on April 30 and died on May 1 evening. His father, Eswaraiah, too fell prey to Covid and died on April 30. Eleven members of the grocer’s family had turned up Covid-19 positive. After the death of Madhusudhan, authorities shifted his wife Madhavi and their two daughters to institutional quarantine on May 2. Without informing immediate family members, Madhusudhan was cremated at a graveyard in Taher Nagar of Vanasthalipuram on May 2 by GHMC officials as per standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid deaths. As per the SOP, immediate family members can see the Covid patient’s body through a glass partition. “I spoke to my husband around 12.30pm on May 1 over phone. He spoke to me normally and said the facilities at Gandhi Hospital and treatment were not satisfactory. He asked me to bring water bottles to him. On May 2, I was informed about the death of my husband while being shifted to Gandhi Hospital. When I wanted to go to the mortuary to see my husband’s body, they assured to show it to me. However, that did not happen,” Madhavi told TOI. “On May 4, I contacted Vanasthalipuram police enquiring about my husband. They informed me that cremation had already taken place. I do not understand how they can cremate him without informing me,” Madhavi said, adding that she and her daughters were discharged from Gandhi Hospital on May 15 after treatment for Covid-19. “Madhusudhan was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on April 30 at 7:45pm with positive diagnosis of Covid and as his condition was serious (bilateral pneumonia with ARDS). He expired on May 1 at 6.03pm. As per procedure, the family members were informed and as per protocol the body of Covid patient was handed over to police. The body was cremated by GHMC,” Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M Rajarao clarified in an official communique. Later, health minister Rajender also clarified the immediate family was not informed keeping in view their health and well-being. “Madhusudhan’s father Eswaraiah came to Gandhi Hospital on April 29 and he died on April 30. Within 24 hours, family members were identified and placed under quarantine. Among them, 11 tested positive for Covid-19. Madhusudhan, who was admitted on April 30, died on May 1. We informed police and municipal administration as the family members were undergoing treatment at hospital and not in condition to perform final rites. After consulting their relatives, who said that his wife might go into shock if she learns about the death of her husband, we did not immediately inform family and performed the final rites. There was also no chance to keep the body in a freezer. After recovering from Covid-19, it is not proper for family members to blame authorities and doctors who are risking their lives to treat Covid patients,” the minister said. Currently, the house of Madhusudhan and surrounding area, comprising about 15 houses, is part of a containment zone in Vanasthalipuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patients-cremation-stirs-row-wife-tweets-hes-missing/articleshow/75878199.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||One cow smuggler injured in encounter||Bareilly: A cow smuggler got injured in an encounter on Thursday under Bhojpur police station limits in Moradabad. According to police, the police had raided the spot acting on a tip-off. Soon after the police came into action, the cattle smugglers opened fire at the personnel and during the clash, one smuggler got injured while two others managed to escape. A canter vehicle, a country-made pistol, cartridges and 15 cattle have been recovered from the spot. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (rural areas) Uday Shankar Singh said, “As soon as the police personnel tried to stop them, they opened fire at police. However, the team managed to nab one of them as he got a bullet injury during cross firing while his aides managed to flee from the spot. The injured, identified as Muhammad Zafar, a resident of Tanda Baadli, Rampur, was then admitted to a nearby medical facility and his interrogation was conducted. The trio were coming from Dibai, Bulandshahar and moving towards Tanda in Rampur district.” Singh added, “An FIR has been registered under section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code, cow slaughter act and section 11 (prevention of cruelty to animals act). An investigation in the case is underway and accused, who are currently at large.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-cow-smuggler-injured-in-encounter/articleshow/75875964.cms||Maria Khan
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Indira Nagar residents may get Bisalpur dam water soon||Jaipur: After 16 years of wait, residents of Indira Gandhi Nagar scheme developed by the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB), are expected to receive drinking water from Bisalpur dam. In a meeting on Thursday, a decision was taken to transfer Rs 5 crore to the public health engineering department (PHED) for supplying 4 million of litre per day (MLD) water to the scheme.A senior RHB official said, “The scheme was developed in 2004. There are 10,000 houses in the scheme, out of which 4,000 are occupied. The decision will benefit all these residents who were demanding drinking water since long.” Total five MLD drinking water will be supplied. While, four MLD will be supplied from Bisalpur, one MLD will be distributed from tube wells. “The RHB will also forward the proposal to the finance department for assistance.” While, the announcement may give a sigh of relief to the Indira Gandhi Nagar scheme house owners, water woes for city residents staying in multi-storey buildings in areas including Jagatpura, Tilak Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Pratap Nagar, C-scheme and others may not end soon. In absence of funds, the PHED is not able to take up Rs 72 crore project to provide water connection.In November 2016, PHED proposed that residents will have to shell out Rs 42 per square feet (one-time charge) of the built-up area to get the connection. However, the project never took off as the decision faced opposition from developers and resident welfare association. Sources in the department said, “In a meeting last year with developers, it was proposed that residents can pay 20% of the amount of total cost to get water connection and the remaining amount could be paid in instalments. But, on ground it was never implemented.”An official source said, the department requires initial capital as it has to developed infrastructure for transmission and distribution of water from Bisalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indira-nagar-residents-may-get-bisalpur-dam-water-soon/articleshow/75878182.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi pools likely to stay shut entire summer||NEW DELHI: Though sports complexes have been allowed to open, swimming pools across the city are likely to remain shut all through the summer due to fear of spread of the novel coronavirus. Globally, the debate continues whether chlorinated water would be able to neutralise the virus. US Center for Disease Control and Prevention has found no evidence of transmission of Covid-19 through pool water and numerous experts have argued that chlorine concentration between 1 and 5 mg/l decontaminates the water and inactivates the virus. There are 183 establishments that have licences to run swimming pools. Of these, 17 are with DDA and the rest are operated by private clubs and hotels. Many private academies said that under the current circumstances, it was highly unlikely that pools would be permitted to open, but a few have been taking advance bookings. Pradeep Kumar from Friends Swimming Academy in New Friends Colony said, “We usually start operations in April, but in the current situation it doesn’t seem that swimming will be allowed this year. Even if the government opens pools later, social distancing will be hard to achieve.” A private swimming pool chain in Malviya Nagar has been taking advance bookings in anticipation of a relaxation. “We will ensure FINA guidelines on hygiene. We expect pools to open by mid-June. Normally, we have 15-20 people in one shift, but that will be restricted now,” said a representative. With just one pool per 1.2 lakh population, the danger of crowding, risks from commonly touched surfaces like handrails, and general hygiene are imminent. Raj Kumar, a caretaker at Khazan Singh Swimming Academy near Baba Gang Nath Marg, said, “We are also waiting for the government relaxation.” Last year, when TOI visited the pool, it found no upper limit to the number of swimmers in one batch. There are just eight swimming pools run by the municipal corporations at Prashant Vihar, Sector 3 Rohini, U and V Block in Shalimar Bagh, Bindra Park Rajouri Garden and mini-stadium Keshavpuram. While north corporation operates seven, the south civic body has only one. East corporation has no such facility. New Delhi Municipal Council runs just three pools located at Mandir Marg, Sarojini Nagar and Laxmibai Marg. A senior corporation official said, “The pools are likely to remain shut as it will be hard to ensure sanitisation and social distancing. Even if the chlorine levels in the water are increased, the surrounding environment can’t be controlled.” Dr Harish Gupta, member of National Medical Commission and Delhi Medical Council, said the effect of chlorination on Covid-19 was still under study and it wouldn’t be advisable to open pools. “USA has opened beaches, but not pools. Pools are a closed space and it will be difficult to maintain social distancing. Changing rooms and handrails also pose a risk,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-splash-pools-likely-to-stay-shut-entire-summer/articleshow/75878190.cms||Paras Singh
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Mah forest dept has come a long way in conserving sea turtles||Nagpur: Even as World Turtle Day is celebrated on May 23, the sea turtle conservation programme being carried out by the Maharashtra Forest Department (MFD) along with local communities and NGOs has come a long way in conserving these turtles. The conservation programme include locating turtle nesting sites, excavation, and relocation of eggs to the hatchery site followed by protecting hatchery with garden fencing net to protect eggs from predators, flooding, and poaching. APCCF Virendra Tiwari, who heads Mangrove Conservation Cell, Mumbai, said Maharashtra has the second largest coastline on the western coast of India, and its coast is scattered with turtle habitats. Out of the seven sea turtle species found in the world, four species are known to nest on the Indian mainland as well as Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep islands. However, the olive ridley turtle (Lepidochelys Olivacea) is the only species that nests along the coast of Maharashtra. On some occasions Green Sea Turtles (Chelonia mydas) and Hawksbill Turtles (Eretmochelys Imbricata) have also been known to get stranded on some beaches of Maharashtra or get entangled in fishing nets, but nesting of these two species is presently not known in any coastal locality in Maharashtra. “Olive ridley turtles nest sporadically along the coast of Maharashtra (on the beaches in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts) and in the past major threats to the nests of these turtles were poaching of nests, predation of hatchlings by dogs and other animals etc,” says Tiwari. “We are collaborating with local NGOs like Sahyadri Nisarg Mitra and local communities for more than a decade now for the conservation of the sea turtles along the coast of Maharashtra and have established a network of hatcheries to conserve the sea turtles,” Tiwari said. These activities are carried out by the beach management staff, which also safeguard the eggs until they hatch and release hatchlings to the sea. For the last couple of years, the Mangrove Cell & Mangrove Foundation have carried out awareness programmes in the coastal districts of Maharashtra for local beach management staff regarding managing turtle hatchery sites, locating and relocating of turtle nests etc. The Mangrove Cell and the state fisheries department have also started a joint compensation scheme under which fishermen who release marine protected animals such as sea turtles, cetaceans etc entangled in their fishing nets are given monetary compensation up to Rs25,000. “Till now under the said scheme, 27 olive ridley sea turtles, 16 green sea turtles, one hawksbill sea turtle and one leatherback sea turtle have been rescued and released back to the sea by fishermen from Maharashtra,” said Harshal Karve, marine biologist with Mangrove Foundation. Karve explained sometimes sea turtles and other marine animals such as dolphins, porpoises and whales get stranded on beaches due to some injuries sustained by them or some infections etc. Stranding cases of sea turtles are observed more in the monsoons. “We are implementing quick rescue measures to save turtles,” he said. Since 2011, NGO Wildlife Conservation & Animal Welfare Association (WCAWA) and forest department’s Dahanu division have been running Sea Turtle Treatment & Transit Centre at Dahanu in Palghar, where injured or stranded sea turtles on beaches are treated and rehabilitated. Mangrove Foundation has provided financial assistance to this centre. Tiwari informed a marine respondent group has been formed by the Mangrove Cell which includes forest staff, veterinary doctors, NGOs, students and professors. This group has been especially formed as a network to respond quickly in case of emergency. The Mangrove Foundation has also commissioned a research study of the incubation temperature of nesting population of olive ridley turtles along the coast of Maharashtra. This project is being carried out by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) researchers. The outcome of this project will help understand olive ridley turtle nesting ecology along the coast of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mah-forest-dept-has-come-a-long-way-in-conserving-sea-turtles/articleshow/75901833.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||Long queues at iPhones, PC stores||Lucknow: Long queues were seen outside mobile phone shops, particularly of those with iPhones wanting to buy accessories not available anywhere else. Many, however, were disappointed as the main mobile phone market hub at Shri Ram Tower remained closed. Niraj Johar, president of Lucknow Mobile Association, said, “Around 800 stores exclusively sell smartphones and accessories. We suffered a loss of Rs 170 crore in two months, but were still not allowed to open Shri Ram Tower on the ground that social distancing cannot be maintained there. It has 40 shops, including 14 stores of all brands, and accounts for 70% of smartphone and accessories business.” In rest of the city, TOI found people flocking mobile phone and computers stores for accessories and repair. At a prominent shop in Hazratganj, against the average footfall of 80 customers on any given day, more than 120 people visited for service support for smartphones, laptops and other gadgets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/long-queues-at-iphones-pc-stores/articleshow/75878181.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Railways won’t run trains from Chennai as Covid-19 cases surge||CHENNAI: Chennai residents may have to wait longer for train services to different parts of the country. The high number of Covid-19 cases in the city is the reason Indian Railways is not looking at operating trains even though a decision has been taken to run 200 special trains across the country from June1. The city has been seeing a minimum of 300 to 400 cases a day for the past few days. "Trains from Tamil Nadu will start a bit later. There are no services in Chennai due to Covid-19 situation," said a senior official from Southern Railway. The Rajdhani Express between New Delhi and Chennai will continue to operate twice every week. Southern Railway will open reservation counters at MGR Central railway station from Friday. Two counters will open, one for issuing tickets and the other for issuing passes, concessions and other vouchers. The Tamil Nadu government is not complaining. Sources say the government is relieved that trains will not bring more people into the state. There are trains connecting major cities to Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra, but not for Tamil Nadu. "Testing and quarantining a large number of people is a problem for the state government. This was the reason the government opposed Rajdhani express initially," said an official. The government later agreed to the railway ministry’s move to push Rajdhani trains because there are only two trains a week. The first train from Delhi reached Chennai on May 14 and the first train for Delhi left the next day. However, this has come as a blow to the several people waiting for trains to start from Chennai and other towns to travel home or to their work places. Many people took the Chennai-Delhi train to join work while a majority of those who reached Chennai by the Delhi-Chennai train were those who wanted to join their families. There were many senior citizens travelling alone to Chennai because they were stuck for two months in the national capital. The eagerness to travel is evident in the demand for tickets for Rajdhani express on the Chennai-Delhi-Chennai route. The tickets are getting sold within hours after the bookings open. T Sadagopan, a consumer rights activist, said: "There is a need for trains as shutdown rules are being relaxed. If people have to go back to work services need to be resumed."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/railways-wont-run-trains-from-city-as-cases-surge/articleshow/75877210.cms||V Ayyappan
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Not practically possible to quarantine every migrant from red zone for a week at state borders: U’khand govt on HC order||Dehradun: A day after the Nainital high court (HC) directed the state government to establish quarantine centres at the borders and keep every migrant coming from red zones across the country at the centres for a week, the state government said “it’s not practically possible to do so.” Reacting to the HC order, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said on Thursday, “We have received the directive from the high court and in the next court date, we are going to inform the HC that it is not practically possible to have quarantine facility for such a large number of people that are expected to cross the state’s borders. It will be a tough ask to house so many people who are returning and making food arrangements for them.” The minister added that over 2.5 lakh people have registered themselves to return to Uttarakhand, of which over 1.53 lakh have already come back. “In all, we are estimating that around 5 lakh people will return to the state in the next few weeks. Suppose on an average, 6,000 people are coming to Uttarakhand every day and if we keep them in quarantine near the borders for 10 days, the number of people would swell to 60,000 by the 10th day. We do not have this kind of facility available with us although we have the required number of isolation beds and quarantine centres for patients and suspects. We will inform the HC and act accordingly.” The HC had on Wednesday also directed the state government to test each quarantined migrant showing symptoms of novel coronavirus. Reacting to this, Kaushik said, “The ICMR had earlier stopped the rapid test and had later revised its order. We will discuss the issue with the Centre and then take appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-practically-possible-to-quarantine-every-migrant-from-red-zone-for-a-week-at-state-borders-ukhand-govt-on-hc-order/articleshow/75874543.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 22, 2020||Madurai||South TN crosses 1,000 Covid-19 cases, 8 in new cases in central region||Madurai/Trichy: With 79 more Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the total number of cases in the ten southern districts climbed to 1,076. Tirunelveli tops the list with 253 cases, followed by Madurai with 191.Out of the 79 cases, 62 are those who had returned from other states, while 17 are local infections. Tuticorin and Tirunelveli districts together recorded 33 out of the 79 cases, including 17 and 11 cases from other states. The second highest number among the southern districts was reported in Madurai, 19 cases. Among them, 16 were those who had returned from Maharashtra. A 20-year-old woman who had travelled from Delhi to Madurai also tested Covid-19 positive. Two other local cases, an 80-year-old man from Thathaneri who was a contact of Covid-19 patient and 50-year-old man from Jaihindpuram, which is a containment area, were also reported.Tenkasi and Virudhunagar reported eight cases each on Thursday. While Tenkasi saw five local cases and three Maharashtra returnees, in Virudhunagar, all those who tested positive were from Maharashtra. Theni district reported three local cases, all contacts of Covid-19 patients with a recent travel history to other districts and a Maharashtra returnee. Sivagangai district reported two new cases on Thursday, including one who had returned from West Bengal. Dindigul district also reported five new cases, including four from Maharashtra.Meanwhile, the central region of the state witnessed eight more new Covid cases on Thursday. Four new positive cases were registered in Thanjavur district. With this, the total number of cases has climbed to 80.A 48-year-old man of Patharakottai village and a 20-year-old man from Kollukadu village in Pattukottai returned from Maharashtra tested positive. A 31-year-old man of Sunnambukara Street in Orathanadu taluk is a Maldives returnee. A 27-year-old man of Kuzhimathur who returned from Chennai also tested positive.A 58-year-old ex-serviceman from Kulithalai of Karur district tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He was posted as a volunteer at Manavasi check post. According to health officials, he could have contracted the infection from Maharashtra returnees.A 24-year-old Covid-19 patient under treatment in the government hospital in Karur was discharged on Thursday. In Pudukottai, three people including a one-year old boy tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.A 56-year-old man with chronic renal issue tested positive at a private hospital in Trichy. He had initially tested negative at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy last week. Testing at a private lab in the city showed that he was Covid positive. The district administration is yet to take the case into account.Ariyalur and Perambalur districts did not report any fresh Covid-19 positive cases.Meanwhile, a 29-year-old pregnant woman from Gengavalli in Salem district on the way to a private hospital in Trichy had reported breathing difficulty while nearing Perambalur last night. The woman was rushed to Perambalur government hospital where she died. Swab samples collected from the woman tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-crosses-1000-covid-19-cases-8-in-new-cases-in-central-region/articleshow/75877229.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Indore||Indore slowly gets its heart beat back||Indore: May be very slowly, but return of the hullabaloo at Indore’s haat-bazaars makes it feel like the city is getting its heart beat back. After a complete lockdown of around two months, the famous markets of Siyaganj, Lohamandi and Transport Nagar on Thursday saw some establishments opening shutters and crawling back to business. The state’s worst-affected city has entered Lockdown 4.0 with residents still not allowed to come out of their homes. But, local administration is gradually issuing permissions to start commercial activities and services. After starting doorstep delivery of grocery, vegetables, fruits, namkeen, eggs and dressed chicken, administration has given permission to over 2,000 industries, as claimed by MP Shankar Lalwani, to start operations. Collector Manish Singh on Wednesday granted relaxation to traders, transporters, mechanics, service providers in Transport Nagar, Mechanic Nagar, Lohamandi (old and new) and Siyaganj market to start their business on one strict condition — following social distancing and precautionary measures against Covid-19. Wholesale grocery shops started in Siyaganj while shops of tools and machines were opened in New Siyaganj market. Similarly, mechanics started repairing work of trucks and other vehicles in Mechanic Nagar while transporters started rendering services from Transport Nagar. These traders were not allowed to entertain customers at shops but to take their order, service requests on phone or online. Collector has also allowed charted accountants and company secretaries to render services but they are not allowed to entertain clients in their offices. So far, administration has granted permission to traders of fruits, dry fruits, pan masala to supply stocks in other districts while a large number of curfew passes have so far been distributed among employees of different business establishments.Meanwhile, after district administration allowed commercial activities in rural areas in the limited hours, markets in many villages including that in Depalpur have started doing business. Despite collector’s orders, liquor contractors have however denied to open shops there. Assistant excise commissioner Rajnarayana Soni on Thursday issued show-cause notice to Indore Liquor Gallery, which has been allotted licence of all 175 shops of district for 2020-21. “The notice issued under section 8 of MP Excise Act 1915, asking contractors to file a reply of their not opening liquor shops, as ordered by collector, in next seven days” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-slowly-gets-its-heart-beat-back/articleshow/75877236.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Kamaraj University end semester exams likely to be in July||MADURAI: Discussions continue to be under way at Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) about scheduling end semester exams and for the next academic year. On Wednesday, a meeting was also held at the university with all principals of affiliated colleges to finalize the draft proposal. During the meeting of principals, it was agreed upon to increase the working time. “The principals have all agreed for working six days per week and for six hours each day as opposed to five hours per day and five days per week. Further, there were also suggestions to have multiple evaluation centres to ensure social distancing. Though we initially had plans to change the exam pattern and reduce exam timings, it was not agreed upon,” said MKU vice chancellor Dr M Krishnan, speaking to TOI. The VC also said that during a meeting held on Thursday, the scheduling of exams and the next academic year was agreed upon to be recommended. “As per UGC guidelines, the end semester exams, evaluation and results will be held within July 1-30. And it is being planned to conduct the odd semester between August 3 to November 23 and even semester from December 14 to April 4,” said Dr Krishnan. However, it is only a recommendation that may be required to be changed based on the Covid-19 pandemic situation and still needs to be approved by the higher education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-end-semester-exams-likely-to-be-in-july/articleshow/75877218.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||No kebabs yet: Meat shops hit licence snag||LUCKNOW: The news of restaurants restarting food delivery cheered many, especially meat lovers who missed their kebabs and tikkas during lockdown. However, they were disappointed on Thursday since meat dishes were unavailable as there was no supply of chicken and mutton. According to DM Abhishek Prakash, any meat seller with valid licence can start slaughtering and sale. Divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram said the administration would never stop a meat seller with licence from doing business. However, licences of shops have not been renewed since 2015 and there is no slaughterhouse in city. While restaurants have started using packaged, frozen meat, the sellers are worst hit. Before lockdown, they were operating with expired licences. Chief veterinary officer Arvind Rao said his department, which issues no-objection certificate (NOC) to meat sellers, has not issued any since 2017. It is on the basis of this certificate that licences are issued by Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) to meat sellers. The guidelines permit sale of goat meat and chicken, which are most in demand, after slaughter in the shop itself. “We did not issue NOC since no one applied as none of them meet requirements and standards for slaughtering animals and selling meat,” said Rao. Shailendra Singh, an officer at FSDA, confirmed that no meat seller has valid licence, saying, “Only 100 fish sellers and 100 distributors of frozen meat have licence.” President of Quresh Welfare Foundation Shahbuddin said, “Meat sellers have been doing business on 2015 licence as new ones weren’t issued.” The renewal process dragged on till 2017 when the Yogi Adityanath government banned all illegal slaughterhouses and issued guidelines for new licences, he said. There is no legal slaughterhouse in city and no licensed meat seller since none meets new guidelines. As per guidelines, every meat shop should have glass windows, freezer, AC, which sellers cannot afford. Imran Qureshi, a member of Lucknow Udyog Vyapar Mandal, said they met DM on Wednesday to discuss reopening of markets but, no one mentioned meat shops. Qureshi, who also owns a restaurant in Old City, said, “I have been getting calls from customers but, I told them all shops I buy meat from are shut.” Abdul Hamid Qureshi, president of Bakra Gosht Vyapar Mandal, said, “The meat sellers are inching towards starvation. Since it has been their family business for years, they know nothing else.” “These small traders survive on daily sales. They can make such arrangements only if the government provides a subsidy or loan,” he added. Meat sellers had filed a petition and the high court had ruled in their favour, asking the government to issue new licences but, the deadlock continues.  Association plans to meet the DM again and request to renew their licences or allow them to operate as earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-kebabs-yet-meat-shops-hit-licence-snag/articleshow/75878210.cms||Rashi Lal
May 22, 2020||Bareilly||Tiger death: Probe ordered as autopsy fails to disclose cause of death||Pilibhit: The autopsy of a 10-year old adult tiger, whose almost dried up decompsed carcass was found in Mahof forest range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) on Wednesday, could not pinpoint cause of death. A probe has been ordered in the matter.It was estimated that nthe tiger's carcass was at least two weeks old.Chief conservator of Bareilly zone Lalit Verma has set up a two-member panel to probe the matter and report to him within a week.Meanwhile, field director of PTR H. Rajamohan has suspended two forest staff members for negligence of duty.Samples of the internal organs or muscles could not be collected as maggots and scavengers had virtually devoured the flesh. Even the bone marrow had dried up. None of the tiger’s bones was found to be fractured but one of its canines was loose.The autopsy was conducted in Bareilly's Indian Veterinary Research Institute by veterinary officer, Dr Abhijeet M Pawde, and Dr Rajul Saxena, a government veterinary officer posted in Pilibhit.A representative each of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, Dr Daksh Gangwar, and of chief wildlife warden of UP Naresh Kumar was present at the time of the autopsy in addition to PTR's field director.The panel has preserved the samples of the tiger’s bone marrow for further examination.The chief conservator, Lalit Verma, told that he had constituted a two member inquiry panel comprising the conservator of Bareilly circle, Javed Akhtar and the divisional forest officer of Bareilly, Bharat Lal, to probe the matter. The panel would file its report to him within a week, Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tiger-death-probe-ordered-as-autopsy-fails-to-disclose-cause-of-death/articleshow/75875982.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Thermal screening at all four airports soon||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has purchased eight walk-through thermal scanners that uses artificial intelligence to be installed at four airports and one major railway station in the state. Health, social justice and women and child development minister K K Shailaja said that the thermal scanners have been purchased as it was becoming increasingly difficult to physically test body temperatures of each individual coming out of airports and railway stations. These will be installed at the international and domestic terminals of Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kozhikode and Kannur airports and at Kozhikode railway station. The scanners can detect body temperatures of more than one individual walking through it. It can also separately detect the body temperatures of approximately 10 persons within a three-metre radius. The scanner uses infrared rays to detect the body temperatures without any physical contact. As a person reaches about 3.2 metre of the machine, the photo and body temperature will be scanned and recorded. The artificial intelligence software within the machine differentiates between people and other equipment with higher temperature. Once the machine detects those with abnormalities in the temperature, it alerts with beeps. The scanners were purchased through Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thermal-screening-at-all-four-airports-soon/articleshow/75884578.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Meerut||Battered bodies of 2 women, in 20s, recovered from cane field in Shamli||MEERUT: Battered bodies of two women, in their early 20s, were recovered from a cane field in Shamli district late on Wednesday evening, sending shockwaves in the region. The bodies, covered in blood and tied to each other with a rope, were spotted by a local farmer in Jaganpura village under Kairana Kotwali. According to the investigators, the victims had most likely sustained repeated blows of a hard object on their heads. “According to the postmortem report, shock and hemorrhage caused the death in both the cases. There are some post-death injuries as well, which must have been inflicted on the bodies when they were being moved from the actual crime scene to the spot where they were abandoned later,” Shamli superintendent of police Vineet Jaiswal. Police are yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased. “The field, where the body was abandoned, is surrounded by 4-5 villages and is connected by a kuchha road. We are in constant touch with pradhans in these villages apart from reaching out to their counterparts in other neighbouring districts, including those in Haryana," the SP said. Deserted stretches of western UP and its canals have long been used as “dumping ground” for bodies by criminals to fox investigators. In May last year, the headless body of a 23-year-old woman, with her fingers missing and torso bearing several brutal injury marks, was found in a cane field in Bulandshahr. Police are yet to solve the case. A few months later, body of a 25-year-old woman was found dumped in a sack in Bulandshahr’s Gulaothi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/battered-bodies-of-2-women-in-20s-recovered-from-cane-field-in-shamli/articleshow/75877226.cms||Piyush Rai
May 22, 2020||Goa||PIL against ore transport for environ damage||Quepem: The Gavda, Kunbi, Velip and Dhangar (Gakuved) Federation has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before the high court of Bombay at Goa seeking suspension of iron ore transportation through the Cavrem-Maina-Quepem-Sanvordem route. The federation said that the transportation is being undertaken by violating rules and conditions. The federation, which is formed to protect and preserve the interest of tribal communities, has stated that the heavy transportation of minerals is causing damage to the environment and agricultural crops. The PIL seeks suspension of transportation till the relevant rules and conditions imposed are strictly enforced. While citing various violations of rules and regulations by the transporters, the plea pointed out to the plight of the poor tribal villagers living in the mining affected villages. The chief secretary, directorate of mines and geology, Goa Pollution Control Board, District Collector South Goa and South Goa superintendent of police have been made respondents in the case along with two mining companies that are presently handling mining transportation in Cavrem area. The petitioner urged the court to fix an urgent hearing of the PIL on May 22, the federation’s general secretary Rupesh Velip said. Cavrem villagers recently stopped the movement of ore laden trucks due to rash and negligent driving. “The government has completely lost control over ore transportation as the number of trucks plying on the road crossed 350 per hour against the 25 per hour mentioned in the standard operating procedure,” Velip said. The matter is likely to come up for hearing on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pil-against-ore-transport-for-environ-damage/articleshow/75878196.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Government says action, but serial makers can’t follow the new script||CHENNAI: “At least for the next three months, you will neither get to see a ‘kalyanam’ nor a ‘karumaadhi’ (wedding or 15th day ceremony) in a Tamil television serial," – that was how a small screen artiste described the permission granted by the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday to resume shooting for television serials. The government has placed several conditions -- permitting 20 people for a shoot, only indoor shootings, outdoor shoots in rural areas, mandatory mask for every crew member other than artistes in front of the camera and sanitization of vehicles. "But either the government does not know how we work or the industry representatives failed to explain it to the authorities. Limiting 20 people for a shoot does not help and issues like quarantine needs to be sorted out since several female stars are from Bengaluru and they need to travel," a source in the television industry said. "Even if five artistes are used a day, we need more people in the crew to move the lighting equipment. We are not even talking about assistants and junior artistes. Otherwise, the shoots will remind us of the age-old dramas in Doordarshan, where the camera will be stationary and artistes will move in to deliver their dialogues and move out," said another source from the industry. "There is lot of confusion and discussion is going on over this. Serial shoots are unlikely to begin officially till next Monday. A unit will require around 50 people to shoot. We will hold meetings with Small Screen Producers’ Association tomorrow to discuss the issues," Anga muthu Shanmugam, general secretary, Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI). Since March 20, shooting for films and television serials have stopped. Tamil channels have been banking on films or rerun of old popular serials to make up for the lack of fresh content. "We could work with limited number of people but we need to sit down and plan, besides discussing with the channel. I am happy that shooting will now resume since the television industry has more daily wagers and this will bring cheer to a lot of them," actor and producer Raadhika Sarathkumar of Radaan Mediaworks told TOI. "For the time being let us start and get back to work," she said, when her attention was drawn to FEFSI’s demand on the need to employ more people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/government-says-action-but-serial-makers-cant-follow-the-new-script/articleshow/75877216.cms||D Govardan
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Post-coronavirus, UDH plans to make most operations online||JAIPUR: The urban development and housing (UDH) department plans to make majority of its operations online in post-Covid world. In a review meeting, chaired by the UDH principal secretary, discussions were made to provide several approvals online, including building plan, name transfer, lease money transfer in all the urban local bodies (ULBs). A senior official said, “While, the online system has started at few local bodies and development authority, the department of Information Technology and communication will launch online system in the state.” After the department had terminated the contract of the firm which was appointed to provide online infrastructure in ULBs of the state, plans are afoot to develop the system on its own. An official said, to provide relief to thousands of residents under the ambitious Smart Raj project, the firm was appointed to develop online infrastructure in 187 ULBs in a phase-wise manner. However, despite giving several extensions, the firm failed to complete the assigned work. An official source said, “Out of 187 ULBs, the firm had not started work in 56. Moreover, the work in 131 remaining ULBs was not completed.” Now, the department will plan to take up a project which can provide a relief to the people by issuing online system for birth, death, marriage registration, building permission, online cash module, trade licencing management, tender and work management etc. The project will also aim to push the ease of doing business in the state. “After the Covid, social distancing will be necessary and once system is developed the residents will not have to undergo through the tormenting bureaucratic processes for acquiring several licences and approvals from different departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/post-corona-udh-plans-to-make-most-ops-online/articleshow/75878187.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Indira Nagar residents may get Bisalpur dam water soon||JAIPUR: After 16 years of wait, residents of Indira Gandhi Nagar scheme developed by the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB), are expected to receive drinking water from Bisalpur dam. In a meeting on Thursday, a decision was taken to transfer Rs 5 crore to the public health engineering department (PHED) for supplying 4 million of litre per day (MLD) water to the scheme. A senior RHB official said, “The scheme was developed in 2004. There are 10,000 houses in the scheme, out of which 4,000 are occupied. The decision will benefit all these residents who were demanding drinking water since long.” Total five MLD drinking water will be supplied. While, four MLD will be supplied from Bisalpur, one MLD will be distributed from tube wells. “The RHB will also forward the proposal to the finance department for assistance.” While, the announcement may give a sigh of relief to the Indira Gandhi Nagar scheme house owners, water woes for city residents staying in multi-storey buildings in areas including Jagatpura, Tilak Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Pratap Nagar, C-scheme and others may not end soon. In absence of funds, the PHED is not able to take up Rs 72 crore project to provide water connection. In November 2016, PHED proposed that residents will have to shell out Rs 42 per square feet (one-time charge) of the built-up area to get the connection. However, the project never took off as the decision faced opposition from developers and resident welfare association. Sources in the department said, “In a meeting last year with developers, it was proposed that residents can pay 20% of the amount of total cost to get water connection and the remaining amount could be paid in instalments. But, on ground it was never implemented.” An official source said, the department requires initial capital as it has to developed infrastructure for transmission and distribution of water from Bisalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indira-nagar-residents-may-get-bisalpur-dam-water-soon/articleshow/75878183.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Government nod for regional animal husbandry technology forum||JODHPUR: The state government has sanctioned constitution of the Regional Animal Husbandry Extension Technology Forum with a view to ensure accelerated resolution of cattle rearers’ problems through coordination with the animal husbandry department and dialogue with scientists. According to Vishnu Sharma, the vice chancellor of the Rajasthan University of Veterinary and Animal Science, Bikaner, the step of constitution of the forum has been taken by the government based on the recommendations of the varsity. “This forum would extensively contribute to dissemination of information about diverse researches and advanced technologies for cattle rearers by way of better coordination between the university and departments associated with animal husbandry,” Sharma said. “Not only this, but with the enhanced communication between all the stakeholders, issues affecting cattle rearers and veterinarians would also be known to the university, which will play an decisive role in triggering focused researches and initiatives,” he said. The university has also planned to hold dialogues between the departments of animal husbandry, dairy, fisheries and gopalan and scientists and professors of the university through its colleges at Bikaner, Udaipur and Jaipur under this forum to share the information on researches and problems of the cattle rearers. Sharma said based on the feedback of these dialogues, the future course of action and directions of policies pertaining to veterinary, disease cure, livestock nutrition, vaccination, reproduction and other techniques so that the livestock sector of the state could achieve new dimensions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-nod-for-regional-animal-husbandry-technology-forum/articleshow/75878195.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Phased ops for meat stalls at Mapusa mkt||Saligao: The decision of the Mapusa municipal council (MMC) to allow mutton and chicken stalls operate in a phased manner helped tackle crowds of shoppers in the town’s municipal market, on Thursday. Following the relaxation to the lockdown by the state government, MMC had commenced operations of the municipal market, including the fish market in a staggered manner. Similarly the civic body had decided that pork and beef stalls in the market would operate at 50% capacity, mandating that the stalls will be operational only between 7am and 3pm. The decision to open the market was taken at a meeting of councillors on May 17||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/phased-ops-for-meat-stalls-at-mapusa-mkt/articleshow/75878191.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Dehradun||Amid Covid threat, Kanwar Yatra to be suspended?||Haridwar: Kanwar Yatra, one of the biggest religious fairs in north India, which sees lakhs of devotees converging in Haridwar, is likely to be suspended this year or would be converted in another form due to the Covid-19 threat. Haridwar district administration officials said that no preparations have been undertaken for the yatra which usually begins in July every year. They added that they are waiting for guidelines from the state government although it seemed likely that the yatra may be suspended this year. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, "Our priority is Covid-19 now and no preparation has been started for the Kanwar Yatra. We also haven’t received any direction from the government. As religious gathering is banned during lockdown, we cannot say anything at this stage." SSP Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S also spoke in a similar vein. "We are yet to get any order from the government on the preparation of the yatra. Our teams are busy implementing the lockdown and making arrangements for stranded migrant workers." Kanwar Yatra is a big challenge for the administration and heavy police force, including several units of PAC, are deployed in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana —-from where most of the pilgrims come —- besides Haridwar for the duration of the yatra. Meanwhile, Ganga Sabha, the priests’ body responsible for upkeep of the Har-ki-Pauri ghat in Haridwar, added that the yatra may not be possible this year in its original form. Tanmay Vashisht, Ganga Sabha general secretary, said, "Either the yatra would be suspended or permitted in some other form. The government should take a call in the matter as soon as possible." A source in the chief minister’s office when queried on the matter, said, "Presently, the focus is on handling the Covid outbreak and all departments are involved in the process. The state government will look into the matter of organising the yatra and take action according to the Centre’s directives."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-covid-threat-kanwar-yatra-to-be-suspended/articleshow/75874559.cms||MS Nawaz
May 22, 2020||Indore||From 11%, corona fatality rate is down to around 4||Indore: Frequency of getting new positive cases of Covid-19 infection has gone down in city within last few weeks. The information came to fore in a review meeting of specialists team constituted for clinical protocol management with divisional commissioner on Thursday. During the meeting, Dr VP Pandey, HoD of medicine department of MGM said, “Non-rebreather mask has been used for critical patients to artificially raise blood oxygen level. This is done in patients, where the oxygen pipe failed to help in improving the condition.” This mask is helping in oxygen therapy of patients for improving condition, added Pandey during the meeting. After the meeting, divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi said, “The fatality rate in the district has improved and now approaching national rate. It is at 3.86% — a decline from a very high rate of 11%.” “We have also issued instruction for death audit in district. The state government asked for 10% audit of deaths in the district, but we have issued instruction for complete death audit,” said Tripathi. Tripathi also issued instructions for immediately referring critical patients from districts like Khandwa and Burhanpur to Indore for better treatment. He also reviewed treatment plan with Dr Salil Bhargava, HoD respiratory department MGM. Tripathi ordered MGM dean Dr Jyoti Bindal to hold a webinar of doctors in other districts for training them about treatment plan of Covid-19. Tripathi also issued orders to follow new discharge guidelines of ICMR in district. He also instructed that patients’ health conditions should be reviewed before discharge. Among those 59 new positive cases found in city, 11 were found in a complex in Malharganj and seven from Nathtoda. The infection spread to around 60 new areas in last 10 days. Also, around 40 containment areas were denotified. The new areas, where positive cases were found include Ganga Nagar, Pancham Ki fel, Loha gate, Lalbagh gate, Yashwant Nagar, BSNL office, Nehru Nagar, New Palasia, Pagnisa Paga. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/from-11-corona-fatality-rate-is-down-to-around-4/articleshow/75877244.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Contact tracing: 150 passengers retested||Margao: Doctors from the South Goa district hospital on Thursday re-tested 150-odd train passengers who travelled on the Rajdhani express to Goa on Sunday. These 150 passengers were ‘contact-traced’ as they had travelled in the same compartment as the 12 who tested positive on the Sunday train, which arrived with around 350 passengers. The 150 passengers were lodged at five different quarantine facilities. The doctors and paramedics visited three centres and collected the swab samples of 105 passengers, while the rest from two centres were taken to the swab collection centre at the new district hospital. Their throat swab samples were taken again for TruNat testing at the laboratory at the district hospital. The results are expected on Friday. The Saturday Rajdhani Express that also brought around 350-odd passengers to Goa had nine positive cases and after contact tracing, two others were found positive for the virus. The passengers were led out of the train, charged testing fees, separated and transported compartment-wise to ensure they don’t mingle with each other, and to facilitate contact tracing later on, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/contact-tracing-150-passengers-retested/articleshow/75878194.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Water seeps into shut shops at markets, damages goods||KOLKATA: Cyclone Amphan has destroyed goods worth several crores stocked in shops that have been shut for almost two months. Many traders had been excited about reopening their shops on Thursday and had been eyeing some good business over the weekend before Eid. But during the cyclone, water seeped into their establishments, destroying their stock. Many traders managed to reach their establishments late on Thursday afternoon. They immediately set to work, draining the water — knee-deep in some places — in a bid to salvage as much of their wares as they could. Some of the markets that have been badly affected are Devi Prasad Market on Brabourne Road, Kajaria Market, Bagri Market, Raja Katra in Burrabazar, Sadasukh Katra in Posta and Bharti Market on Canning Street. In the past, when a storm or heavy rain was predicted, shop owners would move their stock to safety — to godowns or to an elevated place inside the shops. But due to the lockdown restrictions this time around, the owners could not visit their shops to save their goods despite the cyclone forecast. “This is the last nail in the coffin for us,” said Suresh Nathwani, a wholesaler of plywood and laminate sheets on CR Avenue. “When I arrived here around 11.30am on Thursday, there was knee-deep water inside the shop and plywood worth lakhs was destroyed. After keeping my business shut for almost two months due to the lockdown, I was hoping to reopen on Thursday. But this cyclone has destroyed me,” said Nathwani. Mohammad Farooque, the owner of Sunshine Optical on Canning Street, broke down on discovering that more than 50% of his stock had been totally destroyed. “My shop is on the main road and the boxes of spectacles and accessories were kept on the floor. The water accumulated inside, destroying all the boxes,” said Farooque. At Devi Prasad Market on Brabourne Road, the city’s biggest wholesale hub for bangles, ribbons and rubber bands, bags were found floating in the water in the morning. The market committee decided to open the premises and allow the owners to salvage their stock and move it to a dry place. “We are still in the process of removing goods out of the ground floors of the market and shift them to safety. The loss is going to be huge,” said Rajiv Pachisia, joint secretary of the market committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/water-seeps-into-shut-shops-at-markets-damages-goods/articleshow/75877262.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 22, 2020||Kochi||225 expats from Oman, Qatar reach Kochi||Kochi: The repatriation flight from Muscat reached Kochi on Thursday evening. The flight (WY 2224) operated by Oman Air landed at Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) at 6pm with 40 passengers. No passengers were symptomatic and all of them were shifted to respective quarantine centres. Another flight from Doha landed at Cial 30 minutes prior to the scheduled 8:45pm. The flight (IX 476) operated by Air India Express is carrying 185 passengers, including 7 infants. It is the first flight from Doha to Kochi in phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission. The Oman Air flight from Muscat will return to Oman with nine passengers from Kochi. These Keralite passengers are working in Oman and were stuck here due to the lockdown and the government there has permitted them to return. On Friday, there are two repatriation flights to Kochi. The Air India flight (AI 0122) from Leonardo da Vinci International Airport, Rome, is scheduled to reach Kochi via Delhi at 12:30pm. The second flight (IX 434) operated by Air India Express from Dubai is scheduled at 8:55pm. It is the fourth flight from Dubai to Kochi in phase 2. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/225-expats-from-oman-qatar-reach-kochi/articleshow/75874609.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Indore||60% of Covid-19 patients are male||Indore: Every three out of five persons infected with Covid-19 infection is male in the city, according to data from the health department. Indore reported 2837 positive cases and 103 deaths till May 18 evening. Of those, over 1700 infected patients are male. Dr Anil Singh, epidemiologist of district health department said, “Over 60% of the infected ones are male in city.” The trend is more or less same in other parts of the country as well as across the globe. Experts attribute the reason as more exposure of males with other persons as compared to females in society. Dr Ravi Dosi, HoD respiratory department SAIMS said, “In society like ours, males have more exposure of the outside world as compared to females. This might be a reason.” Also, the comorbidities like diabetes, obesity is more in elderly males than females. Such co-morbidities increase chances of severity in infection and ultimately leading to more fatality in elderly males than females, said Dosi. Dr Salil Bhargava, HoD respiratory department MGM said, “This are no scientific evidence to conclude that natural immunity in females are more than males so they are less affected with this virus infection.” Such study should begin to know the exact causes, said Bhargava. He added, “Males are more into drinking and smoking, which increases chances of severity in infection and being caught with infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/60-of-covid-19-patients-are-male/articleshow/75877253.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||First flight with Rajasthanis from London to land in Jaipur on Friday||JAIPUR: The first flight with Rajasthanis on board will reach here from London at 1.40pm on Friday. Additional chief secretary (industries) Dr Subodh Aggarwal said all passengers must compulsorily undergo 14 days’ institutional quarantine. He urged relatives of the passengers not to visit the airport or quarantine centres to meet them. He said the state government had ensured institutional quarantine for all passengers coming from abroad and added that around 2,000 people from the state are expected to arrive here in the next few days. On Thursday, Aggarwal along with CMD RVPNL Dinesh Kumar, senior officers of police and district administration, medical department and airport officials reviewed arrangements at the quarantine facilities. They took stock of the arrangements, including thermal scanning, social distancing, medical checkup and luggage collection by CISF officers, custom clearance and then sending them to quarantine centre. Aggarwal said those coming from abroad will not be allowed to remain in home quarantine. He said 100% compliance of guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs will be ensured during the quarantine. Aggarwal said it was mandatory to download the Arogya Setu and Rajkovid Info App when the passengers reach Jaipur airport. He said the do’s and don’ts have been issued by the government. “On Friday, we will have a flight from London via Delhi. All arrangements related to its landing and passengers have been done. The state government, especially the medical and health department, stated that all passengers will be sent for quarantine,” said airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara. Meanwhile, the airport authorities are also preparing for restoration of domestic air traffic from May 25. There is a possibility of resuming flights from Jaipur to Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. In order to ensure various standard operating procedures (SOPs) to check the spread of Covid-19, Balhara inspected various areas, including passengers’ check-in and check-out areas. He directed authorities to ensure full compliance with the SOPs, including thermal screening and other measures for passengers. All these evacuees would be checked by the medical and health authorities at the airport and would later be sent to quarantine. After almost two months of grounding, the civil aviation ministry has allowed resumption of flights but with SOPs. “We are yet to receive the final chart of flights to be operated. However, our navigation and ground staff, air traffic control and various operators are fully ready with the new SOPs to receive passengers,” said Balhara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1st-flight-with-rajasthanis-from-london-to-land-in-city-today/articleshow/75878200.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman kills self; hubby, in-laws booked||KOTA: A 27-year-old woman of Betikhedi village under Unhel police station in Jhalawar district allegedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at her home early Thursday morning. On the report by the deceased woman’s mother, police lodged a case of abetment to suicide against her husband, father-in-law, brother-in-law and his wife and initiated investigation into the matter after handing over the body to the family members following postmortem by medical board on Thursday noon. Dhapubai allegedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance on Thursday, SHO said. The mother of deceased, Munnabai, wife of Devi Singh, a resident of Agar district in Madhya Pradesh, alleged Dhapubai’s husband Kaan Singh had an extra-marital affair, SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-kills-self-hubby-in-laws-booked/articleshow/75878204.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hubballi||Evaluation of II PUC answer scripts to commence on May 28||Dharwad: Due to the non-availability of public transport and lodging facilities during the extended lockdown, the pre-university education (PUE) department will facilitate the lecturers to evaluate the PUC II year answer sheets at the centres in their own districts. The evaluation of answer sheets in Economics has already commenced at the centres in Mysuru and Shivamogga. In North Karnataka, the evaluation in all the subjects except English, Physics, Chemistry and Maths will commence from May 28. The observers will report for duty at the designated centres on Friday while the chief examiners and deputy chief examiners will report on May 26. They will take up the coding work for two days and the assistant examiners will join duty on May 28. Sources in the PUE department told TOI on Thursday that in view of the Covid-19 lockdown and non-availability of public transport and lodging facilities, the department decided to allow the lecturers to evaluate the answer sheets at the centers in their own districts. “It is mandatory for the lecturers of a particular subject to report for evaluation if there is an evaluation centre of that subject in their district. If the evaluation centre of their subject is in another district, it is optional for the lecturers to join the duties” said an officer. The department has set up evaluation centres at Bengaluru (13), Mysuru (9), Mangaluru (6), Davanagere (2), Belagavi (6), Hubballi (1), Dharwad (2), Shivamogga (2) and Kalaburagi (2). Answer sheets in Kannada will be evaluated at Hubballi, the evaluation of Accountancy and Business Studies papers will be at Dharwad. Belagavi has six centers where evaluation of papers in Kannada, Political Science, Marathi, History, Economics and Sociology will be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/evaluation-of-ii-puc-answer-scripts-to-commence-on-may-28/articleshow/75876047.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 22, 2020||Indore||Dearth of books, stationery items takes toll on studies||Indore: Dearth of academic books, note books and stationary items has been taking a toll on studies of city students. Although schools have been taking online classes for students, most of them neither have text books nor notebooks to write down their daily assignments. Non-availability of books and copies has been putting parents of kids, especially the ones in junior classes on a tough spot. With no notebooks left to write and draw, junior class kids have begun their artwork on the walls of their rooms too and parents can’t really help it. “How long can a kid spend studying online? There has to be a restriction on the screen time and it can be done only by handing physical book and copy which has become an issue for several parents like is,” said city-based parent, Nandita Sharma who has started getting concerned about increased screen time affecting her kid’s eyes. Parents of kindergartners are most concerned as kids have started learning to write and with all note books and writing papers at home exhausted, they have no choice left but hand over gadgets. Moreover, as Indore’s main market of books and stationary, Khajuri market has been sealed and several books stores being shut, residents are finding it extremely difficult to get books and answer sheets. One of the city-based book stores that has been getting books and copies delivered too has now a backlog of delivery. “We have a tie-up with online book delivery stores and we are getting the books delivered. We cater to 20+ schools. We have an overload as the schools have begun already,” Shashank Kapoor told TOI. Indore being a red zone has several containment areas therefore delivery in many areas is impending, he added. Considering the situation, parents want district administration to take up the issue and get the books delivered at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/dearth-of-books-stationery-items-takes-toll-on-studies/articleshow/75877276.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||None of the 52 patients required ICU or ventilator||Margao: None of the 52 patients who were admitted to the Covid-19 hospital, including the first seven who tested positive in March, were admitted to the ICU. Till date, Goa’s Covid-19 cases were not put on oxygen and didn’t require to be put on ventilator. While the first seven patients to have tested positive in the first wave didn’t have any comorbidities, some of the 45 active positive cases, which the state received within one week, have diabetes and hypertension. A pregnant lady and her husband who travelled to Goa by train on Wednesday on the Delhi- Thiruvananthapuram Rajdhani Express were the latest to have tested positive. The active cases also include a 61-year-old senior citizen and five children, including a four-month-old and one-year-old. While the first seven patients were mostly those who came in from abroad, the current positive cases in the state are persons who travelled to Goa by train, road and sea over the past week. The Covid-19 hospital in Margao has 16 ventilators while the state has a total pool of 100 ventilators, health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters. She said that due to the global shortage of ventilators during the pandemic, the 200 ventilators which the state has ordered, are yet to arrive. Around 25 ventilators are expected in a week’s time, she said, adding the state will receive 25 every subsequent week, and that the supplier is expected to fulfil the entire order by July. The ministry of health and family welfare has asked states to put more emphasis on availability of oxygen beds, she said. “There are beds which can have oxygen cylinders attached to them so that the patient can be given immediate oxygen supply. The experience around the country and the world has been that the first option is to give oxygen supply and only if that fails should a patient be shifted to a ventilator,” Mohanan told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/none-of-the-52-patients-required-icu-or-ventilator/articleshow/75878201.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Drunk man hangs self in Kota village||Kota: A 32-year-old drunk man hanged himself with his shirt from a tree branch in a field in Bagawada village under Budhadeet police station area of Kota district on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drunk-man-hangs-self-in-kota-village/articleshow/75878206.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Baby born in ambulance as lions block road||RAJKOT: Though this may read like a rip-off from a jungle folklore, but strange things did happen in Gir Somnath forests on Wednesday night. Picture this: A 108 emergency services ambulance carrying a woman screaming with labour pain is on way to the hospital, finding its way with just headlights on the narrow kaccha village road. But six km short of the hospital, the driver abruptly halts the vehicle seeing four adult lions squatted right in the middle of the road around 10:30pm. And the lions seemed in no hurry to move at all. “The situation was tricky. We needed to reach the hospital, but couldn’t start till the lions moved away. I hail from this area and I know their behaviour. There was fear all around. I knew I will have to perform the delivery inside the ambulance, but for the first time I was shivering,” said Jagdish Makwana, the 108 emergency medical technician (EMT). The ambulance carrying Afsana Rafique, 30, from Bhakha village of Gir-Gadhda taluka and had travelled 12 km of the 18 km to the hospital in half an hour, till it met the lions near Rasulpur Patia. “I received the call from Makwana at around 10.30pm. I told them not to move till the lions clear the way and perform the delivery as per the telephonic advise of the doctor,” said Yuvrajsinh Zala, executive of GVK GMRI Gir-Somnath district Besides the woman, the ambulance carrried ASHA worker Rasila Makwana and Afsana’s mother to the community health centre (CHC) at Gir-Gadhda. We didn’t inform the mother about the lions on the road, lest she gets a shock,” said Makwana. Soon it was work as usual and unmindful of the lions roaring outside, the ambulance staff, along with the ASHA worker, helped Afsana deliver a healthy baby girl in the midst of jungle. All fears dissipated in the stilly night air when the ambulance was filled with the lusty cries of the newborn. According to team, the baby girl weighed nearly 3kg. “It was joyful movement for all of us when the baby started crying and our fear suddenly disappeared. Interestingly, the lions left after 20-25 minutes and the ambulance could restart its onward journey, with the majority of the work being accomplished in the midst of eerily dark jungle. Both mother and daughter are doing fine at the Gir Gadhda CHC and they will be discharged soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-baby-born-in-ambulance-as-lions-block-road/articleshow/75874633.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 22, 2020||Goa||Margao: Covid-19 hospital ups bed capacity to 200||MARGAO: After witnessing the state’s active coronavirus cases go from zero to more than 40 in a week’s time, the government has increased the capacity of the Covid-19 hospital in Margao from 170 to 200 beds. Only on Tuesday, the bed capacity was increased from 100 to 170 beds. “We are ready to cater to 200 patients,” said Dr Ira Almeida, deputy director, health services. Health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters that the target is to enhance capacity further, to 220 beds. The need was felt after fresh cases began coming in, she said. The hospital has a six-bedded ICU and a four-bedded paediatric ICU (PICU). “We have the potential to use ventilators for 40 patients at a time. We are ready for oxygen cylinders to be used for 100 beds. We also have backup, and can scale up to 200 at any time,” Almeida said. The hospital also has a separate paediatric ward which is currently occupied by five children, including two infants accompanied by their mothers, who were admitted over the past week. Specialist patient care will be provided by a team from Goa Medical College and Hospital, and they will be supported by the team of doctors from the ESI hospital. All the nurses are provided by the director of health services. Mohanan said the experience around the country and world have proved that the first option would be to give a patient oxygen supply and only if that fails should the patient be put on a ventilator. “There are sufficient ICU and oxygen beds,” Mohanan said, adding that the government of India, ministry of health and family welfare has asked states to pay more emphasis on availability of oxygen beds. While the paediatric ward and ICU are on one floor, the asymptomatic and symptomatic patients have also been accommodated on different wards on different floors of the hospital. A backup floor is also equipped and ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-hospital-ups-bed-capacity-to-200/articleshow/75878198.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Locals say no to quarantine facilities in residential areas||PANAJI/SALIGAO: Residents of Anjuna-Caisua are the latest to jump onto the ‘not in my backyard’ bandwagon objecting to Goan seafarers being quarantined at a hotel in their village. Just a day earlier, villagers from Calangute joined locals of Vasco, Assolna and Candolim in rejecting quarantine facilities in their respective localities. On Thursday, the Anjuna-Caisua panchayat wrote to North Goa collector R Menaka asking the government to move people quarantined in hotels within the village’s limits. In the letter, Anjuna-Caisua sarpanch Savio Almeida said the paid quarantine centres are located in residential areas and that any lapse in the quarantine process could lead to community transmission. Acting on the demands of local residents, the panchayat met on Wednesday and “unanimously decided” to object to quarantine facilities in Anjuna, Caisua and Vagator. Almeida is not the only one to show the door to Goan seafarers who have been quarantined at hotels on the instructions of the state government. On Wednesday night, there was an uproar in Calangute and Candolim as some local residents and activists questioned the arrival of the seafarers from Italy. Their target was mainly the government authorities who they allege do not act against those who move around risking life of the others. “There is panic in Calangute because of the coronavirus. We were in the Green Zone and now people from out are coming here and being quarantined. The state government is keeping people in the hotels here, which we don’t want,” said Calangute-based activist, Rajendra Korgaonkar. In March, irate Vasco locals, along with some councillors of the Mormugao Municipal Council, demanded that the Mormugao deputy collector scrap the proposal to set up a quarantine facility at the Headland Sada harbour in the old office building of the Mormugao Port Trust. Former Calangute MLA Agnelo Fernandes called the trend upsetting. “If one of our family members is affected, don’t we take care of the person? Don’t throw our Goan brothers out,” he said. However, locals insist that the arrival of the quarantined is “dangerous” for their families, wives and children. When around 90 seafarers were brought to a resort in Candolim on Wednesday night, locals blocked the buses and questioned the police about the presence of the quarantined seamen. “This will destroy Calangute and will finish Goa. That is why I appeal to the government to shift these people out of Calangute and to put them up in hotels that are on the hills away from the village,” said Candolim resident, Keshnath Narayan Kalangutkar. Fernandes blamed people’s apprehensions on the government’s lack of transparency. “If the government had told the people, instead of maintaining secrecy, this would not have happened. People were rightfully anxious. The government should have told people that all of them have tested negative. Somebody should have told the people that these are not patients but seafarers,” the former MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-say-no-to-quarantine-facilities-in-residential-areas/articleshow/75878203.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Indore||SGSITS final year exam in June-end||Indore: Shri Govindram Seksaria Institute of Technology and Science (SGSITS) has planned to conduct examination of final year students in last week of June. The higher educational institution conducted a meeting regarding examination of final year students considering their joining dates at companies these students have been placed at. “Students have been getting apprehensive about the exam as dates to join their companies are nearing. We have planned to conduct examination either in last week of June or by first week of July,” director of SGSITS, Dr RK Saxena told TOI. The institute has also planned to declare results by last week of July. Moreover, their results, no objection certificate (NOC), migration certificate, transfer certificate (TC), and all the other documents will be dispatched to their homes, he added. The final year students will have to come for examination as it will be help in offline mode. However, all precautionary measures will be taken to conduct the examination. The officials have decided to conduct exams in a couple of shifts to decrease number of students at a time for writing exam. There are 800 final year students of different branches that will be divided branch wise in different shifts for the exam to make sure that the physical distancing is maintained, said Saxena. In case the situation of city doesn’t change for good and district administration doesn’t permit the students to be called back, the institution will postpone exam dates. The institute will now begin with preparation of examination and the other logistics revolving around it, said Saxena. This will also include sanitization work of infrastructure and classes that SGSITS is already getting done at regular intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/sgsits-final-year-exam-in-june-end/articleshow/75877263.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Loss of crops, veggies may push up prices||KOLKATA: Wednesday’s cyclone the fiercest in recent memory, has left the state’s agriculture severely damaged. The loss of crops will now further push up the price of essentials. Vast tracts of land are submerged, killing the crops in a large number of fields. According to the preliminary report, nearly 7% of the 12.5 lakh hectares of standing boro paddy crop may have been irretrievably damaged. Much of the produce is common miniket, widely consumed in the state. Annually, Bengal produces 15 million tonnes-16 million tonnes of paddy in three crop seasons — aus, aman and boro. The boro output accounts for 30% of the paddy production in the state, said Pradip Mazumdar, agriculture advisor to Bengal. The report revealed that 50% of sesame crop has been damaged.Groundnut, another oilseed produced in Bengal, has also been affected. Some common vegetables, like ridged gourd, green chilli, cucumber, brinjal, bottle gourd, pumpkin and pointed gourd, were damaged across south Bengal. Vendors said that in the coming few days, there will be distress sale of these vegetables. That will be followed by highly fluctuating prices in a volatile vegetable market, predicted Kamal Dey, president of West Bengal Vegetable Vendors’ Association. “The vegetables are irretrievable. Unless the water recedes fast from the fields, we cannot accurately estimate the loss. But after Covid-19 had delivered a blow to the state’s agriculture, cyclone Amphan has virtually broken its backbone,” said Adhir Sarkar, secretary of Vegetable Growers’ Association in south Bengal. North Bengal has also been hit. In Malda, which is the biggest mango producer in Bengal, the preliminary report suggests that 38,000 tonnes of the fruit was lost in the storm. The district’s economy largely revolves around mango production and nearly 10% of its production of 3.5 lakh tonnes has received a big jolt at the beginning of the season. Malda has also lost 16,000 hectares of paddy and 500 hectares of vegetables. Vegetable prices will shoot up once the flood water recedes. “We have already been paying extra for rice, pulses and edible oil, courtesy the lockdown for Covid-19. Vegetable prices in Bengal was the only solace. Now, we have to burn bigger holes in our pockets,” said Shankar Upadhyay, a private firm employee. (Inputs from Subhro Maitra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/loss-of-crops-veggies-may-push-up-prices/articleshow/75877288.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 22, 2020||Indore||Wheels are rolling, but industries far from reaching break even point||Indore: The conditional approval to industries for manufacturing in lockdown period has failed to give the desired push to economy as lack of logistics, supply chain and workers have held back pace of operations with most working at 15 to 40 per cent capacity utilization. Industries trying to pull up gears to be back on track are facing multiple challenges in re-commencing operations and production lines in factories. OP Dhoot, running an ancillary unit to a leading automobile manufacturer at Pithampur said, “Industries are not able to even reach their breakeven point and this is adversely hitting profitability. Sourcing raw materials is a major challenge in current situation but still industries are willing to run because it is better than keeping shutters down.” In Pithampur, around 200 industries have resumed operations in lockdown while as many as 300 are likely to resume ops within a week after completing maintenance and safety preparations. Industry players said availability of spare parts, raw materials, transport vehicles, porters for loading and unloading are major challenges faced by industries. Many industries said mass migration of workers has also poised a major challenge for many factories and this is going to intense with rising capacity utilization. Many respondents talked about restricted movement of manpower to factories in Pithampur and Dewas from Indore. As per Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan, 59 buses have been permitted by district administration to ferry workforce from Indore to Pithmpur in which around 600 employees are travelling daily. In normal days, around 10,000 employees were travelling to Pithampur from Indore. Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan’s president Gautam Kothari said, “Manpower is not able to reach factories and this is hampering work. Every company does not have space to accommodate workers or rent a hotel for such a long time.” Industry also raised concerns over a sharp decline in demand in retail market and its adverse effect on production capacity. Girish Mangla, managing director of a pump manufacturing company at Dewas said, “There is no business, demand is almost negligible. Industries are facing multiple issues in recommencing operations like lack of logistics support and cash crunch.” Industries associations said industry will not be able to be back on track unless whole supply chain is up as every industry and sectors are inter-linked. Ashok Khandelia, president, Association of Industries Dewas said, “Industries are struggling to get raw materials, manpower, transport support. Until the supply chain fully up, industries will not able to operate as usual. Besides state government should announce some relief package instead industrialists are burdened by taxes and interests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/wheels-are-rolling-but-industries-far-from-reaching-break-even-point/articleshow/75877283.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 22, 2020||Ajmer||Gang-rape accused tests positive for Covid-19 in Ajmer||AJMER: One of the accused in gang-rape of a minor girl during lockdown period in city’s Dargah area tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Police are waiting for the reports of two other accused. As per the court’s direction, the Dargah police had taken all the three accused for Covid-19 test. According to police, a minor girl from New Delhi had come to offer prayers in Ajmer dagrah before the lockdown started in March. She met one Asgar Ali, an auto-rickshaw driver and a resident of Anderkot of dargah region at the railway station. Asgar lured the girl and took her to another house where two of his friends from Bihar, Mohammad Rafeeque and Habbibullah, were staying. The trio held the girl hostage and raped her for two months, police said. On Wednesday, the rape survivor with the help of a social worker of dargah bazaar went to dargah police station and lodged her complaint. The rape survivor stated that from March to mid of May, three of them raped her, held her captive and also beat her. During medical examination, the victim found to be pregnant. Since she was a minor girl, police arrested all three accused under POCSO. On Thursday, police took three of the accused for medical examination where one of them was tested positive for coronavirus. The victim was sent to the juvenile centre on court’s order. Now, the accused will be quarantined whether in police station or in central jail as per the direction of the court. Police said that they will produce all accused in the court. They will also take the victim for coronavirus test since she was staying with them. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gang-rape-accused-tests-ve-in-ajmer/articleshow/75878219.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man out on bail kills woman, injures her daughter and son||KOTA: A 27-year-old man, who was out on bail in a case of minor girl’s abduction, broke into her house and attacked her and her family with knife, in Mahavirpura in Lakheri town of Bundi district on Thursday afternoon. The injured girl, her brother and mother were rushed to a local hospital, where the mother succumbed to injuries. The girl and her brother were discharged after primary medical care. The attacker attempted to end his life by slashing his wrist but was saved, said police. The accused, identified as Mukesh Regar (27), a resident of Mohanpura village under Indergarh police station of Bundi district, had abducted the 17-year-old girl in September last year and was booked for abduction, attempt to rape under Sections of IPC and Pocso Act, said SHO at Lakheri police station Suresh Gurjar. The accused youth was in jail under judicial custody and was granted bail around one-and-a-half month ago, the SHO added. Police have lodged a case under Section 302 and 307 against the accused, who is undergoing treatment at the hospital, he added. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem and further investigation into the matter is underway, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-out-on-bail-kills-woman-injures-her-daughter-and-son/articleshow/75878215.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Stray bullet hits window in Shyamla Hills, sparks panic||BHOPAL: Panic gripped the posh Ansal Apartment locality in Shyamla Hills on Wednesday afternoon after a stray bullet shattered the window of a civil contractor’s house. Nobody was spotted in the vicinity of the apartment and it is suspected that the bullet was fired from a long distance and accidentally hit the window glass. The contractor informed Shyamla Hills police on Dial-100 after which police reached the spot along with FSL team and investigated the crime scene. A case has been registered against unidentified accused and further investigations are on. SHO Shamla Hills SI BP Singh Bains said complainant Ayub Khan, 55, resides in D-Block of Ansal Apartment. He told police that around 12.30 pm he heard a loud noise from the third floor of his house. Fortunately, there was nobody upstairs. When he went to check, he couldn’t find anything except the shattered window glass. When he went to the hall he found a bullet lying on the floor. He immediately informed police on Dial 100. Bains said that prima facie it is suspected that the bullet was misfired while somebody cleaning the gun in the area. The bullet has been seized and sent for further examinations to ascertain the type of weapon from which it may have been fired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stray-bullet-hits-window-in-shyamla-hills-sparks-panic/articleshow/75876043.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||At 5 deaths, Telangana gets its highest one-day toll; 38 more +ve||HYDERABAD: Five persons died from coronavirus on Thursday, the highest single-day toll since the outbreak even as 38 more positive cases were reported in the state. While the overall death toll rose to 45, the state’s caseload stood at 1,699. Health minister Eatala Rajender said the government was doing its best to save lives. “We are trying our best to save as many lives as possible. There is no secrecy in the number of deaths or cases,” he said. Greater Hyderabad contributed to 26 of the new cases, with four different families contributing to 20 cases. A constable in the Hyderabad commissionarate died on Wednesday evening. Seven members of a family in Sharada Nagar area of old Malakpet area tested positive with three children below the age of 13. While they were all shifted to Gandhi hospital, four members of a family from Dhobhi Gali area also tested positive. Another family from Yakatpura area had four members turning positive, along with five others from Moosapet. Authorities said five cases were also detected from Kukatapply zone, including a doctor. His father was also infected by the virus. A woman from Vanasthalipuram tested positive, who was the primary contact of another male patient in Rajendra Nagar area. His family attended a dinner meeting from where he contacted the virus. Ten migrants also tested positive, taking their number to 99. The number of recovered people reached to 1,036 with 23 new discharges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-5-deaths-t-gets-its-highest-one-day-toll-38-more-ve/articleshow/75878312.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation to open 25 basti dawakhanas||HYDERABAD: As many as 25 additional basti dawakhanas will be set up across the city on Friday by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), keeping in mind the healthcare needs of the residents. These will be in addition to the existing 123 dawakhanas that are already operational. According to government records, on an average, 80 to 90 cases are reported per day in these clinics. They receive 10 to 20 fever cases per day and 10 to 20 people come for treatment of cough and cold . OPD consultation, tele-consultation, basic lab diagnosis, family planning, free drugs (selected ones), treatment of acute simple illness, immunization services, antenatal and postnatal care are some of the services offered. “Basti Dawakhanas also offer counselling and contraception services, screening for anaemia and screening for non-communicable diseases such as BP, bloodsugar. Cancer health promotion activities are also taken up by these clinics,” read a statement issued by GHMC. The new clinics will be scattered across the city. While 20 clinics will dot Hyderabad district, five new clinics will come up in Ranga Reddy district. In Sangareddy district, three new clinics have already been set up and the number of new clinics in Malkajgiri district are 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-open-25-basti-dawakhanas/articleshow/75877293.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||Supply hitch forces restaurants to go veg||LUCKNOW: The shortage of chicken and mutton was evident as restaurants opened for home delivery through app-based services on Thursday. The search for non-vegetarian dishes resulted in the message ‘out of stock’ at most places. Danish, the manager of a prominent city chain of fine dining restaurants, said, “Our team has been trying to get meat, but in vain. Neither fresh nor frozen meat was available on Thursday. There was high demand for non-veg dishes, but we could deliver vegetarian items only. We are considering raising the concern with the administration.” Rahul Khanna, founder of a multi-restaurant chain, said that supply of meat had stopped and there was no clarity when it would resume. “Even frozen meat is sparsely available now. It is an irony that no licensed meat seller or slaughterhouse exists in Lucknow, which is a city of meat lovers,” he said, adding that in the post-Covid scenario, he hoped that the administration would prioritize meat sales in hygienic conditions. On Thursday, his restaurants, too, delivered vegetarian dishes with very few exceptions of chicken items despite high demand. Mohsin Khan, manager of a national café chain in Kapoorthala, said that their restaurant would open for delivery, but no fresh meat was available. “We have procured packaged frozen meat, but for certain dishes fresh meat is a must. If the situation does not improve, we will have to restrict our menu to vegetarian items,” he said. General secretary of Uttar Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants Association Garish Oberoi also mentioned that shortage of meat in parts of UP was a bigger concern compared to other states. “Supply of meat is an added challenge for us. We hope normalcy will return by next month,” said Oberoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/supply-hitch-forces-restaurants-to-go-veg/articleshow/75878244.cms||Rashi Lal
May 22, 2020||Nashik||HC lifts stay on outsourcing of 700 sanitation employees||Nashik: The Bombay high court has withdrawn the stay on outsourcing of 700 sanitation employees by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) .Congress corporator Hemlata Patil had moved court against the NMC over its decision to outsource 700 sanitation workers on contract. She had alleged irregularities in the outsourcing contract that was to be awarded to a private agency. But the court has given an order in favour of the municipal corporation.This order will help the civic body to continue with its process of outsourcing the sanitation workers.Earlier, the General Body of the NMC had given approval to outsource the workers for a period of one year at a cost of Rs 20 crore. But the standing committee of the NMC had given approval to give work order to the contractor for a period of three years at a total cost of Rs 77 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hc-lifts-stay-on-outsourcing-of-700-sanitation-employees/articleshow/75854072.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 testing down by half after net issues delay results in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Covid sample testing dropped by nearly half on Thursday as disrupted internet connections delayed result generation. On Thursday, 4,242 samples were tested. “Covid result generation has been massively affected due to the snapping of internet connection. And the results that were already generated before the cyclone are yet to be sent across to the hospitals,” said an official at NRS Medical College and Hospital. Laboratories that had generated Covid reports prior to the cyclone could not send the results across to the hospitals either. Transporting samples from hospitals to the laboratories has also been affected as major thoroughfares remained out of bounds for traffic. Hospitals have also been hit by manpower issues, specially Group-D employees. “We already had a Group-D manpower crisis. Now, even maintaining cleanliness in the wards is a challenge,” said an official at Medical College and Hospital. Kolkata. At SSKM Hospital, the area around the main block remained flooded till Thursday afternoon. The roof of the main MBBS hostel had also come down. However, no one was injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-testing-down-by-half-after-net-issues-delay-results/articleshow/75877319.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Survey to weed out bogus cotton growers in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: In a bid to weed out private traders who may have registered themselves as cotton growers for selling the produce to Maharashtra State Cooperative Cotton Growers Marketing Federation (Cotton Federation) and Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), the authorities have decided to conduct a door-to-door survey to verify genuine farmers. According to district deputy registrar Ramesh Katke, over 150 employees including assistant registrars, APMC secretaries and others would conduct the survey. “Over 30,700 cotton growers have registered themselves online with the federation and CCI. Cotton from 11,000 farmers has already been procured since May 3,” said Katke. “It has come to notice that private traders buy cotton from farmers desperate to have cash in hand by offering rates even below the MSP. The traders then collect 7/12 extracts of the farmers and bring the cotton to be the procurement centres to sell it at much higher rates,” said the DDR. The authorities suspect that nearly 40% of those who have registered online are not farmers. After verifying cotton stock on the basis of the 7/12 and details mentioned in the online registry, the farmer would be given a token and accordingly he/she would be allotted date for bringing the carts to the respective ginning factories for procurement. The survey order has, however, sent shudder waves down the spine of private traders who are operating in the region and amassing huge profit out of the illegal trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/survey-to-weed-out-bogus-cotton-growers-in-yavatmal/articleshow/75878239.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s quarantine rule scares train passengers from Delhi away||BENGALURU: The mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine in Karnataka appears to have forced people stranded in Delhi to put their travel plans on hold. The Delhi-Bengaluru train’s occupancy has shrunk by two-thirds in less than a week. While 543 passengers reached KSR Bengaluru City railway station on the first Superfast AC Express train on the first day of the resumption of services on May 14, the number was 180 on May 20. On May 14, chaos prevailed at the station after some passengers declined to go for institutional quarantine and 19 were sent back on an extra coach attached to the Delhi-bound train. Many claimed that they weren’t informed in advance about the mandatory quarantine facility. Shiny C, a passenger from Delhi, has postponed her trip. “I’ve to shell out premium train fare and stay in a hotel in Bengaluru at my expense for 14 days. I can’t afford that much during this crisis. So I might as well stay here and travel after the lockdown. I’m also worried that I may be vulnerable if I stay with others at a hotel and also the quality of food and room facilities. I wouldn’t mind if it’s home quarantine. In fact, travelling in AC train for over 34 hours is itself a risk,” she said. South Western Railway officials too admitted the poor patronage. “One reason could be the quarantine protocol of the Karnataka government where everyone— even if asymptomatic— has to go for 14-day compulsory quarantine,” said an official. The daily train has stoppages at Anantapur, Guntakal, Secunderabad, Nagpur, Bhopal and Jhansi. Another official, however, claimed that some passengers might have got down at stations en-route. “Many are from Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and are travelling in this train so they may get down at their respective stations,” the official said. Demand for first-class AC tickets Most first-class AC tickets from New Delhi to Bengaluru have been sold out, but tickets of 2AC and 3AC are still available. “As the number of seats in first AC are very limited and people feel it is much safer compared to second AC and third AC,” said an official. The fares of New Delhi-Bengaluru Superfast AC Express train for first AC, second AC and third AC are Rs 6,255, Rs 5,075 and Rs 3,510, respectively. “Social distancing is not possible in third AC coaches so those travelling in long-distance trains for emergency are buying first-class tickets as a precautionary measure,” said a railway source. Each train will ferry an average of 1,076 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktakas-quarantine-rule-scares-train-passengers-from-delhi-away/articleshow/75877010.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court denies bail to Covid-19 positive murder-accused||JAIPUR: A single bench of Rajasthan High Court on Thursday denied bail to a murder accused affected by Covid-19. The court said since quarantine and medication facilities are available in jail, there is no need of bail and stated that if he was released, it might affect his relatives and people of his acquaintance. The accused through his counsel pleaded in the high court that since he was found to be Covid-19 positive, he should be granted bail. However, the high court denied it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-denies-bail-to-covid-positive-murder-accused/articleshow/75878225.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||Two more migrants test positive||LUCKNOW: Two more migrant labourers who returned to Lucknow recently tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Thursday. Till now, 23 migrant labourers native to the city have tested positive for the infection. The two men were already quarantined and were admitted in the Covid Hospital under RML Institute. They had returned from Gujarat and Maharashtra. “One of them is from Gosaiganj block and the other from Bakshi Ka Talab area. The two had been in quarantine since Wednesday, after returning to Lucknow,” said spokesperson of chief medical officer’s office Yogesh Raghuvanshi. Spokesperson of RML institute Dr Shrikesh Singh said, “We have five migrants at the isolation facility, all of whom are asymptotic and stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-more-migrants-test-positive/articleshow/75878285.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Trichy||Virtual exhibition of antique material a hit||Trichy: A virtual exhibition of antique material with heritage value organised by the department of museums as part of the Museum Day has received good reception. More than 200 entries were received from people across the state in the form of photographs of antique materials. Photograph of one of the oldest versions of Kambaramayanam published in 1927, old watches, Burmese betel box, old driver batch and antique telephones were part of the 200 entries from people. While the event was organised as part of the Museum Day observed across the world on May 18, we decided to have it in the virtual platform considering the Covid-19 outbreak, said C Siva Kumar, curator (in-charge) government museum, Trichy. Out of the 200 entries, best entries were segregated, and a collection of these entries were converted into a video and shared in the website of the Trichy government museum, he said. The basic idea is to create awareness among people on the treasure trove of antiques with heritage value. All that is displayed in the museum alone are not treasures but those in every house are treasures, said Siva Kumar. It was encouraging to find a lot of children participating in the exhibition, he said. The museum department has decided not to publish names and addresses of the people who have sent the picture on account of their safety. Giving example of an antique painting, which has good market value, Siva said that collection of pictures in the form of a video will remain in the virtual platform for years together. President of Tiruchirappalli Numismatics Society (TNS) P Vijay Kumar who took part in the virtual exhibition from Trichy said that he had displayed vegetable cutter and coconut scrapper that were used during olden days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/virtual-exhibition-of-antique-material-a-hit/articleshow/75877317.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Gloves off: Medical waste poses a new crisis in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With discarded PPE kits, masks, gloves and items used to treat Covid-19 patients collecting by the minute in hospitals, the risk of this biomedical waste infecting sanitation workers has also gone up. Under new guidelines, Central Pollution Control Board has instructed healthcare facilities to use double layered bags to store Covid-19 related biomedical waste and label it for easy identification by Central Biomedical Waste Treatment Facilities (CBWTFs). Delhi has two CBTWFs, which can process up to 63 tonnes of biomedical waste each day. According to Delhi Pollution Control Committee, the capital daily generates 25 tonnes of biomedical waste. A study by environmental poison watchdog Toxics Link in 2019 titled ‘Spreading infections?’ noted after inspecting healthcare facilities and hospitals in Delhi’s 11 districts that infectious waste was being dumped as part of municipal solid waste. To compound the problem, a number of such facilities were not registered with DPCC. The study observed that 27.8% of the bedded healthcare facilities did not even have needle cutters, mandatory under the rules for disposal of needles. Around 34% did not have wheeled transportation for waste and often moved the hazardous garbage through patient areas. An alarming 26.4% of the surveyed facilities were also found pouring liquid waste in public sewers. Priti Mahesh, programme coordinator, Toxics Link, and part of the study, said deficiencies in Delhi’s healthcare system’s management of biomedical waste have become crucial with the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have rules for disposal, but they need to be implemented,” Mahesh said. “Anything that can possibly infect people have to be taken to the biomedical waste treatment facility and incinerator properly. If mixed with general waste or poorly packed, sanitation workers could get infected.” As recently as January 2020, DPCC had informed the National Green Tribunal that 48 Delhi healthcare facilities were not in compliance with the biomedical waste management rules and imposed fines of Rs1.3 crore on them. “The new guidelines have been sent to hospitals and isolation centres dealing with Covid-19 patients. Inspections will also be carried out to ensure they comply with the norms,” said a DPCC official. Swati Singh Sambyal, a Delhi-based solid-waste management expert, rued the lack of implementation of CPCB’s swift guidelines on handling of Covid-related trash. “If we want to reduce community transmission, effective management of biomedical waste is important. DPCC and other state pollution control boards need to be active and monitor healthcare facilities,” Sambyal said, pointing out in addition that even quarantined houses are not segregating waste posing a problem for society. This highlights the need to incentivise sanitation workers, she said. A doctor at Rajiv Gandhi Super-Specialty Hospital, designated a Covid-19 treatment facility, agreed that the magnitude of biomedical waste had increased. “We have large quantities of used PPEs, masks and disposable bedsheets. A private company takes care of their disposal,” the doctor said. He admitted that healthcare workers involved in waste management had become apprehensive about handling Covid waste, but said they were provided protective gear and training to undertake their tasks. Ashish Jain, founder director, Indian Pollution Control Association, advised the segregation of masks, gloves and PPE kits for 72 hours to kill the virus. “Disinfecting items before getting rid of them also reduces chance of infection,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gloves-off-medical-waste-poses-a-new-crisis/articleshow/75877336.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 22, 2020||Goa||OPDs at new South Goa district hospital fully functional||MARGAO: The OPDs that were shifted to the new South Goa district hospital last week received around 450 patients each day. The medicine OPD is the busiest, receiving around 150 patients while the gynaecology OPD receives around 100 patients. The surgery and orthopaedic departments have also seen an average of 50 patients each day. Appointments are given out on a ‘first come, first served’ basis. For those who still show up at the old Hospicio, there is a shuttle ambulance service available. The ambulance transports outpatients requiring admission to Hospicio, and on the return trip, ferries outpatients from Hospicio to the new district hospital. The ambulance leaves at 8.30am, 9.30am, 10.30am and 11.30am in the mornings and 2.30pm and 3.30pm in the afternoon. For laboratory investigations, staff at the new district hospital give patients appointments for blood tests. The reports are dispatched from the lab at Hospicio to the district hospital every evening to ensure that all reports are sent to the respective OPDs the next morning. The OPDs were moved to the new facility just in time, before the monsoons, when Hospicio receives a flood of patients, making social distancing difficult to implement. “It would have gotten too crowded here. The reason we moved the departments was to ensure the safety of patients as well as health workers,” said Dr Ira Almeida ,deputy director, health services. There are also plans to shift the medicine ward to the new hospital in the coming weeks. “It is one of the most crowded wards and receives more admissions during the monsoons. We will function there just like we are functioning here, with oxygen cylinders for patients who need it. The medicine ward is not dependent on the operation theatres, which are in turn dependent on the centralised medical gas system. We expect to move there in a fortnight,” Dr Almeida said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opds-at-new-s-goa-dist-hosp-fully-functional/articleshow/75878310.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||‘Contactless’ food on menu when Delhi's IGI Airport reboots||NEW DELHI: To minimise Covid-19 infection risks to passengers, as mandatory under protocols announced by the central government, Indira Gandhi International Airport will offer the first-of-its-kind contactless food orders when operations resume on May 25. The airport will partner HOI, an app that helps travellers navigate airports, to safely order and pick up meals before the flights. Contactless food ordering and payment services are unique features of the HOI app. It promises to provide the enhanced safety features necessary while traveling during the pandemic. Officials said that carrying food from home could lead to tedious check processes at a time when the passengers’ focus should be to catch flights on time. The HOI app is helpful, therefore, in identifying food outlets at the terminal for orders via smartphones. Payments too can be similarly processed. It will optimise the travellers’ wait times at the food courts because orders and payments can be done before the passenger reaches the airport. Officials said that passengers can download the app on their Android or iOS device, sign up and add their flight details. For contactless orders, passengers have to scan the QR codes at the outlets or directly go to the app’s web catalogue, add their choice of meals to the cart, pay online and pick up their order. The user can choose either the eat-in option or collect-at-outlet alternative for their meals. Apart from contactless food ordering, the app has other useful features, such as real-time flight status alerts, boarding gate and belt information, airport facility information, time to gate and waiting estimates and information about the weather at the destination. “Passenger experience is prime to us even at this challenging time. As social distancing has become the new normal due to the pandemic, we have taken many initiatives to enhance passenger safety and comply with Covid-19 safety measures and adopted a unique platform to extend contactless solutions to the flyers,” explained the spokesperson of GMR Airports Ltd, the airport developer. The same model is being installed at the Hyderabad airport too. The spokesperson added, “HOI app comes with a comprehensive feature that lets the passenger enjoy contactless food service at the airport. Besides food and beverages, passengers can also discover retail stores and other facilities available at the Delhi and Hyderabad airports. Further, this app enables users to get connected to the airport Wi-Fi with its One Touch Free Wi-Fi feature and download content in a jiffy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/contactless-food-on-menu-when-igi-reboots/articleshow/75877345.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: With 10 trains, services to be restored from June 1||JAIPUR: Various railway stations across the North Western Railway (NWR) are all set to receive the usual hullabaloo as the train movement will be restored from June 1. But the services will be restored only with 10 trains to important destinations, including Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad. No unreserved tickets will be allowed in these trains while the general class, too, will have reservation for the passengers. With the new trains, Jaipur will get direct train connectivity to Mumbai, Delhi and Howrah. NWR has started chalking out various plans to ensure everyone, including passengers, operating staff and the ground staff, follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs). “Passengers will have to reach 90 minutes prior to their respective journeys and will have to go through thermal screening. Also, they should have masks. We have got nine trains to operate from June 1 onwards,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR. Authorities said these trains will have regular halts and would run as they used to run prior to the lockdown. “This is going to be the usual run of these trains as per their earlier declared time table. Also, those having no reservation won’t be allowed to enter the railway station,” said an officer with the NWR. However, authorities said they will issue waitlisted tickets, too, which may cause problems. “They are saying that they will issue waitlisted tickets. However, waitlisted passengers won’t be allowed to travel. This is a dubious approach by the railways,” said an officer. For those stranded in Jaipur and willing to travel to cities like Mumbai and Kolkata will now have options. “The restored trains, including Jaipur-Mumbai superfast and Jodhpur-Howrah via Jaipur, will help the stranded people,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-10-trains-services-to-be-restored-from-june-1/articleshow/75878281.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||Heatwave grips Rajasthan, Bikaner sizzles at 45.4°C||JAIPUR: Majority of the places in the state witnessed a rise in maximum and minimum temperatures on Thursday with Bikaner clocking 45.4°C. Attributing the continued rise in temperatures to active northerly winds and vanishing of factors like western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said similar conditions would prevail in the state for the next couple of days. Temperatures in western Rajasthan will continue to rise further. People in Jaipur woke up to a warmer morning with the mercury recording a minimum temperature of 26.8°C. As the day progressed, the city recorded 42°C, the maximum of the day. With the continued rise in temperatures, many places in the city witnessed abrupt powercuts due to extra load. Likewise, many localities in the city have also start witnessing irregular supply of drinking water. Weathermen said till the end of this month, Jaipur will continue to witness increase in its maximum and minimum temperatures. There is a possibility that during the last week of this month, the maximum may touch 45°C. Bikaner was followed by Jaisalmer and Barmer where a maximum temperature of 45.0 °C each was recorded, Kota and Sriganganagar where a maximum temperature of 44.8 °C each was recorded, Churu 44.5, Jodhpur 44.3, Ajmer 42.9 and a maximum temperature of 41.4 °C was recorded in Udaipur. Jaipur Met office further stated that heat wave conditions are likely to be aggravated in the northern and western parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heatwave-grips-raj-bikaner-sizzles-at-45-4c/articleshow/75878263.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC to start operations on 55 routes||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) on Thursday decided to operate its buses on 55 selected routes across the state from Saturday. These buses will operate from and between cities that come under orange and green zones. However no services will be available for cities that are in red zone. According RSRTC officials, after approval of buses from the state home department, the corporation has given nod to bus operations on 55 routes. “Since the districts including Sikar, Rajsamand, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Sirohi and Barmer are in red zones, no bus will be operated from these districts,” said Sudhir Bhati, manager, public relations, RSRTC. He said a bus while starting from a orange zone or green zone city will only bypass the red zone city. “For example, if a bus from Churu is starting for Jaipur, it won’t have its halt in Sikar which is in red zone. It will only bypass the districts which are in red zones,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-to-start-operations-on-55-routes/articleshow/75878307.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Why home isolation is a headache for Delhi civic bodies||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 patients with mild or no visible symptoms are being sent into self-isolation at their homes. This is a big challenge to the municipal system that collects and disposes of household garbage. There are two biomedical waste management units in Delhi that currently take care of waste from quarantine homes and containment zones, but the civic bodies might need to look at alternatives if the volume of hazardous trash increases. Since the coronavirus outbreak, Delhi has had a separate system for collecting waste from infected households and institutions designated to handle Covid-19 patients. An SDMC sanitation worker involved in the process explained how specially designated teams were equipped with PPE kits and worked for six hours each day. He and his team members have been provided temporary accommodation to prevent infection at home, and are subjected to thermal tests numerous times during the day. The worker said, “We ask self-isolated households to place the garbage in a bag at some corner and spray it with sodium hypochlorite solution. We disinfect the bag and the surrounding areas before placing the trash in the auto tipper.” Ira Singhal, deputy commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said more than 11.4 tonnes of biomedical waste had been accumulated in the civic body’s areas. “Our concessionaires have a team specifically for this purpose in each of our six municipal zones,” Singhal said. “When a new positive case is reported to us, we communicate the house address to the collection teams.” A collection vehicle with a team of three wearing personal protection equipment kits collect the garbage in double-layered yellow bags as prescribed by Central Pollution Control Board. The bags are disinfected with sodium hypochlorite and deposited in the processing facility. The south corporation, which has the highest load of contaminated garbage, too has a special team each for its four zones. SDMC spokesperson Radha Krishan said that around three tonnes of biomedical trash are collected and incinerated at the Okhla waste-to-energy plant every day. The east corporation has a similar setup, and its collection teams handle trash not only from the containment zones, but also from 300-500 houses depending on cases and quarantine pendencies. Initially the workers unions alleged unsafe practices, but the arrangements are better now. Sanjay Gahlot, president, Delhi Safai Karamchari Aayog, said, “Workers are provided protection kits, though we wish the quality was better.” Gahlot also an awareness campaign against people throwing face masks in the household garbage. The civic bodies need to find better ways for the disposal of used masks, he added. Experts say that using cloth masks and segregating household waste will aid the authorities in safely handling daily waste. As it is, it is already a problem that used masks are ending up at the landfills. Chitra Mukherjee, advocacy head at NGO Chintan, which works with ragpickers, said ideally people should use cloth masks and reuse them after frequent washing. “The only solution to the disposal of single-use masks, which can’t be reused like cloth ones, is to collect them separately and incinerate them but we don’t have a separate collection process,” she said, adding it was risky that lakhs of masks were being mixed with normal household waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-home-isolation-is-a-headache-for-civic-bodies/articleshow/75877381.cms||Paras Singh
May 22, 2020||Kolkata||Constant pounding for four hours made cyclone more devastating||Kolkata: Cyclone Amphan took the course predicted by weathermen, which has left them wishing they were wrong. From the wind speed to the timing of its landfall, and the subsequent lashing that Kolkata received, almost every detail about the storm came right. Its core crossed the city with the eye of the storm — 30km in diameter — coming very close to east Kolkata. According to weather scientists, this was the fiercest storm to hit Bengal in at least a century. “It grazed the eastern fringes of the city, which indicates that whole system lashed Kolkata,” said a weather scientist. A day after ravaging south Bengal, Amphan sailed into Bangladesh and stood at a distance of 300km northeast of Kolkata on Thursday evening. The city remained cloudy and continued to receive intermittent drizzles. But that was just an aftermath of the cyclone, said the Met office. The city, however, will be sunny from Friday, said weathermen. “Dispersed clouds left scattered by the cyclone kept the city cloudy on Thursday, but there will be no heavy showers now. As the clouds move away, it will get warm,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. On Wednesday, the wall clouds of the cyclone’s ‘forward sector’ struck Kolkata with a fierce wind speed. It was followed by the ‘eye’ that led to a 20-minute lull before the tail clouds started pounding. “Only Aila had come this close, but only a part of the system had hit Kolkata. Amphan passed right through the city,” said Das. As a result, the wind speed went up and it lasted for a longer period, which damaged trees, lamp posts and buildings. “A constant pounding at 80 km/hr and above is dangerous for any tall structure or tree. Kolkata received the lashing for four hours on Wednesday,” said a weather scientist. What made Amphan infinitely more potent than its predecessors were its course and wind speed, according to weathermen. Unlike Bulbul and Phani, it struck Kolkata after making landfall at the Sunderbans coast. And though Aila came close in intensity, it swerved past Kolkata. “Other than being weaker systems, the previous two storms had bypassed Kolkata. But Amphan went over the city for four hours between 5pm and 9pm, generating an average wind speed of 80km/hr. The constant pounding that Kolkata received was unprecedented and resulted in large-scale uprooting of trees and lamp posts. It couldn’t have been avoided unless Amphan had altered course at the last moment,” said Das. While the peak wind speed recorded at Alipore was 114km/hr, it touched 133km/hr in Dum Dum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/constant-pounding-for-four-hours-made-cyclone-more-devastating/articleshow/75877396.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 22, 2020||Trichy||450 two-wheelers parked in Trichy bus stand since lockdown||Trichy: Owners of around 450 two-wheelers parked for the past two months at Trichy corporation’s parking lot in Central bus stand will end up paying hefty parking fees. These people had got stranded outside Trichy due to the suspension of public transport when the lockdown was declared. Since public transport is unlikely to resume before May 31, these vehicle owners are in a fix. Sprawling over 25,000 square feet, the corporation’s parking lot in central bus stand can accommodate 1,600 two-wheelers at a time. The three-storey building was of great use for people visiting other districts and towns to park their vehicles and board buses or trains from Trichy railway junction nearby. “At least 450 two-wheelers have been parked in our facility for more than 55 days. As we collect Rs 10 per day as fee, the owners will have to pay Rs 550 per vehicle to retrieve their two-wheelers,” N Rangarajan, manager of the corporation’s parking lot in Central bus stand, said. So far, only a few people had managed to avail e-pass and return to the city in their own vehicles and taken back their two-wheelers. With no other vehicles using the facility, those running the parking lot said their revenue has plunged. “Once public transport resumes, we expect the people to take back their vehicles,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/450-two-wheelers-parked-in-trichy-bus-stand-since-lockdown/articleshow/75877363.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 22, 2020||Trichy||SHRC seeks report on broken needle stuck in baby’s hip||Trichy: Taking suo motu cognisance of an incident in which a broken needle was found stuck near a baby’s hip due to medical negligence, the state human rights commission (SHRC) issued notice to the health department to file a detailed report on the incident. SHRC took serious view of the incident through newspaper articles and considered it fit for inquiry. The commission also passed an order asking for a detailed report from the director of medical and rural health services, Chennai within two weeks. It added that the matter will be listed for further consideration after two weeks. The report should be submitted to the commission by post failing further action would be taken as it deems fit and proper, said the order. A broken syringe needle stuck in the left gluteal region of a two-and-a-half month-old female baby was removed by her parents at Idaiyapatti village near Manapparai on Wednesday.The baby’s father P Pitchandavar, 33 alleged that the negligence occurred when the baby was administered a vaccine at the government headquarters hospital in Manapparai on March 10, the day she was born. As the baby developed fever frequently, the parents got her treated unaware of the needle. On Wednesday, puss came out from the spot where the injection was administered. When they further squeezed, they retrieved the needle. The baby was brought to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital for treatment. Joint director of health services (JDHS), Trichy Dr S Lakshmi had assured to inquire into the matter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shrc-seeks-report-on-broken-needle-stuck-in-babys-hip/articleshow/75877341.cms||---
May 22, 2020||India||Helped migrants most in party-run states, says Congress||NEW DELHI: Countering the government's charge that states run by Congress have been reluctant to repatriate migrant workers, a senior party functionary asserted that the party has leveraged maximum relief work where it is in office. The functionary also alleged "non-cooperation" from a couple of "friendly" states besides managing a good impact in Gujarat, Haryana and Telangana.  According to the data compiled by the AICC, Punjab has run 130 trains to ferry migrants, pilgrims and students, accounting for nearly 1.73 lakh people. The state has a large concentration of migrant labour working in industries and agriculture. Rajasthan engaged 31 trains while Chhattisgarh utilised 23 trains to ferry people.  Rajasthan has also sent two and half lakh people home by bus while Punjab used over 11,000 buses to transport people. The three states have Congress governments.  "It created a lot of hurdle for us. Kerala and Maharashtra were the most non-cooperative states. Karnataka waffled as it came under pressure from lobbies against sending migrants home. Similar issues cropped up in Gujarat. However, in less than a fortnight, we managed to do well," the senior party leader claimed. The Congress functionary added that the party had sponsored a good number of passengers adding up to 35 trains in Gujarat, 10 in Telangana and seven in Haryana. The three states are known as magnets for migrants because of their booming industries and agriculture. As per party data, it has done well in providing food kits, cooked food and corona protection kits to locals, poor and migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/helped-migrants-most-in-party-run-states-says-congress/articleshow/75879781.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP to appoint 50,000 women as rural bankers||LUCKNOW: To assist women in rural UP to access banking without having to go to a bank, the government will appoint banking correspondent, sakhis or friends, who will go door to door in villages and help women carry out digital banking transactions. Around 58,000 sakhis will be appointed for the next six months and paid Rs 4,000 a month. The device which they will carry will cost another Rs 50,000 while the bank will also give them a commission for each transaction. “This move will not only reduce the risk of corona infection but will also provide employment to women in villages. Now there will be no need to go to banks because the banks itself will come to serve you. I have given directions to appoint the sakhis immediately,” chief minister Yogi Adityanath said. On Thursday, the CM also released Rs 218.49 crore from a revolving fund under the Rural Livelihood Mission to 35,938 families. This fund will help self-help groups and women engaged in cottage industries like sewing, embroidery, and production of disposable plates, spices and masks. The purpose of this fund, the CM said, is to promote self-employment and self-reliance in rural areas. “Even in the time of this corona crisis, our women voluntary organizations are making every possible contribution towards our fight against corona. There are some voluntary groups which have also produced personal protective equipment kits,” the CM said. He said: “This proves that such groups are extremely talented and if given some guidance and support, are capable of doing anything. If we make timely revolving funds and community investment funds available to women self-help groups, then they can emerge as a perfect example of rural self-reliance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-appoint-50000-women-as-rural-bankers/articleshow/75878323.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops to maintain safe distance while handling crowds||NEW DELHI: Policemen overseeing the gathering of migrants and, at times, protesters, have been asked by their superiors to maintain a safe distance, even while removing them from the site. In the guidelines issued by Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava, cops handling a crowd have been asked to wear protective gear over their uniform. The crowd would be warned and asked from a distance to disperse after which the area would be cordoned off with barricades so that no one else joins in. Police officers said the guidelines were only illustrative in nature and other instructions issued from time-to-time would be meticulously followed. “It is imperative that the duties by police station staff are performed in such a manner that they are able to protect themselves from Covid-19,” the guidelines added. All protesters would be warned about the threat of the spread of the novel coronavirus. They would also be advised to follow social distancing and use face masks, sanitisers and gloves. “The policemen will be provided face shields and other protective equipment as per requirements. All anti-riot equipment must be disinfected before being used,” the guidelines mentioned. Cops have been asked to use sufficient barricades and ropes to avoid physical contact with the crowd. The SHO of the local police station would be accountable for providing sufficient quantities of sanitiser, soap, gloves and face masks to the lower-rank officers. The requirements would have to be sent to office of the additional DCP and followed up so that they are made available in time. ACPs have been asked to visit one police station daily and minutely inspect the entire complex, right from the sentry post to the barracks, to see whether the guidelines are being followed. A daily report will have to be submitted by them to the DCP by 5pm on WhatsApp along with photographs mentioning the shortcomings and remedial measures taken. The report will also mention the availability of equipment like sanitisers, face masks and shields, gloves, thermal meters, etc at the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-to-maintain-safe-distance-while-handling-crowds/articleshow/75877443.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Six trains to ferry UP migrant workers home today||Panaji: The six trains scheduled to depart on Friday, carrying migrant workers stranded in Goa back to their home districts, should put a significant dent in the state’s task of transporting stranded people out of Goa. “We have planned six trains to Uttar Pradesh on Friday. They will accomodate a substantial number of stranded workers, and it will lessen our effort little bit,” revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar told mediapersons on Thursday. Three trains were scheduled for Thursday, out of which a UP-bound train with 1,600 passengers departed earlier in the day. The second train left to Varanasi in UP and the third to Manipur with a halt in Madhya Pradesh. Admitting they were aware of the ‘anxiety among migrants’, Kumar said the situation would improve with the movement of the large number of labourers on Friday. “We are making efforts to take special care of them,” he said. The workers travelling by these trains have been booked to stations as close as possible to their hometowns, to avoid causing them inconvenience in their journey home. He said around 1.2 lakh persons had registered on the government portal, hoping to return home. As of Thursday, over 37,000 persons have left the state, while 3,914 persons have entered Goa. The revenue secretary said 113 persons were issued challans for spitting in public on Thursday and 542 penalised for not wearing a mask in public places. As of Thursday, a total of 52,364 persons have been penalised for these violations, he said. Kumar also said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued detailed guidelines for the resumption of domestic flights. “The MHA guidelines are being examined,” he said in response to a question on the state’s preparedness in dealing with air passengers. When it was pointed out that hotels in Goa have already started accepting bookings online, health secretary Nila Mohanan said the MHA has laid down guidelines for hotel operations as well, and that an appropriate strategy will be devised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-trains-to-ferry-up-migrant-workers-home-today/articleshow/75878317.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Surat||HAPPINESS IS INFECTIOUS HERE||Surat: Faith injects miracles in ordinary medicines — something that the health workers at the Covid Care Centre at Samras Hostel in the city has proved, all of 442 times till Thursday!Take for example, 29-year-old Mahendra Purohit’s case. This asymptomatic patient who runs a medical store in Kevdi village of Surat district, thought it was the end of the tunnel when he tested positive for Covid-19 in April. He was admitted to the New Civil hospital, but being asymptomatic, he was shifted to the centre in Samras Hostel. “All my misgiving disappeared as soon as I was shifted to the Samras Hostel. I knew instantly that I will get better her after seeing the manner in which doctors and nurses there kept motivating the people not to give into despondency. That was the biggest healing touch!” Mubark Patel, a resident of Katargam in Surat, echoed Purohit and said: “I never got the ‘patient’ feeling while getting treated at Samras Hostel. Looking at how well the medical staff took care of us, I readily agreed to donate my plasma whenever they needed it.” Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had converted the Samras Hostel into Covid Care Centre where asymptomatic patients are being treated. "Samras Hostel, which can accommodate 600 patients, has been given a touch of the quintessential family atmosphere that adds to the therapy. Emotional and motivational support adds to the medical treatment which is doing wonders for the patients. We have taken care of every aspect of the patients’ well-being, from yoga to entertainment and providing books and magazines,” Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, told TOI. Nital Shah, yoga expert from Mumbai, conducts two online sessions daily for the patients. Talking to TOI, Shah said: “I conduct 45-minute sessions twice in a day, morning and evening. I have designed a yoga session specially for the Covid-19 patients where they can do light exercises like deep breathing and basic stretching apart from meditation in the morning sessions. In the evening, we do Pranayaam.” Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forests (Surat), who is tasked with coordinating and managing Covid Care Centre in Surat said that the staff and patients also celebrate their birthdays with their dear ones through digital means. “It’s team work at Samras Hostel. The all-round cheer on all such happy occasions enliven the space and creates a feeling of cohesiveness and bonding between the patients and the staff. Total 442 patients have recovered till date. Patients too reciprocate the warmth by becoming willing plasma donors after recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/happiness-is-infectious-here/articleshow/75874778.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 22, 2020||Trichy||Contacts traced, 2 central dists blunt Koyambedu cluster effect||Trichy: Ariyalur and Perambalur district administrations have completed tracing the returnees from Koyambedu market in Chennai, the cluster that escalated Covid-19 positive cases to hundreds in these central districts. With only seven active cases in Ariyalur and 25 in Perambalur, the districts aim to become Covid-19-free in the next few days. Active cases have fallen by 97% and 63%, while containment zones declined by 84% and 91% in Ariyalur and Perambalur respectively in the past two weeks. The Koyambedu cluster had wreaked havoc in these non-decrepit districts by raising the cases from single digits to 355 for Ariyalur and 139 for Perambalur. As villagers from these districts form a significant workforce in the market, their return saw the infection spreading to family members. Till now, Ariyalur has managed to trace 695 Koyambedu returnees while Perambalur traced 613 returnees. Officials said contact tracing is over and that the recovery of the returnees has been swift in the past two weeks. “About 85% of the cases reported in Ariyalur were Koyambedu returnees. Most of them have recovered and we expect the remaining patients to be discharged in the next few days, they are healthy and asymptomatic,” Ariyalur district collector D Rathna told TOI. Fresh cases attributed to direct and contacts of these returnees as well as the frequency of people testing positive have come down to single digits in the past week. Timely tracking of returnees and 19 quarantine facilities in the two districts prevented the spread of the cluster. “Even the active cases in Perambalur including from the vulnerable age group are asymptomatic. There is no direct Koyambedu positive case reported in the past one week,” a health official from Perambalur said. From 124 containment zones in early May, Ariyalur as on Thursday has only 20. Perambalur’s containment zones fell from 54 to five during the period. Disinfection process is continuing in villages of both the districts. Village health nurse, block medical officers and VAOs jave been inspecting the home-quarantined on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/contacts-traced-2-central-dists-blunt-koyambedu-cluster-effect/articleshow/75877408.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP demands FIR against AIMIM MLA||Hyderabad: A hunger strike was staged in front of Chaderghar police station by the national Morcha secretary of BJP, Bangaru Shruthi, demanding a case against AIMIM Malakpet legislator Ahmed Bin Abdullah Balala under the SC/ST Atrocities Act. The agitators raised slogans against the MIM MLA. They demanded an FIR to be registered against Balala since there is prima facie evidence against him. “The legislator had openly abused a Dalit woman leader, but there has been inaction on the part of police. Despite video evidence, police officials have not initiated action in accordance with the law,” said Bangaru Shruthi adding that she will the protest if no action is taken. Bangaru Shruthi had filed a complaint with the Chaderghat police station on May 9, in which she alleged that Ahmed Balala allegedly used derogatory language about a BJP leader on May 6. A video clip was also submitted to police along with the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-demands-fir-against-aimim-mla/articleshow/75877446.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of tests has returnees worried in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Foreign returnees quarantined in city hotels are a worried lot. Apart from battling unhygienic conditions in certain facilities, they say authorities have made no arrangement for Covid-19 tests or health check-ups — unlike in many other cities — for them, even as their Aarogya Setu app indicates the presence of ‘high-risk’ people around. Another concern: their passports, which were surrendered to state authorities on arrival. Speaking to TOI from a hotel in Somajiguda, Vikram B said: “It has been more than 10 days since I was quarantined. Barring the thermal screening at the airport, there have been no other checks. My colleagues who landed in Chennai said they underwent Covid-19 tests as soon as they reached India. This is the case in other big cities as well.” The Warangal resident, working in London, said his Aarogya Setu app has been showing anywhere between 5 and 15 people in the ‘high risk’ category within 500 metres of him. “I called the 104 number several times to ask about it, but nobody has a clue. We haven’t had a single doctor attend to us any of these days, despite there being several senior citizens in the facility,” he added. The hotel, currently, has about 250 occupants. In case even one of them test positive for the novel coronavirus at a later stage, people say, tracking down every guest staying at the same facility will be an herculean task. Expressing similar concerns, Pritham R, staying at a hotel in Lakdikapul with 98 others said even pregnant women have no access to doctors. “It was after much trouble that they arranged a doctor visit for one of them, who is also diabetic, on Wednesday. But considering many people here, including hotel staff, are not following safety procedures and the government is also not conducting tests, we don’t feel protected. Being home quarantined would have been a better choice,” the engineer, who travelled for training to London, said while also wondering just why their passports were taken away. Many others, from the US and UAE, who reached out to TOI raised the same issues. “My mother is old and ill. Even she has not been tested and her passport was taken away. I hope it’s returned to her safely when she leaves the hotel,” wrote her worried son from the US. Officials, when contacted, insisted that doctors were routinely following up with hotels on the health of their guests. “The Covid-19 test will be conducted on the 13th day of their stay and the results issued on the 14th day,” said B Manohar Rao, managing director of the Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation, which is overseeing the quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complaints-emerge-of-poor-hygiene-at-facilities/articleshow/75877450.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Come June, 37 more trains to run from Delhi’s five railway stations||NEW DELHI: After successfully operating 15 special and Shramik trains from New Delhi, Delhi Junction and Anand Vihar, the capital’s railway stations are set to get busier from June 1 as Northern Railway plans to run 100 more trains. Of the 100 trains, 37 will be connected to the five major stations — New Delhi, Delhi Junction, Sarai Rohilla, Hazrat Nizamuddin and Anand Vihar. The trains, including Mail, Express, Jan Shatabdi and non-AC Duronto, will cover locations that were previously not on the list of the 15 special trains. Northern Railway clarified that Delhi Junction and Anand Vihar would continue to operate Shramik Specials, while hosting passenger trains from June 1. “We are currently operating a large number of Shramik Specials daily, in addition to the special trains. A system is being developed that will ensure Shramik and special trains can run from the same station,” said Deepak Kumar, CPRO, Northern Railway. Going forward, social distancing would be the key, apart from crucial learning from the previous journeys. “Passengers will have to arrive 90 minutes in advance and will be screened before they get on board. Each station is being disinfected and sanitised regularly, while the staff is being rotated. The same procedures will be followed and scaled up as the footfall increases,” said Kumar. Another official said that the platforms for departures and arrivals would be demarcated. “We also aim to keep separate entry and exit points. Railway staff will be deployed at foot overbridges to ensure social distancing,” he added. The guidelines issued by the Union railway ministry stated that while RAC and waitlisted tickets would be available, tatkal or premium tatkal bookings would be discontinued for the time being. The advance reservation period for these trains is 30 days. Waitlisted passengers will be allowed only in case of vacancy and cancellation of tickets. At stations, food plazas will only be open for take-away, and the use of face masks and Aarogya Setu app are mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/come-june-37-more-trains-to-run-from-delhis-five-railway-stations/articleshow/75877430.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||29 culprits identified for killing 2 leopards in Katarniaghat range||LUCKNOW: Making headway in the killing of two juvenile leopards in two ranges of Katarniaghat wildlife division on April 23, forest department has identified at least 29 culprits. Katarniaghat wildlife division is a protected area in UP and is part of Dudhwa tiger reserve. The department had lodged named FIRs against six persons in the first case and three in the second. Director, Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, Sanjay Pathak, said, “So far, 29 culprits have been identified, but they were not apprehended as those who were arrested were released on parole after a couple of days.” Investigation is on to trace the remaining culprits. After due investigation, complaint will be filed in both the cases, said the official. June 22 is the date by which a complaint needs to be filed before the court. The ill-fated big cats had ventured out of the forest and strayed into agricultural fields. In the first incident that took place in Majra village in Kakraha range of the division, it was three-year old female which was beaten to death by villagers.In another incident, in Dhaniyabeli village of Sujauli range, the one-year old cub first entered house of a local resident. After it was chased out of the house it strayed into the field where, according to villagers, it attacked a man. When forest staff reached the spot to rescue the feline, it attacked a forest guard. Finally, when the forest department could localise the cub in a sugarcane field, it found the cub dead. Both the killings happened without any instigation and involved use of sharp-edged weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/29-culprits-identified-for-killing-2-leopards-in-katarniaghat-range/articleshow/75878333.cms||Neha Shukla
May 22, 2020||Surat||Patients’ info sought from homeo, ayurvedic doctors||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked Homeopathic and Ayurvedic practitioners also to feed details of their patients into its Jaimini application from Thursday onwards. "We have been receiving details of patients suffering from acute respiratory infection (ARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) from private practitioners through Jaimini application. Currently, 929 medical practitioners are providing us details of ill patients daily. Now, we have asked Homeopathic and Ayurvedic practitioners also to provide details of their patients to SMC,'' municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. On Thursday, 33 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat city of which 20 belonged to Limbayat zone, a Covid-19 hotspot. The number of Covid-19 cases has reached 1,186 in the city now. Meanwhile, Wahida Razak Sheikh, 43, a resident of central zone, succumbed to the virus, taking the toll in the city to 55. SMC officials said she had co-morbid condition and was suffering from diabetes and blood pressure. “On Thursday, 26 more Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of them, 17 patients were discharged from Covid Care Centre and nine from New Civil Hospital,” municipal commissioner said. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old man lodged in Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) in Surat tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. This is the second prisoner to have been infected with the deadly virus. According to sources, the inmate Navla Vasava has been in LCJ for eight years. He was under treatment for paralysis and had been visiting New Civil Hospital regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/patients-info-sought-from-homeo-ayurvedic-doctors/articleshow/75874790.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Mysuru||Man kills brother in drunken brawl in Mysuru||MYSURU: In a drunken brawl, a man stabbed his younger brother in south Mysuru on Wednesday. The youth was declared brought dead to the hospital. The deceased is Vishnu, 28. A fight broke out between him and his elder brother Narayana at their home in Mahadevapura over a trivial issue. Both were daily wage workers. They had consumed alcohol and in a fit of rage Narayana stabbed Vishnu. Vishnu sustained severe injuries. Though Narayan rushed him to a hospital, he was declared brought dead, said DCP AN Prakash Gowda. Vidyaranyapuram police arrested Narayana and booked a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-kills-brother-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/75875835.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Barges allowed to cross Aguada sand bar from today till May 26||Panaji: In a modification to an earlier order, the captain of ports department on Thursday announced that vessels and barges will be allowed to cross the Aguada sand bar till May 26 but only during noon-time. The department said that vessels that wish to venture out will have to apply for permission and will be able to operate only with two-third of the carrying capacity. On May 15, the captain of ports department had said that from May 21 to September, all inland river vessels would not be able to cross the Aguada sand bar and venture into the sea from the Mandovi. It must be noted that the extracted iron ore is being transported by barges on a daily basis and the state government plans to e-auction around 2.5 million tonnes of iron ore this month. The ore, lying at Pale, Rivona, Collem and Advalpal can only be transported by barges to ships at outer anchorage. If all of it is sold, the state, currently reeling under an economic crisis, could earn around Rs 100 crore. The captain of ports department has now said that vessels and barges which cross the Aguada sand bar should have a valid survey certificate, insurance, and should keep a watch on the onset of the south west monsoon. “The vessels and barges crossing the Aguada sand bar should carry two-third of its carrying capacity. Vessels or barges holding extension survey certificate are not permitted to cross the Aguada sand bar subject to inspection,” captain of ports James Braganza said. The department also informed all vessel operators to exercise extra caution while navigating in the coming days as the navigational buoys in the Mandovi and the Zuari have been withdrawn. “Extra lookout or watch keeper will be on duty to avoid any mishap. Further, overtaking of vessels and barges from Mandovi bridges to mouth of river Mandovi is strictly prohibited. The master or serang of all vessels should adhere to the Rules of Road strictly,” the captain of ports said in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/barges-allowed-to-cross-aguada-sand-bar-from-today-till-may-26/articleshow/75878448.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara teenager detained for rape of minor||VADODARA: A 17-year-old boy living at Vasna-Bhayli Road was detained on Wednesday evening for allegedly raping a five-year-old girl from his neighbourhood on May 19. Police said that the boy had lured the girl to his house to play with him on May 19 afternoon. The girl used to go the boy’s home regularly to play with his younger sister. As the teenager’s mother was taking an afternoon nap, he took the little girl to the bedroom and allegedly raped her. He also told the girl not to tell anyone about it. After the girl reached home, she did not tell anyone until she experienced pain in her private parts on the same night. “Initially, the girl did not say anything despite the pain. But when her mother coaxed her, she told her on Wednesday what had transpired in the neighbouring house the previous day,” said a police official. The family then approached police with a complaint following which the girl’s medical examination was done. The boy was picked up for questioning and later booked for rape and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “We have not yet produced him before the juvenile justice board as his coronavirus test report is awaited. He is now in our custody,” said D K Vaghela of JP Road police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teenager-detained-for-rape-of-minor/articleshow/75873988.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Docs keep Bengaluru’s 1st Covid +ve HIV patient under close watch||Bengaluru: An HIV patient has tested positive for Covid-19 for the first time in Bengaluru, and doctors are closely monitoring how he responds to prevailing treatment protocols. The Bengalurean was taken to a hospital with influenza-like illness and was found to be infected with Covid-19. He’s suffering from pneumonia too. Housed in the ICU of a designated hospital for three days now, he has been treated with high flow nasal oxygen to assist breathing. “We have seen many patients with co-morbidities. But this is the first time in Bengaluru that a patient immunocompromised with HIV has tested positive for Covid-19,” said doctors at the hospital. “He has pneumonia and suffered from tuberculosis in the past. With multiple complexities, the viral load would be high and disease progression could be faster. We have to closely watch the patient’s condition,” they added. The contact-tracing team from the health and family welfare department which met the man’s relatives found out he earlier suffered from alcoholism. Dr Glory Alexander, director, ASHA foundation and HIV/AIDS specialist, said persons living with HIV (PLHIV) are more vulnerable to Covid-19 than the general population only if they’re not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) and if their CD4 count is not within 500-1,500 cells per cubic millimetre of blood. CD4 are immune T cells that are under attack in HIV patients. CD4 count is a prognostic indicator and a higher number indicates a stronger immune system. “Hence, it’s very important for HIV patients to ensure they don’t miss taking ART drugs and maintain CD4 count. Recovery in case of a Covid-positive HIV patient will be like any other patient if s/he is on ART and CD4 count is within the desired limit. However, HIV patients who don’t take ART drugs regularly will be vulnerable as they are already immunocompromised,” she explained. According to Dr Alexander, a person living with HIV in Kerala had tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered well. As per the 2018-19 annual report of National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), there are 2.5 lakh HIV patients in Karnataka. Though efforts were made by the government and several NGOs to ensure HIV patients had access to ART drugs during the lockdown, there are chances that those living in remote areas may have missed out on the medicines, say doctors. “Such persons must contact the nearest ART centre and return to their treatment regime as they are susceptible to Covid-19,” said a senior doctor from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/docs-keep-bengalurus-1st-covid-ve-hiv-patient-under-close-watch/articleshow/75876876.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 22, 2020||Mysuru||47 cases recorded in 60 days in Mysuru||Mysuru: Child marriages continue unabated in Mysuru, with fresh FIRs being filed against parents and relatives of minor girls, said district child protection officer S Diwakar. Two cases were registered in Periyapatna and one in Mysuru city. Parents of a girl who had given an undertaking that they would not marry her off till the age of 18, broke their word, and went ahead with the marriage amidst the lockdown. It came to light on Tuesday, and a case was registered against them. In another case, a girl who was married off, tried to conceal the fact, but it came to light while she was being counselled, that a day before her rescue, she was married off. In another case, police had to rush to Belavadi in the early hours and rescue a 15-year-old girl, even as her family was busy preparing for her wedding on Sunday. So far, about seven FIRs have been filed in Mysuru for marrying off minor girls, said Diwakar. Many girls who were supposed to write SSLC exams are being married off during the lockdown. Usually, child marriages are organised in secret after exams, but as exams were postponed due to the lockdown, marriages are being conducted as scheduled, despite the lockdown being in force. Usually April and May is marriage season, say officials and representatives of non-governmental organisations. A total 47 scheduled child marriages have been stopped in the last two months in Mysuru, but a few marriages are said to have taken place before they could be stopped, said officials. Meanwhile, four girls from the same school in KR Nagar are said to have been married off, and the headmaster of the government school is said to have informed the authorities of the same. A victim of child marriage in HD Kote is said to be 6 months pregnant. Karnataka State Child Rights Commission member L Parashuram says that most child marriages are conducted because of love affairs, as parents fear that their child might elope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/47-cases-recorded-in-60-days-in-mysuru/articleshow/75873387.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Warm up for hotter days and nights||Chennai: Hours it registered the hottest day of the year on Tuesday (41.3 degrees Celsius in Nungambakkam), Chennai experienced the warmest night and a hotter day on Wednesday (41.8) as cyclone Amphan barrelled across the Bay of Bengal, changing wind direction in the east coast. Hotter days and warmer nights may continue for the next three days, weathermen said. Meteorologists said cyclone Amphan, which made a landfall in Bengal on Wednesday evening, pulled away all the winds, triggering hot land breeze along coastal Tamil Nadu. The change in wind direction the cyclone may last for a few days. “We are now getting west-northwesterly winds from the land. We may see some changes from May 23 when seabreeze could set in and bring down the temperatures,” said N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chennai. “It takes a day for the system to dissipate after it makes the landfall and at least two more days for the winds to change direction.” IMD forecast said the sky condition is likely to be partly cloudy and the maximum and minimum temperatures in the city are likely to be around 41 degrees Celsius and 31 degrees Celsius for the next 24 hours. IMD has also issued a temperature warning that maximum temperature is likely to be in the range of 40-41 degrees Celsius in isolated pockets over north Tamil Nadu. Before sunrise on Wednesday, the city recorded a minimum of 31.8 degrees Celsius in Nungambakkam and 31 degrees Celsius in Meenambakkam. On Wednesday, the maximum temperatures were at 41.8 degrees Celsius in Nungambakkam and 42 degrees Celsius in Meenambakkam with a humidity of 73% and 53%. A few coastal and interior areas too registered temperaures above 40 degrees Celsius. It includes Cuddalore (41.4), Nagapattinam (40 ), Parangipettai (40.5), Thiruthani (42) and Vellore (41.8). Weather blogger Pradeep John said regions around Chennai including Kancheeuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet may get heat advection from Rayalaseema. “Once we start getting sea breeze, day temperatures will be back to around 37 degrees Celsius,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/warm-up-for-hotter-days-and-nights/articleshow/75855433.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lifestyle diseases behind 30% deaths due to Covid-19 across world, say KGMU doctors||LUCKNOW: While pneumonia is the main condition that accelerates progression of novel coronavirus infection in humans, lifestyle diseases, including uncontrolled hypertension and diabetes, acted as the precipitating factor in up to 30% of the deaths across the world, suggests an assessment of global literature on Covid-19 published in a book on the pandemic brought out by a team of authors from King George’s Medical University and others from India and abroad. Titled ‘Coronavirus Disease 2019 (Covid-19)’ the book is a part of series 'Medical Virology: from Pathogenesis to Disease Control' and contains sixteen chapters on various aspects of global pandemic. “The major underlying co-morbidities that complicate the course of Covid-19 by increasing the severity of illness include uncontrolled hypertension, diabetes and coronary heart disease,” explained editor, lead author and head, Centre for Advanced Research, KGMU, Prof Shailendra K Saxena whose group started work on Covid-19 in the first week of January. The list of co-authors includes KGMU VC Prof MLB Bhatt and head of infectious disease unit Dr D Himanshu among others from India and abroad. With over 88,000 downloads in a week, the book is being used as a ready reference by several countries, including Caribbean Island nation Antigua and Barbuda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lifestyle-diseases-behind-30-deaths-due-to-covid-19-across-world-say-kgmu-docs/articleshow/75878350.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Autos, taxis to be sanitised at CNG stations in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Auto rickshaw, taxi, gramin sewa and other public service vehicles (PSV) will soon be thoroughly sanitised daily at the nearly 350 filling stations in Delhi where CNG is available. “It is mandatory for all PSV drivers to disinfect the passenger seat after each drop-off for the safety of the next passenger. While all drivers are following the guidelines, we have found out that there is no uniformity in the material they are using to disinfect the seats,” a Delhi government official said. “For instance, many are not getting the right proportion of surface disinfectants like sodium sulphate with water. Also, different types of disinfectants are being used,” he added. To ensure there is uniformity and vehicles are disinfected in a scientific manner, the government is planning to provide disinfection facilities at filling stations where CNG is available. “There will be a nominal charge of around Rs 20-25 for the facility and vehicles will be provided certificates of disinfection,” he said. The enforcement branch has also launched a drive against vehicles carrying excess passengers than allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/autos-taxis-to-be-sanitised-at-cng-stations/articleshow/75877451.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 22, 2020||Bengaluru||With devotees out, Karnataka temples set to take puja, other rituals online||BENGALURU: With temples continuing to remain locked down, a new normal to connect to God is on the anvil. With devotees banned, darshans in temples are set to go virtual, while prasada and teertha (holy water) will be couriered to doorsteps of the faithful. Read the entire story on TOI+  With devotees out, time for Gods to go online?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-devotees-out-ktaka-temples-set-to-take-puja-other-rituals-online/articleshow/75876939.cms||Kiran Parashar
May 22, 2020||Rajkot||Over 120 ready to donate plasma after recovery||Covid patients who have recovered are counselled to donate their plasma in case of need in future to help other patients recover fast. This helps in creating a potential list of donors. “Doctors at Samras Hostel counsel them about the efficacy of plasma therapy and take consent of the patients. Over 120 patients have agreed to be plasma donors,” Nayyar told TOI. "When I was being discharged, doctors counselled me to be a plasma donor for others in need. I immediately agreed so that like me, I can help others recover and get a new life,” Mahendra Purohit, a Covid patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/over-120-ready-to-donate-plasma-after-recovery/articleshow/75874804.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Aid given to Covid positive Delhi cops cut by 90%||NEW DELHI: With more number of police personnel getting infected with the novel coronavirus, Delhi Police has decided to reduce the amount being given to the positive cops by 90%. Now, a Covid-19 positive cop will get just Rs 10,000, instead of Rs one lakh as announced earlier. Senior officers, however, said that Delhi Police would continue to bear medical expenses of the infected cops. Around 300 police officers have tested positive for the coronavirus so far. Meanwhile, the amount for police officers who die on duty due to Covid-19 has been increased from Rs 7 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. The decisions were taken at a recent meeting. “If any police officer gets infected, we make all efforts to ensure that they heal fast. We even ensure that their families are doing fine. Senior police officers have been asked to facilitate their hospital admissions and cater to other needs,” a senior policeman told TOI on Thursday. Until recently, the money from the police welfare fund was being used for various measures which are being implemented for the cops who get affected from novel coronavirus. Sources said that the proposal to set up a separate Covid fund had also been approved. It would have around Rs 4 crore which might be used for the medical and other expenses of the police officers on duty. From senior officers to the constabulary level, everyone would contribute to the fund. Even the multi-tasking staff members would contribute around Rs 200 towards the special fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aid-given-to-covid-ve-cops-cut-by-90/articleshow/75877464.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor will suffer if private hospitals treat Covid-19 patients: Telangana minister||HYDERABAD: A day after the Telangana high court said that private labs should be given an opportunity to test coronavirus suspects and treat patients, health minister Eatala Rajender said that poor people will be in trouble if private hospitals are permitted to treat coronavirus patients. Speaking to media after inaugurating a mobile ICU clinic for Covid-19 patients, the minister said that contact tracing plays a crucial role in the containment and treatment of coronavirus. “ Private hospitals cannot take up such things but a decision on allowing the tests and treatment for the virus will be taken in view of the high court order in the coming days,” he said. He pointed out that the state government is of the view that indiscriminate tests are not good and, therefore, was working in that direction but under the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) norms for testing. He denied allegations that the state government is not doing enough tests. “We are acting in the most scientific manner and for that reason the death rate in the state is much less in comparison to other states in the country and also developed countries,” he argued. Meanwhile, close to 300 private hospitals in the state, mostly in the city, have the required infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients. ICMR had specified the guidelines with special ventilation wards in hospitals. While most hospitals are ready to treat patients, they are seeking further guidelines on the same. The private hospitals also wanted permission for testing. Currently if a suspected patient comes, the private hospitals are taking their swabs and sending them for testing in NIMS Hyderabad. Few days back, the medical and health department had given guidelines to private hospitals on how to run regular operations. The guidelines include treatment for Covid-19 patients in hospitals which have ventilation facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-will-suffer-if-pvt-hosps-treat-covid-19-patients-eatala/articleshow/75877517.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 75 corporation teachers go ‘missing’, issued show-cause notices||NEW DELHI: At a time when most corporation schools are working as ration distribution centres, more than 75 teachers from south and north corporation schools — who were supposed to be deployed on distribution duty — stopped responding to municipal corporations’ attempts to contact them. The civic bodies have issued show-cause notices to all such teachers, threatening to start disciplinary proceedings against them. A senior south corporation official said that these teachers have been missing since March 20, while it was explicitly mentioned in the orders that they cannot move out of station without seeking a prior permission from the department. “For last two months they have not been responding to phone calls or notices. We were forced to issue the 24-hour notices now,” the official added. A senior official said that teachers have been deputed on food and ration distribution duty as well as online teaching courses. The show-cause notices issued by the deputy director of education stated that clear guidelines were issued through WhatsApp to all the teachers. “You were supposed to perform duty at the cooked food distribution centres during Covid pandemic, but without sanctioned leave you left Delhi, which is in contravention to department rules and an intentional act to disrupt government services. If you do not respond in 24 hours, action will be initiated under conduct rules, 1964,” the notice said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/75-corpn-teachers-go-missing-issued-show-cause-notices/articleshow/75877475.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Goa||Goa wants to reduce eco zones by 30 villages||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday urged the environment minister Prakash Javadekar “to make correction” in eco sensitive zones (ESZs) and reduce it from 99 villages to 69 villages. The Kasturirangan Committee on Western Ghats had identified 99 Goan villages as eco sensitive zones. “We have demanded a correction in villages and Javadekar has told us that he will send a committee to revisit the villages and carry out the correction,” Sawant said. The Centre will now depute a team to Goa to reassess the situation before preparing a final proposal on demarcation of ESZ in the Western Ghats. Sawant said the central team is expected to come for reassessment after a couple of months. Among the suggestions made by the state, Sawant said Goa has asked the Centre to take into consideration habitations and not classify those villages as eco sensitive zones. Also, the state has asked the central government to allow activities like agriculture in the eco sensitive zones. “We have already sent a letter with our demands to the Centre and will be sending another one reiterating our position,” Sawant said. Sawant also said all the issues related to ESZ were discussed at the video conference which Javadekar had with CMs and forest ministers of states covering Western Ghats—Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Goa. Mhadei, Netravali, Cottigao, Mahavir and Bondla wildlife sanctuaries are included in the eco-sensitive areas identified in the report. The environment ministry had said that it wants to come out with a single notification covering all the eco-sensitive areas covering the six states, to protect ecology of the Western Ghats. Most of the states over the past two years have tried to bring down the area of ESZ on the grounds of “development” in those areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-wants-to-reduce-eszs-by-30-villages/articleshow/75878357.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||FTII reopens with physical distancing||PUNE: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) partially reopened its campus amid health protocols on Thursday, nearly two months after remaining shut due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Thursday’s reopening was, however, symbolic because it did not kick start academic activities such as classes, workshops or shoots on the campus. The institute used the reopening to conduct a meeting attended by its director, Bhupendra Kainthola, and limited faculty and non-teaching staffers. A release issued by Kainthola stated that the meeting was held to plan ahead to an eventual full reopening, which would include classes, workshops, shoots and examinations for the current year, as well as completing the admission process for the upcoming year for which the test was conducted in February. The meeting was conducted in accordance with physical distancing and other health protocols mandated by the Union and state health ministries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-reopens-with-physical-distancing/articleshow/75878345.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Surat||11.54L download Aarogya Setu in Surat||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has appealed to all citizens to download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. It has been made mandatory for traders, provision store owners and industrial workers among others. They have been warned of action if they fail to download the application on their mobile phones. "Until now, about 11.54 lakh people have downloaded Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones in Surat, which is 17 per cent of city's population. I request everyone to download it for your betterment and safety of others,'' municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/11-54l-download-aarogya-setu-in-surat/articleshow/75874838.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||8 people killed in separate mishaps||Hyderabad: Eight people died in separate road accidents. Three people travelling to Hyderabad met with an accident in Nalgonda district. Two person died after a lorry hit them in Karimnagar. In Jangaon, a business and his driver died after their car hit a divider. A resident of Medak district was killed after being hit by a bulldozer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-people-killed-in-separate-mishaps/articleshow/75877471.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Surat||Three from Mumbai test +ve in Navsari||Surat: Navsari district recorded three more Covid-19 positive cases for second consecutive day on Thursday. These cases were detected during screening and testing of people entering the district from other states. The total number of coronavirus cases in the district has now gone up to 14. Sources said three men from Chikhli and Gandevi talukas in the district, who returned from Mumbai, tested positive for the virus on Thursday. District health authorities are in a dilemma whether to consider these cases of Navsari district or not as these people’s permanent address was that of Mumbai. Dr DH Bhavsar, chief district health officer of Navsari, told TOI, “Three persons, who are residents of Mumbai, have tested positive for the virus. At present, we can’t consider them in the district list of Covid-19 positive patients. ” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-from-mumbai-test-ve-in-navsari/articleshow/75874877.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Mysuru||Mumbai-returned teen test +ve in Mys||Mysuru: Three days after a 46-year-old man from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru, a teenager who returned from the ‘Maximum City’ a week ago tested positive on Thursday. With this the total positive cases recorded in the district Mysuru has gone up to 92 of which 90 have recovered. Currently, the district has only two active cases. This comes after Mysuru had become covid-free on May 15 with discharge of all positive patients in the district. Officials claim the case is not cause for concern as the 18-year-old was placed under quarantine since his return and had contact with few people only. As many as 719 individuals, who are native of Mysuru, have returned from several states including Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh in the last two weeks. Most of them are staying at government sponsored quarantined facilities like hostels and community centres while nearly 20% of them have preferred paid quarantined facility. According to health officials, as of now, only those showing flu-like symptoms are being subjected to tests. Others will be tested only on the 12th day of their quarantined period. Test of about 50% quarantined people are conducted, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mumbai-returned-teen-test-ve-in-mys/articleshow/75874850.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Jamia student booked under UAPA||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Special Cell on Thursday booked Asif Iqbal Tanha, a student of Jamia Millia Islamia, under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) accusing him of being a conspirator in the riots that took place in the capital earlier this year. Tanha was earlier arrested by Delhi Police’s Crime Branch on charges of being involved in the riots outside Jamia in December last year. A resident of Jharkhand’s Hazaribagh, Tanha lived in Abul Fazl Enclave and was pursuing a bachelor’s course in Arabic from the varsity. He was also one of the leaders of the United against Hate movement. Cops found WhatsApp chats that suggested that Tanha was actively involved in the conspiracy, which led to the violence that killed over 50 people in northeast Delhi. According to the cops, Tanha, an office bearer of the Students Islamic Organisation, was allegedly found to be instigating students to resort to violence during the anti-CAA protests outside Jamia in December last year. He was arrested on the basis of the eyewitness accounts. The FIR registered at the Jamia Nagar police station after the violence had named Tanha along with student leader, Chandan Kumar, and former MLA, Asif Muhammad Khan. Sources said that in several videos, Tanha was seen leading students who later got violent and pelted stones. According to police, Tanha had also asked his followers to block the road near the Jamia even as a mob had gone berserk and burnt several DTC buses. During interrogation, Tanha claimed that initially he had tried to contain them but had left the area when the crowd became violent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riots-jamia-student-booked-under-uapa/articleshow/75877494.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||For destroying plants, trucker fined Rs 10,000||Hyderabad: A penalty of Rs 10,000 was imposed on a lorry owner on Thursday for destroying Haritha Haram saplings in Siddipet town. The owner from Karnataka was informed by the Siddipet municipal authorities that his lorry would not be released until the fine was paid. Driver of the lorry Mohammed Syed drove the vehicle on to the road divider at Ranganathapalli on Hanamkonda Road and destroyed 12 saplings. Following instructions from the municipal commissioner, a complaint was lodged with the local police station. The lorry permit papers and the licence of the driver were seized. A receipt was sent online to owner Ganesh on Thursday. “We water the plants regularly and take care of them. We have been imposing fines on everyone who destroys the plants. During lockdown, this was the first instance of the plants being destroyed and we imposed the fine,” horticulture officer Ilaiah said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/for-destroying-plants-trucker-fined-rs-10000/articleshow/75877504.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Surat||Industries to pay for ‘must’ Covid-19 test of workers in UTs||SURAT: Next time you enter the union territory of Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) and Diu to work in a factory or a corporate office, you will be required to pay for getting the Covid-19 testing done at the lone government laboratory in DNH. In a first, the administration of Daman, DNH and Diu has started paid Covid-19 testing service for the people, especially those working in the industries and corporate offices. While the routine testing will cost Rs 3,000, the emergency or tatkal testing will be charged at Rs 4,500. The directorate of medical and health services of the union territory issued a notification fixing the charges for the virus testing. According to the notification, the employees designated by the industries for test, corporate heads and its allied staff, self-testing for migration to other states, and any other person self-willing to undergo Covid-19 test in the union territory, will be required to pay charges stipulated by administration. Barring a lone Covid-19 positive case in DNH, the union territory of Daman and Diu have been successful in keeping the global pandemic at bay. Relaxation in lockdown norms has resulted in influx of workers to the union territory, which houses more than 6,000 industrial units, employing over 3 lakh workers, mostly from Gujarat state. Talking with TOI, Dr VK Das, director, medical and health services of union territory said, “For the employees, owners and workers of the industrial units in UT, Covid-19 test is mandatory and it is chargeable. It is the industries and corporate offices who will have to bear the cost of testing and not the administration.” The laboratory in DNH is conducting about 500 Covid-19 tests per day. Dr Das added, “The charges have been fixed as per the government protocol. Since a large number of industries are present in the territory, we can’t bear the expense of Covid-19 test of huge number of workers and employees.” However, the decision has irked the industrial unit owners who will have to cough up huge amount for testing of their workers. “It is a costly affair for the industries to pay Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,500 per test. Without the Covid-19 testing, the administration is not allowing the workers and employees to enter. We are paying taxes to the administration and it is our right to get free facility for Covid-19 testing,” said an industrialist who did not want to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/industries-to-pay-for-must-covid-test-of-workers-in-uts/articleshow/75874929.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||For contact tracing, Delhi government seeks records of relief centre visitors||NEW DELHI: With several food volunteers getting infected with Covid-19 in the past few days, Delhi government has asked district administrations to capture the data of all people who are provided lunch and dinner at each hunger relief centre (HRC) in the capital. In a note to all district magistrates earlier this week, the revenue department has asked them to depute volunteers at the HRCs to collect contact details of each and every beneficiary to ensure that they can be traced later in case of corona outbreak at any of these centres. Though the DM offices had been asked to collect the details in April itself, sources said it was done only to some extent. The district magistrates have been asked to compile the data and send it to the divisional commissioner’s office on priority. Each HRC will have two defence volunteers, who will collect the details and feed them on a weblink prepared by the revenue department. “All DMs should ensure that we have the contact details of each and every beneficiary to meet any eventuality related to contact tracing, which is absolutely essential for containment of corona pandemic. All DMs should submit the data within two working days,” said the revenue department’s note. Officials said that data capturing was required as per the direction of the ministry of home affairs. According to officials, more than nine lakh people are provided both lunch and dinner at about 1,400-odd HRCs and over 400 other locations. Each centre has the capacity to provide cooked food to 500 people. The food is prepared by various agencies that were involved in providing midday meal to government schools students and several other religious and charity organisations. The HRCs have been set up at various government and corporation schools in the city. While the principals of the schools have been made in-charge of the centres, teachers and civil defence volunteers distribute the food. Every day, the principals report the details of the time when the food arrive at HRCs, its quantity and quality to the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-contact-tracing-govt-seeks-records-of-relief-centre-visitors/articleshow/75877519.cms||Atul Mathur
May 22, 2020||Goa||Goa’s IT firms may log out 4,000 jobs||PANAJI: Goa’s fledgling information technology sector is in for more trouble as the virus seems to have not only attacked its revenue but also the jobs. The 150-odd IT companies in the state are staring at around 4,000 job cuts if the situation doesn’t improve and it may erode revenue of some companies by as much as 50% in this financial year. “It is estimated that the pandemic could lead to at least 4,000 direct job cuts and 12,000 people would be impacted indirectly. Nearly 91% companies that we surveyed have decided to adopt no-hire policy, which will also have a huge impact,” Goa Technology Association (GTA) president Manguirish Salelkar said. Neither the state government nor the association has data on the number of people employed in the infotech sector. To tide over the revenue loss, 74% of the companies have opted for immediate pay cuts, but companies are also looking at temporary layoffs or leave without pay as the next step. A survey of the state’s IT companies and startups also found that productivity levels have dropped due to work from home arrangements, poor internet connectivity and power failures. The association said 26% of the infotech companies are likely to lose more than 50% of their revenue this financial year, while 51% of the firms may see a drop of 40%. “Covid-19 has had a significant impact on the industry. Our members have seen 95% of the business impacted as deferred client payments and low cash reserves have been the main challenge for the industry,” said Salelkar. The association, in a meeting with information technology minister Jennifer Monserrate on Thursday, sought support from the state by way of waiver of certain utility service charges and low interest loans to meet working capital requirements. “Availability of loans from state-supported institutions for short duration at 2% interest rate will help the companies with the required working capital,” said Salelkar. GTA has asked the government to waive electricity and water charges for a quarter and sought a temporary waiver on payment of GST to boost demand. Salelkar also requested the government to implement the IT Policy benefits by reimbursing salaries, rental payments and internet charges as mentioned in the policy. “Most of the companies were not able to register with the department of information and technology due to issues with the registration process and system, which are pending resolution. We will wait to hear from them about their plans in two to three days,” said Salelkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-it-firms-may-log-out-4000-jobs/articleshow/75878417.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Amrapali case: Centre may step in to provide funds||NEW DELHI: In what could come as a relief to around 46,000 Amrapali homebuyers, the Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that it is considering stepping in to provide funds to complete the housing projects which could not be completed as funds were allegedly diverted by the Group and its directors. After a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit said the Centre should provide funds for completion of Amrapali’s housing projects which have been taken over by NBCC, additional solicitor general Vikramajit Banerjee told the court that the issue is already under the consideration of the finance ministry and he will seek instructions on how much money could be given for the stalled projects. Facing a fund crunch with cautious buyers not paying their dues of Rs 3,600 crore and NBCC refusing to invest money, the SC had earlier asked the Centre to consider using its real estate stress fund, managed by SBI Capital, for construction of the stalled projects. Senior advocate R Venkataramani, who was appointed as receiver to manage the affairs of Amrapali group, told the court that the finance ministry has set in motion the process of financing Amrapali projects and pleaded the court to direct SBI Capital to relax general parameters laid down by it and release the funds by end of June. He also informed the court that UCO Bank has agreed to deal with unsold units and proposed to fund those properties through a consortium of banks. The court, however, refrained from passing order to the Centre and SBI Capital after the ASG assured the bench that he will seek instructions from the ministry and inform the court next week on the decision to be taken on the proposal. The estimated cost for construction of all housing projects is Rs 8,500 crore and amount recoverable from homebuyers and buyers of commercial areas is Rs 3,700 crore, 43% of the cost. Though SC-appointed forensic auditors submitted that around Rs 11,000 crore is the recoverable amount which is enough to bear the cost of the construction, the fund is not available as the process of auctioning the Group’s assets is on. Also, those who benefited from diversion of homebuyers’ money are not returning the funds despite court orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amrapali-case-centre-may-step-in-to-provide-funds/articleshow/75906363.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another Covid patient dies on day of hospitalization||Ahmedabad: Late hospitalization of Covid-19 patients possibly due to the fear of stigma, the severity of viral infection and a higher prevalence of co-morbid conditions is proving to be the death knell for Amdavadis. On Thursday, a 45-year old woman from Kanchar-Golvad village of Dholka taluka in Ahmedabad district barely spent a day at the hospital before she succumbed to the disease.On Tuesday a one-year-old from Hudco-Indira Awas on Ahmedabad’s outskirts spent a few hours at the hospital before being pronounced dead. On Wednesday a 65-year-old woman from Narayani Park-II in Bopal had died on the same day of her hospitalisation. In all Ahmedabad’s rural areas have reported 147 Covid-19 cases and nine deaths because of the disease since the outbreak began.On May 9, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi (AIIMS-D), Dr Randeep Guleria had pointed out that the biggest causes of Ahmedabad’s high death rates were late hospitalization and higher prevalence of diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease. He had also urged the state government to work out a strategy to identify such vulnerable persons. On Thursday, there were 17 deaths reported from Ahmedabad municipal limits of which 12 were of patients who were diabetic and suffering from hypertension. There was one patient with kidney disease. All those who died were above 40 years of age, the eldest being an 87-year-old man. In the West Zone a 75-year-old woman died in Ranip area after three days at the hospital. A 60-year-old-man from Sarkhej spent four days in treatment. In Ahmedabad city, there were six deaths in the age group of 51 to 60 years, two deaths in the 60 to 70 years age group and four in the 40 to 50 years age bracket. Meanwhile, two more cases have been reported from Bopal, taking the areas total number to 20 , while two deaths were also reported. On Thursday a resident of Diamond Flats at Bhavya Park tested positive, while in another case, a city crime branch sub-inspector from Radha Krishna Society in Bopal also tested positive for Covid-19. Two male migrant labourers, 43 and 19, who were on their way home, also tested positive.According to the Bopal-Ghuma nagaralika president Jigisha Shah, “A 30-year-old resident was arrested by Vastrapur police and as it was mandated a Covid-19 test was performed. The accused tested positive for the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-covid-patient-dies-on-day-of-hospitalization/articleshow/75877528.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Business||GMR Kamalanga project sale to JSW hits Covid roadblock||Hyderabad; Just over three months after GMR group announced that it would be selling its 1050MW (3x350 MW) Kamalanga power project in Odisha to Sajjan Jindal-led JSW Group for Rs 5321 crore, the deal has hit a Covid-19 roadblock. GMR group was to divest its entire stake in the Odisha-based power project that supplies electricity to states like Odisha, Bihar and Haryana under long-term power purchase agreements. GMR Infrastructure Ltd said in a regulatory filing to the bourses on Thursday that the divestment of GMR Energy Limited’s entire stake in GMR Kamalanga Energy Ltd to JSW Energy Ltd has been “put on hold due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown”. GMR said the deal would be “revisited once the situation normalizes”. “Even in these hard times, with demand falling across India, the pithead plant of GMR Kamalanga Energy Limited is fully operational,” GMR Infra said in the regulatory filing. “The government announcing series of reforms along with Rs 90,000 crore package to discoms for easing liquidity is a step in the right direction for power sector,” it added in the filing. The Kamalanga project was one the 36 identified stressed power assets undergoing debt resolution. Had it gone through, the deal would have helped GMR Infrastructure prune its debt. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gmr-kamalanga-project-sale-to-jsw-hits-covid-roadblock/articleshow/75877515.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hubballi||Sirsi reports nine cases in one day; infection spreading to Uttara Kannada’s interior regions||Karwar/ Dharwad/ Ballari: Covid-19 had, by and large, been restricted to one or two taluks in Uttara Kannada district, and most other towns and villages had managed to stay secure from the threat of the pandemic, are now reporting cases. In Sirsi, where not a single Covid-19 case had been reported thus far, nine individuals were confirmed infected with the novel coronavirus on Thursday. Residents are pointing out that this is an indication of the infection, by and large restricted to the coastal towns, spreading to the interior regions of the district. All the nine individuals who have tested positive had returned to Sirsi from Mumbai and Gujarat. They are currently being housed at the Morarji Desai School in Kalli village. Among the nine who have been confirmed infected in Sirsi are a three-year-old child and her mother. Throat swabs of the child’s father have been sent to the laboratory for examination. The tally in the district has gone up to 65, of whom 12 have been cured. With the easing of the restrictions, people from neighbouring Maharashtra and Dubai are returning to all parts of the district and towns and taluks hitherto not infected are now reporting positive cases. Sirsi assistant commissioner Eshwar Ullagaddi said that all the infected patients would be shifted to the Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences, while all those in quarantine would be strictly monitored. Tally rises to 31 in Dharwad, active cases at 22 In Dharwad district, five cases of Covid-19 were reported on Thursday, pushing its tally to 31, of which 22 are active. As many as nine individuals have effected a recovery and have been discharged thus far. Two girls – one six-year-old and the other nine years of age – are among the five who tested positive. Two women and one man are the other individuals who have been confirmed infected in the district. The six-year-old girl, and her mother, 29, had returned to Dharwad from Telangana and had been in a government quarantine facility at the University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad. While the other girl and her parents, who have also tested positive, had returned from Mumbai. Fishermen who returned from Mumbai test +ve in Ballari As many as 11 fishermen who returned to Ballari district from Mumbai and had been quarantined at a government facility have tested positive. The number of active cases in the district has risen to 16 as a result. Ballari deputy commissioner SS Nakul said that all the 11 individuals confirmed infected on Thursday were members of a single family. Addressing the media after chairing a meeting attended by Ballari superintendent of police CK Baba and district health officer Dr Janardhan, Nakul said that all those who had tested positive had been in quarantine in Ballari district since May 6. Of the 11 people who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, seven are women. “One of them is pregnant. While six are residents of Ballari city, three are from Rupanagudi and the remaining two are from Chaganur village. All of them have been shifted to the district Covid-19 hospital. We will not designate any locality as ‘containment zone’ since all of them have stayed in quarantine since their arrival from Mumbai,” said Nakul. Health department personnel have collected throat swabs from a nine-month-old infant, whose mother is among those who has tested positive. Four more recover in Vijayapura In Vijayapura district, four patients who recovered from Covid-19 were discharged from the district hospital on Thursday. As many as 41 people have recovered from the pandemic in Vijayapura in all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sirsi-reports-nine-cases-in-one-day-infection-spreading-to-uttara-kannadas-interior-regions/articleshow/75874950.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MLA gets HC notice for violation of lockdown||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday issued notice to TRS MLA M Bhupal Reddy of Narayankhed, asking him to explain his stand on a PIL that questioned a birthday party hosted at the MLA’s residence on May 7, ignoring the lockdown norms. Notices were also served on the state government, Sangareddy district collector and district SP. M Vittal, a social activist, filed the PIL seeking action against the MLA contending that through his actions, he had endangered the lives of scores of people during this pandemic. His counsel, D Raghavendar Rao, told a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that despite Sangareddy district falling in orange zone and congregations of more than 20 not being allowed, the MLA went ahead and celebrated his 61st birthday with more than 500 people. Most of them did not wear masks, Vittal said. To a query from the bench as to what are the penal provisions that deal with such lockdown norms’ violations, the counsel replied that section 51 (b) of the National Disaster Management Act prescribes one-year jail term to such violations and the term may increase to two years if such violations result in the death of people. The bench sought replies from the authorities and posted the case to three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mla-gets-hc-notice-for-violation-of-lockdown/articleshow/75877532.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Interns threaten to boycott Covid-19 duty at civil hospital||AHMEDABAD: Students of BJ Medical College (BJMC) who are posted at the Asarwa Civil hospital took to social media on Thursday to air their grievances against the authorities. They have threatened to boycott Covid-19 duty until their demands are met. The BJMC interns have demanded that all interns from colleges that do not have Covid-19 wards, should be posted at the 1,200-bed Covid-19 facility at Civil Hospital. This will ease the burden on BJMC interns who have been posted on emergency duty at the Covid-19 facility. Through a social media group called BJMC Interns, they have alleged that due to the absence of many senior doctors, the interns are overburdened and overexposed. They want that all interns serve for a period of seven days that would be followed by a proper quarantine. Only once this is done should they be expected to resume non-Covid duties. The number of interns posted at a time should also be decreased, they said. “The work distribution amongst health workers should be justified. Procedures needing skill should be the responsibility of qualified doctors. Interns are only trainee doctors and should work only as assistants in all procedures,” the group said in their social media posts. In a separate development, an intern posted at the 1,200 bed Covid-19 centre alleged that she and her colleague were ill-treated by a resident doctor through a post on Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/interns-threaten-to-boycott-covid-19-duty-at-civil/articleshow/75877530.cms||Bharat Yagnik
May 22, 2020||Pune||Sassoon doctors pull off Pune’s first nCoV plasma therapy recovery||PUNE: A 47-year-old woman has recovered from Covid-19 after undergoing convalescent plasma therapy at Sassoon hospital. This is the city’s first successful plasma therapy recovery. “The patient underwent plasma transfusion twice. She tested negative for Covid-19 when her throat and nasal swab samples were analysed via a molecular (RT-PCR) test, 15 days after she was found positive,” said Sassoon General’s dean, Muralidhar Tambe. The plasma donor is a patient who recovered from Covid-19 on May 6. State health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted the development on Thursday. “The first attempt of plasma therapy on Covid-19 patient has proved successful at Sassoon hospital,” the minister wrote on Twitter. Convalescent plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19. The plasma is then injected into an active Covid-19 patient to help kickstart the immune response. But convalescent plasma therapy is still an experimental procedure for Covid-19 patients. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), hospitals and institutions planning to provide the treatment should do so using protocols that have been cleared by the Institutional Ethics Committee. At this moment, the ICMR does not recommend the therapy as a treatment option. The Union health ministry had also recently warned hospitals in the country against its use. It said plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid-19 patients remains at an early experimental stage and has the potential to cause life-threatening complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-doctors-pull-off-citys-first-ncov-plasma-therapy-recovery/articleshow/75878425.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 22, 2020||Trichy||More int’l cargo lifted but ‘charges prohibitive’||Trichy: Despite the lockdown in place, the number of consignments of international cargo at Trichy Airport saw a rise as freighters are arriving here to lift cargo from Trichy. However, exporters said that they cannot afford the freight charges fixed by the dedicated cargo carriers now. Earlier, they sent the cargos by passenger flights with one-third of the present tariff. Within a week, Trichy cargo terminal lifted 27 tonne of perishables to Kuala Lumpur and Singapore after a gap of more than 40 days. A freighter flight Spice Xpress (Spice Jet) arrived at Trichy airport on May 12 and flew back to Singapore on the next day with 13 tonnes of perishables. The same carrier, which arrived from Delhi on May 9, lifted 11 tonnes of cargo from Trichy and reached Singapore via Chennai. This flight was the first-ever dedicated cargo flight operated to Trichy international airport. Earlier, the Air India Express flight, which operated under the Vande Bharat Mission to rescue Tamils stranded at Malaysia, lifted 3 tonne cargo as it took off from Trichy to Kuala Lumpur to ferry passengers on May 9. IndiGo Air freighter flight has landed here on May 14 and will take off with perishable to Singapore on the Friday. “The freighter carrier can accommodate around 17 tonnes of cargo normally. However, since the flight would take off only on Friday, we cannot predict how much volume would be going to be lifted. However, we expect that it would consign more than 15 tonnes”, a senior official from cargo terminal told TOI. Exporters said that they continued to consign perishables to keep in touch with their buyers, though there was no profit with the consignments. “Being a dedicated freighter carrier, we have to pay two times more as charges. Whereas, we had been paying one-third of the present charges since they were passenger flights. Moreover, utilizing the lockdown period, exporters from Australia, Malaysia and Thailand captured our market in Singapore,” an exporter told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-intl-cargo-lifted-but-charges-prohibitive/articleshow/75747192.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Zydus Diagnostics delivers first batch of antibody test kits to ICMR||AHMEDABAD: Zydus Diagnostics, a unit of Ahmedabad-based pharma major Cadila Healthcare Limited, has supplied free of cost the first batch of 30,000 Covid-19 antibody detection test kits to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Named ‘Covid Kavach Elisa’, these kits have been manufactured by Zydus with technology transfer from the ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV) of Pune. Robust antibody tests are critical to surveillance and understanding the proportion of the population exposed to the SARS-COV2 infection. After successfully developing the country’s first indigenous IgG Elisa test for antibody detection for Covid-19, ICMR-NIV last week transferred the technology to Zydus for mass production of kits at the company’s plant at Moraiya in Ahmedabad. “The kits manufactured by Zydus were validated by the NIV and were found to have high sensitivity and specificity. The kits have been manufactured in just four days after receiving all necessary materials from ICMR–NIV,” the company said in a statement. “This reaffirms our commitment to do everything that we can to help the nation fight this healthcare challenge. We believe that the need of the hour is to be prepared in every way that we can with the latest diagnostic technologies and that is why we are providing the initial supplies at no cost,” said Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel. Zydus Diagnostics has been manufacturing and marketing a range of Elisa kits for detection and surveillance of rare and neglected diseases in humans and livestock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-delivers-first-batch-of-antibody-test-kits-to-icmr/articleshow/75877559.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Calls grow for more ICUs as severely ill surge at hospitals||PUNE: A spike in the number of severely ill Covid patients turning up at designated Covid-19 hospitals in the city has prompted calls from experts to increase the number of intensive care beds in the city. Doctors at Naidu hospital said a daily rise in the number of patients arriving with severe symptoms has started to cause worry. Some health officials said Covid hospitals have hit 90% capacity in terms of ICU beds and added that non-Covid private hospitals should start getting vital equipment too. “Since the start of May, there has been a steady increase in the number of patients arriving with breathlessness. All of them need immediate admission,” said a doctor at Naidu hospital. But Naidu hospital — tip of the spear in the fight against the virus — still doesn’t have a full-fledged ICU or a full-time intensivist. “We direct patients with severe symptoms to designated Covid-19 hospitals. But because there is no mechanism to check availability of ICU beds, patients and relatives have had to run from one facility to another for immediate treatment,” the doctor said Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director at Bharati hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, said: “We have been steadily moving towards 90% ICU occupancy. We need to reserve nearly 800 ICU beds in the city as more severe cases are likely to come up after lockdown relaxations. Already, 10% of city’s population is outside home and mingling.” Aarti Kinikar, a nodal officer at Sassoon general, said: “Our ICU now has 100% occupancy, with all our ventilators engaged.” “We have asked private hospitals to reserve a fixed number of beds for Covid-19. A mechanism is also being developed to report real-time data on availability of ICU beds,” said senior physician, DB Kadam, who heads the task force in Pune that was formed to reduce the number of deaths in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/calls-grow-for-more-icus-as-severely-ill-surge-at-hospitals/articleshow/75878440.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 22, 2020||Surat||Villages adjoining Daman stranded due to lockdown||Surat: Over 30,000 migrant workers of Lavachha and Kunta villages in Valsad district are facing a strange situation. People from these villages are unable to go to their companies that have resumed operations. This is because the industrial units where they work fall under the Union Territory Daman-Diu and Dadra-Nagar Haveli (DNH), which has sealed its borders with Gujarat. Kunta is surrounded by Daman and there is only one road that connects the village to Gujarat. Over 15,000 residents of Kunta are employed in various units in Daman. But they are not permitted to enter by the UT authorities. “Not only our offices, but our bank accounts are in Daman. Also, our family doctors are based in the UT. But due to lockdown we cannot go there despite it being at a walking distance,” said Ketan Patel, a resident of Kunta who is employed in Daman. “The nearest town Vapi is just six kilometre if we go through Daman. But with borders closed, one has to travel over 20km to reach Vapi,” Patel added. Deputy Sarpanch of Kunta Harji Tandel said, “We have made representations at various levels in both Gujarat and Daman but no has acted.” Similarly, Lavachha is surrounded by Dadra on one side and Nagar Haveli on another. On the third side the village has Daman Ganga river. It has one side open to reach Vapi, and that too through internal narrow roads. “Over 15,000 workers living in Lavachha are employed in DNH. But due to lockdown they are unable to go to work as the borders are sealed,” said Rajesh Patel, sarpanch of Lavachha. “This must be first time in history that such situation has been created. At many places people are facing similar problems. Villages should cooperate with administration for few days. These restrictions are not permanent,” said Praful Patel, administrator of Daman, Diu and DNH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/villages-adjoining-daman-stranded-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75875021.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Smoke from HPCL plant causes panic||Visakhapatnam: Tension prevailed for some time in Vizag city when thick hot smoke (carbon and air) was emitted from a chimney in the Fluidaid Catalytic Cracking Unit of HPCL-Visakha Refinery on Thursday afternoon. Fortunately, there were no injuries or casualties and no damage was reported. The smoke was due to temperature fluctuations and excess crude oil and the situation was brought under control immediately. The sudden spreading of thick smoke created panic among the residents of Sriharipuram, Malkapuram, Gajuwaka and a few other areas in the city, with people running out of their homes, fearing another tragedy like the gas leak from a few weeks ago. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/smoke-from-hpcl-plant-causes-panic/articleshow/75874981.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||88% of all infection deaths in PMR came from PMC limits||PUNE: Areas within Pune Municipal Corporation limits have accounted for 88% of Covid-19 deaths within the Pune Metropolitan Region. From a total of 242 deaths in MPR — as of Friday — 213 have taken place in PMC limits. Areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad Corporation have seen 14 deaths and 15 patients died in the cantonments and rural parts so far. Officials from the PMC’s health department said a majority of the deceased had comorbidities. The patients, officials said, suffered from respiratory disorders, high blood pressure, diabetes and other serious ailments such as liver or kidney disease. Civic officials claimed that the presence of underlying conditions had impacted their immunity. Most of the cases in the PMC have also come from densely populated residential zones with congested housing - the Peth areas and the slums. “Social distancing is a tough rule to enforce in these crowded areas. Hygiene and cleanliness are challenges too,” said a PMC official. The official added that nearly 40% of the city's population stays in slums. Also, over 80% of the city's deceased were residents of the slum areas that are currently part of containment zones, with strict restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/88-of-all-infection-deaths-in-pmr-came-from-pmc-limits/articleshow/75878444.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Testing times ahead for Delhi's fire department as summer heat rises||NEW DELHI: Delhi Fire Service (DFS) will be on its toes for the next few months to prevent large-scale damage owing to blazes in slums. On average, the department deals with 150 slum fires every year caused due to the summer heat. Fire officials said they would be requesting JJ colony residents and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board to be more careful since most slums cannot be rebuilt due to the migration of labourers. They would be visiting a few slums to educate residents about the measures that could be taken to prevent fire in summer after the lockdown period gets over. In the past 15 days, DFS has received 15 calls of fires in JJ colonies. Most fires reported in the months of May and June occur due to short circuit in power units that were inactive during winter. In such colonies, people use locally-made room coolers and pedestal fans that do not have proper electrical wiring. Moreover, the dry weather can cause fires to spread to neighbouring houses. As a result, rescue operations take more time as parallel operations need to run to stop the fire from spreading. DFS chief Atul Garg said, “We will be advising people against running appliances for a long duration. Also, flammable material should not be kept on the roofs.” The peak hours — between 10am and noon — are considered crucial as the number of calls suddenly surges during this time due to the daytime heat. Firemen said most fires were found to have originated from garbage dumps. It gets worse if it’s a windy day. The average response time for the fire department is less than five minutes in most cases, but blazes in slums have a tendency of spreading rapidly. Because of this, the chances of fatalities are higher, officials said. “Most people don’t keep safety equipment, such as a bucket of water, which can prove crucial in containing the blaze immediately. Dry walls also aid in the fire spreading within minutes,” a fire official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/testing-times-ahead-for-fire-dept-as-summer-heat-rises/articleshow/75905367.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||The shoe must go on: Roadside shops in Delhi limping back to normalcy||NEW DELHI: Things may not be fully normal on Kasturba Gandhi Marg and only a few kiosks selling biscuits and wafers have resumed business though there is a small crowd at Maurya Tea Stall, popular for its brew with the alluring taste of ginger, cardamom and saffron. But a more reassuring hint of normalcy in Delhi’s central business district is the reopened ‘Beauty Parlour for Shoes' near Antriksh Bhavan. After two months, cobbler Raj Kamal is back on watch though he has as yet few customers. The 57-year-old, who calls himself a chamra chikitshak (leather doctor) and his trade the beautifying of soles, continually catered to officer goers since 1988, until the novel coronavirus forced a two-month break. The cheerful cobbler is confident that the worst is now behind. His face clearly smiling behind his mask, Raj Kamal said, “The last two months have been extremely tough and I had to borrow money to sustain my family of five. However, this is an unprecedented event. We have to move on.” From Shankar Market to Shivaji Stadium, the arc of interconnected lanes and bylanes of Connaught Place is dotted with eateries, stationery and photostat outlets, grocery stores and cyber cafes, garages and paan shops, their clientele being the thousands of employees in the high-rise office buildings. The shops here, like in the office hubs of Nehru Place, ITO, Rajendra Place, Central Secretariat, among others, fully depend on office workers for their livelihood. “Most offices are functioning with less than half the staff and between 11 am and 4 pm. As a result, I don’t have too many customers at the moment, but things will improve,” Raj Kamal exuded optimism. Sanjay Kaul, who has run a stationery and photostat business near Barakhamba Road since 1998, wasn’t so sure. “I don’t think things will improve before December,” he said. The usually popular roadside eateries aren’t functioning yet. “I have been staying near the food van this entire period because I couldn’t return to my home in Bihar,” said cook Santosh Kumar. “My employer has been providing me food. There’s no point going home now because shops are gradually reopening.” On Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, the kiosk selling paan masala, cigarettes, soft drinks, biscuits, even pens and lighters, used to be crowded with bankers, marketing executives, courier boys and media professionals. Owner Rajendra (name changed), who didn’t have the time to take a deep breath earlier, today sits waiting patiently for a customer. “I have been trying to earn something after the relaxations were announced,” he said. “Before the lockdown, I was busy from 9.30am right up to 10.30pm when I packed up for the day. But few people are coming to the offices at the moment.” He continued, “I have been desperate to open the shop, having eaten into most of my savings in the last two months. Business is slow, but I hope my regular customers are back soon.” He surveyed the normally choked lane, taking heart in his shop at least reopening, unlike the area’s famous paratha shops, which continue to remain shuttered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-shoe-must-go-on-roadside-shops-limping-back-to-normalcy/articleshow/75877556.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Liquor shops remain closed in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Although the government has permitted sale of liquor from authorized permit shops across the state during lockdown 4.0, the government has not allowed liquor permit shops to function, where health liquor permit holders can avail liquor. Foreigners and those living temporarily in Gujarat are also facing hardships in procuring liquor in an authorised manner, and are being forced to purchase liquor from bootleggers. Anmol Joshi (name changed), a real estate professional who is a liquor permit holder for the past 10 years, said, “We are being harassed for the past two months for no reason and being treated as if we are criminals. People like me have been advised consumption of limited quantities of liquor by doctors, for health reasons.” He added that even during the lockdown, a doctor has prescribed consumption of liquor to maintain his health. “Despite this, I am not getting liquor in an authorised manner and I have been forced to purchase it from a bootlegger at three or four times the price,” he said. Asking how the government could force people to purchase liquor illegally when they have been advised to consume limited quantities by doctors, the real estate professional said, “If paan shops, which are selling harmful products, are being allowed to function, why liquor shops are not being allowed,” he asked. Liquor shop owners have been getting frantic calls from permit holders, who have not been given their quota of liquor over the past two months. “Gujarat has a prohibition policy and if liquor permits are issued for a health reason, liquor stores should be allowed to resume operations. Other states have allowed operation of liquor stores,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat. Liquor store owners also said that keeping stores shut will be a loss to the state exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/liquor-shops-remain-closed/articleshow/75877558.cms||Kapil Dave
May 22, 2020||Erode||Seven deaths push Tamil Nadu toll to 94; Chennai reports 567 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s public health officials are charting ways for living with Covid-19 as the state reported 776 fresh cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 13,967. Seven deaths were also recorded taking the toll to 94. Besides drawing up standard treatment protocols for doctors, the government will come out with information booklets to help people with diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney diseases, and cancer cope with the situation, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The booklets will emphasise the importance of drug, diet and exercise regimens for pregnant women, elderly, children and people with comorbidities. “Doctors say the key to success is keeping comorbidities under control,” Vijayabaskar said. Among the fresh cases were 76 people who had come by road from Maharashtra and 11 from other states and abroad. Hotspot Chennai reported 567 cases.Chennai’s neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram, together had 89. The remaining 33 cases were spread across 14 districts, five or less in each. “One person from Maldives tested positive today. Samples of seven other passengers who travelled from Chicago and Muscat last week returned positive on their exit test,” the minister said. So far, 61 passengers who had returned from other countries tested positive soon after arrival. “We ask all passengers to stay in paid or facility quarantine for a week for an exit test. So far, we have had 25 passengers testing positive during the exit test,” he said. On Monday, 23 passengers, who came by a flight from Dubai, tested positive for the viral infection. “There were 178 passengers on the flight. All passengers have been told that they are at risk. We will know their status when we screen them on the 7th day. In the meantime, if they show symptoms they will be tested,” he said. District health officials found 17 people from Maharashtra positive at various checkposts in Tuticorin and 16 at various check posts in Madurai. At least three districts — Tirunelveli (11 from Maharashtra), Pudukottai (3 from Maharashtra) and Cuddalore (one from Kerala) — reported cases among inter-state returnees. Sivaganga, which had no cases since May 17, recorded two cases on Thursday, one from West Bengal. “Five districts (Coimbatore, Erode, Namakkal, Tiruvarur and Tirupur) have zero cases. Some of them have zero containment zones,” he said. On Thursday, three deaths were recorded at government hospitals and four in private hospitals. “Six patients who died had diabetes, four had both diabetes and hypertension and one had kidney disease,” the minister said. So far, 856 children below the age of 12 and 1,085 senior citizens have tested positive. Among the 7,588 active cases under isolation in hospitals, covidcare centres and homes, there are 135 pregnant women who tested positive. The RSRM hospital in Royapuram has 48 patients, Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore has 34 patients, Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women has 23 and Kilpauk Medical College Hospital 30. Besides, swelling Koyambedu cluster, which now has more than 3,000 cases, frontline workers, including doctors and nurses, were also reported from medical college hospitals across Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/seven-deaths-push-tn-toll-to-94-chennai-reports-567-new-cases/articleshow/75880569.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Seven deaths push Tamil Nadu toll to 94; Chennai reports 567 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s public health officials are charting ways for living with Covid-19 as the state reported 776 fresh cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 13,967. Seven deaths were also recorded taking the toll to 94. Besides drawing up standard treatment protocols for doctors, the government will come out with information booklets to help people with diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney diseases, and cancer cope with the situation, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The booklets will emphasise the importance of drug, diet and exercise regimens for pregnant women, elderly, children and people with comorbidities. “Doctors say the key to success is keeping comorbidities under control,” Vijayabaskar said. Among the fresh cases were 76 people who had come by road from Maharashtra and 11 from other states and abroad. Hotspot Chennai reported 567 cases.Chennai’s neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram, together had 89. The remaining 33 cases were spread across 14 districts, five or less in each. “One person from Maldives tested positive today. Samples of seven other passengers who travelled from Chicago and Muscat last week returned positive on their exit test,” the minister said. So far, 61 passengers who had returned from other countries tested positive soon after arrival. “We ask all passengers to stay in paid or facility quarantine for a week for an exit test. So far, we have had 25 passengers testing positive during the exit test,” he said. On Monday, 23 passengers, who came by a flight from Dubai, tested positive for the viral infection. “There were 178 passengers on the flight. All passengers have been told that they are at risk. We will know their status when we screen them on the 7th day. In the meantime, if they show symptoms they will be tested,” he said. District health officials found 17 people from Maharashtra positive at various checkposts in Tuticorin and 16 at various check posts in Madurai. At least three districts — Tirunelveli (11 from Maharashtra), Pudukottai (3 from Maharashtra) and Cuddalore (one from Kerala) — reported cases among inter-state returnees. Sivaganga, which had no cases since May 17, recorded two cases on Thursday, one from West Bengal. “Five districts (Coimbatore, Erode, Namakkal, Tiruvarur and Tirupur) have zero cases. Some of them have zero containment zones,” he said. On Thursday, three deaths were recorded at government hospitals and four in private hospitals. “Six patients who died had diabetes, four had both diabetes and hypertension and one had kidney disease,” the minister said. So far, 856 children below the age of 12 and 1,085 senior citizens have tested positive. Among the 7,588 active cases under isolation in hospitals, covidcare centres and homes, there are 135 pregnant women who tested positive. The RSRM hospital in Royapuram has 48 patients, Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore has 34 patients, Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women has 23 and Kilpauk Medical College Hospital 30. Besides, swelling Koyambedu cluster, which now has more than 3,000 cases, frontline workers, including doctors and nurses, were also reported from medical college hospitals across Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seven-deaths-push-tn-toll-to-94-chennai-reports-567-new-cases/articleshow/75880566.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Seven deaths push Tamil Nadu toll to 94; Chennai reports 567 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s public health officials are charting ways for living with Covid-19 as the state reported 776 fresh cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 13,967. Seven deaths were also recorded taking the toll to 94. Besides drawing up standard treatment protocols for doctors, the government will come out with information booklets to help people with diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney diseases, and cancer cope with the situation, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The booklets will emphasise the importance of drug, diet and exercise regimens for pregnant women, elderly, children and people with comorbidities. “Doctors say the key to success is keeping comorbidities under control,” Vijayabaskar said. Among the fresh cases were 76 people who had come by road from Maharashtra and 11 from other states and abroad. Hotspot Chennai reported 567 cases.Chennai’s neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram, together had 89. The remaining 33 cases were spread across 14 districts, five or less in each. “One person from Maldives tested positive today. Samples of seven other passengers who travelled from Chicago and Muscat last week returned positive on their exit test,” the minister said. So far, 61 passengers who had returned from other countries tested positive soon after arrival. “We ask all passengers to stay in paid or facility quarantine for a week for an exit test. So far, we have had 25 passengers testing positive during the exit test,” he said. On Monday, 23 passengers, who came by a flight from Dubai, tested positive for the viral infection. “There were 178 passengers on the flight. All passengers have been told that they are at risk. We will know their status when we screen them on the 7th day. In the meantime, if they show symptoms they will be tested,” he said. District health officials found 17 people from Maharashtra positive at various checkposts in Tuticorin and 16 at various check posts in Madurai. At least three districts — Tirunelveli (11 from Maharashtra), Pudukottai (3 from Maharashtra) and Cuddalore (one from Kerala) — reported cases among inter-state returnees. Sivaganga, which had no cases since May 17, recorded two cases on Thursday, one from West Bengal. “Five districts (Coimbatore, Erode, Namakkal, Tiruvarur and Tirupur) have zero cases. Some of them have zero containment zones,” he said. On Thursday, three deaths were recorded at government hospitals and four in private hospitals. “Six patients who died had diabetes, four had both diabetes and hypertension and one had kidney disease,” the minister said. So far, 856 children below the age of 12 and 1,085 senior citizens have tested positive. Among the 7,588 active cases under isolation in hospitals, covidcare centres and homes, there are 135 pregnant women who tested positive. The RSRM hospital in Royapuram has 48 patients, Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore has 34 patients, Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women has 23 and Kilpauk Medical College Hospital 30. Besides, swelling Koyambedu cluster, which now has more than 3,000 cases, frontline workers, including doctors and nurses, were also reported from medical college hospitals across Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/seven-deaths-push-tn-toll-to-94-chennai-reports-567-new-cases/articleshow/75877551.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Doctor at Covid facility to wait a month to see his newborn||AHMEDABAD: Dr Ravi Patel, a senior resident doctor in the department of community medicine at the Asarwa Civil Hospital hasn’t stopped beaming with joy since May 12, when he got the news that he had become father to a baby girl. Patel has refused to immediately his wife and child, who are at his father-in-law’s place in Kalol, despite getting permission from his boss. Patel, 29, is working at the special 1,200-bed Covid-19 facility at the Asarwa campus. So, while he has a job at hand that needs his presence every day given the rush of Covid-19 patients, the young doctor wants to avoid going home for now as a precaution. Patel is working in the control room of the Covid-19 treatment facility where he is required to co-ordinate with other doctors dealing directly with coronavirus patients. Doctors working in the Covid-19 facility need to be quarantined. Patel says that if he were to go home to see his daughter, he would have to get home quarantined for the next few days. “I am eager to go home to my wife and little baby. At the hospital we can take a lot of precautions like wearing a PPE kit but at home I could still be a risk to my family members,” said Patel has been married to his wife Mital for three years. He is also involved in the analysis of Covid-19 patients by regularly monitoring their health records. Patel also is part of the contact tracing team. While he stays in touch with his family members through video calls, Patel says he has no plans of going home for another month or so. “When things get a little normal, I’ll go home. Maybe it will be after a month,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-at-covid-facility-to-wait-a-month-to-see-his-newborn/articleshow/75877561.cms||Bharat Yagnik
May 22, 2020||Madurai||Seven deaths push Tamil Nadu toll to 94; Chennai reports 567 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s public health officials are charting ways for living with Covid-19 as the state reported 776 fresh cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 13,967. Seven deaths were also recorded taking the toll to 94. Besides drawing up standard treatment protocols for doctors, the government will come out with information booklets to help people with diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney diseases, and cancer cope with the situation, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The booklets will emphasise the importance of drug, diet and exercise regimens for pregnant women, elderly, children and people with comorbidities. “Doctors say the key to success is keeping comorbidities under control,” Vijayabaskar said. Among the fresh cases were 76 people who had come by road from Maharashtra and 11 from other states and abroad. Hotspot Chennai reported 567 cases.Chennai’s neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram, together had 89. The remaining 33 cases were spread across 14 districts, five or less in each. “One person from Maldives tested positive today. Samples of seven other passengers who travelled from Chicago and Muscat last week returned positive on their exit test,” the minister said. So far, 61 passengers who had returned from other countries tested positive soon after arrival. “We ask all passengers to stay in paid or facility quarantine for a week for an exit test. So far, we have had 25 passengers testing positive during the exit test,” he said. On Monday, 23 passengers, who came by a flight from Dubai, tested positive for the viral infection. “There were 178 passengers on the flight. All passengers have been told that they are at risk. We will know their status when we screen them on the 7th day. In the meantime, if they show symptoms they will be tested,” he said. District health officials found 17 people from Maharashtra positive at various checkposts in Tuticorin and 16 at various check posts in Madurai. At least three districts — Tirunelveli (11 from Maharashtra), Pudukottai (3 from Maharashtra) and Cuddalore (one from Kerala) — reported cases among inter-state returnees. Sivaganga, which had no cases since May 17, recorded two cases on Thursday, one from West Bengal. “Five districts (Coimbatore, Erode, Namakkal, Tiruvarur and Tirupur) have zero cases. Some of them have zero containment zones,” he said. On Thursday, three deaths were recorded at government hospitals and four in private hospitals. “Six patients who died had diabetes, four had both diabetes and hypertension and one had kidney disease,” the minister said. So far, 856 children below the age of 12 and 1,085 senior citizens have tested positive. Among the 7,588 active cases under isolation in hospitals, covidcare centres and homes, there are 135 pregnant women who tested positive. The RSRM hospital in Royapuram has 48 patients, Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore has 34 patients, Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women has 23 and Kilpauk Medical College Hospital 30. Besides, swelling Koyambedu cluster, which now has more than 3,000 cases, frontline workers, including doctors and nurses, were also reported from medical college hospitals across Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/seven-deaths-push-tn-toll-to-94-chennai-reports-567-new-cases/articleshow/75880567.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Community transmission denial can hit Covid-19 control steps: Experts||PUNE: Public health experts and epidemiologists have said community transmission of Covid-19 in certain pockets in Mumbai and Pune, and in some places across the country, cannot be denied. The average cases per million is 84 nationally, but parts of Maharashtra and Delhi have 4 to 7 times the national average which indicates such transmission, they said. The Centre must define at what level an area can be called as community transmission hit, a leading epidemiologist working with the central health ministry, said. “A synonym for community transmission is also fine, but it must be declared because actions in these areas should be prioritised to prevent deaths and spread of Covid-19 to other areas,” he added Technical advisor to the state government and independent epidemiologist Subhash Salunkhe, with 40 years in the public health sector, said the central government should accept that community transmission has taken place in certain pockets and plan to address it. Salunkhe was at the helm during the swine flu spread in 2009. “Community transmission is not across the country. It is in certain pockets, especially in Mumbai and Pune, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Indore,” he said. “Denial would only increase the trouble in addressing the problem and delay the tracing and treatment. We are at the end of May and the incubation period of the disease,” he said. The push must be on early diagnosis of high-risk cases, contact tracing, testing, isolation and treatment, he added. The health expert was concerned about large-scale migration from red zone areas to rural areas where the health infrastructure will take up a huge burden in the coming months “Pune and Mumbai have increased hospital beds with oxygen facility, but rural areas and UP and Bihar will have to brace for cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/community-transmission-denial-can-hit-covid-19-control-steps-experts/articleshow/75878451.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 22, 2020||Business||IRDAI panel moots widening scope of TCI, better coverage for MSMEs||Hyderabad: In a bid to widen the scope of trade credit insurance (TCI) in India, the working group (WG) set up by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has proposed better covereage for MSMEs. In its report on revisiting guidelines submitted to the regulator, the panel has also proposed that banks, factoring companies and financial institutions be allowed to avail credit insurance to cover trade related transactions but should not be permitted to cover loan default of seller. TCI offers coverage for suppliers of goods and services and other financial institutions, to mitigate non-payment risks and insolvency/default of the buyers. The working group said that insurance companies have to be enabled to offer TCI services with enhanced covers at affordable premiums to boost the MSME sector. Proposing a change in the current guidelines, the WG has recommended that the indemnity provided to policy holders should be increased from 85% to 90% for all policy holders & to 95% in case of political risk for micro and small enterprises. It also proposed that single buyer risk covers be allowed only for micro and small enterprises. Commenting on the report, Sanjay Datta, chief (underwriting, reinsurance and claims), ICICI Lombard General Insurance said, “The new recommendations will make it easier for large corporates/MSMEs to access trade finance facilities like factoring and invoice discounting since banks, factoring companies and other FIs will have direct credit insurance protection.” “Besides, MSMEs will be able to get better terms like lower interest rates and more financing since their receivables will now be secured by the insurer. The attractiveness of online invoice financing platforms like TREDs will increase as more lenders would be willing to finance credit insurance backed invoices,” he explained. The working group had also recommended the creation of a buyer default database with the Insurance Information Bureau of India to keep a check on defaulters. It also proposed that RBI must recognize credit insurance products as risk mitigation tools for banks to make it eligible for capital relief. The panel also proposed a change in the definition of ‘buyer’, wherein an individual can no longer be the buyer and only a business entity, which is liable to pay the policy-holder for a trade credit transaction on open and agreed terms, will be considered a buyer. As per the report, around 82% of the total credit insurance business is contributed by state-owned ECGC Ltd, which is outside the purview of the existing TCI guidelines with the remaining 18% contributed by other general insurance companies, both public and private, governed by the guidelines. The credit insurance business, other than ECGC, has grown 18% over the last two years. However, insurance premiums amounted to Rs 277.68 crore during 2018-19 for insurance companies other than ECGC, which is quite less vis-a-vis the size of our economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-panel-moots-widening-scope-of-tci-better-coverage-for-msmes/articleshow/75877548.cms||Swati Rathor
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Govt bans sewage diversion,waste dumping in four canals||Kochi: The state government has issued an order banning dumping of garbage and draining of sewage into Thevara canal, Edapally canal, Chilavannur Thodu and market canal. Violation of the order will be punishable offence under various section of Kerala Panchayat Raj Act 1994, Kerala Municipality Act 1994, Kerala Irrigation and Water Conservation (Amendment) Act 2018 and Police Act. The government had earlier banned dumping waste in Thevara-Perandoor canal following a high court order. These five canals are being rejuvenated by the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) under Integrated Urban Regeneration and water Transport System (IURWTS). The government order, issued on May 4 was following the letter written by KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma requesting to extend the prohibitory ban on dumping of garbage into all the canals under the project. Ernakulam district collector has been authorized to issue detailed instructions to public on the order. “These canals were the lifeline of Kochi transport till 1980. When the government issued the prohibitory order regarding only one canal, we sent a proposal to extend the order to all canals. The new order will help the rejuvenation project and the local body should take action against people dumping waste in the canals. On one hand we develop canals and on the other hand people continue to dump waste. How can the project materialize? We are expecting, the agency, entrusted with the task of preparing detailed project report (DPR) would submit it at the end of this month. Then we will take it up with KIFB, which allotted us an initial amount. Simultaneously, we will be working on getting different agencies for taking up the work in canals. After DPR, a survey would be conducted on various aspects such as the kind of obstructions that has to be removed, rehabilitation of residents etc., Moreover, width of these canals would also have to be taken into account,” said Alkesh Sharma. As per an order issued by the government a year ago, anyone who is found dumping waste or draining sewage into a waterbody would invite a fine of up to Rs 25,000 and imprisonment for six months. Meanwhile, Kochi corporation health officials said the local body has so far not imposed fine or registered case against people for dumping waste in canals, after the government order came into effect. However, Kochi corporation secretary Anu R S said the local body might have been imposing fine on violators for dumping waste in T P Canal. Though the local body fenced many parts of Thevara-Perandoor canal, people continue to dump waste. “We are planning to rope in residents’ association to install CCTVs in the area to monitor and catch people who are found dumping waste in TP canal, where the fencing work is underway,” said a corporation official in engineering section. The issue of draining of sewage from flats in Marine Drive into Vembanad lake is sub judice in high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-bans-sewage-diversionwaste-dumping-in-four-canals/articleshow/75873592.cms||T C Sreemol
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop who tested positive gets shock of his life at Civil||Ahmedabad: A head constable with ‘H’ Division traffic police and nodal officer for coordination with medical staff for testing of police personnel for Covid-19, Vishnu Chauhan (41) had an ordeal at Civil Hospital. Speaking to TOI, Chauhan said that he had a pain in his throat and was running a high temperature. “I went to the Civil Hospital to get myself tested for Covid-19 on May 11. They took an x-ray and said that I am all right and nothing was wrong with my health. I told them that I was not well but they still did not listen to me and asked me to go home,” said Chauhan. Chauhan said he immediately went to a private laboratory and got himself tested. “On May 11 evening, they told me that I am Covid-19 positive. I booked a room in a hotel and stayed there as I did not want my 10-year-old daughter and wife to get infected,” Chauhan said. Upset, he changed his Facebook status and wrote, “I am not a Covid-19 warrior”. Chauhan went to SVP Hospital next day at 12.30pm and showed them the Covid-19 positive report and asked them to admit him. As there was no vacant bed in the SVP, they referred him to the Civil Hospital. He then went to Civil Hospital but the authorities were not ready to admit him and insisted that he go for home isolation. “I told them that I live in Bapunagar Police Lines and could not be isolated in in one room with my wife and daughter. Even then they did not admit me. I then called mt DCP. Somehow, I was admitted there,” Chauhan said. The horror was not over yet. He was not given treatment till about 6.30 in the evening. “I called the police control room and told them that I was not being treated . Inspector of Shahibaug police station A K Patel spoke to the authorities and then I started getting treatment. The tragedy is that they did not check my wife and daughter. Instead the urban health centre officials went to my house and gave them vitamin C tablets,” Chauhan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-who-tested-positive-gets-shock-of-his-life-at-civil/articleshow/75877593.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||New-age courses at Telangana’s private varsities||HYDERABAD: New courses in emerging technologies, increase in number of seats and tie-up with foreign universities and industry are on the cards at five institutions which became Telangana’s first private universities on Wednesday. The state government on Wednesday issued the ‘Telangana State Private Universities (Establishment and Regulation) (Amendment) Ordinance’ permitting establishment of Woxsen University at Kamole in Sangareddy district, SR University at Ananthasagar in Warangal, Mallareddy University at Maisammaguda near Dhulapally, Anurag University at Venkatapur near Ghatkesar, and Mahindra University at Bahadurpally, the last three in Medchal-Malkajgiri district. With the institutes getting university tag, new courses are on the anvil at Woxsen, Mallareddy and Anurag Universities. “At Woxsen, we have recently launched an artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and robotics lab. We are going to offer Master’s in Business Administration in AI, ML and business analytics. At UG level, we are planning to offer entrepreneurship development programs,” Vishal Khurma, chief executive officer of Woxsen University. Anurag University is planning to introduce BTech in AI, ML, computer science and systems engineering in addition to research programmes. At Mallareddy University, choice-based credit system, accredited courses by companies and tie-ups with foreign universities for exchange programmes will be introduced. “Students will have to choose 40 courses from a pool of 100 on offer. We will also tie up with companies to introduce accredited courses,” said VSK Reddy, who is set to take over as VC of Mallareddy University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-age-courses-at-ts-pvt-varsities/articleshow/75877566.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 22, 2020||Hyderabad||10-year-old girl, heading to UP, collapses due to heat||HYDERABAD: Six days after they left Vellore in Tamil Nadu and 1,100 km away from home in Uttar Pradesh, a 10-year-old child of a migrant family collapsed, probably due to dehydration as a result of the searing heat, near Perkit Junction in Nizamabad district on the National Highway-44 on Wednesday. Locals and her extended family rushed her to a make-shift tent and nursed her to consciousness. After a couple of hours of rest, the family resumed their journey on two-wheelers. Around 2pm on Wednesay, Rani Devi, who was undertaking an arduous journey of 1,900 kilometres with four other members of her family on a two-wheeler, was on her way to their native place in Uttar Pradesh, collapsed due to the scorching heat on the NH. “My daughter was suffering from exhaustion and dehydration for the past two days. I was praying that she or my other two children don’t fall sick due to this heat or lack of food. We are mostly surviving on just biscuits from the time we started our journey in Vellore,” Somesh Kumar, who migrated to Vellore a year ago in search of work and sells pani puri there, told TOI over phone. The 10-year-old was among many children, exhausted and hungry, left with no other option but to make the journey home along with their parents.  Although Kumar and other family members were relieved to see the child regain consciousness after the locals covered her forehead with a wet cloth, their struggles were far from over. They still need to log 1,100 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-yr-old-girl-heading-to-up-collapses-due-to-heat/articleshow/75877608.cms||Moulika.KV
May 22, 2020||Pune||At 265, Pune sees highest single-day rise in Covid-19 patients||PUNE: The Covid-19 patient count in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged past 4,800 on Thursday with the addition of maximum 265 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Besides, seven more patients succumbed to the contagion in the region. Of the total new cases, 222 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, seven in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas and 33 in the rural parts of the district. With this, the cases in the PMR have risen to 4,809, while that in PMC limits to 4,154. As many as 242 patients have died of the disease in the PMR so far. PMC health officials attributed the rise in cases to increased sample collection. On Thursday, 1,733 swabs were collected in the PMC limits alone. Besides, the officials said, rigorous drives were being undertaken in the containment zones to identify the infected. Among the seven deaths, two were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included an 84-year-old woman from Ganj Peth and a 54-year-old man from Yerawada. Five deaths were reported at private hospitals, including a 65-year-old woman from the Tadiwala Road area, a 64-year-old patient from the Market Yard area, a 50-year-old woman from Hadapsar, a 74-year-old woman from Bibvewadi and a 42-year-old resident from Yerawada. According to district health office, 197 patients were in critical condition on Thursday, while about 189 patients were declared cured and were discharged from various hospitals and isolation centres. In PCMC areas, 87 patients were undergoing treatment as of Thursday, while four were discharged after testing negative for the contagion. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-265-pune-sees-highest-single-day-rise-in-patients/articleshow/75878458.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 22, 2020||Mumbai||Traffic police seize taxis carrying people to banks, groceries in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Percy Balsara is a banker who commutes daily despite the lockdown. Since his work involves an essential service, Balsara uses a taxi bearing a sticker that says it’s on bank duty, to get from south Mumbai to Malad. But on Thursday he got a taste of the traffic restrictions. The kaali peeli he was in was intercepted by police and he was asked to alight. Balsara pleaded that he was carrying keys to the bank vault, which made it necessary to reach the branch on time. He says the officer responded "that it wasn’t his problem." The cabbie was fined and his car impounded. I had to struggle to find someone to pick me up from western express highway," said Balsara. The ban on movement of autos and taxis, even in Lockdown 4.0, has inconvenienced the public. It affects even those who need taxis or autos to cart groceries, visit hospitals, or get home from a station after alighting from a special train. “We are not going on joy rides. I was using the taxi to commute between home and office,” said Balsara, adding BEST services made him uneasy as social distancing norms were not being followed. Unwilling to ease curbs, traffic police impounded around 2,500 vehicles on Thursday for flouting curfew rules. An official said buses, private cars and 2-wheelers were available to those in essential duties to travel to their workplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/traffic-police-seize-taxis-carrying-people-to-banks-groceries-in-city/articleshow/75878467.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||City athletes need to set their priorities right||Nagpur: The Covid-2019 Pandemic has affected everyone and sportspersons are no different. It’s distressing to see city’s top long distance runners Jyoti Chavan and Prajakta Godbole struggle to make ends meet during the ongoing lockdown. While NGO’s, Nagpur Municipal Corporation and citizens have come forward to help Jyoti and Prajakta — who have represented the country in World University Games in Italy last year — their problems are far from over until they get a permanent job. After TOI highlighted Jyoti’s woes, the state government helped her with Rs25,000. Prajakta is also likely to get help from Mahrashtra government. Several city athletes like Geeta Chachrekar, Tejaswini Lamkane, Vikas Shende and Leelaram Bawne are experiencing tough times. It’s the lack of education that is hampering their future. The secretary of Nagpur District Athletics Association (NDAA) Sharad Suryanwanshi said youngsters need mentoring from an early age. “Earlier, there were sports quota jobs but the scenario has changed. You need to meet certain criteria to get a decent government job. Coaches should think of developing their allround personality instead of concentrating only on skills. They should act as mentors. Education is very important these days and this where most of our athletes lack,” Suryawanshi told TOI. Even Jyoti agrees to the fact that education is equally important to get job under sports quota. “Now a player needs to be graduated with above 50% marks to get good position in government job. All my coaches have guided me to give equal importance to education and I also tell the same to upcoming athletes,” said Jyoti, who had to take a break in education twice due to various reasons. Prajakta, who too had to take a break in education twice, echoed Jyoti’s sentiments but she is ready to do any government job in any position with a “for steady income”. “Education is must but government should value the performance of athletes. Athletes need to have fixed income for survival,” Prajakta said. Besides, most long distance runners go for prize money marathons, whereas for government jobs, they need school national, all India University, World University and World School games and senior nationals medals. However, because of prize money, they regularly participate in these marathons and after two three years, their performance suffer. “It’s like a cricketer missing Ranji Trophy. Also, when they see struggle at home, all they think is how they will survive next month,” Suryawanshi said. Earlier, local athletes would get recruitment locally in Railways but now the trials are conducted on all India level where they prefer high performing athletes. Same is the case with Income Tax and Customs department, who not only prefer high performing athletes but also certain level of education. Jyoti, Prajakta and other top two long distance runners Nikita Raut and Sayali Waghmare are trying for government jobs but so far haven’t got any success. “It won’t happen overnight. They need to keep trying and also perform well where it matters the most. At least, three of girls these have World University certificate. They also need to keep performing at optimum level,” he said. Nikita, who is in final year of BA, has won 10000m gold medal in state meet but she was unable to win medal in the senior nationals. In 2018, she won the gold in the 21-km half marathon in the All India Inter-University meet and qualified for the World University games at Italy last year. Nikita knows she needs to do better in senior nationals to get a Railways job. “I am a regular marathon runner but Railways don’t medals in marathon. I also know education is important for athletes,” she said. Suryawanshi said humble background shouldn’t be excuse for not having proper education. He cites the example of Raut sisters Rohini and Monica. Both come from very humble background but have government jobs now. Rohini, in fact, got banned for the period of four years for doping in 2016. “She used this time well and cracked MPSC entrance. Rohini is now in the Excise department. Monica is a Railways employee. Both practice at Pune. They can be inspiration for all,” he said. Suryawanshi said NDAA provides guidance but it’s for elite city athletes. “We tell them about the vacancies. We had even made some players join English speaking classes. However, generally we find that not many take interest in education. Some of the clubs like Nav Maharashtra Krida Mandal and Track Star Club educate them. We need all the clubs to follow this,” said Surywanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-athletes-need-to-set-their-priorities-right/articleshow/75868437.cms||Ruchir Mishra
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Police confront armed kidnappers, rescue youth||Kochi: High drama prevailed at Perumbavoor after police overpowered a gang of armed kidnappers and rescued a 19-year-old youth at Ponjassery late on Tuesday. Police had pulled off the rescue operation with the help of local residents within hours after receiving a complaint from the brother of the kidnapped youth that a gang called him demanding ransom and threatened to kill his brother, if he doesn’t pay the money. Police arrested Salam alias Kanchaav Salam (48) of Mukkada, Binu Pathumalil (21) of Ponjassery and Baby Puthenpurackal (48) of Perumbavoor for kidnapping the youth. The trio kidnapped Anwar, who hails from Tamil Nadu and resides at Allapra, by around 7pm on Tuesday, said police. According to police, a man called up Anwar’s brother and asked him for Rs 12, 000 and threatened him that if he doesn’t give the money, they will kill his brother. Anwar’s brother filed a complaint with the Perumbavoor police station by around 10pm. “The brother had no clue about who the kidnappers were. We made him call the number from the station and asked the kidnapper to release the youth. When he told the accused that he has approached the police, he cut the call. However, he didn’t switch off the phone. We took the help of cyber experts to find approximate location of the phone,” said a police officer. Police rushed to the area and started searching houses where the accused could have been possibly hiding. “We searched a few houses and by then people in the area joined us. An abandoned under-construction apartment complex was also searched but to no avail,” said the officer. Later in the night, local residents raised suspicion about the house of Salam who is a history-sheeter and is an accused in several ganja smuggling cases. When the police reached the house, Salam resisted and swung a machete at them. Police disarmed him and rescued Anwar. All the accused were apprehended. A team of rural police led by Perumbavoor SHO Jayakumar C and comprising of ASIs Sivaprasad and Shaji and CPOs Shibu and Rejimon took part in the rescue operation. “It is suspected that the accused and the kidnapped youth know each other. We have information that the youth had some dealings with the kidnappers earlier and we are probing this aspect as well. Presently, we are considering him as the victim,” said an officer. All the accused were presented before a magistrate and was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-confront-armed-kidnappers-rescue-youth/articleshow/75873617.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Delhi||Four more zones sealed in Delhi, total 77||NEW DELHI: With four more additions, the total number of containment zones in Delhi touched 77. According to the list shared by the government on Friday, the new zones sealed by the administration included three blocks at Jahangirpuri and one in Azadpur in the north district. Friday’s list also included the names of two areas of south district — parts of Zamrudpur village and blocks of Dakshinpuri — whose containment orders were issued on Wednesday. In fact, Jahangirpuri has emerged as one of the biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the city, with six blocks already contained by the administration. Sources said that several blocks in the periphery of the containment zones have been categorised as buffer zones, with limited activities permitted in the area. Of the 77 containment zones, scaling down orders have been issued for nine areas. The government has also de-contained 32 residential pockets, which have completed 28 days of containment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-more-zones-sealed-total-77/articleshow/75877569.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Gail to commission LNG pipeline next month||Kochi: After a delay of decades, the Gas Authority of India Limited (Gail) is all set to commission Kochi-Mangaluru Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) pipeline next month. Once the project is through, sales of LNG from the Puthuvyppu terminal will go up considerably benefitting the state government. Gail has resumed the work of laying pipes that had been stopped due to the lockdown. Only a small stretch in the Kasaragod district remains to be completed. “Barring a small stretch across Chandragiri river, laying of the pipeline has been completed and it will be over within a month unless there is any fresh hindrance. So, we expect that the Kochi-Bengaluru LNG pipeline network can be commissioned by the first week of June,” said P Murugesan, executive director, Gail. According to Gail authorities, pre-commissioning activities are going on in full swing. Supply of LNG from LNG Petronet, Puthuvype in Kochi is expected to go up once the pipeline is commissioned.  “Many of the industrial units in and around Mangaluru are waiting for LNG connection. Our priority should be giving supply to industries like Mangalore Chemical and Fertilizers Limited (MCF). They had been waiting for the supply for quite some time. So, the supply of LNG from Kochi will go up by one million cubic feet soon. The increase in the supply will touch around 3 million cubic feet in the next few months after the commissioning of the pipeline,” Murugesan said. “Many small-scale industrial units, commercial units like hotels and other firms along Kochi-Mangaluru are also waiting for LNG connectivity. At a time when almost all the sectors are facing economic recession, connectivity of LNG which is cheaper, more effective, and safer than other fuels will be a boon for many industrial and commercial units,” Murugesan said. “Moreover, the tax revenue from LNG supply will also go up and the Kerala government will be benefitted out of that,” he said. Commissioning of the Kochi-Mangaluru pipeline will also help expedite work on city gas projects in the northern districts of Kerala as well as in Mangaluru. Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board has awarded the work on city gas projects in the districts from Ernakulam to Kasaragod to IOC-Adani Gas Private Limited. With Gail already commissioning the pipeline along Kochi-Chandragiri, city gas projects in the northern districts of Kerala can be started without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gail-to-commission-lng-pipeline-next-month/articleshow/75873653.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: 42-year-old constable second cop to die due to coronavirus||PUNE: A 42-year-old constable of the city traffic police succumbed to Covid-19 infection at a hospital in Dhankawadi on Thursday morning. He had tested positive for the contagion on May 8. Earlier, a 57-year-old constable from a centrally located police station had died of the virus. The deceased was a resident of Yerawada and was posted with a traffic division located in the heart of the city where multiple people have tested positive for Covid -19. The police said his family members were quarantined and were discharged from the quarantine facility. He is survived by parents, wife, and two children. The police said as the deceased had developed symptoms while being on duty, his contacts at work were quarantined. They later tested negative for the virus. As of now, 22 police personnel of the Pune city police have been tested positive for the virus and out of them, 10 have been discharged, while two have died, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/42-year-old-constable-second-cop-to-die-due-to-coronavirus/articleshow/75878466.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Covid-19 lab resumes operations||Nashik: The city-based Covid-19 laboratory set up at the Dr Vasantrao Medical college hospital and Research Centre has resumed operations started functioning as it got the equipment for the same. The operations of the laboratory were earlier halted due to the shortage of consumables. However, the hospital has now received all the required consumables, following which the operations of the lab have resumed. “We have got all the equipment that were required for the laboratory and now it has resumed operations,” a senior official from Nashik civil hospital said, adding that the laboratory has stocked all the essentials and have also procured some additional stock. “We are learning and improvising on the processes. We now hope that there would be no halt in operations henceforth,” he added. The laboratory requires testing kits and consumables which are often sourced from the market. “Though the country is dealing with Covid-19 crisis, there are some rules that have to be followed. Hence, it took longer for us to put things in place. Also, the consumables had to be sourced from the market which took some time,” the officer said. The laboratory had first shut down its operations on May 10 due to the shortage of consumables. Later, on May 23, the laboratory was shut for the second time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-covid-19-lab-resumes-operations/articleshow/76077338.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||Returnees bring record single day surge of 99 to Vidarbha||Nagpur: Labourers, students, and working people returning from Mumbai, Pune, Malegaon, and other hotspots in state are being tested positive for Covid-19 in all parts of Vidarbha – especially in remote villages. On Thursday, 98 new cases were reported from the region and most of them are returnees. This is new record of single day surge in cases, earlier being on May 20 when 79 new cases were reported. Now, Vidarbha region has 1111 cases, including 43 deaths and 689 recoveries. Akola once again recorded highest number of cases in Vidarbha at 33, followed by Gondia 27, Nagpur 20, Chandrapur 9, Amravati 5, Buldhana 4 and Bhandara 1. Four districts – Yavatmal, Washim, Wardha and Gadchiroli— recorded no new case on Thursday. Worst-affected Akola recorded another death, its 21st and Vidarbha’s 43rd when a 68-year-old man from Bhim Chowk in Akot Fail died in GMCH isolation ward during treatment. He had tested positive on May 18 and was having several comorbidities like diabetes and blood pressure, said doctors. Akola recorded 33 new cases on Thursday and reached 341. On the other hand 24 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. However, 21 of them are not having the home isolation facilities. So, they were allowed to stay in institutional quarantine. Akola’s district collector Jitendra Papalkar has now announced strict lockdown measures in city. It came as a shocker for Gondia when 27 labourers, most of them coming straight from Dharavi in Mumbai, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Gondia, which had remained in green zone with no case for almost 38 days till May 20, directly landed into red zone. Now, all relaxations given to the people are off and the administration is on its toes. One relieving factor for Gondia is that all the labourers who tested positive were already in institutional quarantine which means, chances of local spread are negligible. Chandrapur, another district where the Covid-19 spread was limited till May 20, recorded nine new cases on Thursday. It tally jumped overnight to 12. Five of them are being treated at isolation ward in Chandrapur GMCH while four others are under institutional quarantine at Forest Academy. Civil Surgeon Dr ND Rathod informed four industrial workers were quarantined on May 19 at Forest Academy. They had returned from Malegaon MIDC. They belong to Chiroli (Mul), Jam (Pombhurna) Visapur (Chandrapur) Virva (Sindewahi tehsil) village. Other two is a couple that had arrived at Warora from Pune and was under institutional quarantine. A 20-year-old girl from Tadali having travel history too tested positive. A 21-year-old youth from Arvat village near city had arrived from Thane. One other 21-year-old youth who had returned from Delhi too has been found positive. They are all being treated at GMCH. Collector Dr Kunal Khemnar claimed they were all under institutional quarantine and their swab samples were collected on May 19. He has called upon the people not to panic. In Amravati, Covid-19 count jumped to 140 as five new cases including four women tested positive. A woman each from Lalkhadi (24), Hanuman Nagar (38), D.Ed Colony on Walgaon Road (39) and Alil Colony (54) tested positive while a man (32) from Habib Nagar tested positive. D Ed Colony and Alil Colony are new localities reporting cases while Lalkhadi, Hanuman Nagar and Habib Nnagar have given nine, seven and three cases respectively till now. Rural spread of Covid-19 turned serious in Buldhana on Thursday as all five cases are from different remote villages. A 32-yr-old woman from Shegaon, wife of a sanitary worker with Shegaon municipal council who is already a Covid-19 patient, tested positive. A 22-year-old youth from Avha village in Motala tehsil tested positive. This youth had travelled from Bhandup on May 12. Another 25-year-old youth from Jalka-Bhadang village in Khamgaon tehsil, and one Mumbai returnee from Nandura tehsil tested positive. Buldhana now has 35 cases, with 24 already recovered and one death. Yavatmal heaved a sigh of relief as no new patient was reported from here on Thursday. A 25-year-old girl, who died in Hudi village of Pusad, has tested negative. This village already has two cases, a couple returning from Mumbai. Meanwhile, over 40 staffers of Pusad sub-district hospital demanded that they be quarantined as they had attended to the positive couple of village Hudi. Gadchiroli, Wardha, and Washim recorded no new case on Thursday but tests are going on in full swing here too. More cases may be reported in next two three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/returnees-bring-record-single-day-surge-of-99-to-vidarbha/articleshow/75877578.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 22, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19-hit Tamil Nadu bans creation of new govt posts in bid to save Rs 700 crore||CHENNAI: Facing a compelling need to regulate expenditure due to rising cost of Covid-19 control measures and falling revenue, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced a clutch of austerity measures, including a ban on creation of new posts in all departments in the state for a year. According to an official estimate, the fiscal control measures would help save Rs 700 crore this year. “The government has made a detailed study and is taking necessary action to minimize fiscal stress so that the expenditure on welfare schemes and capital work is ensured to revive the economy,” chief secretary K Shanmugam said in his order. All general transfers, except mutual request transfers, will be on hold. Departments can neither purchase new computers or accessories, except to replace old and dysfunctional systems, nor new vehicles. Leave travel concession — extended to families of employees once every four years — shall stand deferred for all categories of staff and teachers. Departments must hold regular meetings through video conferencing and teleconferencing as permission for official travel will be restricted, the government order said. Order bans foreign travel at govt’s costThe order had also banned foreign travel programmes at government’s cost and all flight travel within the state unless the cost of airfare is less than or equal to the cost of eligible train fare. Resident commissioners of Tamil Nadu House will attend Union government meetings in New Delhi as far as possible, while flight travel in executive class is not permitted for officers of any grade. The state has recently announced deferment of dearness allowance hike to 2021 and suspension of earned leave encashment. “The present move is part of expenditure containment measures of what the government thinks are frills. It is a symbolic move to show the state is minimizing its own expenses. We also have to act on state rationalization committee’s report, hence creating new posts does not make sense,” a senior official said.“For now, vacancies, where it is needed, will be filled. Also, recruitment against existing vacancies in entry-level posts, including appointments on compassionate ground, shall continue with the approval of staff committee. Promotions and recruitment by transfer shall continue,” an officer said. Some representatives of JACTTO-GEO, an umbrella body of TN government staff and teachers, accused the bureaucrats of using more vehicles than the stipulated limit and increasing the burden on the exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-hit-tn-bans-creation-of-new-govt-posts-in-bid-to-save-rs-700-crore/articleshow/75877571.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 300 shanties gutted, hundreds homeless||NEW DELHI: Around 300 shanties in a slum in Kirti Nagar of west Delhi were gutted on Thursday night displacing hundreds of people amid the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. The fire broke out around 11pm. Fire tenders had a tough time reaching the spot owing to the narrow lanes. The slum residents TOI spoke to said they would be sleeping on the rubble at night as they had nowhere else to go. Mohommad Naaz, who lived alone, said he was asleep when the fire started. He woke up after inhaling the smoke that had entered his shanty. “At first, I thought it was a short circuit. But when I rushed out I was shocked to see flames all around me. People started screaming and spilling out of their homes. It was difficult to find a safe spot because the fire was spreading rapidly,” Naaz added. Men, women and children, everyone was seen trying to extract as many things as possible from their houses. Kanhaiya Paswan said, “I had Rs 10,000 in my wallet, which I left inside in a hurry to save my family. All that money has now been reduced to ashes. There is no place I can go. Some people came here with food, but I’m not sure they’ll come to help every day. We had been living here since the past 20 years. We don’t know how the fire began. When the firemen started dousing the blaze, a few gas cylinders exploded.” When the fire started spreading rapidly, a group of six youths broke portions of a few shanties to break the chain and avert a worse tragedy. Rohit, one of the youths who carried out this task, said, “I live nearby. When I heard people screaming for help, I rushed to see what had happened. I saw the blaze spreading towards my area. Had it reached my place, thousands more people would have been homeless. At that moment, me and my friends decided to break portions of our houses to stop the run of the fire. Thankfully, our plan was a success.” Delhi Fire Service said they pressed 30 fire tenders into service. The cooling operation took four hours. “We got a call at 11.30pm about the fire in a JJ cluster at Kirti Nagar. A team rushed to the location. Later, more firefighters and fire engines from other stations were called as the blaze was huge,” said an officer. The cause of the fire was yet to ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/300-shanties-gutted-hundreds-homeless/articleshow/75905434.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 22, 2020||Goa||90% of legacy dump at Sada garbage plant cleared||Vasco: The contractor handling the waste treatment plant at Sada has treated 90% of the legacy garbage. The wet garbage was turned into manure and the dry waste will be sent to a Mumbai-based cement factory. “Permissions have been taken to send the dry waste to Mumbai, but due to the lockdown, the process could not be completed,” urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik said, adding, “The clearing of the dump is itself a very big achievement. The land has become flat like a ground. This dump accumulated over the years.” Around 1.2 lakh metric tonne of garbage was cleared by the contractor. Meanwhile, the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) will be soon installing two new bio-digesters to treat the wet garbage at the Sada waste treatment plant. The bio-digesters will have a capacity of five metric tonne each. The MMC has also proposed two more bio-digesters of the same capacity to be installed at the Sada plant.  The local MLA requested the people to segregate their garbage and hand it over to the municipal staff to help treat waste better. The Mormugao Municipal Council will soon beinstalling two new bio-digesters to treat the wet garbage at the Sada waste treatment plant. The bio-digesters will have a capacity of five metric tonnes each||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/90-of-legacy-dump-at-sada-garbage-plant-cleared/articleshow/75878476.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman accuses kin of trying to ‘sacrifice’ her||VIJAYAWADA: A 58-year-old speech and aurally impaired woman and her son lodged a complaint with SR Puram police in Chittoor district claiming that their relatives tried to kill her as part of a human sacrifice ritual on Thursday. The woman was identified as R Sarojamma. According police, the complainant claimed that the incident happened on May 15 at Vaddikandriga village when her sister-in-law Subbamma and her husband Seshadri lured her to take part in a ritual offering money. After bathing her and applying turmeric on her body, she was shocked to find a knife in Seshadri’s hands. She realised that they decided to offer her as a human sacrifice on the pretext of performing a puja. In her complaint, Sarojamma claimed that there were a few others along with Seshadri and Subbamma and learnt that they were doing the sacrifice at a place where they believe has some hidden treasure. She then claimed that she somehow managed to flee from the spot and informed her son Narasimhulu. Later, Narasimhulu and Sarojamma approached police station and narrated the incident. “We have registered a case. We are yet to ascertain the veracity of the claim. We are interrogating some of the suspects,” sub-inspector of SR Puram police Sreenivas Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-accuses-kin-of-trying-to-sacrifice-her/articleshow/75875053.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 22, 2020||Nashik||4 arrested for farmer’s murder in Nashik||NASHIK: Rural police on Wednesday arrested four people for the murder of a farmer at Dhondegaon village in Trimbakeshwar taluka. According to police, the accused killed the farmer by using a sharp-edged weapon on May 11. The accused — booked under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) — were presented before a local court that remanded them in police custody till Saturday. “The accused killed the victim because he did not tell the address of a person they had gone to collect money from. After the incident came to fore, the local crime branch got into action. They took the help of closed-circuit television camera at Sanjeevani Heart Care and Research Centre, through which they saw a car to be moving from the direction where the incident had occurred,” a police officer said, adding that one of the accused is a money-lender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-arrested-for-farmers-murder/articleshow/75875075.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Elderly couple moves HC over cut in bldg rent||Kochi: The state government’s decision to reduce rent by over 60% for one of the buildings used by it in Kottayam district has been challenged before the high court by an elderly couple. The court has now asked the government to respond to the plea. Justice Anu Sivaraman asked the government to respond after considering during admission hearing a petition by 68-year-old Chacko Mathai and his wife Molikutty through advocate S Mohammed Al Rafi. The petitioners have a building situated in 8.09 ares of land they own in Kaduthuruthy. In October 2017, it was let out to the sub registrar of Kaduthuruthy to house the sub registrar’s office, which has a staff strength of nine. The chief engineer of public works department (PWD) inspected the building and fixed the rent at Rs 68,852. Despite getting in touch with the sub registrar many times, the elderly couple was not paid any rent since occupation. In the meanwhile, the executive engineer of PWD buildings division at Kottayam collectorate issued an order in April 2019 reducing the rent to Rs 47,962. Several representations were filed by the elderly couple and a lawyer’s notice was issued in June 2018 seeking payment of rent arrears and protesting reduction of rent. While the senior citizens were running from pillar to post to realize the rent arrears, secretary of taxes department issued a government order reducing the rent to Rs 25,000, with effect from October 2017. The couple has now contended at the high court that reduction of rent without affording them a hearing and non-payment of rent arrears is illegal and arbitrary. They have sought a court order quashing the reduction of rent and payment of rent arrears. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/elderly-couple-moves-hc-over-cut-in-bldg-rent/articleshow/75873667.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Workers who lost jobs over 30 years ago get paid||Ahmedabad: Amid the lockdown when loss of livelihood stares most people in the face, a loss of jobs that had occurred more than three decades ago has ironically brought a little relief for families of 90 such unfortunate workmen. As incomes dried up for many due to the two-month restrictions, the official liquidator of the Gujarat high court made payment to kin of 90 workers, who were among 2,804 workers who had lost their jobs with the closure of the Ahmedabad Commercial Mill in 1989. These workmen and kin received the dues earlier this week through online payment. The workers’ association, the Textile Labour Association (TLA), had been fighting a long legal battle for workmen’s dues. Its advocate Dhimant Vasavada said, “The amount may not be so big because it has come without interest. But what is important is that the families would be in real need of this money in this lockdown.” While many workers and their immediate kin, for most of the workmen are no more, were paid, the payment of nearly 100 workers could not take place because of identification problems. Just before the country went into lockdown, the HC had ordered the OL to pay the dues to these families on furnishing certain identity proofs and certificates issued by TLA. Junaid Shaikh, who represents these workers, said, “The payment is between Rs 40,000 and Rs 75,000 in each case. But this is a big amount in this time of crisis. There are still some who are left out. Many families are spread across the country because they had gone back to their native places when the mill closed.” An official at the OL said that the office functions with 1/3 staff strength. “As people’s condition is worsening day by day, we thought of expediting the payment process and thankfully we had the HC order in our hand. We are happy that we could pay the dues in this lockdown period,” he said and added, “There are many requests pending before the high court about payment of dues in other closed mills, but we are waiting for resumption of regular court functioning so that our applications are taken up for hearing.” After receiving a small chunk of their dues after sale of plant machinery in 1990s, the workers were waiting for sale of mill land. After a long legal battle over forfeiting a portion of mill’s land under the Urban Land Ceiling Act, the sale at last took place in October 2016. One Siddhi Corporation offered Rs 71 crore for 22,385 square-metre land, but could not make payment due to the central government’s demonetization decision. The HC granted one-year time to the developer to pay the money upon workers’ request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/workers-who-lost-jobs-over-30-years-ago-get-paid/articleshow/75877590.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Kochi||Man throws petrol bomb at 2, sets self on fire||Kochi: A man threw a petrol bomb at two men and later reportedly killed himself by setting himself on fire at Pachalam on Wednesday. After the attack on the men at Shanmughapuram Road, the man, suspected to be mentally unstable, went to Karshaka Road and allegedly set fire to himself in his autorickshaw parked at Karshaka Road, about 1 km away. But police say the fire could have been caused accidentally as well. Police have not been able to figure out the reason for the attack. They said he threw the petrol bomb at the duo who were sitting at a teashop without provocation. While P V Pankajakshan suffered 75% burns, Rijin Das sustained 20% burns. Both have been admitted to Lourdes Hospital, Pachalam. Hospital sources said Das worked at the hospital’s ESI division. Police said a probe is on to find whether the man was nursing any grudge against the duo and the attack was pre-planned. Senior officers, including DCP G Poonguzhali and ACP K Laljy, visited the crime scene. North CI Siby Tom said that a probe is on to determine the reason behind the crime. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-throws-petrol-bomb-at-2-sets-self-on-fire/articleshow/75873678.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Nagpur||City to continue in red zone with till May 31||Nagpur: The state government has revised its two-day-old order and given permission to continue the city in red zone considering request of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. Nagpur Rural will be in non-red zone as Mundhe had urged for only city area. TOI on Thursday had reported Mundhe wrote to chief secretary Ajoy Mehta pleading to keep city in red zone for ending existing chains of Covid-19. City will be among 11 in the state and three in Vidarbha to continue in red zone apart from Amravati and Akola. As per order which will come into effect from midnight of May 22, saloons, spa, private offices, private constructions, inter-district plying of buses will not be permitted in the city. Government offices will have to run with 5% staff. Liquor shops cannot open but can continue home delivery service. E-commerce of all products will be permitted. There cannot be taxi, cab and rickshaw service. Home delivery of food is permissible. 1+2 in four-wheelers and only one on two-wheeler will be allowed that too for essential works. Only change from earlier system will be that shops that are not allowed can open for maintenance purposes between 9am and 5pm. Mundhe had strongly kept his demand by giving data that proved city did not qualify in three of six parameters set by the central government for non red zone. One of the parameter is no new case for 21 days whereas city registered 238 cases. Two more parameters in which city did not fit are positivity rate and case fatality rate. Sample positivity rate should be less than 2% while it is over 6% in the city. Case fatality rate should be less than 1% and Mundhe calculated it at about 2% in the city. Large number of people thronged roads and markets after government’s notification dated May 19 which placed city under non red zone despite the fact that it was supposed to be implemented from May 22. Mundhe, in an order issued on Wednesday, had asked the police to levy penalty on violators saying city had continued in red zone. The restrictions for 18 containment zones in existence in the city will be even more severe. Any type of non-essential service is not allowed apart from movement of people in and out excluding emergency works. Essential shops are to open permitted between 7am and 1pm only. Nagpur Rural will be in non-red zone as already collector Ravindra Thakare has permitted activities as per orange zone since May 17. He had allowed liquor shops to open but later permitted only home delivery owners and customers failed to maintain Covid distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-to-continue-in-red-zone-with-till-may-31/articleshow/75877592.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 22, 2020||Kolhapur||BJP: CM ‘quarantined’ at home, babus in charge||KOLHAPUR: The BJP’s Maharashtra unit on Thursday accused CM Uddhav Thackeray of “quarantining himself inside Matoshree” and failing to lead from the front in the fight against Covid-19. It has announced a day-long statewide agitation on Friday, named ‘Mera Angan, Mera Ranangan’, against the state government’s failure to curb the coronavirus crisis, asking its party members and citizens to stand in balconies or courtyards or premises of their houses wearing black clothes or holding black cloth. “The CM of Maharashtra has quarantined himself at Matoshree and the state government is being run by bureaucrats,” BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil told reporters. He said it was expected that the CM would hit the ground by wearing a mask, gloves and PPE, but Thackeray had locked himself inside his Bandra residence. “How can one expect the common man to fight against the coronavirus when the CM has shown no courage and is defensive in his approach?” Patil asked. Though no time has been fixed by the BJP for its agitation, Patil said the party units in each city and district will decide these details considering the local situation and zone norms. “It is high time citizens of the state protest against the gross failure of the state government” to contain the Covid-19 threat, Patil said. NCP state chief and state water resources minister Jayant Patil, however, said BJP should not politicise a serious issue. “Our party never criticised PM Modi, who was busy attending to US president Donald Trump when coronavirus hit India. The BJP is asking questions to the Thackeray government, forgetting that we never asked a single question to the Modi government,” the NCP state chief told reporters. “The state BJP chief is announcing an agitation while former CM Devendra Fadnavis is busy meeting the state governor to keep himself in the limelight. Fadnavis must have the telephone number of Uddhav Thackeray. He should talk to him, meet and make suggestions. That’s needed at this hour. Not politics,” Jayant Patil said. The NCP leader said that though the Maharashtra government had made arrangements for transportation of migrant labourers to their home states, many BJP-ruled states did not allow their own people to enter. “Instead of wasting time on agitations and publicity stunts, the state BJP leaders should ask their party leaders in other states to allow passage to these migrants,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-cm-quarantined-at-home-babus-in-charge/articleshow/75878474.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man who sang about Covid-19 succumbs to it||AHMEDABAD: Umesh Sadhu, 46, a resident of Behrampura, in April had released a single ‘Corona e kalo ker karyo’ (Corona(virus) has wreaked havoc) to the tune of Har Desh Main Tu, appealing to citizens to follow the rules of the lockdown, maintain social distancing and wear masks. After a month, Sadhu succumbed to the virus. Pappu Sadhu, his elder brother, said Umesh was interested in singing from young age and was part of several dayro, bhajan and santvani events over the years. “The said single was created by a city-based record company along with Popatlal Tapodhan, a city-based artist. Who would have thought that the virus that he sang against would claim his life?” he said. Umesh, who was suffering from hypertension and diabetes, felt uneasy on April 30 and was admitted to the Civil Hospital where he succumbed on May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-who-sang-about-covid-succumbs-to-it/articleshow/75877705.cms||---
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: 9-month-old survives fall from first floor||PUNE: A 9-month-old boy got a new lease of life after a successful critical brain surgery at Columbia Asia Hospital in Kharadi necessitated by a fall from the family’s first-floor apartment in the vicinity earlier this month. Doctors at the hospital believed that the boy could have slipped through the balcony grille when his parents were working from home during the lockdown period. Neurosurgeon Pravin Survashe, who operated upon the boy, said the child had suffered a skull fracture following the fall “He was brought to the hospital around 7pm on May 5 in an unconscious condition. A CT scan revealed a fracture in his skull vault and the brain herniated through the (fracture) site. We decided to operate upon the child on May 7 because there was significant brain damage,” Survashe told TOI. “We took out the skull bone and repaired the damaged part of the brain during the surgery that continued for nearly six hours. He was on ventilator support for the next three to four days. The surgery and the treatment process were successful. He was discharged in a conscious condition,” he said. Senior hospital officials expressed concerns over the sudden rise in the number of children being brought to the health hub with head injuries. “It’s a terrible coincidence that we treated five children, all aged below three, with injuries they suffered after falling from the first or second floor of their houses during the lockdown period,” an official said. Survashe said, “A similar case had last reached our hospital about two years ago. Five such accidents in such a short span of time point to the fact that something has changed,” he said. Senior inspector Shankar Khatake of the Chandannagar police station said no medico-legal case has been recently lodged in connection with any child suffering head injuries. “Parents generally approach us when they suspect any foul play behind their children’s injuries,” the officer said. (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-month-old-survives-fall-from-first-floor/articleshow/75878473.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC relaxes restrictions, blends life with livelihood||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body has provided significant relaxations during the fourth round of lockdown with effect from Friday to balance life and livelihood. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) administration on Thursday stated that people could make use of playgrounds, parks and stadia for personal exercise but have to ensure sufficient distance while doing so. Since the announcement of the lockdown, the civic body had disallowed any group activity or group sport, where touch or exchange was involved. The administration has also allowed industries, especially those with fewer employees,to operate at 100% staff strength. The micro and small companies with less than 20 employees had complained that they were unable to get back to business effectively because of the 33% cap on the staff strength. The civic body has also allowed employees from areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits to travel to the twin townships with the PCMC’s permission, officials said. “I have said that more opening means more cases, but people have to learn to live with the virus and also manage their other priorities,” PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI. The civic body said private companies should allow work-from-home as much as possible and not allow more than 50% of staff strength in offices till further orders. To facilitate movement of people for work and otherwise between 7am and 7pm, PMPML buses will operate with 50% of the capacity in PCMC area. In 12 major markets of the township, shops are allowed to open on the lines of the P1 and P2 system of parking. “This will ensure effective social distancing,” PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said. All other restrictions that were in force will apply, as is. For the 47 declared containment zones in the PCMC limits, all restrictions announced earlier during Lockdown 2.0 and 3.0 will remain unchanged. The civic body also granted permission for use of private vehicles to doctors, people working in clinics and hospitals, sanitation staff and also those involved in transportation of goods. The PCMC has 1,800 beds to take care of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-relaxes-restrictions-blends-life-with-livelihood/articleshow/75878478.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
