May 23, 2020||Chennai||Meet the creator of mural at Tambaram station that salutes COVID-19 warriors||The 100ftX50ft mural at the Tambaram railway station is hard to miss if you are passing by. A tribute to the frontline workers fighting the pandemic, the mural covers the west entrance wall of the railway station and is created by Chennai ponnu Varshini Ramakrishnan, who calls herself a design strategist. “People have been telling me that it has come out well, but I am yet to see it in person. I have only seen photographs of the completed work. I am waiting for the lockdown to be lifted so I can go there,” she says matter-of-factly. So, how did she manage to do it without going to the site? “The entire work was done on my laptop. It’s a vinyl decal, not a painting. Once I completed the sketches, they were printed and pasted on the wall. This is my first mural artwork and I’m excited,” she says. Her mural not only features doctors, nurses, policemen and sanitary workers, but also newspaper delivery boys, water can delivery men and vegetable vendors. “All of them have been continuously working through the lockdown. I didn’t want to miss any of them. Thankfully, the people from the railways, Nalandaway Foundation and Renault Nissan Technology & Business Centre India, with whom I collaborated for this, thought so, too,” she says. Colours of positivityThe mural also depicts things and incidents that people relate with the pandemic, like the corona helmet, trains coaches converted into isolation wards, people washing hands etc. I used colours that depict things we associate with positivity — like rainbows, multi-coloured temple gopurams, among others. — Varshini Ramakrishnan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/meet-the-creator-of-mural-at-tambaram-station-that-salutes-covid-19-warriors/articleshow/75894680.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
May 23, 2020||Meerut||UP: Four, including two constables, booked for extortion in Kasganj||AGRA: Four, including two police constables, were booked for extorting money from a farmer, who was headed to a market to sell his farm produce. The incident took place on Thursday in Amanpur police limits of Kasganj district. The farmer, identified as 31-year-old Atul Gupta, resident of Indra Nagar, said, “I was on my way to the market to sell wheat, rice and millet when I was waylaid by two constables. They threatened to charge me with a false case and demanded Rs 80,000 in cash. I managed to pay the amount with my friend’s help. Later, I found out that local mafia Gaurav Yadav and Pintu Mewati, who had troubled me in the past, were the brain behind the extortion bid.” Superintendent of police (SP) of Kasganj Sushil Ghule said, “Prima facie, the allegations levied by Atul Gupta is true. Constable Sanjeev Chaudhary was arrested while three others are still absconding.” Based on the farmer’s written complaint, local police charged constables Sovran Singh and Sanjeev Chaudhary and local mafia Gaurav Yadav and Pintu Mewati under IPC section 384 (Punishment for extortion) and Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-including-two-constables-booked-for-extortion-in-kasganj/articleshow/75904213.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Aligarh Muslim University Teachers Association demands end of hate campaign||AGRA: The Aligarh Muslim University Teachers Association (AMUTA) on Friday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to direct the Union government to take necessary action on attempts to deliberately link Covid-19 to a particular community, which had resulted in spreading of hatred and mistrust amongst fellow citizens of other communities. AMUTA also urged the government to protect all citizens – irrespective of their religion – and promote tolerance, mutual respect and ensure upholding of law as mandated in the Constitution. The members of the association also expressed anguish over the use of sedition charges against activists raising their voices against the government and its policies. Members of the association have also expressed displeasure over the treatment of migrant workers during the Covid-19 lockdown. According to them, the sudden declaration of lockdown without giving enough time to people to make proper arrangements, has resulted in unprecedented suffering to large number of migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amuta-demands-end-of-hate-campaign/articleshow/75904272.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 23, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Firozabad cop tests positive; district Covid-19 tally now 207 with 15 active cases||AGRA: A constable (30) posted at Shikohabad police station in Firozabad district tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the district tally to 207, with 15 active cases. Once the test result was confirmed, 10 cops of Shikohabad PS, as well as the family of the infected cop, who live in Saraswati Nagar of Tundla, were quarantined, and their samples sent for Covid-19 testing. Till date, 51 cops, including an RPF constable have tested positive for the infection in UP, with two of them succumbing to the disease. Three others have also tested corona positive, including a 17-year-old in Nagla Tula village of Sirsaganj, a pregnant woman in Nagla Chandravar Gate, and a 72-year-old in Hanuman Ganj. The son of the septuagenarian man had already succumbed to the infection on May 18, after complaining of respiratory problems. Afterwards, the entire family was tested, and five of them found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/firozabad-cop-tests-positive-district-covid-tally-now-207-with-15-active-cases/articleshow/75904360.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 23, 2020||India||Amid heightened tensions with China, Army chief visits Ladakh||NEW DELHI: Army chief General M M Naravane visited Ladakh on Friday to review the operational situation along the unresolved border with China, which has witnessed rival troop build-ups after violent clashes. His visit came a day after the government asserted it remained “deeply committed to ensuring India’s security and sovereignty”. Gen Naravane reviewed “the forward posture of Indian troops” and the ground situation with Northern Command chief Lt General Y K Joshi and the Leh-based 14 Corps commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh, among other top officers, said sources. The Army, despite being contacted several times by TOI, refused to say anything about Gen Naravane’s half-a-day-long visit. But sources said the forward-deployed Indian troops, with major reinforcements from other areas for “a second line of defence”, will continue to maintain their “firm stance against yielding any ground” to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the ongoing confrontations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The Northern Command is on a high alert due to repeated provocations by the PLA. But talks with China, through military and diplomatic channels, are also under way to defuse tensions. With regular brigadier-level meetings at border meeting points (BPMs) and hotline talks between local commanders, there is the possibility the situation will de-escalate in the coming days,” said a source. Both India and China have pumped in additional troops, built fortifications and pitched tents at a few stretches along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, which include the northern bank of Pangong Tso(Tso means lake), Demchok and Galwan Valley areas, after the violent clashes between the rival soldiers on May 5-6. as was reported by TOI earlier. China had aggressively blocked Indian patrols and construction. The major grouse of the PLA seems to be the completion of the 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road, which provides access to the Depsang area and Galwan Valley while ending near the Karakoram Pass, by India last year. But sources said India remains undeterred by the PLA’s “muscle-flexing”, in what seems to be a repeat of the major 73-day confrontation at Doklam near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction in June-August 2017. The Border Roads Organisation will resume its planned construction activity for roads and tunnels in different stretches along the 3,488-km long LAC from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh soon, said sources. The PLA has stepped-up needling of Indian troops, with the flashpoint being eastern Ladakh, along the LAC from the very beginning of this year. The Indian Army, in turn, is ready for the coming “hot summer” in terms of “transgressions and face-offs” in the 23 “disputed and sensitive areas” along the LAC, as was reported earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-heightened-tensions-with-china-army-chief-visits-ladakh/articleshow/75905117.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 23, 2020||India||Covid-19: Colour of masks presents military with tough poser||NEW DELHI: The armed forces, amid guarding the frontiers, maintaining operational readiness and helping civil administrations combat the coronavirus pandemic, are facing a confounding new question: Should explicit orders be issued to ensure their personnel wear masks that match their uniforms? Senior officers of the Army, Navy and IAF, fortunately, have not yet been seen in public wearing ‘stars’ on their masks, akin to the ones worn on their collar tabs, to denote their ranks like some of their police counterparts are doing. The director-general of police in a state, for instance, made quite a splash recently by wearing a mask with ‘three stars’. Covid-19: Latest updatesThe Southern Naval Command (SNC) in Kochi seems to have stolen a march in the spit and polish environs of the armed forces by sternly directing its personnel to wear colour-coordinated masks. White masks with white uniforms and navy blue or black masks with other ceremonial uniforms, the “internal instructions” issued by a unit there said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The Defence Security Corps and fire services personnel have to don khaki masks to match their khaki uniforms. Moreover, in keeping with Kerala government directives, personnel found without masks will be fined Rs 200 for the first time, and Rs 2,000 for repeat defaults. “There was this problem of personnel wearing all kinds of masks with different colours and weird patterns. The need was felt to ensure uniformity in uniforms and for personnel to wear comfortable cotton masks instead of nylon or synthetic ones in the hot muggy weather,” a source said. But officers here stressed that it was not a pan-Navy order, even though some care is being taken to ensure a proper dress code in the absence of explicit orders. Many IAF officers in Air Headquarters in New Delhi, for instance, are donning blue masks to match their uniforms. In the Western Air Command, which also has its headquarters in the Capital, personnel are wearing white masks with blue borders. Army officers are generally wearing white or black masks, while some have been spotted wearing camouflage or ‘disruptive pattern’ masks. “No explicit orders have been issued yet because masks are not part of the traditional uniform. But yes, with wearing of masks likely to become permanent for the foreseeable future, some orders might be needed in the days ahead,” a senior officer said. In the past, the armed forces have faced flak for the propensity of a few generals, admirals and air marshals to flaunt their rank and status even while playing golf or driving personal cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/colour-of-masks-presents-military-with-tough-poser/articleshow/75905237.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 23, 2020||Allahabad||With lockdown 4.0 and strict social distancing measures: No Jashn-e-Eid this year||Every year, there are celebrations galore in Prayagraj with power-packed iftar evenings and Eid lunches. However, celebrations this year are low-key, owing to the pandemic. City folk, who either organise these parties or attend them, tell us what are they missing the most about those gatherings. Rehana Khan, a businesswoman and social activist from Prayagraj, says, “Every year we used to host a grand party on Eid for which all my friends and relatives were invited. It used to be a fun time. This year, keeping the situation in mind, Eid will be a low-key affair. Although I will miss meeting my friends and relatives. Eid is all about meeting and sharing but that we will have to miss out on this year.” Danish (standing behind wearing white kurta) celebrating his first Eid after marriage in 2016 at his parental house in Prayagraj (BCCL)Two times Olympian and Indian hockey player Danish Mujtaba, who hails from Prayagraj and is working as a Sports Officer in Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited at Shakti Bhawan sharing his fondest memories of Eid, says, "Every Eid I celebrated at my parental house in Prayagraj with my family has been a memorable one. This time on Eid I will surely miss my parental house and the enjoyment we have every year because this is the only time of the year when my brothers and all cousins would meet at one place and we enjoy sevai, biryani and a lot more. Though this will not be the only time I will be missing Eid at my parent’s house, it happened many times while I was playing for my country.” He adds. “Due to the prevailing covid19 pandemic, being a responsible citizen of the country I will prefer staying back in Lucknow itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/with-lockdown-4-0-and-strict-social-distancing-measures-no-jashn-e-eid-this-year/articleshow/75891108.cms||Meera Vohra
May 23, 2020||India||In run-up to Hong Kong law, China sought India help||NEW DELHI: China briefed key nations, including India, before bringing in a tough national security law for Hong Kong, which Beijing says is aimed to curb secessionist sentiments, sources said. The explanation, both verbal and written, was done to soften the inevitable criticism. Agency reports said Beijing had in its diplomatic missive reminded countries including India that “upholding national security” in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) is “purely China’s internal affair and no foreign country may interfere in this matter”. In August 2019, India had briefed other nations’ envoys after withdrawing special status to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and converting the state into a Union Territory. China on Friday introduced a national security law in Hong Kong that could be the end of the much touted “One country, Two systems” policy followed since the island reverted to Chinese rule in 1997. “Your country maintains close economic and trade cooperation as well as people-to-people exchanges with Hong Kong” the demarche said. “Hong Kong’s prosperity and long-term stability is in line with the common interests of the whole international community, including your country, as well as protection of your country’s legitimate interests in Hong Kong. We hope your government will understand and support China’s relevant practices.” The demarche said since the return of Hong Kong to China 23 years ago, “the Hong Kong SAR has not acted out its constitutional duty for national security in line with China’s Constitution and the Basic Law” . “There is a loophole in Hong Kong’s legal system and an absence of a mechanism of enforcement. The opposition in Hong Kong have long colluded with external forces to carry out acts of secession, subversion, infiltration and destruction against the Chinese mainland,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-run-up-to-hong-kong-law-china-sought-india-help/articleshow/75905421.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||123 lakh tonnes: Record sugar output in UP amid lockdown||LUCKNOW: While most industries faced a Corona-induced lockdown, UP’s sugar mills went full throttle to produce 123 lakh tonnes of sugar in this crushing season, recording their highest ever output, which is also a record production by any state in a season. In UP, the sugarcane crushing season is from October to May. Records available with the sugar department till May 21 show that the output so far is at least six lakh tonnes more than 117 lakh tonnes of sugar produced in the corresponding period of the last season. UP’s previous record was registered in the 2017-18 season with an output of 120.45 lakh tonnes of sugar. The output is all set to increase further as 39 of the total 119 sugar mills are still running as nearly 10 more days are left in this crushing season. In contrast, only 16 mills were operating after the third week of May last year. Significantly, while UP jacked up its production despite the lockdown, the national production of sugar in this season fell by nearly 62 lakh tonnes - from 326 lakh tonnes in the previous season to 264 lakh tonnes. UP accounts for 47% of the total national output so far. According to Indian Sugar Mills Association, about 40% of the factories in central UP are still operating, while in west UP about 70% of the factories are still running. Principal secretary, cane development, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that despite the lockdown, the state government ensured that the mills kept operating to crush canes brought in by farmers. In the current crushing season, the state government paid farmers nearly Rs 19,000 crore, which is 56% of the total dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/123-lakh-tonnes-record-sugar-output-in-up-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75905673.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 23, 2020||India||Dealing with biomedical waste in the time of Covid-19 presents huge challenge||NEW DELHI: India has specific rules to deal with biomedical waste, but the Covid-19 presented a unique challenge before the country where it has currently to deal with unestimated amount of biomedical waste (BMW) exclusively from dedicated Covid hospitals, quarantine centres and home quarantine facilities in cities/towns and district/block headquarters. The task has become all the more difficult as many states lack strict monitoring mechanism. Underlining this new challenge of treating such waste as novel coronavirus can potentially survive in the environment for several hours/days, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had in April issued a detailed guidelines on handing Covid-linked biomedical waste (BMW) and launched a dedicated mobile App last week to track its collection and disposal. It specified scientific ways to collect, transport and dispose of such waste and asked state pollution control boards/committee to adhere to it while monitoring the entire process. The guidelines carry specific dos and don’ts for handing Covid-19 related BMW — categorised yellow for highly infectious waste — at healthcare facilities, quarantine camps/homes, home care facilities, sample collection centre, laboratories, isolation wards and Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility (CBWTF). TOI has checked how the states have been handling the Covid-linked BMW and found that many states have assigned this job to empaneled private agencies and deployed dedicated vehicles for waste transportation till CBWTF. The civic bodies in many cities have also engaged trained manpower for its collection from quarantine homes/centres and home-care facilities. But, who is responsible for monitoring all these activities to ensure that the guidelines are strictly followed to handle the high risk waste? “It’s the responsibility of the respective state pollution control boards/committees to maintain records of Covid-19 treatment wards / quarantine centers / quarantines homes and ensure proper collection and disposal of biomedical waste as per our guidelines,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB. He told TOI that the Board has launched a mobile App - COVID19BMW - and asked all BMW generators to register on this for submit the data related to the Covid-linked biomedical waste. “Those data are cross-checked with states and CBWTFs on daily basis,” said Gargava. But, what about the place where the CBWTF doesn’t exist. The CPCB guidelines, in that case, say that the existing captive facilities of any hospital may be identified for disposal of Covid-19 waste as per provisions under existing BMW Management Rules, 2016. In case of generation of large volume of yellow color coded (incinerable) Covid-19 waste in non-CBWTF remote areas, the guidelines also permit “use of deep burial pits for disposal of yellow category waste as per standards prescribed” in the existing Rules. The guidelines recommends providing personal protective equipment (PPE) to all workers who are engaged in disposing of such waste and asked civic bodies to make provisions of segregation of waste using colour-coded bins, bags and containers. It advised agencies to even treat the faeces from COVID-19 confirmed patient, who is unable to use toilets and if excreta is collected in diapers, as biomedical waste. These detailed revised guidelines, sent to all states on April 19, are based on current knowledge on the novel coronavirus and existing practices in management of infectious waste generated while treating viral and contagious diseases like HIV and H1N1. The CPCB had brought its first guidelines on the subject in March. Officials hinted at possibility of other guidelines, if at all it is needed, on the basis of ground experience and best practices followed in different countries for disposing of Covid-linked BMW. The New Delhi-based think-tank, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), had recently analysed implementation of the BMW Management Rules, 2016 and found many lapses on the ground, noting that the in some states, the required facility does not exist at all while in others even the contractors have yet not been appointed. “We found that the incinerators at the facility have not been upgraded as per the CPCB directions. The upgradation is required so that the ‘yellow’ category waste (highly infectious waste) is burnt at the right temperature and it does not lead to toxic emissions. This is critical also in Covid-19 related BMW,” said Sunita Narain, environmentalist and director general of the CSE. In the context of Covid-linked BMW, she said, “Most of the waste will be yellow category and therefore the upgrading of the incinerator must be done without losing time. The CPCB needs to get a nationwide report on what is the status and get this done.” Pointing at inadequate monitoring system, Narain said, “We found the key weakness is that the bar-codes provisions -- as stipulated in the rules -- have not been implemented by many states. This means that waste collected and treated cannot be tracked. Rules also provide for GPS which is to be installed in all transport vehicles, but this is not done in most cases. For Covid-19 related BMW, all this becomes critical. These weaknesses must be fixed urgently.” Different state pollution control boards have, however, been sensitised by the CPCB. The state agencies have, on their parts, been sharing their experiences on a daily basis with the central pollution watchdog. A couple of states have set up a dedicated mechanism to monitor collection and disposal of the Covid-19 related BMW while others gave this responsibility to teams that have been taking infection control measures. The Uttar Pradesh government has set up district level committees, headed by an additional chief medical officer, to undertake infection control measures and monitor disposal of biomedical waste. The teams, including representatives from the UP pollution control board, are also expected to check BMW disposal in non-Covid private hospitals. Many states have deployed private agencies for the jobs and asked respective pollution control boards or committees to monitor it on daily basis. Deputy municipal commissioner (Sanitation) of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Pradip Dasarwar, told TOI that the civic body has engaged a private agency which collects biomedical waste from over 1800 institutions including 632 private hospitals/clinics, OPDs, pathology laboratories, radiology centres etc. “So far, the NMC has not received any complaints pertaining to throwing of biomedical waste openly,” he claimed. The West Bengal government too has engaged empanelled private agencies for collection and disposal of BMW, but the state doesn’t have clear-cut policy on the waste disposal from households where people are kept in home isolation. “I have already sent a letter to our chief minister underlining the danger lies in the disposal system where the biomedical wastes getting mixed with municipal waste and going straight to Dhapa landfill site,” said the Kolkata-based environment crusader Subhas Datta, who on last Thursday moved a petition to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the erratic disposal of biomedical waste in the city. “What I want is the compliance of the CPCB guidelines in disposing of the biomedical wastes related to Covid-19,” he said. The CPCB guidelines have specific provisions on how to collect and dispose off used PPE and N95 masks. It also asks health departments of all states to provide adequate PPE including three layer masks, splash proof gowns, nitrile gloves, gum boots and safety goggles to workers at the CBWTF. “These PPE are required to be worn all the time while collecting of waste from quarantine centre/homes or waste deposition centre”, it said. The CPCB also asked the urban local bodies to provide yellow colored bags (designated for BMW) to the persons responsible for operating Quarantine Camp or home-care. “If required, such bags may be provided through CBWTF,” it said. (Inputs from Bengaluru, Chennai, Nagpur, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Patna, Bhubaneshwar, Jaipur, Lucknow and Kochi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dealing-with-biomedical-waste-in-the-time-of-covid-19-presents-huge-challenge/articleshow/75905790.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 23, 2020||India||Group of intellectuals suggest 7-point action plan to come out of Covid crisis||NEW DELHI: A group of intellectuals have come together to propose a 7-point plan of action— “Mission Jai Hind”— to respond to the present economic, health and humanitarian crisis in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. They have proposed an alternative approach, listing some urgent steps that the Centre and state governments must take to rebuild lives and livelihood. The plan calls for measures, including help to migrants go back home within 10 days; universal and free healthcare for all Covid patients; universal access to expanded ration for six months. It also calls for enhanced job guarantee in rural and urban India, cash compensation for loss of job or livelihood and a three - month interest waiver for farmers, small business and home loans. They have also demanded a national revival mission not to be constrained by lack of resources. In a statement, they claim that the “stimulus package” announced by the central government “virtually ignores the urgent need for economic support to ordinary citizens whose lives and livelihoods have been shattered by the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown”. The plan proposes the principle of “whatever it takes” to raise resources for ‘Mission Jain Hind’. All the resources (cash, real estate, property, bonds, etc) with the citizens or within the nation must be treated as national resources available during this crisis. Given the critical role of the state governments, it recommends that Central government must share at least 50% of the additional revenue raised for this purpose with the state governments. It has been endorsed by prominent economists, including Professors Pranab Bardhan, Deepak Nayyar, Jean Dreze, Abhijit Sen, Maitreesh Ghatak, Jayati Ghosh, Debraj Ray, R Nagaraj, Ashok Kotwal, Santosh Mehrotra, Amit Basole and Himanshu. The statement said Nobel laureate Prof Amartya Sen has expressed “broad sympathy” with this action plan. Others to endorse it include historian Ramachandra Guha and actvists Harsh Mander, Nikhil De and Bezwada Wilson among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/group-of-intellectuals-suggest-7-point-action-plan-to-come-out-of-covid-crisis/articleshow/75905999.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kanpur||Bride walks ‘double marathon’ to tie knot||KANPUR: Corona may have forced postponement of thousand of weddings, but a Kanpur Dehat girl decided to defy her parents when they put off her marriage for a second time after the extension of lockown. She walked 80-km to reach her groom’s house in neighbouring Kannauj to exchange vows. While her sudden appearance took the groom's family by surprise, they welcomed her and the wedding was solemnised with the consent of both sides while maintaining social distancing amid Covid-19 lockdown. Villagers, too, came out in the support of the bride, who was expecting opposition for defying social norms. Goldy covered 80 km to reach groom’s house in Kannauj distThe groom, Virendra Kumar Rathore (23), a native of Baisapur village of Taalgram in Kannauj, is a daily wager. His marriage was fixed with Goldy (19) of Mangalpur area of Kanpur Dehat. Goldy told TOI, “Our marriage was fixed for May 4. We were expecting relief after Lockdown 3.0, but after the announcement of Lockdown 4.0, when our parents decided to postpone our marriage, I just lost patience and decided to not let the pandemic come in the way of our marriage. I was fearing criticism for going against the trend, but finally I left my house without informing anyone.” She started before dawn on Wednesday and reached her groom's house late in the adjacent district, Kannauj, in the evening. “After covering a stretch of 80 km I reached my groom-to be house and got married on Thursday at village temple with the consent of our family members,” she added. The priest, Acharya Kamlesh Mishra, performed the rituals amid chanting of Vedic ‘mantras’ in the temple premises. He blessed the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bride-walks-80km-to-grooms-place-gets-married/articleshow/75906312.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 23, 2020||Business||In 8th straight cut, RBI slashes key rate 40 basis points to new all-time low||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India on Friday unexpectedly cut key interest rates by 40 basis points, citing negative GDP growth in the current fiscal amidst a "double whammy" of loss of production as well as demand even as it said it expected inflation to harden in the first half of the fiscal year. The RBI also allowed lenders to extend an ongoing moratorium on loan repayment, which was due to end on May 31, by another three months to August 31. This is the second 'off-cycle’ rate cut by RBI, which advanced its June monetary policy committee meeting to May 20-22. The MPC voted by a 5-1 majority to reduce the policy rate by 40 basis points from 4.4% to an all-time low of 4.0%. Consequently, the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) rate and the bank rate stand reduced to 4.25% from 4.65%. The reverse repo rate stands reduced to 3.35% from 3.75%. The RBI has cut the repo rate by a total of 115 bps since the lockdown began in late March. It also marks the eighth straight rate cut by the RBI. “By all counts, the macroeconomic and financial conditions are austere. The global economy is inexorably headed into recession…. Given all these uncertainties, GDP growth in 2020-21 is estimated to remain in negative territory,” said RBI governor Shaktikanta Das while announcing the interest rate cut over a video broadcast. On inflation, he said that given limited data from the National Statistical Office, the RBI could not forecast a number but he expected prices to harden in the first half due to supply-side issues and soften in the second half of the year. The EMI on a 15-year Rs 30 lakh home loan will come down by nearly Rs 2,350 since March. The rate cut will immediately result in home loans becoming cheaper for borrowers whose EMIs are linked to the repo rate. These include home loans and other retail loans. Interest rates on deposits are set to come down further given the surge in banks deposits and the fall in credit demand. “Going forward, we will continue to be vigilant and we will take whatever measures are necessary to meet the Covid-related challenges that are ahead of us,” Das said. “The RBI will continue to remain vigilant and in battle readiness to use all its instruments and even fashion new ones, as recent experience has demonstrated, to address dynamics of the unknown future.” RBI’s comments on the economy shrinking due to the Covid-19 pandemic and ongoing lockdown and the absence of any restructuring scheme for banks spooked markets Most of the major banks were in the red immediately after the policy announcement with the Sensex closing 260 points lower. Addressing newspersons after RBI’s announcement, SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said that the moratorium gives a breather to everyone until the cash flows post-lockdown can be assessed. He said SBI will take a holistic view of various components of its assets and liabilities and revise rates. All bank’s marginal cost of lending rate – the benchmark for loans to corporates – will get revised based on a formula next month. Retail borrowers whose loans are linked to the repo will see their interest rates come down by 40 bps from July. Among the positive news highlighted by the governor was the improvement in forex reserves by $1.73 billion to $ 487.04 billion in the week to May 15, which is equivalent to 12 months of imports. The increase since April 1 is $9.2 billion. “Amidst this encircling gloom, agriculture and allied activities have provided a beacon of hope on the back of an increase of 3.7 per cent in foodgrains production to a new record. A ray of hope also comes from the forecast of a normal southwest monsoon in 2020 by the India Meteorological Department (IMD),” said Das. Watch RBI slashes repo rate by 40 basis points from 4.4% to 4%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-8th-straight-cut-rbi-slashes-key-rate-40-basis-pts-to-new-all-time-low/articleshow/75906404.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 23, 2020||India||Apex court seeks govt’s reply on plea for Zoom app audit||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday sought the Centre’s response to a PIL seeking a comprehensive technical and security audit of Zoom video application, apprehending that the increase in use of this app for video conferencing and webinars was posing a serious threat to privacy and data security. A bench headed by CJI S A Bobde asked the Union government to file its response to the PIL filed by homemaker and part-time private tutor Harsh Chugh, who appears to have devoted considerable time to cull out data about incidents in other countries relating to security and privacy issues arising from the use of Zoom app. She sought a ban on use of Zoom by the government and people till a thorough security audit cleared the app and rules were framed for the purpose. "Zoom Video Communications, the software company providing remote conferencing service that combines video conferencing, online meetings, chats and mobile collaborations, is providing poor privacy and security practices to its users, the same has also been accepted by the CEO of the said company, Eric Yuhan," Chugh claimed.“Zoom app practises data hoarding and cyber hoarding which includes mass storage of personal data of its users and stores cloud recordings, instant messages, files, whiteboards etc... Further, there have been concerns about what is now being called ‘zoombombing’ where an unauthorised person or stranger joins a Zoom meeting/chat session and causes disorder by saying offensive things and even photo bombing the meeting by sharing pornographic and/or hate images,” Chugh alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/apex-court-seeks-govts-reply-on-plea-for-zoom-app-audit/articleshow/75906789.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Business||Covid-19: Home loan rates set to dip to 15-year low, EMIs to fall||NEW DELHI: The RBI's announcement is good news for home loan borrowers with a secure income, as interest rates in this category will come down by 40 basis points (100bps equal 1 percentage point) to around 7%. This is the lowest level in over 15 years. Also, borrowers who are facing income uncertainty because of the Covid-19 lockdown can avail of an additional three-month moratorium to get their finances in order. Those borrowers who have not availed of a moratorium so far but are now facing income pressure can still defer their repayments for three months. For a loan of Rs 30 lakh with a remaining maturity of 15 years, the net additional interest would be approximately Rs 2.34 lakh — equal to eight EMIs. A part of this burden could come down because of the reduction in interest rates. Read also: In 8th straight cut, RBI slashes key rate by 40 basis points to new all-time lowFor existing borrowers, SBI’s interest rates on home loan up to Rs 30 lakh will automatically come down to 7% from the existing 7.4%, on loan between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 75 lakh to 7.25% from 7.65%, and above Rs 75 lakh to 7.35% from 7.75%. For women borrowers, the rates would be further lowered by 5bps. Since October 2019, when home loan rates were linked to the repo rate, interest has been cut by 1.4 percentage points. The EMI on a Rs 30 lakh loan is now down to Rs 19,959 from Rs 22,855 in October 2019 -- a reduction of Rs 2,896. Covid-19: Live updatesHousing finance companies and those banks that have not linked their home loan rates to the repo rate may not pass on the reduction in their home loans. However, driven by competition, HDFC has already brought down its rates to 7.50%. To improve the transmission of rates, the RBI had forced banks to link their interest rates on priority sector loans — including home loan — to an external benchmark rate (EBR). Most of the banks chose repo rate as their EBR. On May 8, some of the banks like SBI increased the spread on home loan rates for new borrowers by 20bps by increasing the margin over and above the benchmark rate of 7.05% pegged against the repo rate. SBI did it, saying that due to the pandemic, the credit risk of borrowers had gone up and so the bank had increased the risk premium by 20bps. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Many banks argued that the repo rate cut does not lower their cost of funds, but leads to lowering of lending rates for existing borrowers. Therefore, banks may resort to raising spreads. A senior banker said that the lowering of the rates matching the present round of reduction in the repo rate would be circumvented by banks. Watch RBI extends moratorium on EMIs by 3 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-loan-rates-set-to-dip-to-15-yr-low-emis-to-fall/articleshow/75906797.cms||Prabhakar Sinha
May 23, 2020||India||Oppn parties accuse govt of failing to tackle Covid-19 crisis, say stimulus package a ‘cruel joke’||NEW DELHI: Accusing the Modi government of "failure" in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and indulging in "meaningless grand announcements", the opposition on Friday termed the Rs 20-lakh-crore stimulus package as a "cruel joke on the country" and demanded the Centre come out with a revised stimulus which would stimulate demand. The opposition meeting convened by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi warned that the post-coronavirus economic crisis could be catastrophic. It also accused the Centre of "unabashedly" usurping the powers of states in the name of fighting the pandemic. After a marathon meeting, 22 "like-minded" opposition parties issued an 11-point charter of demands to the Centre, prominent being payment of a monthly amount of Rs 7,500 for six months to families outside the income tax bracket, distribution of 10kg of foodgrains for a similar period to needy families and "reversal of all unilateral policy decisions, particularly the annulment of labour laws". The gathering also asked the Centre to release substantial funds to states, urgently restore "parliamentary functioning and oversight" and to spell out if it had an exit strategy from the lockdown. "This is neither the time for the government at the Centre to indulge in showmanship nor one-upmanship," the joint statement said, stressing the need for collective action with states and stating that the opposition represented 60% of the population. Importantly, the group also decided to form a committee to chalk out the protest plan for future. The high-powered deliberations included Rahul Gandhi, chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray, Hemant Soren, Mamata Banerjee and regional satraps like Sharad Pawar, DMK chief Stalin, Tejashwi Yadav of RJD, NC’s Omar Abdullah and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury. Sources said leaders cutting across parties were critical of the handling of the migrant crisis. Sonia called the sight of workers walking as the "defining image of the pandemic". Pawar said factories were unable to resume production after the return of workers, and argued for a strategy to "bring them back". He said many trains were provided by the railway ministry to transport migrants but more were required. Sources said Tejashwi Yadav referred to a senior Bihar BJP functionary’s comment about "digital election", calling it an attempt to derail democracy. He also spoke about the maltreatment of migrants from his state. Questioning the Centre’s policy decisions, RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary said parties should guard against the dilution of civil liberties and land-labour rights. In her opening remarks, Sonia said the economic crisis preceded the pandemic, reminding that the GDP started dipping in 2017-18 with demonetisation and a flawed GST but the Centre continued "with its misguided policies and incompetent governance".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oppn-parties-accuse-govt-of-failing-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis-say-stimulus-package-a-cruel-joke/articleshow/75907070.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
May 23, 2020||India||Centre agrees to consider providing funds for Amrapali’s stalled projects||NEW DELHI: In what could come as a relief to around 46,000 Amrapali home-buyers, the Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that it is considering to step in to provide funds to complete the housing projects which could not be completed as funds were allegedly diverted by the Group and its directors. After a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit said the Centre should provide funds for completion of Amrapali’s housing projects which have been taken over by NBCC, additional solicitor general Vikramajit Banerjee told the court that the issue is already under considerations of the finance ministry and he will seek instructions on how much money could be given for the stalled projects. Facing a fund crunch with cautious buyers not paying their dues of Rs 3,600 crore and NBCC refusing to invest money, the SC had earlier asked the Centre to consider using its real estate stress fund, managed by SBI Capital, for construction of the stalled projects. Senior advocate R Venkataramani, who was appointed as receiver to manage the affairs of Amrapali group, told the court that the finance ministry has set in motion the process of financing Amrapali projects and pleaded the court to direct SBI Capital to relax general parameters laid down by it and release the funds by end of June. He also informed the court that UCO Bank has agreed to deal with unsold units and proposed to fund those properties through a consortium of banks. The court, however, refrained from passing order to the Centre and SBI Capital after the ASG assured the bench that he will seek instructions from the ministry and inform the court next week on the decision to be taken on the proposal. The estimated cost for construction of all housing projects is Rs 8,500 crore and amount recoverable from home-buyers and buyers of commercial areas is Rs 3,700 crore, 43% of the cost. Though SC-appointed forensic auditors submitted that around Rs 11,000 crore is the recoverable amount which is enough to bear the cost of the construction, the fund is not available as the process of auctioning the Group’s assets is on. Also, those who benefited from diversion of home-buyers’ money are not returning the funds despite court orders. As per the forensic auditors’ report, there are around 5,229 unsold flats in different Amrapali projects and at least Rs 1,958 crore could be raised by selling them. They said the Group sold 5,856 flats at low prices and Rs 321.3 crore can be recovered from these flat-buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-agrees-to-consider-providing-funds-for-amrapalis-stalled-projects/articleshow/75907262.cms||---
May 23, 2020||India||Covid-19: Lockdown prevented 37,000-78,000 deaths, govt says||NEW DELHI: Seeking to underline the benefits of the lockdown that have been questioned in some quarters, the Centre on Friday presented various models that indicated India may have averted an estimated 14-29 lakh Covid-19 cases and 37,000-78,000 deaths due to the infection. Presenting the analysis of the first two phases of lockdown, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul, said restrictions had significantly reduced the speed at which the virus was spreading. Covid-19: Live updates“On April 3, we had 22.6% new cases per day, the behaviour of the virus was exponential. But after April 4, there was a clear slowing down and it has now settled at 5.5%,” he said. The lockdown was imposed on March 25, and Paul said it took a time lag for its effects to show up in terms of a declining rate of infection. Besides slowing the spread of the disease, the lockdown allowed the government to line up resources in terms of health infrastructure and medical workers, increased medical supplies and gain experience in containment measures. It also shortened the wait for potential drugs, vaccines and treatment besides stepping up research, Dr Paul said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Sharing the projections of a no-lockdown scenario, Praveen Shrivastava, secretary, ministry of statistics, planning and programme implementation, cited models including ones prepared by Boston Consulting Group, Public Health Foundation of India, independent economists and researchers as well as by the ministry itself in partnership with Indian Statistical Institute. According to BCG, 36 lakh-70 lakh cases and 1.2-2.1 lakh deaths may have been averted due to lockdown while PHFI estimated that 78,000 deaths were avoided. Two independent economists estimated that 23 lakh cases and 68,000 deaths could have been averted, whereas some retired scientists and epidemiologists put it at 15.9 lakh cases and 51,000 deaths averted. Modelling by the statistics ministry and ISI found that 20 lakh cases and 54,000 deaths were averted. “While the gains of the lockdown have been that a large number of deaths and cases have been averted, it also meant that much fewer people spread the infection,” Dr Paul said, adding that this was a significant gain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-prevented-37000-78000-deaths/articleshow/75907344.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 23, 2020||India||80% Covid cases from 5 states, 60% from 5 cities: Govt||NEW DELHI: On a day India saw yet another 24-hour peak in Covid-19 cases, the government said the lockdown has helped limit the concentration of cases to a few states and cities -- 80 percent reported in five states and 60 percent from the cities of Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Thane. Analysing active cases as on May 21, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul said Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh accounted for most of the incidence and if over 90% cases were considered, these came from 10 states. “The confinement of Covid-19 to certain areas has been due to actions taken during the lockdown. It enabled us to be more prepared for the future,” Dr Paul said. Similarly, over 80% deaths were reported from five states – Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Delhi and around 95% in 10 states, the government said, indicating much of the outbreak is confined to limited areas. “This is no small achievement. It also gives us the confidence to open up other areas. Despite being such a large nation, due to lockdown, the coronavirus outbreak has remained confined to limited areas,” Dr Paul said. He added that a lockdown could not last for ever and an opening up needed adoption of safe practices. On Friday, the health ministry reported a total of 1,18,447 confirmed cases. Of this, 66,330 were under active medical supervision. In the last 24 hours, 6,088 cases were added till Friday morning. So far, a total of 48,533 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 3234 patients were found cured, taking the total recovery rate at 40.98%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/80-covid-cases-from-5-states-60-from-5-cities-govt/articleshow/75907372.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 23, 2020||Hubballi||Hescom says consumers received correct bill after outcry||Hubballi: When consumers received their power bills in the first week of May, they were in for a shock. A majority of them alleged that they were charged more, and that it would be an additional burden for them at a time of financial crisis. Many people were not ready to believe what they were charged, and suspect that there are discrepancies in the bills. A consumer said that his bill was at least two times higher than the previous month’s bill. The chief finance officer, Hubballi Electricity Supply Company Limited (Hescom), has issued a clarification regarding this. The company said that there are no discrepancies in bills. “The bill for April was generated taking an average of the previous three months bill, as meter reading was stopped due to the lockdown,” he said. “The bill generated in May includes the bill of two months—March and April—which has created confusion among customers. The bill for both the months was generated as per the KERC tariff order slab for each month. Hence there are no discrepancies in the bill,” said the company. Hescom said that as per the previous years’ record, normally consumption of electricity goes up during summer, and that due to the lockdown, the consumption may be higher. “Still, if consumers have doubts regarding what they have been charged, they can meet officials or staff of their respective sub-division. In each sub-division, counters have been created for this purpose. The bill will be revised if it is found that it was generated with errors of meter reading or other reasons. The consumers can dial 1912 to raise this issue,” said Hescom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hescom-says-consumers-received-correct-bill-after-outcry/articleshow/75899834.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Four discharged in gir Somnath||Rajkot: Four Covid-19 positive patients were discharged from Covid Care Centre in Lilavanti Bhavan of Somnath in Gir Somnath district on Friday. The discharged patients included Sharda Saudagar (55), a resident of Morwad village of Kodinar taluka, Manisha Chauhan (21), a native of Sonari village of Una taluka, and Prakash Gordhan (40) and Priya Gordhan, both residents of Vavarada village. “These patients were admitted after testing Covid-19 positive. After they recovered fully and tested Covid-19 negative, they were all discharged,” said an official from the Covid Care Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-discharged-in-gir-somnath/articleshow/75904609.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Morbi paper mills help curb exodus of migrant workers||Rajkot: Labourers in Morbi do not want to go back to their natives as they are getting employment in different paper mills after the government gave permission to the mills to start operations. “I have been working in this paper mill for the past one decade. The mill owner has been taking care of our two time meals ever since the beginning of the lockdown first. And now since the mill has got the permission to start functioning, we, the workers, have resumed our duty, and we are not in a hurry to return to our natives,” says Shrikantsinh Yadav, one of the workers at a paper mill. Morbi Paper Mills’ Association president Kirit Kultaria says: “All the workers have been getting their essential commodities including food and ration since the beginning of the first lockdown. That apart, we have been taking care of their health. Ever since the mills have started operations, the labourers are working, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-paper-mills-help-curb-exodus-of-migrant-workers/articleshow/75904561.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Vadnagar newborn twins test positive, first case in state||Palanpur: In an unfortunate twist of events, while the Covid positive mother from Malipur village, 5kms off Vadnagar, got cured of infection, her healthy twin babies have tested positive of coronavirus on Friday. Medical superintendent of Vadnagar medical college HD Palekar said that it is probably the state’s first instance when newborn infants have tested positive. The set of twins, a boy and a girl, born to the 30-year-old woman from Mehsana district on May 16, were tested for the virus as per the health guidelines. “While the boy tested positive of coronavirus on May 18, the girl’s reports came on Friday,” Palekar said. Earlier, the delivery of the twins were fraught with danger as the mother, who had tested Covid positive, needed an emergency caesarean section to help save all the three lives. “The baby boy had tested positive earlier, but the girl had then tested negative. But, 48 hours later we got her tested again and she too tested positive,” Palekar added. The Mehsana district has at least 93 Covid-19 cases so far after three persons who had returned from Mumbai also tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/vadnagar-newborn-twins-test-positive-first-case-in-state/articleshow/75903035.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lions beat the heat in riverbed||RAJKOT: With the scorching sun rising temperatures to almost 43 degrees, a pride of 10 lions decided to beat the heat in the cool riverbed of Shetrunji River in Greater Gir forest in Amreli district for the past four days. “It is an unusual phenomenon as lions are nocturnal animals and normally avoid being seen during the day time. However, this scorching summer heat has forced them out of the forest to seek shelter on the wet sand of the bed, as well on and under the trees beside the river, said an official of Dhari Gir east range forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lions-beat-the-heat-in-riverbed/articleshow/75905001.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: One test must before discharging any Covid-19 patient from hospitals||PATNA: Even though the Centre has relaxed the norms for discharging Covid-19 patients and has allowed asymptomatic and mild symptomatic cases to leave without any test, the Bihar government is not discharging any coronavirus infected person without at least one test. However, the state government has tweaked the norms and is now doing one RT-PCR test before discharging a Covid-19 positive person. Earlier, a coronavirus patient had to undergo two RT-PCR tests and one chest X-Ray before being discharged. Only if the result of the two consecutive tests came negative was a person allowed to be under home quarantine. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had on May 9 relaxed the discharge criteria and asked the states to discharge those with no symptoms, or with mild symptoms after 10 days of onset, or no fever for three days. This new guideline stated that no RT-PCR test was required for discharging these people. States like Maharashtra with large number of Covid-19 cases have adopted this guideline. However, Bihar has modified it after consulting clinicians and experts and decided to conduct at least one RT-PCR test before discharging a patient. A letter to this effect was issued by the state health department on May 14. A senior health department officer said, “For states where the number of coronavirus cases is very high, discharging an asymptomatic person without test can be a viable option. But in Bihar, the situation is not like Maharashtra or Delhi.” Bihar has around 50,000 testing kits available and is doing pool testing at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences, where 20 samples are tested together in one go. A doctor at a dedicated Covid-19 hospital said, “In states like Maharashtra, they did not have the option to keep all positive persons in hospital or isolation facility and test them all because the number was high. One has to prioritise and work.” He added, “Even if Maharashtra is discharging asymptomatic people, or those with mild symptoms, they are advising them to be home quarantined. Their figure is so high that they are not in a position to test them all and keep them at a health facility. In Bihar, the figure is still less, so we can continue with keeping positive people in healthcare centres and discharge them with at least one test as of now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-test-must-before-discharging-any-covid-patient-from-hospitals/articleshow/75901601.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 23, 2020||Patna||Difficult to find plasma donors: AIIMS-Patna doctor||PATNA: Even though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its nod to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna to use plasma therapy for treatment of Covid-19, recovered patients are not keen to donate blood. Blood transfusion officer, department of transfusion medicine and blood bank at AIIMS- Patna, Dr Neha Singh, said it’s a challenge for her to convince people to donate blood for the therapy. “Despite assuring them that plasma therapy is safe and it won’t cause any harm, the recovered patients are not willing to donate,” she said. She added, “As of now, we have only contacted the recovered patients from Patna as travel can be a major issue for people from other districts.” Plasma therapy involves injecting critical Covid-19 patients with blood plasma from those who have recovered, in a bid to help the existing antibodies fight the virus. Dr Neha said people are not even ready to donate blood due to fear of getting infected . “Plasma donation is, however, very different from normal blood donation. Normal blood donation extracts Red Blood Cells (RBC), plasma and platelets from the donor and the body takes around three months for re-formation of the donated components. In plasma donation, only plasma is taken out from the body, which takes only 48 hours to redevelop,” she said. AIIMS-Patna director Prabhat Kumar Singh said plasma therapy is helpful for treating several life-threatening diseases. “Regarding treatment of Covid-19, we are hopeful that people will start showing up for the noble cause. They only need counselling,” he said. Covid patients, who recovered from the disease, said they are still in trauma. “I tried to convince myself several times but I couldn’t muster the courage to donate plasma. I know it won’t harm me, but the trauma I have been through has scared me. I even consulted my family members but they are also not ready for it,” a 20-yeard-old boy from Khemnichak who recovered from the disease a few days back, said.  Dr Arun Shah, a Muzaffarpur-based senior paediatrician, said, “Plasma donation does no harm to the donor’s body. It doesn’t lead to any weakness or complication.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/difficult-to-find-plasma-donors-aiims-patna-doctor/articleshow/75901854.cms||Archi Rani
May 23, 2020||Patna||Patna: Mahavir Mandir Trust helps the poor||PATNA: At a time when temple trusts across the country are facing financial crunch, the Mahavir Mandir Trust is feeding the poor at places like Patna, Sitamarhi and Ayodhya. Trust’s secretary Acharya Kishore Kunal said the committee members have been assisting the Patna district administration by providing groceries and food packets for the poor. “As we haven’t got permission from the administration to distribute food, we are collaborating with it to help the poor. All necessary items, including foodgrain, have been made available at the Mahavir temple in Patna for the poor,” he said. Kunal added that Ram Rasoi, a community kitchen run by the temple trust in Ayodhya, is providing free meals to at least 2,000-3,000 people on a daily basis. “Sita Rasoi, a community kitchen run by the trust in Sitamarhi, is also providing free food to the daily wagers and others,” he added. The temple trust is also providing free food to 600 indoor patients at the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan. Apart from this, the temple is offering one unit of blood to patients for just Rs 100. “We make it sure that none of the patients at the hospital run by the trust faces hunger,” Kunal added. He said as donations have completely stopped, the trust is unable to generate money. “We are using the saved funds to feed the poor and run the temple,” he added. Earlier in March, the Mahavir Mandir Trust had donated Rs 1 crore to the Chief Minister Relief Fund for the fight against Covid-19. “Our main motive is to help the government fight Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mahavir-mandir-trust-helps-the-poor/articleshow/75902015.cms||Archi Rani
May 23, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Jitan Ram interact with Sonia Gandhi||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to bring all opposition parties together and present “an alternative plan” before the government on handling the coronavirus pandemic in the country. He said the opposition should “get into action mode” if the government ignored their plan. Sonia was interacting with the leaders of 22 opposition parties through videoconference for the first time on the corona pandemic and also on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha. The other Bihar leaders who participated in the meeting were former CM and HAM(S) founder Jitan Ram Manjhi, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) president Mukesh Sahni. Tejashwi insisted that the poor and migrant workers should be given foodgrains through ration cards for six months. He expressed concern over changes made in the labour laws and the migrant workers’ problems in other states as well as on their return to Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-manjhi-interact-with-sonia/articleshow/75901771.cms||Abhay Singh
May 23, 2020||Business||Reliance Jio sells 2% stake to KKR for $1.5 billion||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Continuing with its string of share sales in Jio Platforms to global investors, Reliance Industries (RIL) on Friday agreed to sell 2.32% in the telecom-cum-digital services company to US private equity fund KKR for Rs 11,367 crore ($1.5 billion). With this deal, KKR becomes the fifth American investor in Jio, which so far has raised Rs 78,562 crore ($10.3 billion) from external parties. Bloomberg had reported that Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund too is exploring an investment in Jio. Sources said even Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala is in talks to acquire a stake in the Indian company. An e-mailed query to Jio and Mubadala elicited no response till the time of going to the press. Jio, which plans to list on the stock exchanges in a few years, offers global investors an attractive opportunity in the Indian market where rapid digitisation is expected to take place post-Covid, said RIL. Jio is KKR’s largest investment in Asia to date and comes more than three weeks after it announced plans to purchase Shapoorji Pallonji’s five solar energy units in India for Rs 1,554 crore. Interestingly, KKR also has an investment in Jio’s telecom infrastructure rival Bharti Infratel. The relationship between RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani and KKR’s co-founder Henry Karvis goes back several years, as the two had discussed potential collaboration for shale gas assets in the US in 2010. RIL has also backed KKR India’s debt fund. Jio’s equity valuation of Rs 4.91 lakh crore remains unchanged with KKR’s proposed investment. The other three private equity investors — General Atlantic, Vista and Silver Lake — too had assigned the same valuation to the Mumbai-based company. None of the private equity investors have a seat on the board of Jio. Facebook, which primed the way for a string of transactions in Jio with its investment of Rs 43,574 crore for a 9.9% stake in April, has one seat on the board of the Indian company. Once the transactions are concluded, the five foreign investors together will hold 17.12% in the four-year-old Jio, which is controlled by RIL and is worth Rs 5.16 lakh crore. RIL, which earns a significant chunk of its profits from refining and petrochemicals, has been impacted by mobility restrictions triggered by the pandemic. This has increased pressure on Ambani to cut debt, which RIL took to build Jio as the country’s largest mobile services operator, counting 388 million subscribers. Ambani has vowed to repay Rs 1.61 lakh crore of borrowings this fiscal. Besides the share sales in Jio, RIL has announced a Rs 53,124-crore rights offering — proceeds from all these will be used to retire debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jio-sells-2-stake-to-kkr-for-1-5bn/articleshow/75905714.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 23, 2020||Patna||Patna high court: Conduct STET as per syllabus in advertisement||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday directed the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) to re-conduct the Senior Teachers Eligibility Test (STET) strictly as per its syllabus in the advertisement. The STET conducted on January 28 was cancelled on May 16. Counsel Dinu Kumar and Ritika Rani, who appeared for petitioner Neeraj Kumar, said since the board had already scrapped the entire examination, the petition was disposed of with observation that the test be conducted as per the syllabus published in the advertisement. On May 12, a bench of Justice Ahsanuddin Amanullah, had restrained from passing any interim order .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-conduct-stet-as-per-syllabus-in-ad/articleshow/75901344.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 23, 2020||Business||Amazon to hire 50,000 more for delivery, supply||BENGALURU: Amid the gloom of job cuts due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on businesses, Amazon India is looking to hire 50,000 seasonal, or temporary, roles for its fulfilment centres and delivery network. These include for part-time flexible work, to meet rising consumer demand for home deliveries. The announcement comes after the government allowed online sale of both essential and non-essentials in all zones — red, orange and green — earlier this week. Amazon did not share the breakup of how many of the 50,000 are additions to its existing capacity and how many were being hired to replace the supply chain executives who have returned to their hometowns in the lockdown. An executive briefed on the matter said that 50-60% of these hirings would be new additions, while the rest would be to fill the gap caused by people who are yet to rejoin. Amazon, through contracts, employs over 1 lakh people across delivery networks and supply chain jobs in India, which on average pay Rs 20,000-25,000 per month. A large number of seasonal staff for deliveries are usually hired by online retail companies in India during the festive sales around Diwali. “It will be staggered hiring. There was a drop of 30-40% in supply chain positions due to the migration during the lockdown. What is happening is a lot of workforce from shopping malls, retail outlets, hotels and restaurants are being supplied for these roles. They might not be ideal for the role, but that’s the best option for now,” the source said. The seasonal roles are typically anywhere from a minimum of three months to about a year. Responding to TOI’s query, an Amazon India spokesperson said it has made changes in its operations for people to join back, but “some of them (associates) have not been able to return to work for various reasons, given the situation with the pandemic”. “The duration of contracts for these seasonal roles varies, depending on the nature of the role and the need of the business at a given point in time,” the spokesperson added. According to Amazon’s brief to staffing agencies, it is expecting more people to continue buying groceries and ‘non-essentials’ like smartphones, laptops, home and kitchen appliances in the coming weeks. “One may not buy an iPhone, but orders of cheaper devices may come along with essentials. This hiring is being done to meet that demand,” the person added. In the US, Amazon earlier had announced it is hiring 1.75 lakh new workers in similar roles to meet the rising demand of orders amid the pandemic. It has also been facing a workers’ agitation, accusing the company of unsafe working conditions at its warehouses in the middle of the virus outbreak. “We want to continue helping customers all over India get everything they need so they can continue to practise social distancing. To enable this, we are creating work opportunities for close to 50,000 seasonal associates across our fulfilment and delivery network. This will also keep as many people as possible working during this pandemic, while providing a safe work environment for them.” said Amazon VP (customer fulfilment operations - APAC, MENA & LATAM) Akhil Saxena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-to-hire-50000-more-for-delivery-supply/articleshow/75905659.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Case filed against nine Facebook accounts for spreading hatred||AHMEDABAD: The city cybercrime police station has filed a complaint against nine Facebook accounts for posts meant to create an atmosphere of hatred among communities. Police sources said all the FB account owners named in the case have been booked under Section 153, 153(a), 153(b), 120 b and 294 (b) for using such language which can spoil the law and order situation in the state and create enmity between two communities. Sub-inspector H N Prajapati of cybercrime police station has lodged an FIR with the names of the accounts and the objectionable posts. According to the FIR, on May 21 police received printouts of posts made on these nine Facebook accounts which contained abusive language against communities. The FIR names Facebook accounts held by Md Ali, Jagdish Goswami, Mofizul Hoque, Datta Tiewad, Sham Singh, Billan Hussain. Dinesh Kumar and one another. “They all have either used abusive language or posted objectionable comments and photos on social media to incite hatred against other communities. We have written to the service providers to obtain the IP address log of the accounts to trace them. Once we get the leads on the devices from which the Facebook accounts were made we will locate and arrest the account owners,” said DCP, cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/case-filed-against-nine-fb-accounts-for-spreading-hatred/articleshow/75905195.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Yarn and garment exports declined up to 91% in April||AHMEDABAD: The exports of cotton yarn and ready-made garments from India nosedived in April due to the Covid-19 pandemic and shutdown of national borders halting global trade. “Overall, India’s yarn exports are estimated to have plummeted 80-90% in April and won’t revive in a hurry. Consequently, we expect yarn exports to slide 35-40% this fiscal from last financial year,” rating agency Crisil said on Friday. The cotton yarn and textiles exports were already down before the pandemic struck because of competition from Vietnam, Chinese stock liquidation and lack of free trade pact support. Yarn exports contracted 30% in the quarter ending in March as imports by China and Bangladesh declined. “Barely 10% exports of cotton yarn took place in Gujarat in April due to the lockdown. Majority of exports are made to China; however, owing to the covid-19 pandemic, the demand has reduced significantly,” said Bharat Boghara, chairman, All Gujarat Spinners’ Association. Boghra also said that demand from Europe and Latin America has also taken a hit with several existing orders getting either cancelled or kept on hold. Similarly garment exports declined by 16% in March quarter and the fall was drastic at 91% in April. “The US and the European Union, which together account for 64% of India’s ready-made garment (RMG) exports, are staring at a recession. The US is the worst-infected country now, and the pandemic-driven lockdown has ripped many apparel retailers there. Besides, a spike in unemployment and fall in personal incomes would cut spending on apparel,” stated Crisil, which expects ready-made garments exports to dive 30-35% in 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/yarn-and-garment-exports-declined-up-to-91-in-april/articleshow/75905124.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport to resume operations with 93 flights slated for take-off on Monday||KOLKATA: The civil aviation regulator has released a provision schedule for a whopping 93 fights out of Kolkata on Monday, the first day of domestic flights resuming operations after they were grounded on March 24 to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. Those stranded outside the city, and those from outside stuck in Kolkata, have been waiting for an opportunity to return home. But an initial lukewarm response to the flights, primarily due to concerns over Covid, has led to apprehensions that several flights may ultimately be either clubbed or cancelled. Kolkata airport authorities, as well as members of the travel trade community, had expected to restart operations with 30-40 flights out of the city and a steady ramp up thereafter. But the provision list of 93 flights issued by Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has taken everyone by surprise. Though travel agents in the city said they were glad to be back in business and have customers actually pay for tickets rather than just demand refund, they were also apprehensive that too many flights had been announced at a time when demand was based only on emergency travel. “The response to opening of ticket sales has been lukewarm. Only those with emergency requirement will travel. People are still wary of Covid-19 and reluctant to fly. Most companies have made online meetings a norm and corporate travel has reduced,” said Gainwell Travels MD Manoj Saraf. Anil Punjabi, managing director of AR-ES Travels and chairman of the eastern region chapter of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI), said the government decision to not keep the middle seat empty could also have spooked some. “An American citizen who has to fly to Delhi and then take a Vande Bharat flight next week was initially keen on taking the flight. But after learning that passengers would sit shoulder to shoulder, he wants to do the journey by car. That will cost him Rs 40,000-Rs 50,000, four-five times the flight fare,” he said. An official at the airport said the final list to be released on Saturday will probably have fewer flights. But if it is unchanged, an airline official said flights may be clubbed together or cancelled if the passenger count remained low. That, travel agents said, could be another concern as the airline would take recourse to providing a credit note to passengers instead of refunding the amount. Of the 93 flights, IndiGo has 37, including the day’s first departure to Bengaluru at 5.20am. The Air India-Alliance Air combine has 25 followed by 17 flights by SpiceJet. Vistara will operate eight flights while Air Asia will operate 6. GoAir is conspicuous by its absence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-to-resume-operations-with-93-flights-slated-for-take-off-on-monday/articleshow/75904408.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Poor cellphone link, internet still down in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Almost 48 hours after the Amphan rampage, cellular operators are still finding it hard to restore services with incessant power cuts, roads blocked by fallen trees and uprooted lamp posts causing hindrances. The continuous signal loss, call drops and no internet have angered most subscribers in Kolkata and its vicinity. Tired of getting the “emergency calls only” signal for the whole day, Manisha Maity, a housewife in Behala, has switched off her handset. “It can’t get worse. Cable TV was gone off air and there is no social media, no OTT platforms on cellphones either. The customer care centres are either making false promises or giving no reply at all,” she said. Advocate Tridib Sarkar of Kaikhali was left frustrated after exhausting all his options to regain internet services. “Authorities are passing the buck. Staff of cellular firms are blaming power lapse while power utilities are saying road blocks caused by trees are hindering restoration,” he said. Almost all cellular service providers have told TOI they are working round the clock to restore services. However, they kept mum when asked about a time frame or details of the restoration job. Top officials of Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI), too, didn’t take calls made by TOI. Netizens have taken to social media platforms, tagging the top service providers to seek immediate restoration of internet facilities. Vodafone Idea, while replying to a Twitter user, said, “Vodafone Idea teams are working in extremely tough conditions to restore connectivity at the earliest.” “Your Airtel network could be experiencing disruptions in certain flood-affected areas due to cyclone Amphan. Please be assured our teams are making all possible efforts to ensure that network is up and running in this hour of need,” Bharti Airtel replied to another Tweet A top executive at a tower maintenance outfit said the hurdles faced in using generator sets at mobile towers on private premises could be a cause for this widespread disruption. “Remember, two towers need to be strong enough to emit and receive signals to let a call complete its course. And that is not happening in the Kolkata circle following the cyclone,” he said. A network engineer from a leading cellular firm claimed that almost 70% of the city network has got back its signal as “optical fibre and microwave antenna damages have largely been repaired”. “The rest can’t emit signal for want of power supply. A few pockets of north Kolkata and several power-hit areas of the south are still in trouble,” he said. Networking personnel who spoke to TOI, however, assured that it will take a day or two to ensure smooth connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mobile-connectivity-internet-still-down/articleshow/75904351.cms||Sovon Manna
May 23, 2020||Patna||Lawyers demand ‘normal’ operation of Patna HC||PATNA: A group of Patna high court lawyers on Friday demanded that the court resume normal functioning with proper safeguards. The group led by lawyer Basant Kumar Chaudhary placed their written demand before registrar general to be put up before Chief Justice Sanjay Karol. Chaudhary said the registrar general was authorised by the Chief Justice to talk the group after which they submitted their demands. Chaudhary said normal functioning of high court be restored with precaution and conditions that only those lawyers be allowed to come to premises who had cases listed on particular day. “There are at least seven big court rooms inside high court where 10-15 lawyers could be allowed at one time for hearing,” Chaudhary said, adding, only those lawyers be allowed to enter the premises who have cases listed. “The e-filing system and hearing via videoconferencing is not completely efficient. Most lawyers don’t have wifi. It’s not that we are against the new system but we want that normal functioning of the high court be restored as lawyers and litigants are facing problems,” he said, adding, Covid-19 cases are much less in Bihar than several other states. Another lawyer Dinu Kumar also demanded that regular hearings be held by restricting the number of lawyers inside the courtrooms in the interests of litigants and lawyers who are suffering financially due to the lockdown. The high court has already deferred its annual vacation from May 24 to June 21 to make-up for the loss of work since March 16. However, it has started hearing cases through the e-filing process with all judges again sitting according to roaster after an initiative by Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and other senior judges. The high court’s Advocates’ Association president Yogesh Chandra Verma said, “Patna high court is functioning much better than other high courts in country. On Wednesday last week, Patna high court created a sort of history by taking up around 400 cases. But count dipped afterwards.” ‘File report on condition of leprosy patients’: The Patna high court on Friday asked the Centre to submit a reply on the action it has taken to protect leprosy patients after repealing Lepers Act, 1898. A division bench of Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh and Justice Anil Kumar Sinha, while hearing a PIL field by Sam Utthan, a registered society, also asked Bihar State Legal Services Authority to file a comprehensive report on condition of all the colonies of leprosy patients in Bihar and fixed May 29 as next date of hearing. While additional solicitor general S D Sanjay appeared for the Centre, counsels Gautam Kejriwal and Mrityunjay Kumar represented the society and the state government, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lawyers-demand-normal-operation-of-patna-hc/articleshow/75902153.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Surat||SMC focuses on elders with health complications||Surat: In its fight against Covid-19, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) have revised its strategies. It is now now focusing on elderlies with multiple health complications in the city. According to municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, the health survey teams in the five zones in the city have found 2.96 lakh elderly people with co-morbid conditions. “Total 56 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in Surat city and most of them were above 50 years of age and were suffering from some kinds of other ailments too. So, we are now focusing on elders who are co-morbid and have requested people to take care of their elders in the family,” Pani said. “People, especially with hyper tension and diabetes, should be more careful and maintain social distancing and keep in touch with their family doctors,” he added. Meanwhile, 26 new cases were reported in the city on Friday taking the tally to 1,212. Limbayat zone is continues to report fresh patients, adding nine more on the day to push up the tally to 466 in this zone alone. A 50-year-old resident of Momnavad in central zone succumbed to the virus. Betulla Ramzan Ali Pasa was suffering from kidney ailments and diabetes. Total 56 people have died due to Covid-19 in the city till date. On Friday, 28 patients also got discharged in the city, taking the total recoveries to 830 cases till date. Urging Pani not to bring workers from Covid hotpost Limbayat zone, Pani said, “I request all traders not to call their workers living in this containment zone as otherwise this will only increase the number of super spreaders.” Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat district, one from Kosamba village and one from Bhattgam in Surat district. Total 92 cases have been reported so far in the district. BOX: Surat Covid-19 Meter Total Positive: 1,212 Total Death: 56 Total discharged: 830||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-focuses-on-elders-with-health-complications/articleshow/75904620.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolhapur||10 more test positive in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: As many as 10 new Covid-19 cases , including three from Kolhapur city, were reported in the district till Friday morning, taking the tally of positive cases to 228. Health officials said more than 200 new cases identified till date were due to the exodus from Mumbai and Pune, who have been intercepted at various checkpoints across the city and district. In the meantime, dean of Kolhapur civil hospital Minakshi Gajbhiye has been transferred to Government Medical College in Jalgaon. Jayprakash Ramanand, professor of pharmacology at Shri Bhausaheb Hirey Government Medical College in Dhule, has been assigned additional charge of the dean of the civil hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-more-test-positive-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75902624.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Surat||Daman, DNH and Diu ban supply of vegetables from Gujarat||Surat: The rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the adjoining Vapi town of Valsad district in Gujarat has put the administration of union territory of Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) and Diu on tenterhooks.After banning the entry of the workers coming from Vapi and Valsad in Daman and DNH, the administration has now stopped supply of vegetables and fruits from the south Gujarat towns.Official sources said that the decision to stop the supply of vegetables and fruits into the union territory was taken after a couple of vegetable dealers after some vendors in Vapi’s vegetable market tested positive for Covid-19.In the last one week, about seven Covid-19 cases have been reported from Vapi town, which is less than 10km from Daman and Silvassa.After the lockdown was imposed on March 25, the administration had allowed the supply of vegetables and fruits from Vapi in the designated transport trucks. About 15 trucks that bring the vegetable and fruits from Vapi to sell in the retail markets of Daman and DNH.Director of Medical and health services of UT, Dr V K Das said, “Since the vegetable vendors are the super spreaders of coronavirus, they may spread the virus in the territory, which is otherwise free from Covid-19 cases till now.”“We have been rigorously screening all our vegetable vendors in the union territory. Until now, almost all the vendors have been screened and none have been found infected,” he added.Vishal Tandel, a vegetable dealer in Daman said, “We were allowed to visit the vegetable market in Vapi and bring the stock to Daman. Starting Thursday, the administration has asked us to stop bringing vegetables in the territory. Since Vapi is the only source to get vegetables and fruits, Daman and DNH, residents will face supply shortage from Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-dnh-and-diu-ban-supply-of-vegetables-from-gujarat/articleshow/75904584.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||‘APMC Act amended only to benefit traders’||Rajkot: Staring at the end of their monopoly of farm produce prices and loss of revenue in the form of market fees, the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) in Gujarat have decided to cross swords with the state government for amending the APMC Act.The amendment effected through an ordinance earlier this month enables farmers and traders to deal directly for buy-sell of farm produce without the intervention of market yards. Ironically, the APMCs had been started to save farmers from being embezzled by the crafty traders. Niyantrit Bazar Sangh (NBS), an association of all 207 APMCs of the state, shot a letter to the government alleging that the amendments have been done to benefit traders at the cost of farmers. A meeting of Saurashtra’s 56 APMC office bearers will be held in Gondal on Saturday to decide further course of action. NBS vice-chairman and president of Mahuva Market Yard, Ghanshyam Patel said, “The amendment in the name of the farmers is only aimed at benefiting traders. Farmers are free to sell their produce anywhere they want, but the amendment now allows traders to directly purchase from the farmers. This implies there will be no auction and traders will cheat the farmers by paying less price.” Patel also alleged that the amendment also allows traders to pay single-time market fee to one market yard of Gujarat only. For example, if a trader purchases farm produce from one market yard by paying the market fee and sells the same to another APMC, he is not required to pay market fee for the transaction of same farm produce in the second market. Even trade bodies had previously demanded similar relaxation from the Gujarat government. While many states have passed law to end the monopoly of APMCs, Gujarat is among the last states to take decision in this regard.Rajkot APMC chairman D K Sakhiya who is also BJP district president said, “When a trader purchases the crop from farmers through market yard, it’s our responsibility that the latter gets his payment. But in the new system, if traders cheat the farmers, there is no accountability.”BKS TRASHES APMC’S CONTENTIONS Rajkot: Farmers’ body Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) disagreed with APMCs’ contentions. Rajkot BKS president Dilip Sakhiya said, “APMCs are opposing the ordinance for their own personal interest. If a trader does not pay appropriate price to the farmer, he is free to come to market and auction his produce. But unlike current law, traders purchasing farm produce from outside the market yard will only benefit the the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/apmc-act-amended-only-to-benefit-traders/articleshow/75904939.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 23, 2020||Surat||One stabbed to death, another shot at during lockdown relaxation||Surat: Two violent incidents took place in the areas under the limits of Udhna police station here since Thursday evening. A 24-year-old autorickshaw driver was stabbed to death by four persons and a 16-year-old boy shot at by a history-sheeter in another incident. Udhna police detained three persons for their alleged involvement in the murder and Lali Punjabi, a private financier who is also into cable business, for allegedly firing at the teenage boy on Friday. Punjabi has been booked under Indian Penal Code for attempt to murder and Arms Act. Police will request court to grant them his custody to investigate the case and recover the weapon, sources said. Police investigation revealed that the accused had called a few persons to discuss some issue near BRC Gate in Udhna and an argument ensued between them. "Meanwhile, someone fired from a gun and a bullet hit the teenager standing nearby. The bullet has been retrieved from lower right leg of the boy," said a police officer of Udhna police station.Meanwhile, police found body of Vishal alias Babu Pawar, 24, from the premises of a public toilet in Patel Nagar on Friday. The deceased had been stabbed multiple times. Police investigation revealed he was attacked by Samir, Mohammad and Rohit, who were his friends earlier."The deceased used to hangout with the accused but now had joined another group," police said. The accused killed Pawar suspecting that he was a police informer. Police have detained the suspects and are gathering evidences to make the arrests in the case. One accused is on the run in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-stabbed-to-death-another-shot-at-during-lockdown-relaxation/articleshow/75904659.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Trichy||Fishing harbour wall in Nagai damaged||Nagapattinam: High tides due to the ‘Amphan’ cyclone that played havoc in West Bengal have caused damage to the rubble mound wall in the fishing harbour under construction at a cost of Rs 120 crore at Tarangambadi in Nagapattinam district. The sea in Tarangambadi coastal area has remained very rough for the past one week and many coastal hamlets witnessed seawater seepage. The fishing harbour, under construction, came under the tidal wave. The rubble mound wall on the seafront was damaged to a length of 800m on the southern side and 300m on the northern side. On information, Poompuhar MLA S Paunraj visited the construction site on Thursday and interacted with the officials and local fishermen. The MLA had said he would draw the attention of the fisheries minister. Following this, director of fisheries, Tamil Nadu, G S Sameeran visited the site on Friday. Member of the Tarangambadi fishermen association members pointed out that the wall was low in height and width. They appealed to the government to increase the height and width of the wall considerably so as to avoid damage during natural calamities in the future. The fishing harbour construction work commenced last year in 6.7 hectares of land and was expected to benefit thousands of fishermen in 24 hamlets around Tarangambadi. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishing-harbour-wall-in-nagai-damaged/articleshow/75905454.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Those jobless due lockdown assured work under MNREGA||Rajkot: Rajkot district development officer has asked all the labourers in the district to contact sarpanches and talatis for work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). “At present different projects under MNREGA are going on in 91 villages of 11 talukas of Rajkot district in which 12,356 labourers are employed. I request to all those who have been rendered jobless in the lockdown period to contact their village sarpanches or talatis. They will get work under MNREGA,” said district development officer Anil Ranavasia.District village development agency officers — Naresh Boricha, Virendra Basia, Milan Kavathiya, Minakshi Kaya, Saroj Maradia, Rishit Agrawat and Dhawal Popat have been allotted different talukas to start works under MNREGA. The works under MNREGA include community works for village cattle sheds, crematorium, anganwadi, primary and high schools, tree plantation at public places, community health centres and sinking village ponds.“The labourers in the district can contact district village development agency between 11 am and 5 pm. They can also contact on WhatsApp,” said Ranavasia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/those-jobless-due-lockdown-assured-work-under-mnrega/articleshow/75905063.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard enters storeroom, attacks woman, her son||Rajkot: A leopard sneaked inside the store home of a house and attacked a woman and her 15-year-old son in Bhader village of Amreli’s Dhari taluka on Friday.Rasila Rafaliya (40) and her son Gaurang went inside the store room of their house at around 8:30am to take some onions. Forest officers said that since the door of the store room was open, the leopard had entered in search of food.“The leopard first pounced on Rasila who received injury on her right leg and thigh. The wild cat then jumped on Gaurang, injuring his left shoulder,” said forest department official from Dhari round of Sarasiya range in Gir-east forest division.As both of them started shouting for help, the leopard escaped. People from nearby farm rushed to the spot and took the injured duo to Bagasara government hospital where their condition is said to be stable.The forest department has set up cages in the village to trap the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-enters-storeroom-attacks-woman-her-son/articleshow/75904967.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Four cellphones found inside Rajkot Central Jail||Rajkot: Four cellphones were found from two barracks of Rajkot Central Jail during the checking by a flying squad from Sabarmati Central Jail of Ahmedabad on Thursday evening. “We have booked unidentified prisoners for the offence. When jailer D R Karangia of the flying squad carried out the checking inside different barracks, three cellphones were found packed in a plastic bag stuffed inside the hole of the latrine of barrack 4 and one cellphone was buried in barrack 2,” said an official from Pradyumannagar police station. While barrack 4 has 30 undertrial prisoners, barrack 2 has 33 undertrial prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-cellphones-found-inside-rajkot-central-jail/articleshow/75904948.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only competitive bidding for solar, wind projects in Guj||Ahmedabad: Power distribution companies in Gujarat can now procure solar and wind power from generation companies by way of competitive bidding. The Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) has recently issued the tariff frameworks for the procurement of solar and wind power by distribution licensees in the state. This has replaced the earlier practice of generic tariffs. The new control period of the tariff framework will be effective up to March 31, 2023, said state government sources. GERC had issued the previous generic tariff order in 2016, and the control period of the order expired on March 31, 2019. The order on solar tariff framework was issued on May 8, and the commission said the useful life period for solar projects during the new control period will be 25 years. The commission further noted that solar projects commissioned and power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the new control period will be eligible to sell power to distribution licensees of Gujarat. GERC said that the solar power projects established with only new machinery will be eligible for the tariff approved in the order. The maximum capacity of solar projects will be up to 50% of the consumer’s sanctioned load for captive use, third party sale, or power projects set under the National Solar Mission for sale of power within the state.For the power generated from small-scale solar projects between 0.5MW and 5MW, the procurement price shall be at the rate of tariff discovered by competitive bidding process at different time periods of six months plus an additional 20 paisa per kWh for projects located outside the solar park. In case of wind power projects, to determine the tariff below the threshold limit of eligibility for participating in the competitive bidding, the weighted average of the latest tariff discovered through a competitive bidding process will be taken. The threshold limit for such projects is 25MW, the commission said in an order dated April 30. The commission said that it does not find merit in determining the tariff for such projects, for which the benchmark capital cost, benchmark financing cost, benchmark O&M (operation & maintenance) costs will have to be first determined. So, to reduce the cost of regulation and to give sufficient clarity to investors investing in such projects, the commission has decided to consider the competitive bidding approach, according to the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-competitive-bidding-for-solar-wind-projects-in-guj/articleshow/75905086.cms||Maulik Pathak
May 23, 2020||Business||Banks lead sensex slide, bonds up after RBI cut||Mumbai: The RBI’s assessment of the economy that painted a grim picture of almost no growth this fiscal, credit freeze, vanishing demand and chance of price rise made Dalal Street investors jittery. The resultant selling pulled the sensex down by 260 points to 30,673, with financials leading the slide. The rising tension between the US and China, which comprises issues related to the Asian giant’s handling of the coronavirus crisis and also trades between the two, made global investors cautious, which also impacted trading in India, market players said. In the bond market, gilts gained marginally despite the RBI’s rate cut decision as the central and state governments’ huge borrowings weighed on sentiment. The yield on the new 10-year closed marginally softer at 5.74% from 5.77% on Thursday, market data showed. In the stock market, soon after the RBI announced a 40-basis-points (100bps = 1 percentage point) cut in repo rate, the sensex jumped to an intraday high of 31,108, but it soon lost ground, entered negative territory and then remained below the previous close through the rest of the session. Foreign funds net sold stocks worth Rs 1,354 crore and domestic institutions too were net sellers at Rs 344 crore, BSE data showed. Among the sensex stocks, HDFC, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank contributed the most to the index’s fall. Most other banking & financial services stocks also closed in the red. According to Siddhartha Khemka, head (retail research), Motilal Oswal Financial Services, though the RBI’s rate cut decisions and some others were positive moves, there was a fear in the market that the burden on the banks may further increase due to the impact of the moratorium on lenders’ already huge pile of NPAs. “Further, the RBI failed to announce any relief on restructuring of loans to address the risk of rising asset quality issues in the banking sector,” Khemka said in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-lead-sensex-slide-bonds-up-after-rbi-cut/articleshow/75905687.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu count crosses 14,000 with 786 new cases, govt readies for peak||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s chief secretary on Friday held a meeting with senior officials on ways to handle the flood of cases expected when the Covid-19 epidemic peaks in the state, at which time public health officials expect at least 10,000 people may require hospitalization in Chennai. No one was willing to predict when it would peak. With 786 fresh cases on Friday, the state’s tally touched 14,753 cases and the toll reached 98 with four more deaths. Chennai recorded 569 cases as top health, finance, revenue and diasaster management officials brainstormed on increasing hospital beds, care centres, and facility for quarantine in the city in preparation for the peak and a staggered exit from the lockdown. “At that time, we want to ensure we have enough beds and facilities for patients without disturbing other services in the hospital. When we lift lockdown, elective surgeries and speciality OP clinics will resume,” said a senior health department official. “To reduce crowing, we also want test samples to be collected by mobile vehicles and centres outside hospitals,” an official said. “Many doctors, PGs and interns across hospitals in Chennai have tested positive for the viral infection,” said Government Doctors Association president Dr K Senthil. “We know it is occupational hazard. But we want government to send only symptomatic patients to hospitals. PHCs, peripheral and secondary hospitals, and private medical colleges in neighouring districts should treat patients. Only patients requiring advanced care should be taken to medical colleges,” he said. After testing returnees from other states on Friday, the state announced 66 people from Maharashtra, 13 from Delhi, six from West Bengal, two from Andhra Pradesh and one each from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Telangana tested positive. One passenger from Philippines was positive during the exit test done a week after they land in India. Samples of one patient who travelled by flight and 651 who travelled by train are still under process. Five people who travelled by train have, so far, tested positive Chennai’s neighbours, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur, registered 40 and 39 cases respectively. Madurai had 33 cases, including 29 from Maharashtra, while Tirunelveli recorded 18 cases, 17 from Maharashtra. Virudhunagar had 14 people from Maharashtra and 12 from Delhi testing positive at various check posts. Erode district, which had not recorded cases since March 21, registered one case of Friday. Tiruvarur, which had no cases since May 6, recorded three cases – one each from Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha. Meanwhile, three senior citizens aged 81, 70 and 72 died on Friday. All of them had comorbidities -- two of them had both hypertension and diabetes, one lung disease. Another 51-year-old with hypertension also succumbed to the infection. By the end of the day, 846 patients were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 7,128. There were 7,524 active cases of Covid 19 undergoing treatment at various hospitals, covid care centres or in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-count-crosses-14000-with-786-new-cases-govt-readies-for-peak/articleshow/75905469.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 23, 2020||Patna||Patna: CISCE pupils heave a sigh of relief as new exam schedule out||PATNA: Students of classes X and XII, who had been waiting for a fresh schedule for completion of their pending exams, have heaved a sigh of relief. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced the datesheets for the remaining papers on Friday. While the pending examinations of ICSE (Class X) pupils will be conducted from July 2 to 15, ISC (Class XII) students will appear for their exams from July 1 to 14. The announcement of new dates put a smile on the faces of many students, who were in a dilemma for the last two months. Looking for the CISCE’s notification in the newspapers every day had become ISC student Divya Bansal’s habit. “I am a law aspirant, but was neither able to prepare for my entrance tests nor the pending ISC exams. I can concentrate on my studies now,” she said. Another Class XII student, Nishanjali, told this newspaper, “Now that the fresh dates are out, I can prepare for my exams well because I have sufficient time.” Parents, on the other hand, expressed concern over the CISCE’s decision to hold exams. Rajiv Biswas, whose daughter has to write four pending exams, said, “I am concerned about her safety because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Her health is my only priority and if the number of cases are high in July, I won’t send her to the exam centre.” Some students are also scared of stepping out of their houses because of the pandemic and want the board to conduct online exams. Class X student, Tanushree, pointed out, “It would be better if the board kept our safety in mind and conducted online examinations this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cisce-pupils-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-as-new-exam-schedule-out/articleshow/75901892.cms||Archi Rani
May 23, 2020||Business||Loan rejig will happen only after lockdown ends||MUMBAI: Restructuring of loans may happen only after the lockdown ends as it is only then that banks will get an idea of the cash flows of various borrowers. Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) granted a host of regulatory relaxations to banks to help them tide over the crisis. The RBI increased a bank’s group exposure limit to 30% from 25% of its capital base, thereby enabling it to lend more to large business houses, including public sector enterprises. The central bank also said that lenders will get more time to resolve defaults as the 180-day moratorium period will not be part of the 210-day deadline for resolving defaults. If bad loans are not resolved in seven months, banks need to make additional provisions out of their profits. Lenders across the board said that the RBI measures give all parties a breather. Businesses can focus on production and sales without worrying about repayments, banks can start assessing the prospects for each borrower and the RBI gets time to formulate a restructuring scheme that will not result in future bad loans. Sectors like aviation, hospitality and tourism-related businesses are seen as most stressed on account of the lockdown. Lenders say that a negative GDP growth would get translated into non-performing assets as incomes of individuals and businesses get hit. The lowering of interest rates would ease the burden. “The entire effort of the government and the RBI is to revive growth in the economy and, at the same time, recognise the difficulties that industries are facing. All the measures around reduction in repo rate, moratorium and increase in the limit on group exposures will be helpful in revival of the economy,” SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said. “Right now, the moratorium will take care of the situation around the cash flow disruptions. I would not be obsessed with one-time restructuring at this particular point when we have time till August 31,” he said. While the RBI has allowed banks to extend the moratorium, it is not clear how they will respond to NBFCs. According to Crisil director Krishnan Sitaraman, liquidity challenges for NBFCs, housing finance companies and microfinance institutions may get accentuated if banks don’t extend moratorium to them. The finance companies will have to provide an extended moratorium to their borrowers, which could lead to a mismatch in cash flows. “Further, it is not expected that they will get any moratorium on their capital market debt repayments. The recent announcements made on the guarantee and partial guarantee schemes will alleviate the concerns somewhat, but what will be key is the extent to which banks will extend moratorium to NBFCs/ HFCs/ MFIs,” he said. According to Krishnan, while RBI norms will provide an interim relief on classification of NPAs, the macro challenges that the economy is facing this fiscal and its impact on fundamental credit quality of borrowers will manifest in an increase in bad loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/loan-rejig-will-happen-only-after-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75905730.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Patna||‘Install pumping machines by July 31’||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Friday ordered the procurement of pumping machines by July 31 to prevent waterlogging in Patna ahead of the monsoon. An estimated outlay of Rs 167 crore has been set aside for the purpose. Chairing a high-level meeting attended by the departments concerned including, UDHD and PMC, to review monsoon preparedness, SuMo asked officials to get 27 temporary sump houses worth Rs 10 crore developed in Patna by June 15. “Total 265 pumping machines of different categories, including vertical, submersible, trolley-mounted pumps and diesel generator sets among others will be procured. The bidding process for the same has concluded and work order has been issued. However, supply of the machines have got delayed due to the lockdown but officials have been asked to get the machines and commission them by July 31,” SuMo told TOI on Friday. He added, “Also, for the first time, the state government has given the contract for the operation and maintenance of 39 existing drainage pumping stations for a period of three years to private firms.” Officials present in the meeting said about 35-75% of different types of works for monsoon preparedness, including cleaning of drains, manholes and catchpit, have been completed despite the hassles in availability of workers owing to the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/install-pumping-machines-by-july-31/articleshow/75902533.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 23, 2020||Patna||Self-immolation bid at Muzaffarpur quarantine centre||PATNA: A 38-year-old migrant worker, who drove his bike all the way from Mumbai and reached his in-laws’ house on May 15, attempted self-immolation at a quarantine centre in Muzaffarpur late Thursday night. His wife and in-laws had asked him to stay in 14-day quarantine in the nearby Rajkiye Kanya Vidyalaya at Kamarthu under Gaighat block of Muzaffarpur district. Anand Surendra Singh alias Anand Shekhar Singh received over 65% burn injuries and was admitted to Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur. Singh is from Purnea district. SKMCH superintendent Dr SK Shahi said the next 48 hours are crucial for the patient, who has been shifted to the PMCH burn ward for better treatment. Some inmates of the quarantine centre spotted Singh caught in flames after midnight. They somehow doused the flames and informed panchayat mukhiya Viran Ram, who arranged an ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/self-immolation-bid-at-muzaffarpur-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75901683.cms||Ramashankar
May 23, 2020||Patna||All returnee migrants to get work, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday said all returnee migrant workers would be provided employment in the state. He asked the officials concerned to provide job card to all those migrants who are willing to work here. While interacting with the inmates of different quarantine centres through videoconferencing from his official residence here, Nitish called upon them to stay in their home state and become a partner in development of Bihar. During the interaction, the inmates appreciated the government for the arrangements it has made at the quarantine centres. Many workers told the CM that they do not want to go anywhere outside Bihar. The CM asked the officials to provide employment to all returned migrant workers as per their skill profile. He said industries should be promoted in the state keeping in mind the skill profile of returnee migrant workers. Nitish said the state has potential to develop paver block industry and asked the officials to utilise paver blocks in different works being executed under the ‘Jal Jivan Hariyali Abhiyan’ and ‘Pakki Nali-Gali Yojana’ of the state government. He said the woman self-help groups working under Jeevika can also be provided employment by linking the work of manufacturing of paver blocks with Jeevika projects. Earlier while interacting with the CM from a quarantine centre at Bettiah, one Rambali (who has returned from Haryana’s Gurugram), said he was a skilled worker of paver block and has also been manufacturing such paver blocks at his quarantine centre. Rambali told CM that he had so far prepared around 7,000 paver blocks while other inmates at his quarantine centre were engaged in manufacturing masks. CM also spoke to several inmates at different quarantine centres and enquired from them about the arrangements and quality of food at the centres. The CM also took stock of arrangements at 20 quarantine centres in 10 districts through videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-returnee-migrants-to-get-work/articleshow/75901666.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ticket counters functional at major railway stations||PATNA: The Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) has made passenger reservation system (PRS) counters functional at 15 different locations from Friday to issue computerized reservation journey tickets for travel by special trains from June 1. Railways has proposed to run 22 pairs of mail and express trains on different routes under the ECR from June 1. Booking of journey tickets has already started at both the IRCTC website and railways’ PRS counters. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said on Friday that PRS counters were functioning at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patliputra Junction, Danapur, Patna Sahib, Ara, Buxar, Dildarnagar, Mokama, Biharsharif, Rajgir, Bakhtiyarpur, Lakhisarai, Jhajha and Jehanabad. “Instructions have been issued to PRS supervisors and railway security personnel to maintain standard norms of social distancing while issuing tickets to passengers. Railways healthcare staff have been deployed at each of the 15 PRS offices to provide sanitizer and tissue paper to people visiting the PRS counters,” he said. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, PRS counters were also made functional at all major stations in Sonepur, Samastipur, Dhanbad and Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya divisions from Friday. “At least three PRS counters located at the ECR headquarters in Hajipur have become functional, he said, adding RPF personnel have been closely monitoring the PRS functioning at these stations from safety point of view,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ticket-counters-functional-at-major-railway-stations/articleshow/75902261.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||AGSY loans a mockery: Gujarat Congress||AHMEDABAD: Even as daily wagers and small businessmen lined up outside more than 9,000 outlets in the state to collect forms for availing loans under the Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay Yojana (AGSY), the Gujarat Congress on Friday lashed out at the government, saying that the needy people should be disbursed loans immediately instead of making them line up to collect forms in sweltering heat conditions. “Why should people, who are already suffering because of the lockdown and the pandemic, be made to stand in queues all day, when the government boasts of the Digital India campaign? People need financial aid immediately, not after two or three months. A majority of daily wagers and small businessmen are taking loans from money-lenders already,” said GPCC spokesperson Manish Doshi. He added that banks and other outlets are seeking a number of documents and two guarantors from persons who want to avail loans under the AGSY. “At a time when people are jobless, the government has announced that people can make applications until the end of August. When will loans disbursement then take place? People need money right now,” the spokesman said.  Under this scheme, people running small businesses and those from the lower middle income group can avail guarantee- free loan of up to Rs 1 lakh from banks at 2 per cent annual interest as it seeks to help them get back to normal life disrupted by the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/agsy-loans-a-mockery-cong/articleshow/75905133.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Shutters go up, business restarts across Kolkata as life limps back to normal||KOLKATA: As the sun reappeared through the cloud cover, signs of life returned to Kolkata streets on Friday morning. A large number of shutters went up and shops reopened after remaining closed for almost two months. Citizens, too, stepped out after being confined to their homes for almost eight weeks since the lockdown was imposed in March. Several vehicles took to the road. At crossings, like MG Road and Esplanade, pedestrians had to wait for a few minutes before they could cross the road. Several pockets of the city, however, remained inaccessible due to uprooted trees and lamp posts felled by cyclone Amphan. But, in other parts, there were signs of life limping back to normal. “It feels liberating to step out of the house after almost eight weeks. I had forgotten how it felt to see so many people together on the streets,” said Sanjay Upadhyaya, a resident of Girish Park who visited Quality Opticals to buy spectacles on Friday. “I damaged my spectacles a month ago, but could not buy a new pair since shops were shut. This morning I called them up and found they were open,” he said. Earlier this week, the government eased lockdown restrictions in non-containment zones to a large extent, allowing stand-alone shops, salons, parlours, book stores and apparel stores to reopen on the criteria that social distancing norms are followed and people wear masks all the time. Shops, showrooms and stalls reopened on Canning Street, Brabourne Road, Zakaria Street, MG Road and Rabindra Sarani. “The hustle and bustle which had disappeared is gradually returning. There were reports of several optical stores, parlours and salons opening in Park Circus, Beckbagan, Ballygunge and Kasba, too, but most other establishments remained shut due to the destruction caused by Amphan. Vijay Duggar, who owns an apparel store on CIT Road in Kankurgachhi, said he was ready to open his shop from Thursday, but couldn’t since there was no electricity and water. “The cyclone has damaged the wires and there is no electricity in my shop. But I am hoping to reopen from Saturday,” Dugar said. Salons and parlours that opened on Friday had to make do with only 50% staff since most couldn’t turn up due to lack of transport. By evening, many of the establishments had small queues of customers waiting for their turn. “The surge in the number of customers is due to Eid,” said Evelyn Biswas, a beautician at Evergreen Beauty Parlour on Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road. “Many of our regulars have been calling us over the past few days to know when we would reopen,” she said. On Lindsay Street and Bertram Street, only a handful of shops reopened because owners could not reach the establishments due to blocked roads and lack of transport. “Only a few people who stay in the vicinity came to the market on Friday,” said Khalid Hussain, who owns a footwear shop on Bertram Street. Esplanade, though, bounced back to life with government buses and cabs ferrying people to the heart of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shutters-go-up-biz-restarts-across-city-as-life-limps-back-to-normal/articleshow/75904459.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Migrants account for 75% of coronavirus cases in 20 days||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases doubled in the state in just one week. While the state touched 1,000 cases on May 15, it crossed the 2,000 mark on Friday. As per the information shared by State Health Society, 1,184 migrants have so far been tested positive in Bihar since May 3. In fact, migrant workers have accounted for nearly 75% of total cases in the state in the last 20 days. Bihar reported its first three coronavirus cases on March 22. The number touched 50 on April 9, 100 on April 20, 200 on April 24, 400 on April 29 and 500 on May 3. However, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state increased by 1,588 between May 3 and May 22 with migrant workers being the prime carriers of the disease. While on May 3, the number stood at 517, it reached 2,105 on Friday. So far, 333 migrant workers from Delhi, 293 from Maharashtra and 212 from Gujarat have been tested positive for Covid-19 upon their return to the state. With large number of migrants testing positive for Covid-19, the state health department has classified the regions from where they are coming into three categories. Delhi, Gujarat and Maharsahtra have been kept in category ‘A’, others with lesser cases in category ‘B’ and those with minimum cases or no cases in category ‘C’. As per the State Health Society, there are 2,344 beds in three dedicated Covid hospitals in the state. Apart from these three hospitals, there are 7,769 beds in Covid care centres and dedicated Covid health centres. An official said the state has the capacity to accommodate 15,000 patients as of now. “If need be, quarantine centres will also be used for the purpose. Since most positive cases are asymptomatic, they do not need to be put in dedicated hospital,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-account-for-75-of-corona-cases-in-20-days/articleshow/75901812.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Girl gangraped near Covid-19 quarantine centre||PATNA: An 18-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by two migrant workers staying at a quarantine centre and four others from the same village under Dawath police station in Rohtas district on late Wednesday evening. Two persons were arrested when the victim’s family raised a hue and cry over the police’s callousness and attempt to suppress the issue under political pressure. An FIR was lodged by the survivor on Thursday against Suresh Yadav (22), Vijay Yadav (20), Chanchal Yadav (22), Mukesh Yadav (21), Chulli Paswan (18) and Amit Paswan (18). Her medical examination was conducted at Sasaram Sadar hospital on Friday. Rohtas SP Satyaveer Singh said two of the accused — Suresh and Chanchal — have been arrested. Only they were in the quarantine centre and called the other four from the village on phone. “The incident took place outside the quarantine centre on Wednesday night. The inmates of the facility scaled the boundary wall and committed the offence in a field. They also called their friends from the village on phone,” the SP said after visiting the spot on Friday. The incident took place around 9.30pm when the girl had gone to answer the call of nature in a field for lack of toilet in her house. The victim narrated the ordeal to her family members, who reached the quarantine centre and created a scene demanding action against the accused, who were kept there in 14-day quarantine. The samples of the two accused have been sent for Covid-19 test. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-gang-raped-near-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75901640.cms||Ramashankar
May 23, 2020||Surat||Rare whistling dogs spotted in Gujarat after 50 years||SURAT: After nearly five decades, the rare Asiatic wild dog or dhole have been sighed in the wild in Gujarat. Two dholes was caught in the camera traps set up in Vansda National Park that is spread on 24 sq km hilly terrain of Sahyadri ranges. Officials confirmed to TOI that the last reliable sighting of dhole, also known as the whistling dog due to its peculiar contact call, was sometime in 1970 by Late Maharaja Digveerandrasinhji of Dang. "But the the number of individuals and the pack size were unconfirmed. Presence of dhole is an indicator of good quality forest, prey abundance and less human disturbance. The first sighting was on February 20 by a local birder Mohammed Jat who reported this to the forest department,” Dinesh Rabari, deputy conservator of forests, South Dangs division, told TOI. Dhole is protected under schedule 2 of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It’s also one the International Union For Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of endangered species. "We already suspected the presence of dholes here. Field staff found carcass of a spotted deer and the way it was disembodied strengthened our suspicion. Next day, we visited the spot and saw a wild dog was eating that carcass. Camera traps then were placed to observe further activities. Next day, the first image of dhole was captured in Kevdi beat of the park,” Rabari added. After confirming presence of two dholes, the department set up a range of camera traps to find out their numbers and retention time along with monitoring their movements, behaviour, food and foraging habit. "We are making all efforts to ensure there is no human disturbance in these areas so that they permanently stay here and breed,'' Rabari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/whistling-dog-spotted-in-gujarat-after-50-years/articleshow/75905282.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Thai, Bangladeshi citizens stranded in Kolkata fly back home||KOLKATA: Two special flights repatriated Thai and Bangladeshi nationals on Friday. While this was the first flight to Thailand, Bangladesh had already repatriated some of its citizens stranded in Kolkata on three earlier flights. The Thai AirAsia flight took off at 12.02pm with 213 passengers on board. The aircraft had arrived as a cargo flight and departed for Bangkok with passengers. With India gradually relaxing lockdown rules, foreigners are keen to return to their countries as they fear a spurt in Covid-19 cases. Biman Bangladesh operated the next flight on Friday, airlifting 75 passengers. The flight departed at 2.50pm. On Thursday, less than 24 hours after cyclone Amphan struck, the airport received a special flight from Thiruvananthapuram with 103 Russian citizens. In Kolkata, 102 Russians boarded the plane that then departed for Koltsovo in Russia. The waterlogging in the southern end of the runway didn’t hamper flight operations. By the time the Thai AirAsia flight landed on Friday, much of the water had receded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/thai-bdeshi-citizens-fly-back-home/articleshow/75904475.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Surat||Surat: Lockdown keeps three infant girls away from new parents’ love||SURAT: If it would not have been for the global pandemic and its aftermath, three infant girls from Surat would by now have been with their adoptive parents, enjoying a new chapter in their lives. But the lockdown has kept that joy in abeyance not only for the trio, but also for the would-be parents, while the baby girls are being looked after in a children’s home at present. Only a few months old, these baby girls at V R Popawala Children Home have already been cleared legally for adoption and would be united with their foster parents, moment the restrictions are lifted. The girls, brought to the centre in the past six months, were abandoned by their biological parents and rescued by the police. According to the norms, after the cops rescue an abandoned child and brings it to the safety of these homes, they start searching for the actual parents. But most of the time, their efforts to trace the parents meet a dead end. “Not being able to locate these girls’ actual parents, the cops brought the case to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) urging it to declare their status as ‘open for adoption’,” explained Jayendra Thakore, child welfare officer, Surat. Once cleared, the child’s details are sent to the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA), New Delhi, which publicizes the case. “Within a matter of few days, CARA ensures that the abandoned or orphaned child gets adopted. However, owing to the ongoing lockdown, no adoption has taken place from the city after January. The online portal is also closed due to the current situation,” said Hemant Gamit, manager of Specialised Adoption Agency, (SAA), that functions at city level for CARA. On an average, 12 children from the diamond city get adopted in a year. The adoption process is likely to restart only after the coronavirus spread is contained. In a recently held meeting state officials of the adoption agency have expressed that the adoption should be put on hold as it involves people migrating from one place to another. An official informed that adoptions can start after June if situation improves across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-keeps-three-infant-girls-away-from-new-parents-love/articleshow/75904542.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Cyclone Amphan: Coastal city ready with mitigation plans||Mangaluru: With the extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan wreaking havoc in West Bengal, Odisha and other parts of India, the authorities at Mangaluru are on alert mode. Though there is no specific warning for the coastal districts, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has stepped up its preparedness to mitigate the impact on the coastal city. Mayor Divakar and commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde convened a meeting of various departments, including police, fire and emergency, Mescom and MCC engineers to prepare an action plan in consultation with the district administration. DC Sindhu B Rupesh told TOI that the district is ready with regular drill. As per the Karnataka state forecast issued at 1pm on May 21, there is no specific warning for coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttar Kannada between May 22 and 26. Only very light or light rainfall likely to occur in parts of Dakshina Kannada and other coastal districts during the period. However, the district is well-prepared with necessary precautions, she added. The mayor said the meeting discussed the opening of rehabilitation centres, keeping all disaster management equipment ready and to form official teams to respond to any eventuality. It has been decided to take various relief measures in association with Red Cross Society and the district administration, he said, adding that the city corporation is prepared to tackle any emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cyclone-amphan-coastal-city-ready-with-mitigation-plans/articleshow/75892772.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||7 new Covid cases in U’khand, Pauri reports 3rd death in quarantine||Dehradun: With seven new cases reported on Friday, the tally of Covid cases in Uttarakhand has reached 153. With two recoveries, the count of active cases in the state now stands at 94. Meanwhile, the death of a middle-aged man was reported from Pauri Garhwal’s Pabo block on Friday. The health department claimed that he died of a heart attack. This is the third death of a returnee in Pauri who was kept in isolation in a quarantine centre. According to the health department, among the five new cases, three are from Dehradun and two each from Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts. A 7-year-old thalassemia patient, who is undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, reported Covid positive. The rest of the cases are returnees from Delhi and Mumbai. "The two patients who have recovered are from Udham Singh Nagar," said Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary health. With addition of over 70 cases in the past one week, the recovery rate of Uttarakhand has dropped to 37.09% while the doubling rate of cases was reported 8 days on Friday. The health department has sent 1,319 samples for testing on May 22 while reports of 1,968 cases were pending till 3 pm on Friday. Meanwhile, Dr M Bahukhandi, chief medical officer of Pauri district, said that the man who died was severely ill. "We have done the autopsy of the body and his sample has been sent for testing," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-new-covid-cases-in-ukhand-pauri-reports-3rd-death-in-quarantine/articleshow/75902616.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 23, 2020||Surat||Six flights to connect Surat with other cities from May 25||Surat: With the central government’s nod to restart domestic flight operations, Surat airport is all prepared to resume operations with about six domestic flights to various destinations including Mumbai, Delhi, Jaipur and Hyderabad starting from May 25.The SpiceJet and IndiGo on Friday released their flight schedules to restart the domestic operations starting from May 25. While IndiGo will be operating single flight connecting Surat to Delhi, SpiceJet will be operating flights connecting Surat with Jaipur, Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad. The Surat airport authorities have introduced transparent shields at the entrance gate and at the counters of the airlines inside the terminal area to prevent any close contact with the security officials and the airline staff. Thermal screening of the passengers will be done by the medical teams of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) at the entry and exit points at the terminal. Airport director, Aman Saini said, “We have introduced touch-free and contact-less facilities to contain the spread of coronavirus at the airport. There are cameras fitted at the transparent shield counters where the passengers will have to show their boarding passes for scanning. There is a disinfectant doormat at the entry and exit for the passengers.” Saini added, “The passengers not wearing masks and not having Aarogya Setu application installed in their mobile phones won’t be allowed to enter into the terminal building. If they (passengers) do not have Aarogya setu app, he or she will have to fill up the self-declaration form showing they are free from Covid-19 infection.” Asked whether the passengers returning to Surat will be sent to institutional quarantine, deputy commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “We are still awaiting the guidelines from the state government for the institutional quarantine of the passengers returning to Surat.” Head: New air travel rules No stamping of boarding passes Social distancing will be maintained while sitting Passengers advised not to use trolleys to bring their luggages Baggages to be sanitised twice before loading in the aircraft. Room reserved for isolation of the suspected cases at terminal Security guards frisking the passengers to be equipped with PPE kits||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/six-flights-to-connect-surat-with-other-cities-from-may-25/articleshow/75904637.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Roza is part of these warriors’ daily Covid duty||Rajkot: Duty during the month of Ramzan is no different for these 22 devouts from Amreli than in normal times. They have been working as frontline warriors in the battle against the virus ever since the outbreak happened. Under religious strictures, these parched men continue to perform their duties round-the-clock even if the unrelenting sun scorches at 43°Celsius. “While observing ‘roza’ forget food, we are not even allowed to swallow our saliva! So, we have no option to wait till the evening to break our fasts after duty at Iftaar,” says Amanat Ali Naqwi, an official with 108 emergency services at Amreli. “Apart from Naqwi, Zakir Jakhara, Altaf Dal, Arif Sheikh and Akbar Parmar have been performing their duty while observing the holy fasts,” said a programme officer of 108 emergency services. “To observe roza during the holy month of Ramzan is our duty, while responding to the call of emergencies during the Covid-19 crisis is our supreme duty. Hence, we perform both our duties religiously, not sacrificing one for the other,” said Zakir Jakhara. HINDUS PREPARE IFTAAR FOR MUSLIMS Rajkot: Hindus of Ambaradi village in Savarkundala taluka in Amreli district have displayed great communal amity during lockdown. They are preparing Iftaar meals for Muslims of the village during the holy month of Ramzan. “We prepare fruit salad, cold drinks and snacks as Iftaari for our Muslim brothers to help them break their day-long fast,” said Subhash Solanki, a village leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/roza-is-part-of-these-warriors-daily-covid-duty/articleshow/75904689.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amreli administration promises HC to open dug up roads||Ahmedabad: Twenty days after the Gujarat high court ordered to restore the Amreli district roads to their original condition, the district collector and executive engineer assured the high court on Friday that the barricading would be removed by Saturday.In a letter written to the office of the government pleader on May 21, the district authorities ensured that the roads would be opened for the use of people within two days. They mentioned that the roads were temporarily closed for the purpose of curbing the spread of Covid-19. The Amreli administration came under fire for digging up nearly 100 roads in the district and placing gando bawal, a thorny plant, on them as barricades to stop vehicular movement after April 18. Such permanent barricading completely blocked movement and a news about stuck ambulance led to the filing of a PIL in the high court complaining about the high-handedness of the authorities.Advocate Bhaumik Dholariya objected to the measures resorted to damage the roads and block movement by using gando bawal against the guidelines of lockdown. Advocate Dholariya said that the Amreli district authority did not budge even after the HC directions issued on May 1. “We have to file another application and then only the district administration has given the undertaking,” he said.In the meantime, more than 1.37 lakh people have arrived in Amreli district from Surat after the government relaxed the lockdown. Amreli witnessed two Covid-19 positive cases. Earlier, it was zero Covid-19 district. The HC is likely to pass an order on Saturday on this subject along with other issues raised in the suo motu PIL with regard to Covid-19 and lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amreli-administration-promises-hc-to-open-dug-up-roads/articleshow/75905114.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Home Guard jawan caught with liquor||Ahmedabad: A home guard jawan working with Vadaj police was arrested by cops on Thursday night when he was carrying a bottle of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in the glovebox of his scooter near Jaymangal BRTS stand in the Naranpura area.The accused was identified as Rahul Shah, 26, a resident of Uddhavnagar in Sohrabji Compound in Vadaj.An FIR filed with Naranpura police states that three cops were patrolling when they got an input that a man in khaki had liquor with him and was moving on a scooter from Vadaj towards the 132 Feet Ring Road in Naranpura.The police team kept watch near Jaymangal BRTS bus stand and started waiting for the accused. When Shah got there, the three cops stopped him, checked the glovebox and found a bottle of whisky in it.The FIR states that Shah did not tell the cops why he was carrying liquor, from whom he got it and whether it was for his own use or he was going to give it to someone else.Police seized the bottle, worth Rs 2,000, the scooter, worth Rs 44,000, and his uniform, and registered a case under prohibition laws against him.Inspector J R Patel of Naranpura police said Shah was on duty with Vadaj police when the incident took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/home-guard-jawan-caught-with-liquor/articleshow/75905108.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Relative of a politician held for selling tobacco||Ahmedabad: Naroda police on Thursday raided a paan masala shop located at Shree Panditji Dhaba, near Nana Chiloda. The hotel is owned Raju Pandit, a politician. Police acted after a video went viral on social media about selling of tobacco items beyond allowed time limit. Police booked Gajanand Sharma, the politician’s relative, who was selling the tobacco products. Currently, sales of tobacco and tobacco items are prohibited in eastern Ahmedabad. Police sources said some time ago a video had gone viral showing a man selling tobacco products in the dhaba. “Based on the video footage we reached Shree Panditji Dhaba and arrested Gajanand Sharma of Gokooldham Society of Naroda for selling tobacco products,” said a police official. Meanwhile, police soon started receiving calls to let off the accused and released him on bail after booking him under Section 188 IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/relative-of-a-politician-held-for-selling-tobacco/articleshow/75905162.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Personnel needed to enforce lockdown, govt inducts women LRD jawans||Ahmedabad: As the police department has been working round the clock to enforce the lockdown with limited manpower, the state government has begun inducting women Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) jawans in the force. The majority of the 5,000-odd women who had been declared eligible in the examination, have been given the districts where they will be posted.Last month, these women LRD candidates had appealed to the CM to induct them into the police force, so that they could help enforcing the lockdown. The women had said they are willing to donate one month’s salary to the PM’s relief fund if they were inducted.Representatives of the LRD aspirants, who had staged a marathon protest in Gandhinagar that lasted for two months, said that barring Ahmedabad city and the districts of Tapi and Devboomi Dwarka, women who had been declared eligible have already been allotted districts. “For some reason, appointments have been stalled for posts in Ahmedabad city and two other districts. We have appealed to the government to complete the process of appointing women LRD personnel in these places as well,” said Suresh Chaudhary, one of those who were fighting for the cause of the women candidates.Even as women from the reserved categories and non-reserved categories were holding separate dharnas in the state capital, the government announced a formula, where all candidates scoring over 62.5% in the examination were declared passed. Accordingly, 5,227 were to be given appointment orders, but the government had not acted on the decision until this week.Chaudhary said that of the total 5,227 appointments, 1,083 are yet to be made by the government. “Over the past few days, the majority of those who cleared the LRD exam, have been allotted districts where they will work. Some 870 appointments in Ahmedabad city, 186 in Dwarka and 45 in Tapi district are still remaining,” Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/personnel-needed-to-enforce-lockdown-govt-inducts-women-lrd-jawans/articleshow/75905097.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Trichy||238 Tamil workers from Gujarat arrive in Trichy||Trichy: A total of 238 workers from Ahmedabad in Gujarat reached Trichy by a Tirunelveli-bound Shramik special train on Friday. A team of government officials led by Trichy collector S Sivarasu welcomed the workers hailing from Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagappattinam, Pudukottai, Mayiladuthurai and Namakkal districts. Six Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses were arranged to transport them. Sivarasu said the passengers will be screened at their respective districts. Forty-three passengers from Trichy were kept in institutional quarantine at the Government Engineering College at Sethurapatti. The collector said the quarantined people will be put through Covid-19 testing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/238-tamil-workers-from-gujarat-arrive-in-trichy/articleshow/75905457.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Two killed in SUV-truck collision||Rajkot: In an early morning fatal road accident, two persons were killed when their SUV suffered a head -on collision with a truck on Bhuj-Naliya Highway at Madhapar village of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch district on Friday. One person is injured in the accident, said police, adding that the accident took place when the SUV came face-to-face with the truck while negotiating a turn. Nakhatrana police identified the deceased as Rakesh Kedan (24) and Santosh Vanan (21), both employees of a private windmill company, hailing from Tamil Nadu. Rajesh Maheshweri (35), driver of the SUV was seriously injured and shifted to Mandvi Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-suv-truck-collision/articleshow/75905050.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||State equipped to control locust attack: R C Faldu||Gandhinagar: State agriculture minister R C Faldu said on Friday that the state government is geared up to control the locust menace in parts of the state. He added that in the current year, locusts have been observed in 12 talukas of nine districts of north Gujarat, central Gujarat and Saurashtra. He added that between May 9 and 21, locusts were found to be present over 190 hectares of land, and insecticides have been sprayed in 112 hectares, while work is on in the remaining areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-equipped-to-control-locust-attack-r-c-faldu/articleshow/75905212.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Four-year-old boy helps Amreli cops nab his sister’s rapist||RAJKOT: A four-year-old boy helped Amreli police nab the alleged rapist of his three-year-old sister in Savarkundla town of Amreli district by giving exact description of the man, who was caught within hours of the crime on Friday. Police arrested 35-year-old Raju Mangrolia, who had abducted girl at around 2am from her hut in the slums on the bank of Navli river and abandoned her after committing the crime in Jhinjhuda village bus stand, four kms away. A passer-by spotted the girl in an extremely injured condition and called a 108 EMRI ambulance. Meanwhile, the survivor’s parents who had lodged her missing complaint came to know that she had been admitted to Savarkundla Civil Hospital. After the doctors confirmed that the survivor had been raped, her parents lodged a police complaint. Amreli district superintendent of police (SP) Nirlipt Rai told TOI that they could nab Mangrolia solely because of the description given by her tender-aged brother who had woken up and seen the man pick up the girl. Rai said they made the boy feel comfortable by offering him chocolates, ice cream and other food as the family was surviving on stale food for days together. “In the two hours that he spent with the police, the little boy got comfortable and gave us all the minute details such as colour of shirt, its pattern, colour of the trouser and mask that the accused had worn. He had also seen a rickshaw parked near their hut,” Rai said. “We talked to him for nearly two hours during which he gave all the minute details including his beard and hair. This is the first time that such a young boy has helped us nab a criminal here,” he added. Following the kid’s revelations, police rounded up several rickshaw drivers in the town with similar physical appearances. “By taking help of forensic experts, we found a rickshaw which had blood and semen stains inside. We called up the owner and finally Mangrolia was caught,” the SP added. Semen stains were also recovered from the accused’s undergarments, he said. Premsukh Delu, assistant superintendent of police, Amreli, said four teams were formed to nab the accused. Mangrolia used to drive a rented autorickshaw which he had used for the crime. Though she has suffered injuries in her private parts, the girl’s condition is said to be stable at a local government hospital. The family of the girl is so poor that police purchased footwear for the boy. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-year-old-boy-helps-amreli-cops-nab-his-sisters-rapist/articleshow/75904484.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Youth stabbed to death over affair with married woman in Dwarka village||RAJKOT: A 20-year-old youth was stabbed to death and two women from the victim’s family were injured following an attack by four persons in Murvasar village of Dwarka taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Thursday night. The accused were detained on Friday. Police said the accused, Vejabha Bhatad, Arjunbha Bhatad, Karsanbha Bhatad and Kayabha Manek, had attacked Dinesh Sutania. Two women — Deval Manek and Sunder Vagher — from Sutania family who rushed to Sutania’s rescue, were injured as they too were attacked with iron pipes. “Our preliminary investigation has revealed that Vejabha’s wife had an extra-marital relationship with Sutania, following which Vejabha and Sutania had frequent fights over the past two months. On Thursday night, Vejabha and the other accused decided to kill Sutania,” said V V Vagadia, inspector with Dwarka police station. “We have detained Vejabha and three of his aides. We will be formally arresting them after testing them for Covid-19,” added Vagadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-stabbed-to-death-over-affair-with-married-woman-in-dwarka-village/articleshow/75905028.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Remaining CISCE board exams scheduled between July 1 & 14||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced the dates for the remaining Class-X and Class-XII board examinations on Friday. ICSE will hold the examinations between July 2 and July 12, while the ISC examinations will be conducted between July 1 and July 14. Chief executive and secretary, CISCE, Gerry Arathoon said, “We wanted normalcy to be restored first and then go ahead and announce the schedule. After the lockdown is lifted, we will observe the other developments for about a month. The Council will also send a detailed schedule regarding the conducting of the examinations to the heads of schools later.” “We will sanitize the examination centres and schools before reopening. Also, we are waiting for further instructions from the Council regarding seating arrangements keeping in mind the social-distancing norms,” said Nabarun De, Principal of Central Model School, Baranagar. According to the instructions sent by CISCE, students will have to arrive at the examination centres well ahead of time to avoid overcrowding and there will have to be staggered movement and smooth entry. While using gloves is optional, all examinees will have to wear face masks or use face covers. All the students will have to bring their own stationery and avoid sharing them with other candidates. Like earlier, candidates will have to carry their admit cards to the examination halls. Every one will be given 15 minutes to read the question paper after they are distributed at 10.45am. “We advise that students strictly follow the safety and security norms, and the health advisory,” wrote Arathoon. “All the examination-cond-ucting boards have received a letter from the MHA, which has given a go-ahead to them to conduct examinations. Accordingly, the schedule was released by the CISCE,” said the principal of a school. He, however, predicted that the publishing of results would likely be delayed. “The Council has also advised schools to give provisional admission to students of Class X who will be promoted,” he added. CBSE and West Bengal Higher Secondary Council will also hold the remaining examinations during the same period as CICSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/remaining-cisce-board-exams-scheduled-between-july-1-14/articleshow/75904467.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 23, 2020||Patna||Women perform Vat Savitri puja amid lockdown||PATNA: Dressed up in new saris and wearing ‘solah shringar’, a large number of married women observed Vat Savitri Puja on Friday morning. They wrapped cotton threads around the trunks of banyan trees and prayed for the well-being of their husbands. According to city-based priest, Dhanesh Tiwari, the day is dedicated to Savitri, who brought her husband, Satyavan, back to life by her determination. “Married women go to a nearby banyan tree along with a photo or idol of Goddess Savitri and other ‘puja samagri’. They wrap a red thread around the tree while reciting the Vat Savitri ‘vrat katha’ and seek the blessings of the elderly, especially their mothers-in-law,” Tiwari said and added that devotees also observe fast on the day and break it after seeing the full moon. Those, who observed Vat Savitri Puja amid the Covid-19 lockdown, made sure that they took all precautionary measures. Saguna Mor resident, Ankita Sinha, performed the rituals with her sister-in-law near their house. “We celebrated the festival, but followed social distancing norms,” she claimed. Kadamkuan resident Pritee Prasad thanked the government for allowing relaxations just before the festival. “Otherwise, I would not be able to buy the puja items that are required for observing the fast,” she said. Meanwhile, the banyan tree near the Khajpura Shiv Temple, which used to be thronged by thousands of devotees on the occasion of Vat Savitri, wore a deserted look this year due to the lockdown. “Not more than 15 women performed the rituals here as the temple is closed,” said Tipu Singh, treasurer of the Shri Shri Khajpura Puja Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-perform-vat-savitri-puja-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75902207.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Business||Bharat Bond ETF series 2 eyes Rs 14,000 crore||MUMBAI: To raise up to Rs 14,000 crore for the government, Edelweiss Mutual Fund is set to launch the second tranche of the Bharat Bond exchange-traded fund (ETF) in July. The fund house will launch two new series under the ETF with two different maturities, in April 2025 and in April 2031, a release from the fund house said. The first tranche of the bond ETF was launched in December 2019 through which it had raised Rs 12,400 crore. The base issue size of the second tranche is Rs 3,000 crore, with a green shoe option of Rs 11,000 crore. The ETF will track Nifty Bharat Bond target maturity indices, the fund house said. Through bond ETFs, the Centre sells government bonds to the fund, which in turn sells units to investors. These units are traded on the exchanges. The ETF program is under the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) and is managed by Edelweiss MF. According to Radhika Gupta, CEO, Edelweiss MF, the launch of the second tranche of Bharat Bond ETF is in line with the fund house’s vision “to create a ladder of (this) ETFs across various maturities on the yield curve. This will provide more options for investors to match their investment needs with different time horizons.’’ Currently, Bharat Bond ETFs with maturities in April 2023 and April 2030 are traded on the bourses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bharat-bond-etf-series-2-eyes-rs-14k-cr/articleshow/75905746.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Darbhanga girl refuses cycling trial offer||PATNA/DARBHANGA: Jyoti Kumari, the 15-year-old girl, who cycled all the way from Delhi to Darbhanga carrying her injured father, has refused an offer from Cycling Federation of India (CFI) chairman Onkar Singh to come for a trial next month, saying she wants to continue her studies. “I am very happy and honoured that the CFI has given me the opportunity to undergo a trial for trainee cyclist at their top institute. But I don’t think I would be able to make it for the trial next month,” Jyoti told TOI. She added, “I don’t think I am physically fit at present owing to the extremely strenuous journey from Delhi and secondly, I want to get enrolled in my school first.” Jyoti’s name was removed from the government middle school register around eight months ago as she could not attend classes due to family compulsions. She was a student of Class VIII. She said she wants to continue her study and take up cycling along with her education. “I could not go to the school due to family issues as I was occupied with domestic works. But now I want to study and be an educated person first,” she added. Jyoti’s courageous journey carrying her father has moved many people from across the country. Samajwadi Party chief and former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav on Friday announced to give Rs1 lakh to Jyoti. Darbhanga district administration has also assured help for her education. Darbhanga Sadar SDO Rakesh Kumar Gupta met Jyoti at her house on Tuesday and assured all necessary help to her and her family. Jyoti’s father, who used to drive an e-rickshaw in Delhi, is now in their Darbhanga village quarantine centre, while she is under home quarantine. Jyoti is being kept in isolation at their home she shares with her two sisters, two brothers and mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-girl-refuses-cycling-trial-offer/articleshow/75901308.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Bhilwara textile mills to resume operations||JAIPUR: Textile town Bhilwara has yet again taken the lead in fighting Covid-19. It is resuming operations of its 354 textile mills from Monday after two months of lockdown. It has become possible after the district administration provided all assistance to the industries like relaxation in operating hours, electricity, water supply and also uninterrupted transport service. The textile town has an annual turnover of Rs 20,000 crore and forms the basis of the economy of Bhilwara. “Most of the problems of the textile industries have been resolved with our intervention. With the production, we will able to restart the economy of the district and to stop the reverse migration of workers,” said Rajendra Bhatt, district collector of Bhilwara. Officials said they had provided a financial package for migrant workers aiming at preventing their migration. “The industries have also agreed to provide Rs 4,000 allowance for the month of April and May to every migrant worker engaged by them,” Bhatt said. Bhilwara textile mills require around 40,000 workers for its operations to the full capacity. Since the town is under lockdown from March 20, close to 18,000 migrant workers have left for their respective states. The town was under curfew from March 20 till May 14. “It is a much-needed step by the administration. We are all set to go full throttle in what all workforce is available with us,” said Damodar Agarwal, president of the Bhilwara Textile Trade Federation. It has become the first district to start operations on such a scale by providing direct and indirect work to 22,000 workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhilwara-textile-mills-to-resume-operations/articleshow/75905456.cms||---
May 23, 2020||India||Returnees account for 72% of Bihar’s Covid cases in last 20 days||PATNA: Bihar’s migrant workers, who have returned to the state amid the Covid lockdown, have accounted for an alarming 72% of the cases recorded in the past 20 days. The number of patients with novel coronavirus symptoms has doubled to 2,166 in just one week. The figure was 1,000 on May 15. According to information shared on Friday by the Bihar Health Society, so far 1,184 migrants have tested positive for the virus since May 3. Bihar reported its first three coronavirus cases on March 22. Thereafter, the state reported a steady increase in the numbers which touched 400 on April 29. On May 3, the state reported 517 coronavirus cases. However, the number shot up by 1,649 between May 3 and May 22 with the returning migrant workers testing positive for the virus. So far, 333 migrant workers from Delhi, 293 from Maharashtra and 212 from Gujarat have tested positive. With large number of migrants testing positive for Covid-19, the state health department has now classified the regions from where they are coming back into three categories. Delhi, Gujarat and Maharsahtra have been kept in category ‘A’, others with lesser cases in category ‘B’ and those with minimum or no cases in category ‘C’. The state has 2,344 beds in three dedicated hospitals for the treatment of coronavirus cases. Apart from these, there are 7,769 beds in care centres and health centres dedicated to Covid patients. An official said the state has capacity to accommodate 15,000 patients as of now. “If the need arises, quarantine centres will also be used for the purpose. Since most positive cases are asymptomatic, they do not need to be admitted in hospitals,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/returnees-account-for-72-of-bihars-covid-cases-in-last-20-days/articleshow/75907401.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Will strategically-important Pancheshwar Dam bear brunt of India-Nepal tensions||Pithoragarh: The India-Nepal face-off that started with allegations of India’s encroachment on Lipulekh Pass may put the upcoming 5,040-MW multipurpose Pancheshwar Dam in jeopardy. Both countries have been collaborating to build the strategically-important dam on Kali river, which separates India and Nepal. “The project has been in the works for a long time (the Pancheshwar dam has been almost two decades in the making) and any fall-out over the Lipulekh controversy is not likely to affect it. The stakes are high for both India and Nepal,” said Damodar Bhandari, a politician from Nepal. Congress’s Pradeep Tamta, MP Rajya Sabha, believes that if the Kalapani issue escalates, it might affect the dam. “India and Nepal have been on good terms. We hope that the Kalapani issue is sorted by starting a dialogue,” Tamta said. Speaking on the issue, Ajay Tamta, MP from Almora, said, “India has constructed the Kailash-Mansarovar road on the Indian side. India will always respect the Sugauli treaty and Kalapani is not an issue between the countries.” “As far as the Pancheswar project is concerned, it will benefit both India and Nepal, so work on it will continue. Once complete, the dam will boost the economy of both India and Nepal, so neither country wants any hurdles,” added Tamta. Meanwhile, residents of Pithoragarh believe that if the tension between the two countries escalates, the trade relationship between the countries may be affected. They believe work on the dam might also bear the brunt.The tensions started when India inaugurated an 80-km road connecting India to the Kailash Mansaorvar pilgrimage in Tibet earlier this month. Nepal alleged that India had used its territory at Lipulekh Pass and deployed armed police border outposts (BOP) at the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-strategically-important-pancheshwar-dam-bear-brunt-of-india-nepal-tensions/articleshow/75902707.cms||Prem Punetha
May 23, 2020||Varanasi||Three migrant workers killed as dumper rams SUV in Mirzapur||Varanasi: At least three migrant workers on their way to their homes in Bihar from Mumbai were killed when a speeding dumper rammed into their SUV in Lalganj area of Mirzapur district on Thursday night. Four other persons traveling in the car sustained minor injuries. The dumper driver is under police custody. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of migrant workers and directed to provide a financial assistance of Rs two lakh each to the kin of deceased and proper treatment to the injured persons. Officials were also asked to send their bodies to their homes. According to reports, seven migrant workers were going to Gopalganj (Bihar) from Mumbai in an SUV. They parked the vehicle 40 feet away from the main road in Basahi village in Lalganj area to take rest. Three persons were resting inside the SUV while four of them were standing outside. Around 3 am, a speeding dumper rammed into the stationary SUV. Mirzapur SP Dr Dharam Veer Singh two migrant workers died on the spot, while one other succumbed to injuries at the hospital. The deceased were identified as Raju Singh (26), Saurabh Kumar (23) and Amit Singh (26), all native to Gopalganj district. Four others—Munna Singh of Gopalganj, Rohit, Vishal and Vikaram of Vaishali—sustained minor injuries. The dumper driver Rambaran, resident of Aurangabad (Bihar), is under police custody. On the complaint of Munna Singh, an FIR was lodged against the dumper driver under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-migrant-workers-killed-as-dumper-rams-suv-in-mirzapur/articleshow/75905556.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy DIG goes online to redress public grievances||Trichy: Facing difficulties in meeting senior police officials to lodge complaints and petitions during lockdown due to lack of public transportation? No worries. The office of the deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Trichy range will redress the grievance through Google Meet app on Monday and Friday every week. Considering the obstacles being faced by the people, DIG, Trichy range V Balakrishnan kicked off the initiative for cases which need the intervention of higher officials. Trichy range comprises Trichy rural, Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. Staring with, four complainants interacted with DIG online on Friday. Three from Trichy and one from Perambalur utilized the facility on the first day, said the DIG office officials. DIG will ascertain their grievance from 12 pm to 1 pm every week. The complainants should first fix their appointment with him in advance. They should contact the office of the DIG, Trichy range at 0431-2333909 and furnish details like name, address and phone numbers. For the registration done on Saturday and Sunday, the appointment will be given on Monday. The others will be allotted the slot on Friday. The information collected from the complainants will be forwarded to the special officer-in-charge in each division of the five districts. And the necessary arrangements will be made for the online meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-dig-goes-online-to-redress-public-grievances/articleshow/75905478.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu ordinance to temporarily acquire J Jayalalithaa’s house issued||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Friday promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of Veda Nilayam, the residence of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa at Poes Garden in Chennai. The acquisition process for the 10-ground property worth Rs 67 crore, which was initiated in 2017, is yet to be completed. An official statement issued on Friday said governor Banwarilal Purohit promulgated the ordinance to allow the state to temporarily take possession of the property and movable assets therein for establishing Puratchi Thalaivi Dr J Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation, and for making long-term arrangements to convert Veda Nilayam into a memorial. “The building of Veda Nilayam including movable assets such as furniture, books, jewels, etc are in a state of disuse for more than three years. So, the government has decided to transfer all immovable and movable properties to the government for its upkeep until the acquisition process is complete,” the statement said. The state government had initiated steps to acquire the property and published a preliminary notification on June 28, 2019, and thereafter a declaration on May 6 this year. An acquisition notice pasted on the property also gave 30-day time to raise objections if any. “The question of legal heir has not been settled yet, and the matter is pending in court. The value of the property is tentatively fixed at Rs 67 crore,” a source said. Puratchi Thalaivi Dr J Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation will be headed by chief minister and deputy chief minister, minister for information and publicity, and several government officials will be its members. Director of information and public relations will be its member-secretary. The foundation will take all necessary steps for maintenance, upkeep and safety of Veda Nilayam and all its movable properties. The state government has taken the ordinance route though a bench of N Kirubakaran and Justice Abdul Quddhose of the Madras HC has heard the objections of J Jayalalithaa’s niece J Deepa and nephew Deepak against the acquisition process and reserved its verdict in August 2019. J Deepa had told the court that she wanted to run a public charitable trust for the welfare of public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-ordinance-to-temporarily-acquire-jayas-house-issued/articleshow/75905531.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||War of words over denying permission for buses, Raj minister seeks FIR against UP CM||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday accused the UP government of doing petty politics over the issue of buses for migrants, while transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas demanded that Yogi Adityanath be booked for allegedly defying the Centre’s orders on plying of vehicles. Khachariyawas said the UP chief minister first gave clearance for entry of buses but later created “hurdles” by saying that permits of buses were not valid. The fitness of the buses was also questioned by the UP government. He said the UP chief minister should be booked for allegedly defying the Union home ministry order which had said that documents such as licence, permit and fitness of vehicles will not be checked till June 30. Speaking to reporters here, Pilot also slammed the Centre for not making any concrete nationwide policy for transportation of migrant workers. “Taking help doesn’t diminish someone’s stature. UP government did politics and blamed Congress. We condemn it. Congress had made arrangement of buses for the migrant workers when there was no help from the Centre,” Pilot said. He said it was not justified that a ruling party blames the Opposition and that too for extending a helping hand. Pilot said creating unnecessary hurdles, arresting people and registering FIR shows a “narrow mindset”, which is regrettable at this time of crisis. Amid a war of words between Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the UP government over buses for migrant workers, the Adityanath government had said the Rajasthan government gave a bill of over Rs 36 lakh for providing buses to ferry students from Kota. The UP government said on Friday it had cleared the dues saying it only showed the “inhuman face” of the Rajasthan government. Kachariyawas replying to the UP government allegation said it had paid for the diesel for their buses in Rajasthan and the 100 buses of the RSRTC hired by them. The bills were paid by them on their own and it was part of the deal between UPRTC and the RSRTC. The Congress leaders also claimed that out of list of 1051 vehicles sent to UP government, 1,032 were buses. In April, thousands of students from Uttar Pradesh who were preparing for various competitive examinations in the coaching hub of Kota were brought back to their homes in buses by UP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/war-of-words-over-denying-permission-for-buses-raj-minister-seeks-fir-against-up-cm/articleshow/75905502.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Trichy||DRO posted to acquire land for Cauvery-Guntar linking project||TRICHY: Pudukottai district administration appointed a district revenue officer on Friday to oversee land acquisition process for Cauvery-Vaigai-Guntar river linking project. A meeting was held with the concerned department officials on Friday with the newly appointed district revenue officer R Ramyadevi. The project involves construction of a 255.60 km long canal from Mayanur in Karur district to link Cauvery with Vaigai. While her appointment was to expedite acquisition of about 656 hectares of land for the project in Pudukottai district, there will be three tahsildars appointed under her for the process. The coordinated work will be carried out by officials from the Public Works Department (PWD), land survey and revenue divisional officers from Viralimalai, Kulathur and Pudukottai circle. In February, deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam had announced the allocation of Rs 700 crore in the first phase for the project in the Assembly. The budgetary allocation had set stage for commencement of a project, which is said to be over a century-old demand. The canal under the project will run through the districts of Karur, Pudukottai, Trichy, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar districts. Guntar River is flowing in Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts. The project will bring water to 760 tanks in Pudukkottai district, which will help irrigate 20,249 hectares of agriculture land. The project will also benefit over 100 villages in 12 taluks of Pudukottai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dro-posted-to-acquire-land-for-cauvery-guntar-linking-project/articleshow/75905497.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Mother throws two boys into a well, flees||VADODARA: A woman in Panchamahal district allegedly killed her two young sons by throwing them into a well on Thursday night. Preliminary investigation revealed that Champa Rathwa resorted to the ghastly crime after a petty quarrel with her husband Pratap in Rayanvadia village of Halol taluka. Bodies of boys — Pradeep (9) and Pratik (7) — were fished out and sent for autopsy. Pratap told police that he had gone to a nearby village on Thursday and returned home in the evening. When he asked Champa to serve him dinner, she picked up a quarrel with him. In his complaint, Pratap stated that she then called up her father and left the house with her sons. However, he soon heard commotion at a farm near their house. On rushing there, he was told that Champa had thrown both boys in to the well and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mom-throws-two-boys-into-a-well-flees/articleshow/75900883.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bareilly||Govt doc caught working atwife’s pvt clinic in Hathras||Agra: A government doctor posted at a Community Health Centre in Hathras’s Sasni was removed from his post on Friday for being caught working in a private health clinic run by his wife. The private clinic was sealed by the administration.Confirming this, district magistrate Praveen Laxkar said that he had received a complaint against Dr Pradeep Rawat alleging that instead of attending patients at the government health centre, he was working at his wife’s private clinic.“I caught him working there during a surprise check and a report has been sent to principal secretary health for disciplinary action against him," said Laxkar, adding that further action will be taken by senior officials of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/govt-doc-caught-working-atwifes-pvt-clinic-in-hathras/articleshow/75904439.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bareilly||Five-year-old boy murdered in UP's Moradabad village||BAREILLY: A body of a five-year-old boy was found at a closed brick kiln in Wajidpura village under Bhojpura area of Moradabad on Thursday evening. The body - found in a semi-nude condition - was attacked with a sharp object. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. According to police, the boy who was playing outside his house on Thursday afternoon, and then went missing. His family with other villages started looking for him. Later, the villagers found his body at a closed brick kiln. It is suspected that the boy was strangled to death after being attacked with a sharp object. On receiving information, a police team along with forensic unit went to the site and collected the samples from the scene. Station house officer Bhojpura police station said, “On the complaint of deceased’s father, an FIR has been registered for murder against unidentified person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-yr-old-boy-murderedin-moradabad-village/articleshow/75904405.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid situation an opportunity to create hygienic meat market, say doctors||LUCKNOW: When relaxations were announced for lockdown 4.0 earlier this week, 30-year-old Sagar Verma had hoped only for one thing—reopening of meat shops. A patient of rheumatoid arthritis since the age of 10years, his doctor had advised him to eat fish or chicken at least twice a week as part of his intense treatment. However, ever since the lockdown began on March 25, Verma has not been able to procure meat in any market. “I need to gain weight and muscle and have been asked to eat animal protein. However, since the lockdown began, no chicken or fish is available anywhere. Frozen meat is too expensive. When will the administration allow shops to open,” he said. TOI had reported on Thursday how meat sellers are unable to resume sales because of a five-year-old licence tangle. Until it is resolved, people like Verma and others for whom meat eating is a choice will suffer. According to Dr Vineeta Das, head of obstetrics and gynaecology department at KGMU, “High protein diet is required by several people including pregnant women, growing children and the elderly. While sources of protein are many, meat has the highest content. Buying meat from a clean space is most important at this time. Even if shops are allowed to sell meat, people will be scared to buy due to hygiene issues. A designated clean meat market is the need of the hour.” Dr Pramod Agarwal, a senior dermatologist, said, “The Covid situation is an opportunity for the administration to streamline the system and create a hygienic space for meat sale. If the licence issue in not getting resolved, the administration should reach a compromise with vendors. Meat sellers should also comply in whatever they can.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-situation-an-opportunity-to-create-hygienic-meat-market-docs/articleshow/75906466.cms||Rashi Lal
May 23, 2020||Varanasi||Covid-19 suspect dies at Azamgarh hospital||Varanasi: A Covid-19 suspect died at the district hospital of Azamgarh on Friday. The man and his son were quarantined in shelter home after returning from Delhi. According to reports, the father-son duo, resident of Atrauliya area, were quarantined at the shelter home. Their samples were collected and sent for testing on May 20. After the man’s health started deteriorating, he was admitted to the hospital, where he died during treatment. His sample test report is waited. His son has been admitted to the hospital. Chief medical officer Dr AK Mishra said that the cremation of the suspect’s body would be performed following prescribed protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-19-suspect-dies-at-azamgarh-hospital/articleshow/75905590.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Life out of tune: How musicians are battling the Covid crisis||Dehradun: Birendra Thapa, 62, has been running a music band called ‘Doon Sargam’ for the last 35 years, performing at events, hotels and private gatherings. It helped sustain his family of four — his wife and two sons. But now, things are getting increasingly difficult. “The lockdown ended in cancellation of at least 12 shows lined up for April and May. My sons are still trying to build their careers and whatever little savings we have managed to survive on till now, are going to exhaust very soon,” Thapa told TOI. The coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown derailed several businesses, music bands among them. A local band, comprising five members, earns anywhere between Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 per booking on a good day. A band usually gets around eight bookings per month, depending on the season, which translates to an income of roughly Rs 30,000 per month for each member. During the peak wedding season – April to June – bands get three times the bookings they usually do. During these three months, people from other states also come to Uttarakhand for destination weddings. However, not only did the musicians’ income not triple this summer but bands are on the verge of bankruptcy, as there is no scope of holding an event during the lockdown and almost all advance bookings have been cancelled. “We are losing out on our peak season. We usually have so many bookings in the summer that we have to stay in Mussoorie for three months straight. A lot of artistes are suffering because of the economic uncertainty and we want the government to step in and come up with some policy or financial relief for us,” said Ravi Gurvinder Singh, president of the Uttarakhand Musicians’ Welfare Society. Lawrence Massey, lead vocalist of “Trishna the Band” said, “There are around 200 musicians in Dehradun district who are completely dependent on earnings from performances at weddings, clubs, hotels and private functions. Because of the lockdown, none of these events are taking place. The weddings in Mussoorie, which usually see large gatherings in the months of April, May and June, have stopped completely. Some weddings that are taking place don’t have enough guests and certainly no room for musicians.” According to an estimate, 20 per cent of the musicians in Dehradun come from other districts of the state and stay in rented accommodation. Most of them are unable to pay rent now. The situation is no different for those who are from Doon. Some of them say they don’t even have the money to pay back clients they had collected advance payments from. Sultan Sheikh, 25, had started “Doon Sargam” two years ago, inspired by his musician dad, who has a band of his own. The entity had started turning in a profit only a few months ago, when the lockdown erased all business prospects. “The lockdown cancelled 24 shows planned at various hotels, weddings and private parties. Now, clients are asking for their money back. I have paid back some of them, but can’t return what we owe the rest. Before we started the band, my friends and I used to earn from private music lessons. I think I’ll have to go back to that,” said Sheikh. (With inputs from Abhijeet Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/life-out-of-tune-how-musicians-are-battling-the-covid-crisis/articleshow/75900903.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Mere lip service is just not enough to thank the Almighty||The essence of the Holy Quran makes us realize the bounties of God who has blessed our country with vast resources.Mere lip service is not enough to thank the Almighty. We need to respect nature and its laws. Blessed with natural resources, yet our nation suffers from illiteracy, infant mortality, malnourishment and poor health care for women and children.Aware of these issues, we don’t abstain from wasting food in fat wedding receptions, indulging in corruption or usurping public properties to built shrines.Performing mere rituals, we have become oblivion to just social and economic order in the society, thus making a scourge and challenge for the whole country.People subscribe to the belief system which has the notion of worshipping God. But, what is the state of humanity today? It is sickening and pitiful. Hence, largely, only human beings are facing the threat of the coronavirus while all other creations continue to make the world a better place. We are witnessing restoration of the world’s lost beauty with curtailed human activity.We have the greatest level of intellectual appreciation of goodness but least commitment to it. Perhaps, ironically, more people are busy performing rituals than ever the world has seen. Places of worship are filled with millions of followers, yet humanity is suffering. The Quran warns, “When tyrants, clerics and tycoons thrive, mankind is doomed”.There is a lesson and a test in the Covid-triggered devastation across the globe.It should burst our bubble that human beings are self-sufficient with all the advanced technology. A nano-sized virus has brought the world on its knees.God’s ways to test can never be anticipated. Scriptures are replete with metaphors for mankind to mend its ways. The positivity will be introspection and repentance. This Eid, let us seek forgiveness of the Lord.(The writer is a businessman and regional secretary, Society for Communal Harmony, New Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mere-lip-service-is-just-not-enough-to-thank-the-almighty/articleshow/75905562.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Locked indoors, children brace for a different Eid||LUCKNOW: Wearing crisp white kurta pyjamas embroidered with the finest chikankari, brothers Ayan (15) and Ali (11) would string along with their father Mohammed Haider to Imambara Sibtainabad for early morning Eid namaz every year. Back home they would gorge on sumptuous delicacies prepared by their mother. But this year as there will be no rush to visit imambara for offering Eid namaz, the brothers will themselves cook 'siwaiyan'. “My little brother is a good cook and he cooked a lot of delicious food during Ramzan. He posted videos on social media too. So I will be helping him in making 'siwaiyan' along with my mother. We would also make 'kheer' with the help of our father,” said the elder Ayan. As the lockdown has clouded Eid festivities this year and the festival will not be celebrated as a community where people of all religions and faiths come together, most families have come up with alternative plans for the day. Eid is expected to be celebrated on Monday, but a confirmation will be done only after moon sighting on Saturday evening. Nine-year-old Inaya Rizvi observed her first roza this Ramzan. As excited as she was to meet her grand-parents and friends on Eid, the young one disappointedly will make do with video calls. “I have a beautiful frock someone gave me a few months back which I have not worn since. It’s kept somewhere deep inside my cupboard, but nothing else can be done so I will wear that frock and wish all my friends and family on video call,” said Inaya. Resident of Lalbagh, Jamaal Mustafa is spreading the message of ‘No Eid shopping’ and is helping his neighbourhood tailor with work. “We used to buy new clothes every Eid, but this year it doesn’t feel right. My wife had some old cloth material kept at home, so to help the tailor nearby, we are getting them stitched. I’m also helping him in getting kurta pyjama orders from a few other men I know who wanted to help out,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/locked-indoors-children-brace-for-a-different-eid/articleshow/75906525.cms||Yusra Husain
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Shaheen Bagh opens for trade — after a 5-month ‘lockdown’||NEW DELHI: The streets of Shaheen Bagh bore a deserted look on Friday, two days after shops in the neighbourhood reopened following a gap of five months. The road, which was once a booming wholesale market, had been shut completely since December 16, when a small group of women came out of their homes and sat on the road to Kalindi Kunj to protest against the alleged police brutality on the students of Jamia Millia Islamia. “Nearly 200 shops in the market have been shut for the past five months. Even by conservative estimates, traders have collectively suffered a loss of over Rs 200 crore. Traders in the country have lost hope after being closed for just two months of the lockdown,” said Rohit Sankhayan, secretary of the Shaheen Bagh Market Association. The small group of women had come out of their homes shaken by the images of violence, resulting in a leaderless movement against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Hundreds of other women, including outsiders, had joined in, converting the site into a 24x7 sit-in protest, inspiring similar such ‘baghs’ all over the country. Even the Supreme Court had intervened in the issue, appointing special interlocutors to convince the women to open up the road as the vital stretch connected Delhi to Noida. The size of the gathering had reduced to counter the spread of Covid-19, with only five women remaining under the tent in the last few days of its existence. Police removed all the protestors on March 24 after the lockdown was imposed. Since then, signs that the neighbourhood was once the centre of protests have been wiped off. Barring a huge wall mural of the iconic dadis, all slogans and have been whitewashed and banners removed. However, it still appears that time has stood still at the Shaheen Bagh market. There are very few customers, most of the shops here still display their “winter collection”, having been unable to sell any of their wares since the protests forced the shops to shut mid-December. According to Sankhayan, shops started reopening on odd-even basis after the Delhi government’s order for Lockdown 4.0. “We disinfected all the shops before opening them. Masks and sanitisers have been distributed to every owner and salesmen. But there are no buyers,” he said. But shopkeepers have not lost all hope. “We suffered a loss of nearly 30 lakh because we could not sell any of the winter clothes. We don’t have any space to store the collection either, so we will have to dump them,” said Wasim Khan, the owner of a women's clothing brand. Khan believes that there was a “smear campaign” against the neighbourhood, which has made people uncomfortable with shopping in the area. “But we will continue our work,” he said. Others point out that things will get better for the shopowners once border restrictions between states are lifted. “A lot of our shoppers came from Noida. Since there is a restriction on travel at the moment, we have not even seen 10% of the customers when compared with the period before the protests,” said Danish, another shop manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shaheen-bagh-opens-for-trade-after-a-5-month-lockdown/articleshow/75906534.cms||Anam Ajmal
May 23, 2020||Goa||Registration process for IT sector to be eased, says CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has assured Goa’s IT sector that hurdles in availing the benefits under the IT policy will be removed in the coming days so that more IT firms can benefit from the notified schemes. Speaking to representatives of the industry in an online conference , Sawant also said that Goa’s IT sector needs to be promoted as it can help prevent migration and also boost the local economy. “Since many IT companies face difficulty in registering, we can consider giving relaxations. I shall talk to the IT director and remove whatever hurdles there are in the registration process. We will create a good environment for IT professionals,” said Sawant. He said that in a post-covid economy, there is scope to take the IT industry ahead. “If the sector can work from home, there is no need for migration from villages to cities,” Sawant said. He also said that he would discuss with the panchayat department and the department of technology to explore how fibre internet connectivity can be improved at the village-level. “ Taking the connection from the panchayat level to each home is will take time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/registration-process-for-it-sector-to-be-eased-says-cm/articleshow/75905565.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||2 more new Covid +ve from Yavatmal hotspot||Yavatmal: The city on Friday recorded two more new Covid positive patients from the hotspot area of Indira Nagar. One patient in the isolation ward of the GMCH tested negative after 14 days and was discharged. With this, the GMC isolation ward has now 16 positive patients. Indira Nagar has recorded the highest number of positive patients which now comes to 62 of whom 58 have recovered and discharged so far. Currently, only four patients from Indira Nagar are in the GMC isolation ward. Till date, the district has reported 112 positive cases of whom 96 have recovered and discharged to their respective home quarantines. Also, 25 swab samples have been sent to lab on Friday and reports awaited. Now, there are 484 persons in home quarantine. Meanwhile, district collector MD Singh has set up village-level committees under the chairmanship of talathi which will create awareness among the villagers. The committee will monitor people coming from outside the district and also ensure they follow the home quarantine norms strictly. The administration has also directed that no employee will leave their respective workplace till further orders. Wait for booze ends: As all liquor shops in the district were on Friday allowed to open between 9am and 5pm, there was huge rush of tipplers who appeared to be in high spirit after buying their favourite brand of booze after a gap of over two months. The customers are being subjected to mandatory thermo screening at the liquor shops. The customers and shop keepers have also been warned to ensure Covid distancing. Country liquor shops have also opened and there was considerable sale on the first day. Meanwhile, swab samples of the high risk contacts of positive patients from Umarkhed, Mahagaon, Pusad, Digras and Ner would be sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-more-new-covid-ve-from-yavatmal-hotspot/articleshow/75905571.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarkashi admin books Covid patient for hiding travel history||Uttarkashi: A Covid-19 patient in a village in Yamuna Valley region of Uttarkashi district has been charged under attempt to murder for allegedly reaching his home secretly and hiding his travel history from the administration. The revenue police have also booked the family of the accused, who returned from Mumbai and was declared Covid positive on May 20. This is the second such incident in a week in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarkashi-admin-books-covid-patient-for-hiding-travel-history/articleshow/75902763.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer-Ahmedabad flight from May 25||JAISALMER: After the Centre announced to restart domestic flight services at many places during lockdown 4.0, Spicejet has announced to start the Jaisalmer-Ahmedabad flight service six days a week from May 25. Jaisalmer Airport director B S Meena said flight services are going to resume and spicejet will run a flight between Ahmedabad to Jaisalmer from May 25. Guidelines are being followed to resume the opertions at the airport. Standees have been erected at the airport on which guidelines have been displayed for the passengers who are travelling. He said the flight from Ahmedabad will depart at 11.10am and reach Jaisalmer at 12.35pm. It will depart from Jaisalmer at 1.10pm. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-ahmedabad-flight-from-may-25/articleshow/75905544.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Compensate farmers for losses: MLA to mining co||Bicholim: During an inspection of agricultural fields allegedly destroyed by mining silt at Mayem, held on Friday, Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye on Friday instructed a mining company to compensate farmers as soon as possible . He directed the officials of the geology and agriculture departments present to submit the inspection report at the earliest. A farmer, Sakharam Pednekar, brought it to the notice of the Mayem MLA that the mining company was also responsible for destroying the Goyangane lake, Tirtha Bagh and other natural reservoirs. It may be recalled that following the alleged lackadaisical attitude of the mining company and the state government authorities to compensate farmers for the losses they faced after mining silt entered their farmlands, Mayem farmers led by Sakharam Pednekar, Vinayak Karbhatkar and others had blocked transportation of e-auctioned ore through the village. However, Bicholim deputy collector Sachin Desai and mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit had convinced the farmers to amicably settle the issue. It was also decided to conduct a site inspection of the fields that were affected. Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit and Mayem sarpanch Tulshudas Chodankar were also present at the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/compensate-farmers-for-losses-mla-to-mining-co/articleshow/75905540.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Reservation counters open, customers embrace new normal||Bhubaneswar: Close to two months since the trains stopped moving following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the East Coast Railway (ECoR) on Friday opened passenger reservation system (PRS) counters for the public at major railway stations under it's jurisdiction spread across Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. But unlike the crowd that used to be the norm in front of the booking counters, the first day saw a marked difference. Counters opened at 8 am and closed at 7 pm. People were seen standing on the circles drawn on the ground by railway staff to maintain physical distancing. There was no pushing and shoving, and the crowd also waited patiently and bought tickets one by one. They were also had their masks on. “My family stays in Hyderabad. I had come here to attend a family function. I could not return because of the lockdown. I need to go home so I came here to purchase a ticket in Faluknuma Express,” said KS Rao from Hyderabad. From June 1, the Indian Railways has announced to run 200 trains. Of these, 10 will run through Odisha. It will help passengers stranded in different parts of the country to return home. Besides, a pair of AC special trains has been running between New Delhi and Bhubaneswar. Railway reservation has been opened for the public in all classes of 230 trains, including 15 pairs of AC special trains. People can book reservation tickets online or purchase them from booking reservation counters. “Opening of booking centres will mark an important step in graded restoration of passenger railway services and making the task of ticket booking easy for prospective travellers, including migrants from all parts of India,” an official statement from ECoR stated. “I have been trying to book a ticket for Mughalsarai to return home. But I did not get a confirmed ticket. I will again try tomorrow,” said Somesh Singh from Uttar Pradesh. Bhubaneswar railway station sold around 100 tickets by 7pm on Friday. “We hope the number will increase in the days to come. People will start coming to the counters as and when they get news that they have opened,” said a senior railway officer. Around 400 tickets were sold at 10 stations of Khurda Road division. Cuttack station sold 50 tickets, while Puri and Berhampur sold 52 and 40 tickets, respectively till 3 pm. A total of 117 PRS counters had been opened in ECoR’s three divisions — Khurda Road (39), Waltair (30) and Sambalpur (48). Out of these, 87 counters were operational in Odisha alone, said a railway source. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/reservation-counters-open-customers-embrace-new-normal/articleshow/75904456.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Centre should boost locust warning organisation in Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday asked the Centre to strengthen the locust warning organisation in the state. He said due to the invasion of the pests, farmers had suffered a huge losses last year. Gehlot added that the locust menace was feared to be more intense this year and in such a situation, the government will have to face this challenge with efficiency. Gehlot was discussing locust control measures with collectors of the border districts, locust warning organizations and agriculture department officials through video conference. Since the work of locust warning organization is under the Centre, the central government should strengthen it and provide necessary resources, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-should-boost-locust-warning-organisation-in-raj-cm/articleshow/75905536.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Cyclone Amphan flattens betel farms in coastal districts||KENDRAPADA: Heavy rain in the past three days has damaged vegetable and betel crops in and Jagatsinghpur districts. “We have lost our vegetable crop. All the crops have been destroyed. Now returning the bank loan is a huge problem for us,” said Jagannath Sahoo, 45, a farmer of Mahakalpada. Farmer leaders blamed the faulty agriculture policy of the government for being responsible for the woes of farmers. “Their crops are never insured. As a result of which, they suffer in natural disasters like flood, cyclone and drought,” said Umesh Chandra Singh, president of Krusak Sabha, district unit. He said the government is yet to frame a concrete policy to insure agriculture lands. Amphan also hit the economy of around 10,000 betel-vine farmers in Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur districts. “Had there been no cyclone, we would have been harvesting our betel crops,” said Niranjan Swain, a 47-year-old farmer of Dhinkia village in Jagatsinghpur district. Also it has become difficult for farners to get returns on their investment in crops. “I spent around Rs 2 lakh to build the betel farms and plant the saplings over one acre of land. But the entire betel vine has been razed in the cyclone,” said Sankar Mallick of Gobindapur village in Jagatsinghpur district. Information and public relations minister Raghunandan Das visited the affected areas in Jagatsinghpur district on Friday. “The state government will assess the damage to crops in the next three days and survey the damage to houses and buildings in a week. All cyclone-hit farmers will be provided with loans from the government, cooperative societies and other financial organisations. Seeds will also be provided to all the affected farmers,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cyclone-amphan-flattens-betel-farms-in-coastal-districts/articleshow/75904468.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||AIIMS Jodhpur refuses treatment to staffer’s pregnant wife||Jodhpur: The gynaecology department of AIIMS, Jodhpur, allegedly refused to treat the pregnant wife of one its own nursing officer despite an emergency and insisted that she be taken to a private hospital citing ‘Covid policy’ as the couple lived in a hotspot locality. Disheartened, the man and his wife, both of whom are handcippped with problems in legs, kept on knocking on the doors of private centres for ultra sonography for the entire day. Finally they got response from a private hospital the next day (May 18) but by then it was too late and the woman’s pregnancy had to be terminated to save her life. On the complaint of the Nursing Officers Welfare Association, the AIIMS administration has initiated inquiry into the incident. “We have received the complaint and are looking into it,” said AIIMS superintendent Arvind Sinha terming it to be a miscommunication. Senior nursing officer at AIIMS Naresh Kumar Swami said his pregnant wife had sudden bleeding on May 17 and he rushed her to the emergency of the AIIMS. “But when I took her to the hospital, we were refused treatment because we were from a hotspot locality of the city,”said Swami. He said the doctor on duty said that she could not treat her as per the ‘Covid policy’ and insisted her to take her to some private centre despite my plea. “I took her to 3-4 centres but no one treated her and finally we came home. That night was hard to pass,” he said. Finally, with the help of some contact, he landed at a private hospital the next day, where his wife was immediately subjected to termination of her pregnancy in order to save her life. Swami said had she be taken care of at the AIIMS itself, he might have not lost his child. On Friday, taking a strong offence at the negligence with its own staff, the Nursing Officers’ Welfare Association of AIIMS, Jodhpur, submitted a memorandum to the director of the institute demanding stern action against the guilty. Joint secretary of the association, Gulab Singh, said many such incidents have occurred earlier also but no heed has ever been paid by the administration in absence of any proper communication channel. They have also demanded to put in place a grievance redressal mechanism for the nursing staff of the AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aiims-jodhpur-refuses-treatment-to-staffers-pregnant-wife/articleshow/75905575.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Eid namaz at homes today, no hugs or handshakes||Nagpur: Dawoodi Bohras will offer the Eid-ul-Fitr namaz at their homes on Saturday because of the ongoing restrictions on gatherings at places of worship among others. Similarly, rest of the Muslim community too has been advised by clerics to offer the Eid namaz and hold its sermon at home just like they have been doing for Friday prayers in the wake of lockdown since March. Muslims too won’t be able to offer namaz at eidgahs (open spaces) for Eid which they are likely to celebrate either on Sunday or Monday. Community guidelines have also been issued to avoid traditional hugs and handshakes and restriction on socializing after the Eid namaz. Masjids have been closed and only azaan (prayer calls) are given from them. Some members have prepared online namaz videos to help people offer prayers with their families at home. The videos will help women, who generally never offered namaz at eidgahs, to know the steps for this special prayer. Dawoodi Bohra community office-bearer Malik Asther Fidvi said, “Everyone has been asked to offer Eid namaz at home. Socializing has been discouraged and celebration would be within the family only.” Chartered accountant Huzaifa Sanawadwala said he plans to greet friends and relatives over digital platforms. “Eid milan will be not with hugs and handshakes this time. To respect law, we won’t venture out. Friends and relatives will be wished through video calling. We will have sheer khurma for home consumption. Traditional dishes like haleem, chicken gravy and dahi bade would be prepared,” he said. Altaf Ahmed, president Kutchi Memon Jamaat of Jama Masjid which organizes prayers at Sadar Eidgah, said elders have advised not to have any congregation on Eid day. Regarding handshakes and hugs, he said, “It is a personal choice to greet each with a simple Eid Mubarak or embrace among family members.” Darul uloom’s sheher quazi Maulana Murtuza Ahmed said the Eid namaz is not compulsory like Friday or the daily five-time prayers. “But since it is held once in a year, high importance it given to it. The administration has not relaxed norms to allow prayers. So, people should offer Eid namaz at home and read the sermon to their family members,” he said. Alternative medicine practitioner AR Parekh and Maulana Mehmood Alam have uploaded Eid namaz method on the YouTube channel ‘RozQuran’ for the convenience of all. They have also arranged for Khudba (sermon) on a virtual meeting app to be held at 9am on Eid day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eid-namaz-at-homes-today-no-hugs-or-handshakes/articleshow/75905601.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Covid claims 14th victim in Amravati, 11 recover||Amravati: The novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Friday claimed its 14th victim and added six more positive cases even as 11 fought it out successfully and returned home from the Covid Hospital all cured. A 30-year-old Covid positive youth from Patipura died late on Thursday night. Admitted to Covid Hospital with cough, cold and fever, the youth had tested positive on May 16 and has been under treatment since then. As his health went from bad to worse, he was put on ventilator. He breathed his last at 11.10pm on Thursday, said hospital sources. Fourth patient from Patipura, the youth became the second casualty from his locality after the home death of a 95-year-old woman on April 21, who had tested positive two days later. The Patipura youth’s death was also the sixth at Covid Hospital before or during treatment. The rest eight were home deaths, according to civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam. Masanganj and Lalkhadi localities, both hotspots, gave a positive case each today to take their count to 21 and 10, respectively. A seven-year-old boy, who had travelled with his family from Indore in Madhya Pradesh to Lohogaon village in Nandgaon Khandeshwar, was reported positive by Indore administration. He has been brought to Covid Hospital while nine members of his family have been put in institutional quarantine and their swabs have been sent for testing, said an official. Today's case from Masanganj is a 50-year-old woman, who is learnt to be a lemon seller. The 10th case from Lalkhadi is a 19-year-old boy. A 23-year-old boy from Shiv Nagar, third from the locality, a 29-year-old youth from Itwari Bazar close to Masanganj hotspot and a 50-year-old man from Bhatkuli, the first from this tehsil, also tested positive on Friday night. Meanwhile, the Covid Hospital gave a warm farewell to 11 patients — six female and five male — on Friday as they triumphed over the dreaded virus. The 11 include four from Masanganj and one each from Kholapuri Gate, Nandgaon Peth, Paratwada (a cop), Uttamnagar, Lalkhadi, Belpura and Ambika Nagar, the last two being health workers at Covid Hospital here. Meanwhile, the Covid ward here has 53 active cases now and eight of them are said to be in critical condition. Two are on ventilator and six, including a pregnant woman and a kid, are on oxygen, said a source. The district’s Covid count has now touched 145, including 14 deaths, 53 active cases, two referred to GMCH Nagpur, and 76 recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-claims-14th-victim-in-amravati-11-recover/articleshow/75905611.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||NWR opens limited number of ticket counters at stations||JAIPUR: After a gap of almost two months, the railway booking windows were opened by the North Western Railway (NWR) at select railway stations on Friday. These windows witnessed a minimal rush as people are mostly booking their tickets online. NWR has already announced restoration of nine of its trains while West Central Railway (WCR) has announced to start a train from Kota. On Friday, a moderate number of travellers thronged to the railway reservation counter at the Jaipur Junction railway station. “I have to book a ticket for myself to bring my wife back, who is stranded in Mumbai for the past two months. I have to be extra careful and cautious while travelling,” said Gaurav Singh, an IT professional who was seen in a queue. Passengers were though relieved to get nine trains from May 25. They said the railways should start more trains to other states including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “When everything has been gradually opening, they have not announced trains to cities like Indore, Chennai and some parts of South India,” said Ramesh Kumar, who came to book a train to Chennai from Jaipur but did not find any option. NWR has opened its reservation counters at select railway stations in various divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-opens-limited-number-of-ticket-counters-at-stations/articleshow/75905583.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||149 passengers arrive from London, sent to quarantine||JAIPUR: Altogether 149 migrant Rajasthanis stranded in the United Kingdom arrived here on a special flight from London on Friday afternoon via Delhi under the Centre’s Vande Bharat Abhiyan. Soon after landing, all passengers were sent to quarantine of 14 days for which they have to bear the charges including Covid-19 test, lodging and food. Relatives who came to receive them were not allowed to meet. A number of passengers complained that they were not informed about paid quarantine facility. The passengers first arrived at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi and from there they were brought to Jaipur in another flight. “We will receive 13 flights till June 1 in which around 2,000 expatriates will return to Rajasthan from Britain, Canada, Russia, Kazakhstan, Philippines, Kyrgyzstan and Georgia,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, Jaipur Airport told TOI. Immediately after arrival, the passengers were taken into the security area for medical examination including thermal screening. “Thermal screening and other tests were carried out keeping all passengers in groups of 20-20. We got the teams from the state government, police and others at the airport. Likewise, in batches of 20, these passengers were sent to different hotels across the city,” said an officer. However, the relatives of the passengers who had come to the airport were anxious and complained of poor treatment and fleecing by authorities. “ My brother Danish Hussain was studying at Manchester Metropolitan University. He has paid for his flight and they are charging Rs 3,000 per day for the quarantine. This is clear fleecing,” said Daniyal Chishty, who came from Ajmer to receive his brother. After customs clearance, the CISF officer handed over the passengers in groups of 20-20 to police. Passengers were given choices to choose the quarantine centres . The state government has placed three categories of standard, medium and high-class hotels for quarantine. These include major hotels like Marriott, Hilton, Bella Casa, Fern and Neerja Inn. Travelers will have to stay in the hotels for 14 days, whose costs will also be borne to them. The corona test will be done on the last day, which will also be paid by the passengers. Passengers will be able to return home only when the corona test report is negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/149-passengers-arrive-from-london-sent-to-quarantine/articleshow/75905568.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 23, 2020||Trichy||School teachers body condemns govt austerity measures||TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu Elementary School Teachers Mandram has demanded the roll back of austerity measures, announced by the state government in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. State president of the forum N Shanmuganathan condemned the decision to cut down annual fund allocation to government offices saying that it may appear to people that money was being spent unnecessarily at government offices and that the state was trying to rein in these expenses, but it was not the case. He added that the decision to stop fresh recruitments would disappoint youngsters who are giving competitive exams in pursuit of government jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-teachers-body-condemns-govt-austerity-measures/articleshow/75905578.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala can become a lab of new ideas: Sam Pitroda||THIRUVANANTHPURAM: Technocrat Sam Pitroda said that Kerala’s achievements in the healthcare sector were the results of decades-long efforts put forth by various governments and the public. "These achievements have a long tradition and backed by this tradition, Kerala can emerge as a model for the whole world in overcoming the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic," he said while inaugurating a webinar series on ‘India after Covid-19 pandemic: Challenges and priorities’ that was organized by Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies (RGIDS). Terming Kerala as ‘a champion in healthcare sector’, Pitroda said other states haven’t followed the ‘Kerala model’. "Kerala can be a model for the world in various sectors. The state should be able to emerge as a laboratory of new ideas," he said. Pointing out that it would be impossible to attain the previous order after overcoming existing challenges, Pitroda said the real challenge before the world is to create a new order of enhanced participation, equality and shareholding. "Kerala can play a leading role to attain this order and the state has all the expertise required. The state’s big assets are the prevailing atmosphere of religious harmony, huge scope for joint ventures and a committed expatriate population," he said. Pitroda said that RGIDS could also contribute greatly in achieving this new order and extended his complete support for any such initiative. He also said that the biggest challenge before the country was empowerment of 300 million Indians, including migrant labourers. The exodus of migrant workers is a big concern, and these workers – who build roads and buildings – form the basis of the country’s economy. The misery they are now undergoing is a shame for every Indian, he added. Stressing on the need for new models for creating new opportunities Pitroda said an ‘Indian model development’ was required to gain control over manufacturing sector which is now ‘China-centric’. "The world has lost its direction. Ongoing deliberations on development are still based on World Bank, IMF, GDP and GNP, which are development models envisaged 75 years ago and now obsolete," he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-can-become-a-lab-of-new-ideas-pitroda/articleshow/75902870.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Racket selling fake press IDs busted in UP, cops raid Delhi’s Moti Nagar to nab ‘editor’||Muzaffarnagar: The arrest of a man, a Class III dropout, for trying to pass-off as a journalist during lockdown with a fake press identity card led police in Muzaffarnagar to a five-member gang which was selling these IDs for Rs 2,100.People, some of them with criminal backgrounds, were using these IDs to get past police barricades and roam freely in the area.These IDs belonged to a non-existent newspaper, ‘Delhi Crime and Anti-corruption Morcha’. Now a police team has been sent to New Delhi’s Moti Nagar area to arrest its “editor” Prem Narayan.According to police, over 250 such fake IDs have been issued in the region.The racket was unearthed when a man, Salman, who used to work at a scrap shop, showed the ID to a senior police officer after being caught defying the lockdown in the city. He was arrested.On the basis of information given by him, five persons were caught for selling the IDs in upscale Civil Lines area.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muzaffarnagar, Abhishek Yadav, said, “The syndicate worked like multi-level marketing company (MLM) that does business by making members. They used to sell press cards. And all card holders were told to bring more customers for which they used to get commissions.”The case was filed against six persons and five of them have been arrested.One of the arrested accused, Satender Saini, told police that he has sold 250 press cards in Muzaffarnagar district at Rs 2,100 each. After the exposure, SSP launched a drive against those impersonating as journalists. At least 11 such people were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/racket-selling-fake-press-ids-busted-in-up-cops-raid-delhis-moti-nagar-to-nab-editor/articleshow/75904466.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 23, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University to set up UGAT centre in Patna||PRAYAGRAJ: Applicants from Bihar wanting to appear for Allahabad University’s (AU) Undergraduate Admission Test (UGAT) will no longer have to travel to Uttar Pradesh. The varsity will set up a UGAT test centre in Patna for the benefit of students who might not be able to make the required travel arrangements. According to the announced schedule, the entrance test for AU courses would be conducted August 1 onwards. “Earlier, Patna was one of the test centres for UGAT, but the practice was discontinued due to unknown reasons. In view of the fact that there would be a number of aspirants from various cities of Bihar who would like to appear in the entrance test, we would include Patna in the list of centres,” said director of AU admissions Prashant Agarwal. Apart from Patna, UGAT test centres would be set up in other UP cities too. “Apart from test centres in Prayagraj, candidates can appear for UGAT in Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Lucknow, Bareilly, Varanasi and New Delhi,” said Agarwal. Student leaders for long had been demanding that a UGAT centre be set up in Bihar as well. “Our planning would hold ground only if the government lifts curbs and allows universities to go ahead with entrance exams,” he added. Agarwal said, “This year aspirants will have to apply for the entrance online. Although the entrance test would be conducted in both online and off-line modes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-set-up-ugat-centre-in-patna/articleshow/75905617.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Annual eyesore: Tar balls mar several beaches across Goa||PANAJI/COLVA: Tar balls have started surfacing on Goa’s coastline, as several stretches of beaches in Pernem, Salcete and Canacona witnessed deposits of the oily, sticky residue turning their shores black on Thursday. With very few tourists and mostly only walkers and groups of youth playing football dominating the beach landscape, not many ventured into the water. The churning of currents on the high seas gives rise to the tar ball phenomenon, especially from May to October , fouling the water and the beach ambience. Passing ships are largely blamed for releasing oil waste in the sea. The tar balls created a mess on some beaches, especially along the long stretch from Colva and Benaulim to Mobor, as the deposits spread over the sand in a thin black film on some beaches and in thick oily globules on others, on Thursday. “There are hardly any tourists this year, but elderly persons having their traditional sea soak in summer come out during these days,” a local at Varca beach said. Drishti marine lifeguards kept cautioning visitors about the presence of tar balls, as it can cause irritation of the skin and eyes, and give rise to allergic reactions as well. On Friday, the situation had improved slightly on some beaches, as the oil was swept clean overnight. “The surfacing of tar balls has started. Though the tar ball deposits were fewer on Friday, the water appears muddy. It is the season for the phenomenon, we have to be prepared for the mess,” said a beach goer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/annual-eyesore-tar-balls-mar-several-beaches-across-state/articleshow/75905612.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 23, 2020||Cuttack||Rape laws shouldn’t be used to regulate intimate relationships: Orissa HC||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has ruled that indulging in sexual intercourse on the false pretext of marriage does not amount to rape. The high court said this while setting aside a lower court order that had rejected the bail plea of a person accused of committing rape on Thursday. Police had booked the person under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for committing rape on the basis of a complaint lodged by a 19-year-old girl. She had alleged that he had promised to marry her and taking advantage of her innocence, established a sexual relationship with her and made her pregnant. Justice SK Panigrahi said holding that false promise of marriage amounts to rape appears to be erroneous as the ingredients of rape codified under Section 375 of the IPC do not cover it. In his judgment, Justice Panigrahi said, “The definition of rape as codified in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code wherein rape has been defined as certain sexual acts when committed on a victim, falling under any of the seven descriptions: First; against her will; second; without her consent; third; with her consent, when consent has been obtained under fear of death or hurt, fourth; where consent has been given by the victim in the wrong belief that the man is her husband, fifth; when the consent is given when she is of unsound mind or intoxicated and unable to understand the nature of consequences of what she is consenting to, sixth; consent from a girl under the age of 18 years; and seventh; when she is not in a position to communicate the consent.” While recommending that the case deserves “a serious relook”, Justice Panigrahi observed, “The intention of the lawmakers is clear on this issue. The rape laws should not be used to regulate intimate relationships, especially in cases where women have agency and are entering a relationship by choice.” He, however, added, “It is also equally disturbing that many of the complaints come from the socially disadvantaged and the poor segments of the society and rural areas where women are often lured into sex by men on false promises of marriage and then dumped as soon as they get pregnant. The rape law often fails to capture their plight.” Justice Panigrahi further said, “It is an undeniable fact that our society is still largely conservative when it comes to matters of sex and sexuality. Virginity is a prized element. Even if such relationship existed, though it is unequivocally denied by the accused, a consensual relationship without even any assurance obviously will not attract the offence under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code.” In his judgment, Justice Panigrahi cited the recent case of Anurag Soni vs State of Chhattisgarh, where the Supreme Court attempted to make a distinction between a promise which is unfulfilled and a promise which is false from the very beginning. “The natural corollary that flows from it is that if a man can prove that he intended to marry the woman but changed his mind later, then it’s not rape. It’s only considered rape if it’s established that he had dubious intentions from the beginning of the relationship,” he said. “In yet another decision in Arak Sk. vs State of West Bengal, the Calcutta high court held that though the act of the accused in abandoning the girl he promised to marry on her becoming pregnant is highly reprehensible, such conduct by itself did not become a ground for holding the accused guilty of a charge of rape under Section 376 of the IPC,” he added. While granting bail to the accused, Justice Panigrahi said, “The factual matrix of the case is based on a prima facie view based on records, as so many aspects of the matter are hungry for a thorough trial and till that time the benefit of bail deserves to be passed on to the appellant (accused)”. The alleged victim of rape had lodged the complaint with the Patangi police station in Koraput district on November 27. The accused has been in custody since the court of sessions cum-special judge Koraput-Jeypore rejected his bail plea on December 11, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/rape-laws-shouldnt-be-used-to-regulate-intimate-relationships-orissa-hc/articleshow/75904472.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: DMK man’s biryani distribution lands 4 policemen in hot soup||COIMBATORE: Four cops have been transferred to police control room from Kuniyamuthur police station after they allegedly failed to inform their superiors about biryani distribution by a DMK functionary to a section of people, mostly Muslims, in violation of lockdown norms. According to sources, a DMK functionary had served biryani to around 1,500 people at Itteri near Athupalam on Wednesday. While Kuniyamuthur police special sub-inspector Selvaraj and head constable Dhanabal, who were on patrol in the area, came to know about this, they didn’t inform their superiors. The two, along with intelligence section special sub-inspectors Balusamy and Muruganandam, who failed to gather information about the gathering and biryani distribution and alert their superiors and assistant commissioner of police R Ramesh Krishnan, were transferred to city police control room on Thursday. The transfer order was issued by city police commissioner Sumit Sharan. A senior police official said, “All the police personnel should understand that it’s their responsibility to alert higher officials about the incidents that are taking place in violation of lockdown rules. If they fail to do so, they will face action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-mans-biryani-distribution-lands-4-policemen-in-hot-soup/articleshow/75904476.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Unemployed youth urge CM Ashok Gehlot to release ads for new recruitments||JAIPUR: The representatives of Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh - a group representing unemployed youth - on Friday submitted a memorandum to chief minister Ashok Gehlot urging him to release advertisements for 18 different recruitment exams and give clearance to pending recruitment of nearly 50,000 vacant posts in the state, as claimed by them. In the memorandum to the chief minister, convenor of the group Upen Yadav demanded to release the advertisements for RAS recruitment examination 2020, junior accountant, assistant radiographer, gramsevak, lab technician, computer teacher, forest, school teachers’ recruitment 2020, PTI recruitment, college lecturers’ recruitment, SI recruitment, LDC recruitment, recruitment for vacant posts in municipal corporations, institutions, college librarian recruitment, electricity department and water supply department. He urged the CM to release the advertisement for REET examination, 2020, and also requested him to waive off the transportation fare of the applicants who are preparing for competitive examinations. Yadav also urged the CM to give clearance to pending admissions in LDC panchayati raj recruitment 2013, nursing admission 2013, LDC recruitment 2018, senior teacher’s recruitment 2018, RAS recruitment 2018, recruitment of agriculture surpervisor, laboratory assistants, woman supervisors, anganwadi recruitment, stenographer and nursery teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployed-youth-urge-cm-to-release-ads-for-new-recruitments/articleshow/75905609.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Three booked under Pocso||Coimbatore: Three people, including a student, were booked under Pocso Act in separate cases in the city in the last two days. In the first case, a 17-year-old boy from Ganapathy, a Class XI student, was booked for abducting a mnior girl from his school and taking her to his grandmother’s house in Karur, where he allegedly molested her.  In the second case, a 24-year-old man was arrested for sexually assaulting a minor girl in Pollachi. Police said Vigneshwaran, the accused forcibly married the girl in a temple on May 16 and sexually assaulted her. Vigneshwaran has been sent to Coimbatore central prison.In the third case, 33-year-old Ramesh, a native of Sivaganga , was arrested for sexually assaulting a Class X student at his rented house in PN Pudur. Police said, he was working as an electrician. He befriended the girl student at Podanur and promised to marry her. On May 17, he took her to his room and molested her. Based on the girl’s complaint, police arrested Ramesh on Thursday and remanded him in judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-booked-under-pocso/articleshow/75904488.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Vadodara||Two new Covid-19 cases in Narmada||Vadodara: After 11 days, Narmada district registered two more positive cases of Coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 15. The district had last reported a positive case on May 11 from Garudeshwar taluka. The authorities said that a 48-year-old man and a 10-year-old boy have tested positive for the virus. While the man is from Rajpipla the boy is from Nandod taluka of the district. The authorities have done door-to-door survey of over 67,000 residents in the district and also distributed ayurvedic and homeopathy medicines. Earlier, the district had witnessed 12 positive cases but the authorities have managed to bend the curve over last one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-narmada/articleshow/75900923.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Distribute relief fund to all tribals: Activists||Coimbatore: Tribal activists want the state government to provide coronavirus relief fund to all members of the tribal community. Most of them did not receive the fund as they did not register with the tribal welfare board, the activists said.To tackle the crisis situation, the government has been distributing Rs 1,000 per month to all those possessing a certificate from tribal welfare board.Tribal rights activist S Thanaraj said that close to 1,500 families, which is 70% of the families residing in Pollachi and Anaimalai region, did not receive the fund because they did not have the certificate. “While most of them were not even aware of the certificate and its benefit, others had stopped trying to get it after they were pushed from pillar to post while applying,” he said.The government can collect information about the tribals within hours with the help of departments including the forest department and revenue department that are working closely with them, V S Paramasivam of the Tamil Nadu Tribal People’s Association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/distribute-relief-fund-to-all-tribals-activists/articleshow/75904489.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Sewage from naval bldgs fouling natural spring, allege Vasco locals||Vasco: Locals of Vaddem, Vasco, have alleged that residents of the naval buildings at Shantinagar have been discharging their sewage into a nullah, which seeps into a natural spring at Chaferan-Vaddem. Local councillor Kritesh Gaonkar said that he had inspected the area about two months ago and had noticed the same. “During the inspection it was observed that the residential buildings of the Navy were discharging sewage into the nullah, which was then seeping in the natural spring at Vaddem. I had asked the municipal inspector of the Mormugao municipal council (MMC) to issue a notice to the Navy regarding the same, but no action has been taken by MMC,” Gaonkar told TOI, adding that he has taken up the matter again with the municipality. Vaddem locals said that of late, the age-old sweet water spring has started to stink, and has become contaminated. A Navy official told TOI that following complaints from the locals, “on Friday morning, at about 10.30am, a team of the Indian Navy, including engineers from Military Engineering Services (MES), undertook a comprehensive survey of the entire area”. “After the survey, it has been ascertained that while there was a small pool of stagnant water inside the defence area close to the boundary, there was no waste water released into the nullah or the civil area. Upon testing, it was ascertained that the stagnant water was treated water overflow from the sewage treatment plant (STP) inside the defence residential area,” the naval officer said. “Further, water had accumulated in a foundation trench, dug for the security wall under construction. The overflow of treated water has been plugged immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sewage-from-naval-bldgs-fouling-natural-spring-allege-vasco-locals/articleshow/75905618.cms||Ruvina Khan
May 23, 2020||Trichy||Tea shop fined Rs 3,000 for not maintaining social distancing||TRICHY: City corporation officials on Friday levied a penalty of Rs 3,000 on a tea shop for not ensuring social distancing on the shop’s premises and for allowing dine-in service. Ponmalai zone officials said that they received a complaint about the shop, located on Rockins road near Trichy railway junction, attracting a huge crowd. The sanitary officials inspected the shop and found customers thronging the outlet without observing physical distancing. The owner of the tea stall was fined Rs 3,000 on the spot by the officials. “We have repeatedly instructed the commercial outlets not to offer dine-in service and told them to make sure social distancing was observed. Erring shops will be heavily penalised,” V Tirupati, sanitary inspector, Ponmalai zone, said. Corporation officials in Ponmalai zone has so far penalised 6-7 shops to the tune of Rs 40,000 for flouting social distancing norms at localities including Head post office, Heber Road and Cantonment. The officials opined that strict enforcement of safety norms is missing in the three other zones falling under the corporation limits-Ariyamangalam, K Abishekpauram and Srirangam. They said that support from revenue and police departments was not to the desired level to initiate spot penalisation in these zones. “A team comprising of officials from revenue and police departments should be formed to ensure social distancing in vulnerable spots. Without help from revenue and police department, it is difficult for us to act alone,” a civic body official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tea-shop-fined-rs-3000-for-not-maintaining-social-distancing/articleshow/75905610.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Double whammy for migrant zari worker||HYDERABAD: It was supposed to be a special Eid for Hasem Ali. He had decided to finally build a pucca house for his family back in Uluberia, Howrah, when he returned for the festival. Little did he know that it would turn out to be the darkest Eid of his life. The zari worker, who lost his livelihood to the lockdown in March, has now lost his mud home to cyclone Amphan. “I am returning with no money and no home to live in. For two years, I have been coming to Hyderabad only because I wanted to give my three children a quality education and build a house for them. Now, I have to start life all over again,” the 41-year-old migrant worker said, as the Shramik Express he was travelling in, chugged out of Bhubaneshwar. He grief in his voice was hard to miss. After running from pillar to post, Ali had finally managed a seat on the Hyderabad-Howrah train, on Thursday night. Sharing the horror that his family suffered, the day Amphan made a landfall in Bengal, he said: “There were 12 people inside a three-room mud house, including my aged mother, when the cyclone hit. First the tarpaulin sheet on the roof got damaged and then, the branches of a tree fell on the house and destroyed it.” The family has now taken shelter in the neighbour’s pucca house. “Once I reach (late on Friday night), I’ll have to find a way to repair it. It is going to be tough since my two bothers — all the three families live together — have also been out of work,” said Ali who used to make Rs 20,000 a month, prior to the lockdown. He hasn’t received any salary since March. When TOI had caught up with him earlier, at his rented house in Syed Nagar, Ali and his six other room mates were surviving on food being distributed by NGOs. His employer, who runs a boutique, had shut shop indefinitely. But while two back-to-back crises has left Ali monetarily and emotionally drained, they have certainly failed to break his spirit. “Maybe this was destined; but it will pass. When work resumes again, my employer has said he’ll call me. I’ll come back to Hyderabad and start building my resources again,” Ali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/double-whammy-for-migrant-zari-worker/articleshow/75905631.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 23, 2020||Allahabad||Woman gives birth to twins on Shramik Speical train, both infants die||PRAYAGRAJ: A 21-year-old woman delivered a pair of twin boys in a moving Shramik Speical train while travelling to Varanasi from Vapi in Gujarat on Friday in Sirathu. However, the newborn twins died hours later after they were rushed to a primary health centre and hospital for treatment. The woman was identified as Gayatri Devi and she was eight months pregnant. She was travelling along with her husband Bhaiya Lal. Gayatri gave birth to twin boys in the moving train sometime after the train crossed Bharwari in Kaushambi with the help of other women passengers. As soon as the authorities got the news, the train was made to stop at platform number three of Sirathu railway station around 12.50pm and the mother and the twins were rushed to the Sirathu primary health centre in an ambulance.  However, one of boys died at the primary health centre. Gayatri and her other baby were then taken to Kaushambi district hospital. “The women had a premature delivery. The babies were underweight and one of them had died even before the ambulance reached the district hospital. The other baby was alive when they were brought to the district hospital, but by the time we could put him on oxygen he died,” said chief medical superintendent of Kaushambi district hospital Dr Deepak Seth. Gayatri was later admitted to the isolation ward of the district hospital. Gayatri and her husband were natives of Guruvat village, under Cholapur police station, of Varanasi. They were travelling in Shramik Special (09505), which was plying between Vapi and Mau. Officials said that Gayatri was forced to undertake the train journey despite her doctors’ advice as she and her husband had been stranded away from home because of the lockdown. “The train was stopped at Sirathu railway station as soon as we got the news. She was then rushed to Sirathu PHC in an ambulance along with the babies,” said Amodh Singh, who is the RPF head constable posted at Sirathu railway station.The train had crossed Prayagraj around 11.55am and was moving towards Kanpur, from where it had to go to Lucknow and Varanasi before reaching its final destination Mau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/woman-gives-birth-to-twins-on-shramik-spl-train-both-infants-die/articleshow/75905632.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||First in UP: Cancer patient beats Covid-19||LUCKNOW: A 66-year-old cancer patient defeated Covid-19 and discharged from KGMU on Friday. The male patient had esophagus (food pipe) cancer and was diagnosed with novel coronavirus in May 14. He returned home after eight days of treatment. Besides, two high-risk patients with heart conditions were also discharged. The 26-year-old woman, who recently gave birth to a child though C-section conducted due to complications during pregnancy at KGMU’s Queen Mary’s hospital, too, recovered and was sent home. Total five patients were discharged on Friday. “It is UP’s first case of a cancer patient being successfully treated for Covid-19. Recovery of patients with comorbidities is a moral booster,” vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt said. “Cancer patients have low immunity, hence we took all possible care during treatment,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. The patient had received radiotherapy in KGMU in 2019 under Dr Singh. “It came as a relief to see patients at an advanced age of cancer and high comorbidities can also beat the virus,” he added. “The patient had mild cough and gastroenteritis. He had difficulty in eating due to cancer, but we managed everything,” said incharge Covid-19 unit Dr D Himanshu. The patient is a resident of a hotspot area of Sadar. “I wasn’t scared when I was told that I have the virus. I packed my clothes and left for the hospital,” he told TOI over phone. “The staff was good to all of us. I am relieved to be back home,” he added. “I had no symptoms and my swab sample were taken thrice and every time it came negative, but then I received a call from the officials that I was positive and should be isolated,” he said. The two heart patients, who recoveredon Friday included a 70-year-old male from Kaiserbagh and a 56-year-old female resident from Sadar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-in-up-cancer-patient-beats-covid/articleshow/75906561.cms||Yusra Husain
May 23, 2020||Kanpur||Two more tested positive, district’s tally reaches 325||KANPUR: Two more people tested positive for coronavirus in the city on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases in the city to 325. “One of the patient belongs to Deputy Padav area while other hails from Barra-2 area. Both have been admitted to Covid 19 hospital,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The CMO said, “The death toll remained stable at 9, while active cases declined to 28,” adding said that the condition of both the persons tested Covid-19 positive on Friday is stable. Both, Deputy Padav area and Barra -2 localities, where the two infected patients were staying were sanitised on Friday. The CMO said that the person who had succumbed to Covid-19 in the district on Thursday was identified as a native of Basti district. “The 42-year-old man was admitted to emergency unit of Lala Lajpat hospital on Wednesday, later suspecting him to be infected with coronavirus, he was shifted to Covid hospital in neuro science centre, where he died on Thursday,” Dr Shukla said. “He had a chronic history of diabetes, high blood pressure and was vomitting blood and had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome leading to death,” he said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-more-tested-positive-districts-tally-reaches-325/articleshow/75905645.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Court rejects bail plea of Pollachi rape case accused||Coimbatore: The district mahila court has dismissed the bail petition of a prime accused in the Pollachi rape case.Earlier, K Thirunavukkarasu, 26 of Makkinampatti near Pollachi, had moved the court online, seeking bail stating that he had been behind bars for more than 465 days and that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had not only arrested all the accused but filed chargesheet also.He was arrested on March 5, 2019, in connection with the gangrape of a 19-year-old college girl on February 24, 2019.Pointing out that the case trial was to commence soon, the CBI in its reply said there were chances of him tampering with evidence if he were to walk out of jail on bail and requested the court to turn down his bail application.After hearing both the sides, mahila court judge J Rathika dismissed Thirunavukkarasu’s bail plea on Thursday.Other accused, who were arrested in the case, include N Sabarirajan, 25, of Jothi Nagar, N Sathish, 29, of Suleeswaranpatti, T Vasanthakumar, of Pakkothipalayam, and R Manivannan, 30, of Aachipatti near Pollachi.During inquiry it was revealed that the gang had raped a couple of women and videographed the act.The case was initially handled by the Pollachi town police and then transferred to the Crime Branch CID. The case was transferred to the CBI when prison authorities got information that there was a threat to the life of all the five accused in the rape case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-pollachi-rape-case-accused/articleshow/75904480.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Tally of infected inmates in jails reaches 204||JAIPUR: Thirteen more inmates tested positive for coronavirus here on Friday taking the tally of infected inmates to 204. With fresh cases being reported from jails, the health department has issued standard operation procedure (SOP) for jail inmates in which Covid-19 test has been made compulsory before sending accused to jail or police custody. Across the state, two persons died while 267 others tested positive taking the tally of cases to 6,494. The deaths happened in Pali district, its 5th fatality, while Kota reported its 14th death bringing toll to 153. The districts which reported new cases are Pali (30), Jaipur (29), Dungarpur (27), Nagaur (27), Jodhpur (21), Kota (20), Sirohi (18), Barmer (14), Udaipur (12), Banswara (9), Sikar (8), Dholpur (8), Bhilwara (7), Ajmer (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Jalore (6), Bharatpur (4), Churu (4), Jaisalmer (3), Dausa (2), Pratapgarh (2), Chittorgarh (1), Rajsamand (1), Bikaner (1) and one person from other state. Among the 267 fresh cases, 149 were migrants who came from other states to various districts here. The tally of migrants who tested positive has increased to 1,290. In the state, 195 more persons were cured of Covid-19, bringing the count of recovered cases to 3,680. Jaipur has the highest number of cured cases at 1,106, followed by Jodhpur (861) and Kota (272). However, the number of active cases have been constantly increasing in the past few days. While on Thursday, it was 2,591, it increased to 2,661 on Friday. The 13 inmates who tested positive in Central jail are from Ramganj (4), one each from Transport Nagar, Ghat Gate, Sanganer, Jalupura, Chandpole, Van Vihar Eidgah, Shastri Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Jobner, Karnpura, Ranjan Colony and RD hostel. In RD hostel, a doctor was found infected. Health department has issued SOP for jails in compliance of the orders issued by the high court. A jail ward will be created at district level. The accused arrested by the police will be brought to the jail ward at the Covid care centre, where doctors will take their samples. It will be ensured that the report is issued the same day. Once the accused tests negative, he will be sent to judicial or police custody accordingly. If he tests positive, he will be sent to 21-day isolation, says the directions issued by Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Till now, 204 jail inmates have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tally-of-infected-inmates-in-jails-reaches-204/articleshow/75905620.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Erode||Erode ends 37-day Covid-19 free run||ERODE: After a lull of 37 days, Erode district recorded a new Covid-19 case on Friday when a 50-year-old man from Kavindapadi tested positive for the virus. A returnee from Chennai, he was tested negative for the novel coronavirus when he entered the district some 10 days ago. He was subsequently asked to remain in home quarantine. Meanwhile, he went to Gobichettipalayam as part of his work. He met with an accident on Gobichettipalayam-Erode highway, fracturing his leg. Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of health, Erode district, said, “He was initially admitted to the government hospital in Erode town and then shifted to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH) on Wednesday evening.” Doctors in Salem collected throat swabs and blood samples from him for Covid-19 test before performing surgery on him. “He was tested positive for the virus. Health officials are trying to trace his travel history and contacts,” the official said. Health department officials said they have collected throat swabs and blood samples from his family members and neighbours, besides spraying disinfectants in and around his residential area. District collector C Kathiravan has instructed the health officials to trace the close contacts of the new patient. Similarly, Krishnagiri district also reported a new case, taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 22 from 21. In this case also, the patient is a returnee from Chennai. “He is a 52-year-old driver from Alasanatham village near Hosur. He had gone to Chennai as part of his work on May 17. He returned home on Wednesday. We had taken samples from him the same day. He is admitted to the government hospital in Krishnagiri,” said a health department official. Dharmapuri collector S Malarvizhi, meanwhile, said the district was free of Covid-19 patients. Five people were tested positive for the virus in the district and all of them have been discharged from the government medical college and hospital, where they were undergoing treatment. “A railway woman cop was the last patient. She was discharged from the hospital on Thursday evening,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-ends-37-day-covid-19-free-run/articleshow/75905627.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Pollution board slaps Rs 3.6 lakh fine on Mapusa residential bldg||Panaji: Practising the ‘polluter pays principal’, the Goa Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has issued an order levying a fine of Rs 3.6 lakhs on a residential complex in Mapusa for causing damage to the environment.GSPCB member secretary Shamila Monteiro in the order said that the board had received a complaint from Goa Foundation about pollution caused by the residential complex ,following which, an inspection of the complex located at Peddem, Mapusa, was conducted. “It was observed that you are operating without the consent of the board, without adequate waste water and solid waste management and without an STP installed,” Monteiro said in the order.Monteiro said that in the light of the observation and in terms of the guidelines adopted by the board , it has assessed that a compensation of Rs 3.6 lakh is required to be recovered from the unit as compensation for damage to the environment, that will subsequently be spent by the board for the restoration of the environment.The board issued an order to the building’s housing and maintenance society under section 33 (A) of the Water (prevention and control of pollution) Act, 1974, and under section 31 (A) of the Air (prevention and control of pollution) Act, 1981, and directed to deposit the fine to the board.“Failure to comply with the aforesaid directions within the stipulated time period would compel the board to initiate stringent legal action against you in terms of the provisions of the Water and Air Acts and direction of the principal bench of the National Green Tribunal at New Delhi, without any further notice,” Monteiro said Goa Foundation in its complaint had said the leaking sewage from the project is a problem not just for the numerous persons residing in the flats , but also the general public, as the complex was located in a busy area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-board-slaps-rs-3-6-lakh-fine-on-mapusa-residential-bldg/articleshow/75905628.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris to enter green zone soon||Udhagamandalam: With no fresh cases of COVID-19 registered in the Nilgiris district for the past 13 days and its two active cases likely to be discharged in a day or two, the Nilgiris district could soon move to the green zone. The administration has stepped up bandobast at all check posts and entry points in the district, with thermal screening mandated for people entering the district. Those coming from hotspot areas and other states have to undergo institutional quarantine for 7 days. “To contain coronavirus in the district, creating awareness among people is being done on a war-footing. There has been no report of Covid-19 cases in the district for the past two weeks”, said J Innocent Divya, district collector. Teams of frontline workers have been deputed at all check posts. Registration numbers of vehicles entering the district are noted along with their addresses and contact numbers. Thermal screening is done for every one entering the district. The district has registered 14 cases of Covid-19 so far. While 12 cases have recovered and have been discharged, two people, including a woman, are being treated at ESI hospital in Coimbatore. Two containment areas, one in Najanadu panchayat and another in Selas in Coonoor taluk, have been sealed and are being monitored. The last positive case was reported in the district on May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-to-enter-green-zone-soon/articleshow/75905637.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wholesale price of tomato down to as low as Rs 1/kg at Azadpur||NEW DELHI: With negligible demand from hotels and restaurants and restricted entry for retail buyers in the mandi complex, the wholesale prices of tomato and onion have crashed drastically in the last few weeks at the Azadpur Agricultural Produce Auction Committee’s auction yard. While tomato, which sold at Rs 4- 20 per kilo at Azadpur, Asia’s biggest vegetable and fruit auction yard, last year, was available for up to Rs 6 per kilo on Friday, onion was selling Rs 2 to 9.5 per kilo. In May 2019, onion sold at up to Rs 13 per kilo in the wholesale market though the prices surged in the following months after inclement weather destroyed the crop. The retail prices of both the kitchen staple, however, remained high with local shopkeepers pocketing higher profit margins. Both onion and tomato, otherwise, have a high demand in Delhi due to a large number of hotels, restaurants and eating joints. Due to a good crop in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, the supply of onion at Azadpur is high. But its export has crashed due to the lockdown, which has also brought down the retail price. “The sale is just about 50-60% of the stock. On Thursday, we got a supply of about 600 tonnes, while the sale was around 350-odd tonnes,” onion traders’ association secretary Shrikant Mishra said. The restaurant and hotel owners source vegetables directly from Azadpur, he said. Gautam Bhatia, a vegetable exporter, said the supply of onion to Singapore, Malaysia, Dubai and Sri Lanka has dropped drastically. “There is no demand from these countries. We are only sending a small quantity to Bangladesh by train,” he said. Azadpur not only caters to more than 80% of total demand in Delhi, it also supplies vegetables and fruits to various north Indian states. But “due to restrictions, going to Delhi is difficult during the lockdown. We managed to source onion directly from a farmer in Madhya Pradesh. We will continue the same arrangement even after the lockdown”, said Pradeep Kumar Kasana of Damyanti Trading, a wholesaler based in Greater Noida. For social distancing, APMC has restricted the entry of retailers by issuing a fixed number of tokens daily, affectimg the sale further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wholesale-price-of-tomato-down-to-as-low-as-rs-1/kg-at-azadpur/articleshow/75906540.cms||Atul Mathur
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Domestic flights set to take off from city||Coimbatore: Flight services to Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and New Delhi will commence from the city airport from June 1. There will be six flights to and from Chennai, three to Bengaluru, two to New Delhi and a flight to Hyderabad. While there are provisions for flights to Mumbai and back, airlines are yet to announce their schedule to the financial capital of the country for June.Fare wise, flying to northern parts of the country is too expensive, while southern destinations are priced rather reasonably.According to the flight schedule released by the director general of civil aviation on Thursday night, Indigo will operate 10 flights to and from the city and Spice Jet, two. People have a plethora of options to Chennai with flights departing from 7.10am till 8.20pm. There are two mid-day flights too departing at 2.20pm and 4.15pm. The same options are available for return journey as well.There is, however, only one early morning flight to New Delhi and that would take off from the city at 6.20am. The next flight to the national capital is scheduled to depart from the city at 10am. From Delhi, there is a flight to the city at 7.05pm.There isn’t any morning flight to Bengaluru. All the three flights to the southern destination are in the evening – one at 2pm, another at 5.40pm and the third one at 9.15pm. From Bengaluru, there is a flight to the city at 5pm and another one at 7.55pm.While there will be a flight to Mumbai from the city for five days from May 25, as of now airlines have not announced any service to the destination for June. From May 25 to 29, the flight will depart from the city at 2.30pm and land in Mumbai at 4.25pm.The flight to Hyderabad would, meanwhile, leave the city around 2.30pm.Most of the flight services are on the expensive side. A round trip to Mumbai is priced at Rs 15,000, compared to Rs 9,000 in the past. A two-way trip to New Delhi would cost one at least Rs 17,000, which is almost 70% higher than the usual Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000.However, at Rs 6,400 and Rs 8,000, round trips to Chennai and Bengaluru, and Hyderabad are welcomed by people. A senior official with the city airport said, “While airlines could have charged up to Rs 6,000 for one-way trip to Chennai, they have priced it at only around Rs 3,000. Similarly, flights to Hyderabad could have charged the flyers anywhere between Rs 3,000 and Rs 9,000 for one-way trip, but they have charged only Rs 4,000, which is welcome for increasing air traffic.”Industrialists say the current fares are unlikely to encourage business travel. Ganesh Jagadeesan, chairperson of Confederation of Indian Industries, Coimbatore, says, “Business air travel is going to be extremely low for at least the next two months as people have gotten used to online meetings. And with safety concerns and austerity measures in place, many companies are not encouraging business travels for now.” Government-run Air India hasn’t announced any flights to and from the city so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/domestic-flights-set-to-take-off-from-city/articleshow/75904497.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kanpur||DM suspends licence of fair price shop||Kanpur: District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Friday suspended the license of a fair price shop, owned by woman licensee Asha Maral and issued show cause notice to her to explain why action should not be taken against her. The ration card holders of Asha Maral’s shops had lodged a complaint against her that instead of using valid weights she weighed grocery by bricks and use bottles to distribute grain.. When some mediapersons cross-checked the allegations, the woman license holder told them that she weighed grain by using brick and none could take action against her as she had managed the authorities concerned. The news and the complaint forced the district supply officer to conduct an inquiry. The supply inspector allegedly colluded with the license holder and camouflaged the report. The senior supply officer rejected the supply inspector’s report and conducted an inquiry himself in compliance of an order given by ADM (civil supplies) Basant Agarwal. The senior supply officer met the ration card holders and found that the charges levelled against the shop owner were correct. The district supply officer then recommended to the DM to suspend license and quota of the fait price shop. District supply officer Akhilesh Kumar Srivastava stated that the charges levelled against licensee Asha Maral were correct. She would not only disburse grain less in quantity but used to charge extra money from consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dm-suspends-licence-of-fair-price-shop/articleshow/75905697.cms||Anant Chandak
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||17,014 acres to be brought under reserve forest regime||Udhagamandalam: As much as 17,014 acres in 107 blocks, falling under Section 53 of janmam Act, will soon to be notified as reserve forest under Section 16-A of the Tamil Nadu Forest Act 1882. A review meeting conducted by chief conservator of forests P Durairasu on Friday reviewed the progress on notification of the land and decided to finalise the process for notifying it as reserve forest. The 17,014 acres are forest land under Section 53 of the janmam Act, district forest officer Sumesh Soman said. “The process is an amendment to bring it under the reserve forest category. The stipulated period for notification has been fixed as June 30.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17014-acres-to-be-brought-under-reserve-forest-regime/articleshow/75904494.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Man demands compensation from lover, arrested||Coimbatore: The city police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old man for demanding compensation of Rs 5 lakh from his 23-year-old lover after she separated from him four months ago and avoided him completely. He told the police that he was in love with the woman and had spent his earnings for her. M Krishnakumar, 25, of Machampalayam, is a salesman in a private mobile showroom. He was in love with a 23-year-old college student. Krishnakumar had allegedly lavishly shelled out his earnings to spent time with the girl and buy her gifts. Meanwhile, she started to avoid him due to difference of opinion and stopped speaking with him. On May 17, Krishnakumar went to his lover's house and picked up a quarrel with her for ditching him. He demanded compensation of Rs 5 lakh from her for cheating. He also threatened her that he would upload intimate photographs of them on social media. Based on the woman's complaint, the Kuniyamuthur police registered a case against Krishnakumar under sections 294(b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place) 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) and 506(ii) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (Penalty for harassment of woman) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women (TNPWH) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-demands-compensation-from-lover-arrested/articleshow/75904500.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Three men held for killing wild boar in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Three Thirumalainaickenpalayam residents were arrested on Thursday for killing a wild boar using country bombs. Maarimuthu, 62, Arumugam, 49 and Balamurugan, 42, were sharing the meat on a patta land near Kanavapalayam when they were apprehended, forest ranger Suresh said. “The men own land on the fringes of Kattanji Karadu in Periyanaickenpalayam forest range. They were carrying six more country bombs,” he said. Wild boar is a protected species under the Indian Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. Country bombs are made using black powder stolen from rock blasting sites and mines, and white stone. “White stones collected from forest are crushed into tiny pieces and mixed with the black powder. It is then wrapped in a thick paper and hidden in the meat of buffalo or goat. The smell of the meat attracts boars and the bomb explodes when they bite it,” added Suresh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-men-held-for-killing-wild-boar/articleshow/75904501.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Undo changes to labour law, say trade unions||Coimbatore: Members of several labour unions on Friday staged a protest demanding withdrawal of draconian changes to labour laws. Members of INTUC, AITUC, CITU, AICCTU, LPF, MLF and HMS participated in the protest that took place in front of the head post office and at several labour union offices across the district. K Balasubramaniam, district president of AICCTU, said, “We strongly condemn the central government’s decision to increase the working hours from 8 to 12 hours a day as it would increase the burden on workers. Working class people have struggled for decades together to make eight hours per day of work a norm. It is just unacceptable that several states, including Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, have announced an increase in working hours.” This apart, he said the unions have condemn the Centre’s move to reduce PF percentage from 12% to 10%. “Most decisions taken by the government are not for the welfare of workers,” he said. The trade unions have been requesting the government to provide all workers a financial assistance of Rs 7,500 per family for three months to help them meet their day-to-day expenses during the crisis period, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/undo-changes-to-labour-law-say-trade-unions/articleshow/75905643.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||390 flouted home quarantine norms shifted to institutional quarantine||JAIPUR: As many as 390 migrants were shifted from home quarantine to institutional quarantine after they flouted norms in the past few days. “People who are in home quarantine are strictly monitored and those who violate it are first counselled and then sent to institutional quarantine. Monitoring of people in home quarantine is done through Covid Quarantine Alert System (CQAS) through the department of information and technology (DoIT). If any person breaches the quarantine, then information is received on CQAS and immediately action is taken,” said Veenu Gupta, head of a state-level quarantine committee constituted by the state government. The state government has made provisions for all the migrant labourers returning to the state to stay quarantined for 14 days. These labourers are screened while entering the border of the state and if no symptoms are found then they are asked to remain in home quarantine. If they have influenza-like symptoms, the person is sent to institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/390-flouted-home-quarantine-norms-shifted-to-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/75905629.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kanpur||No temporary dams as Ganga level maintained||KANPUR: It is after 17 years that the Jalkal department will not be raising temporary dam in Ganga this year as water level of the river is maintained between 358 and 359 foot. In the past years, the department used to raise a temporary dam near Bhairoghat pumping station to raise level of water so that pumps at the pumping station could work properly and supply the required amount of water to the city. It appears that the lockdown has proved a boon for the Jalkal department which has saved the cost of raising a temporary dam as well as cost of water treatment because the quality of Ganga water has improved. According to Jalkal department sources, since all factories were closed in the lockdown period, therefore, the demand of water has also reduced. Secretary, Jalkal department, RB Rajput said since the water level of Ganga is maintained between 358 and 359 foot, therefore, the department is not raising the temporary dam. During the past few years, it had to raise a temporary dam to raise water level at pumping station. “For raising a temporary dam, the department used to make a wall in river stream by using gunny bags filled with sand for which it had to spend around f Rs 10 to Rs 15 lakh. Moreover, almost every year, flood in river would wash away the temporary dam”, he said. “The city faces water crisis every year from the month of March, but this year it is not so, otherwise the department have to press three to six dredgers in the river to make a depth channel for proper supply of water”, he added. The secretary stated that due to improved water quality, the Jalkal department was spending a very small amount on chemicals. “In normal days, it uses around 8 to 9 tonnes of alum and lots of chlorine but this year, due to lockdown, this expenditure has reduced due to improved quality of river water”, he said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-temporary-dams-as-ganga-level-maintained/articleshow/75905723.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 23, 2020||Kanpur||‘Detect links to find source of infection’||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde at a review meeting held here on Friday directed the officials to detect the back link of corona positive persons in order to know the source of their infection. In another direction, he instructed the officials to collect two contact numbers of each positive patient, one of his family and the other of his relatives. He directed the officials to trace each and every patient found suffering from cough, coryza and cold in and outside a hotspot and buffer zone and do their sampling minutely. He also asked them to open the third lab of LLR hospital at the earliest. During the meeting, the commissioner sought the progress report of the victims who got injured in Bilhaur accident and are being treated at ICU of LLR hospital . The health officials informed the commissioner that that they had collected samples of 372 persons and 159 out of them were of migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/detect-links-to-find-source-of-infection/articleshow/75905665.cms||Anant Chandak
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Open temples or face protest: Hindu outfit||COIMBATORE: The Hindu Munnani has demanded the state government to open temples across the state for public worship, with adequate precautionary measures to ensure social distancing. Hindu Munnani state president Kadeswara Subramanian on Friday threatened to protest if the government failed to permit public to worship at the temples. “Not all the temples in the state attract large crowds. There are several small temples in villages which do not witness large gatherings and they can be allowed for public worship with adequate safety measures.” Pointing out that public were going through severe stress, he said opening of temples and allowing them to offer prayers would give them relief. “If the government fail to open temples for public worship, we would stage a ‘camphor lighting’ protest in front of temples on May 26,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/open-temples-or-face-protest-hindu-outfit/articleshow/75905662.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||New discharge policy helps ease burden of patients from SMS Hospital||JAIPUR: Following the new discharge guidelines issued by ICMR, the number of Covid-19 patients admitted to SMS Hospital has started decreasing rapidly. As of now, 109 patients are undergoing treatment. The hospital is now discharging cured patients in 10 days. Earlier, patients were discharged in 14 days. Now, the hospitals are not conducting Covid-19 tests before discharging patients. Under the earlier guidelines, hospitals were conducting two Covid-19 tests before discharging cured patients. According to the health department report, they have discharged 736 patients from the hospital till date, while 109 are still undergoing treatment. “The new discharge protocol has many advantages. Since a patient is getting discharged after spending 10 days and if in the last three days he remains asymptomatic, there is no requirement of conducting tests,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital. Earlier, the hospital was following the Centre’s protocol of discharging patients, which has been changed since May 10. Now, it is not mandatory to conduct Covid-19 tests before discharging the patients like we doing it earlier. Earlier, a patient was only allowed to get discharged when he tested negative twice for Covid-19 after treatment. Now, there is no requirement of two tests, which also saves RT-PCR test kits as well. Moreover, the new guidelines help in reducing the chances of spread of infection. Since a patient is not staying in hospital for longer time, there is not much risk of him getting re-infected and also the staff of the hospital will have less exposure to them. The load of the Covid-19 patients has also eased at the hospital,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-discharge-policy-helps-ease-burden-of-patients-from-sms-hospital/articleshow/75905642.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||Bars, hotels unhappy with excise order||Pune: The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) said the state excise department’s step to allow bars, hotels and restaurants to sell sealed Indian Made Foreign Liquor to consumers and beer only to liquor shops as a one-time transaction was ambiguous though the intent was right. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, HRAWI, said, “The conditions for sale are counterproductive. Bars, restaurants can sell foreign liquor, whereas we had sought permission to sell beer and wine because they have expiry dates. Also, liquor shops make bulk purchases from companies and get greater discount than us. Pradeep Shetty, vice president, HRAWI, said, “Excise department offered restaurants and bars watered-down version of what we sought.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bars-hotels-unhappy-with-excise-order/articleshow/75905677.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: From birds to insects, Amphan takes a toll on urban biodiversity||KOLKATA: A common myna was refusing to move away from the gulmohar tree that fell along the width of Roy Bahadur Road near its crossing with James Long Sarani on Thursday morning even as KMC workers were slicing the trunks to remove it from the road. While removing the tree, they found a large number of nests destroyed with tiny chicks dead inside. The mother myna was naturally traumatised. This sight of devastation is almost ubiquitous across the city. “I am amazed by the engineering of these tiny birds. The cyclone could not blow away the nest. But as the tree got uprooted, the nest got destroyed,” said Tarun Chaudhary, a passionate birder, who went around to see if any nest can be retrieved intact and birds can be rescued. Birds are the most visible victims with every uprooted tree. Not that birds build their nests in every tree. “But every tree is habitat for hundreds of tiny insects, arthropod, microfungi, bugs, beetles, ants, rodents and bats too. The roadside trees often harbour red-listed threatened species. Thus, loss of a tree threatens a massive variety of biodiversity. We are talking about loss of human lives and properties only, but the loss of biodiversity is significantly high,” said zoologist and biodiversity specialist Jogen Sarkar. Loss of 5,500 trees — as estimated to have been uprooted by Amphan — means a massive loss of biodiversity. This is how species lose their habitat and finally go extinct. “This is quite dangerous for human existence as well. Biological diversity is the resource upon which families, communities, nations and future generations depend. It is the link between all organisms on earth, binding each into an interdependent ecosystem, in which all species have their role. It is the web of life. Even loss of mycorrhizal fungi can be a bad omen for human civilization, as these fungi are part of vast communication network that allow trees to receive and send signals to other trees,” said Shakti Chakraborty, another biodiversity expert. KMDA is planning to replant 100 of the damaged trees inside the Amphan-ravaged Rabindra Sarobar, a biodiversity hotspot in the heart of south Kolkata. The agency on Friday started restoration of the national lake complex that has more than 18,000 trees. From 8am, 50 labourers were deployed, along with excavators and cranes and other equipment. At the end of the day, 40% of the 3km pathways criss-crossing the lake was cleared. Sudhin Nandy, executive engineer in charge of Rabindra Sarobar, said, preliminary survey shows around 200 trees got uprooted. “Around 100 of them will be replanted, after consulting the experts involved in the re-plantation of trees at Rabindra Sarobar,” Nandy said.  The species of damaged trees included krishnachura, radhachura, jelibi, kadam, bokul, karamcha, bot, pakur, akasia, bottlebrush, fishtail, champla, dumur and subabul. Since there are 18,000 trees in the Lake area, these won’t result in significant loss in biodiversity.  “The issue will be to fill up the holes created by the uprooted trees,” Nandy said.  A meeting will be held next week about planting saplings. The saplings will be sourced from the state horticulture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-birds-to-insects-amphan-takes-a-toll-on-urban-biodiversity/articleshow/75904548.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Ancient sacred groves in forests need to be protected, says expert||COIMBATORE: The Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding on Friday conducted a webinar on smarter strategies for biodiversity conservation to mark the International Day for Biological Diversity. Attended by students and nature lovers from across the country, the online event featured a presentation on sacred groves in Indian forests and their incomparable values. The session was engaged by senior principal scientist Dr Kannan C S Warrier. He said the ancient sacred groves in forests should be protected in the same way as national monuments like Taj Mahal and the national animal, tiger. “They are home to invaluable medicinal plants and wild relatives of cultivated species, which are immensely helpful in species improvement programmes. They are also the abode of endemic species and critically endangered tree species.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ancient-sacred-groves-in-forests-need-to-be-protected-says-expert/articleshow/75905671.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kanpur||Constable rams car against man, booked||Kanpur: A police constable driving a car allegedly knocked down and killed a pedestrian and left two others injured in Juhi area of the city on late Wednesday night. The incident took place near Vinoba Bhave Nagar under Juhi police station limits, said an official. “The car driven by a police constable Kapil Yadav, posted at Juhi police station, hit Kuldeep Singh (35). The incident occurred when he was going to drop a woman police constable to her house when his car hit Kuldeep standing near a cart close to his house,” said the official. According to a police statement, Kuldeep, a resident of Vinoba Bhave Nagar was rushed to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, where he was declared brought dead on arrival. “We have suspended the police constable and lodged a case against him. A test has been conducted to see whether the constable was under the influence of liquor. We have arrested him and seized the car. Injured identified as Mithun, a cart owner and his brother Santosh are undergoing treatment at hospital,” said SP South Aparna Gupta. As per the statement of the locals recorded by the police, the constable was driving the car at a high speed. They added that the constable tried to escape but the locals nabbed him and thrashed him. They also tried to set the car ablaze, but the situation was pacified after a heavy police force was requisitioned at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/constable-rams-car-against-man-booked/articleshow/75876970.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man booked for impregnating minor girl||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police registered a rape and cheating case against a man for allegedly impregnating a girl after promising to marry her. According to the police, the girl, who is eight months pregnant, and the accused, who works in an agriculture field, lived in the same village in Kothur and became friends. For the last one year, they have been in a relationship. “The family did not support their relationship but they continued to meet,” said the cops. The accused allegedly sexually assaulted the girl with a promise to marry her. Child rights NGO Balala Hakkula Sangham alleged the rape survivor was a minor and a case under the POCSO Act should be registered against the offender but the police are yet to determine the age of the girl. After the accused refused to marry the girl, the family on Friday approached the cops, who booked a case for cheating and rape. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-impregnating-minor-girl/articleshow/75904579.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 pulls the chain: Delhi metro loses Rs 10 crore/day||NEW DELHI: Apart from operating the country’s largest and busiest metro rail network with a fair bit of efficiency, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has been a trendsetter when it comes to work culture, best construction practices and a comfortable and dependable public transport system. However, another pioneering achievement of DMRC — creating a self-sustainable public transport system — is under threat after the unexpected cessation of daily operation due to the Covid-19 lockdown. With Delhi Metro closed for the public since March 22 as a measure to curb the spread of novel coronavirus infection, the train company has earned no passenger revenue for 62 days and counting. In the financial year 2018-19, DMRC had earned Rs 3,121 crore through fare collection and Rs 594 crore through non-passenger revenue such as shop rentals, auctioning of advertisement rights, and so on. Since the metro train network hasn’t seen a major expansion in the last one year and daily ridership has been around 30 lakh passengers, it can be assumed that till March 22, when operations came to a standstill, DMRC was earning more than Rs 10 crore per day. By extrapolation, the company has missed out on more than Rs 600 crore of earnings because not only has passenger revenue become zero, but sources said income from other sources have also dried up with the pandemic affecting every sector, including those that advertised in Delhi Metro. The urban train system has made operational profits from day one and despite being a capital-intensive infrastructure project, has always paid back the soft loans taken from Japan International Cooperation Agency on time. In the present financial year, DMRC has already repaid JICA Rs 573.98 as loan and interest components till date. Sources, however, confided that DMRC might face problems in paying the next instalments. “DMRC has made payments since March 2020, but future payments will depend on the financial position of the company once the operation resumes,” confirmed an official. He added that while DMRC has earned no revenue during the lockdown, there has been fixed expenditure on staff salaries and the minimum maintenance for keeping the rail system in working mode. “One also has to take into account that we are not incurring expenditure on power and other areas like the way we did when passenger services were on,” he noted. Once DMRC resumes operations, it will have to follow the central government’s guidelines on ensuring social distancing among passengers, and this is certain to fare collection. Also, non-fare revenue will depend on market conditions, which for the next few months doesn’t look promising. Sources said that those who pay fixed amounts to DMRC, such as parking contractors, are themselves facing financial difficulties, so the rail company has taken a sympathetic view is not pressuring anyone for payments. “Senior officials are taking stock of the situation, which is dynamic, and analysing the financial condition of DMRC,” the official said. “There is, however, no possibility of a fare hike even though we will be carrying fewer passengers.” Though DMRC is silent on the issue, a request for a bailout from the central or state governments may also be considered if its financial health deteriorates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-pulls-the-chain-metro-loses-rs-10cr/day/articleshow/75906591.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Choked roads hit supply chain, push up veggie prices||KOLKATA: Choked roads in the city started creating supply line issues on Friday, pushing up vegetable prices slightly. However, the loss of crop due to the widespread devastation by cyclone Amphan is likely to impact city markets over the weekend, raising the prices further. Vendors said that in a day or two, there would be some scarcity of vegetables, which would push the prices up further. A vast swathe of agriculture land is under water while the elevated rafters (machan), on which some vegetables are grown, were blown away by the cyclone. Kolkata markets, which are usually blessed with abundant supply of vegetables, had till now managed to keep the prices under check. Even during the initial days of the lockdown, when other metros saw vegetable prices going through the roof, the prices became normal in Kolkata faster after recovering from some supply line issues. But this time the cyclone proved to be a big jolt for farmers and premonition for consumers. “Vegetables are rotting in the field under knee deep water and farmers cannot even pump out the water as adjoining areas are also flooded. The loss is immeasurable and many farmers will lose the courage to sow seeds afresh. Majority of farmers borrow money at high rate of interest. How would they repay the loan?,” said Kamal Dey, president, West Bengal Vendors Association. The severe shortage of labourers due to the lockdown slowed down harvesting in the state. Despite an early warning, the farmers left 50% of produces in the ground, expecting to harvest the crops after the passage of the cyclone. But the incessant rain and breach of embankment left a vast swathe of agricultural land completely inundated. Apart from the loss of crops, accessing the markets has become a major issue. “In absence of train services, vegetable supply is now completely dependent on the road-transportation. Even through uprooted tree trunks were removed from major thoroughfares, some roads remain out of bound because of the uprooted trees, collapsed walls or tangles of wires. That is why, the vegetables people are getting are of the old stock that had been supplied before the cyclone lashed Bengal,” said Arup Hatua, a supplier of vegetables from Hooghly. Till now, people have no idea about the prices of the fresh stock of vegetables, which they may start knowing from Saturday. “We got in touch with the farmers and suppliers. Their situation is very bad. There is no doubt that there will be a demand-supply mismatch, which will push up the prices. We don’t know how many vegetables we will get from Saturday to sell,” said Dilip Kumar Mondal, secretary of Gariahat Market Vegetable Vendors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/choked-roads-hit-supply-chain-push-up-veggie-prices/articleshow/75904562.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 23, 2020||Vadodara||MSU syndicate meeting on May 27||Vadodara: A plethora of proposals will be tabled before syndicate members as M S University will convene an ordinary syndicate meeting on May 27 after a gap of three months. The university could not convene the monthly meetings due to the nationwide lockdown while a majority of decisions were taken by the vice-chancellor. Also, the annual senate meeting which was scheduled on March 30 could not be convened for the same reasons. Director of the newly started Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Policy Research and International Studies (ABVIPRIS) has sought Rs 78.81 lakh budget for academic year 2020-21. This is the biggest budgetary proposal that will be placed before the syndicate members for approval. There is also a proposal to appoint three temporary assistant professor at the institute. Another major proposal is the extension of the work that was discontinued due to the lockdown. This includes construction of bituminous road and recarpeting of the existing roads including walkways among others inside the university campus. A proposal that will affect many temporary teachers will also come up for discussion. It has been proposed that the tenure of the temporary assistant professors, lecturers, teaching assistants, who were appointed in academic year 2019-20, should be extended at the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-syndicate-meeting-on-may-27/articleshow/75900960.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Vadodara||Fire breaks out in jewellery showroom||Vadodara: A fire broke out at a jewellery showroom in old city on Friday causing panic among locals. Smoke started bellowing out of first floor of Shri Mukt Jewellery Showroom on Gendigate Road in the morning following which locals called up fire brigade. Firemen doused the fire within a few minutes on reaching the spot. “No one was injured in the incident. The fire started due to a short-circuit in the panel room of the showroom,” said Om Jadeja, fire officer. When asked reason behind the short-circuit, Jadeja said many offices and showrooms remained closed for over two months due to lockdown and now they have begun functioning. “The airconditioners and fans are being used in full capacity causing sudden overload on the wires,” Jadeja told TOI. The city witnessed a couple fire incidents in commercial areas over the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fire-breaks-out-in-jewellery-showroom/articleshow/75900982.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||Metro riverbed work speeds up||Pune: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has expedited the construction of pillars on the riverbed. MahaMetro has also initiated steps to remove the temporary ramps, set up to assist in the work, ahead of the monsoon. All the ramps will be removed by the first week of June, MahaMetro said. The Metro viaduct will cross the Mutha and the Mula at two spots in Pune — near the RTO and in Yerawada. The viaduct, after crossing the Mula, will enter Pimpri Chinchwad. A MahaMetro official said they have completed the foundations of all the pillars at the crossing points. “We are now extending all the pillars up to the height of the pier cap. Barring one or two places, this work too has been completed. We are hoping that the work at the couple of pillars left will also be completed by the first week of June,” the official said. The ramps’ removal will ensure an unobstructed flow of water in the rivers during the monsoon, when water’s released from the Khadakwasla dam. MahaMetro had planned to complete most of the work on the riverbed before the Covid-19 outbreak put brakes on it. “We are revising the plans as some works got delayed,” the official said. MahaMetro said about 50% of the total workforce of 2,800, who stayed back, are on site. The remainder have gone back home, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-riverbed-work-speeds-up/articleshow/75905693.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 23, 2020||Kanpur||Jajmau tanneries start production, asked to strictly follow Covid-19, anti-pollution norms||Kanpur: Tanneries in the Jajmau area of the city on Thursday started removing dust and greasing their machines as the district administration at its meeting held on Wednesday night granted them permission to operate their units. The district administration has made it clear to representatives of the leather industry that except in the containment, red zone and buffer zones, the tanneries could start production in their units from Thursday with certain conditions. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, who presided over the meeting, said the leather units would have to strictly follow the standards and take precautions of Covid-19. Earlier, the district administration, as per the requests of owners of leather units, had given permission to as many as 125 tanneries to run the units manufacturing essential commodities and the general items. Around 261 tanneries ,which were in operation before the lockdown, had to close after sudden lockdown imposed on March 23. The raw material worth around Rs 250 crore which was in the process has decomposed which might cause infections. The district magistrate has asked the leather units to follow the anti-pollution rules and instead of discharging the effluent into Ganga should treat it properly. The representatives assured the administration that they would follow all the instructions and control pollution in their units. Besides Sarveshwar Shukla, joint commissioner industries and Vivek Srivastava ADM (city) and officials of the pollution control board, those represented the leather industry in the meeting included Javed Iqbal, chairman, Regional Council for Leather Export, Asad Iraqi, general secretary, Leather Welfare Association and Rizwan Khan Arshi. Asad Iraqi said that as the leather industry had suffered a lot, now it is s a time for it to re-establish itself. “During the last 18 months, the tanneries came down on knees due to the government orders followed by the lockdown. In this period, the industry suffered huge losses and failed to fulfill its commitments in the international market”, he said. SB Franklin, regional pollution control board officer, talking to TOI said, “The leather industry was given permission to start production due to unprocessed and or semi-processed stock lying in the units which had reached the rotten state and might create some other problems . The industry representatives have been asked to work on zero pollution principle, especially the river pollution else legal action will be taken against them”. He said that 125 export oriented units were already operating and now the remaining units would commence their operation soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jajmau-tanneries-start-production-asked-to-strictly-follow-covid-19-anti-pollution-norms/articleshow/75877003.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 23, 2020||Nashik||109 motorists cough up Rs 3.18L for violating norms||Nashik: The Regional Transport Office (RTO) in Nashik has taken action against 109 motorists for violating lockdown norms and collected fine to the tune of Rs 3.18 lakh. Deputy officer of RTO Vinay Ahire said, “With the surge in the flow of reverse migration, most of the violations are occuring on the national highway 3 connecting Mumbai with Agra. Though the flow has reduced in the past few days, our special squads will continue to keep a vigil till we get further orders from our higher-ups.” The Nashik RTO has set up two teams on national highway 3 to keep a check on trucks and other heavy vehicles from transporting migrant workers illegally. A few weeks back, there was a huge flow of migrant workers going from Mumbai towards, UP, MP, Bihar, etc. However, now even the state transport buses have started taking the migrant workers upto the borrders of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/109-motorists-cough-up-rs-3-18l-for-violating-norms/articleshow/75901150.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mumbai||‘Remove your face mask before using oxygen mask’||If there is a mid-air emergency and oxygen levels drop in the cabin, passengers should remove their face masks before using oxygen masks, said European Union Aviation Safety Agency and European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in their recent operational guidelines on air travel. Cabin crew members should remove their face masks in case of an emergency to facilitate communication of instructions to passengers, the guidelines added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/remove-your-face-mask-before-using-oxygen-mask/articleshow/75905740.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Shrinks flooded with calls as Cyclone Amphan triggers depression||KOLKATA: For many, the after-effects of Cyclone Amphan has added to the gloom and isolation that had been triggered by the lockdown two months ago. Without power and with no internet and connectivity, the feeling of isolation has been accentuated while the scenes of destruction all around have led to bouts of depression for a section of Kolkatans. City psychiatrists have been flooded with calls from people ever since the cyclone wreaked havoc on Wednesday evening. With appointments still restricted due to Covid norms, their plight continues. A 45-year-old-woman waiting for an appointment with her psychiatrist for five weeks broke down during a video-consultation on Thursday. She had travelled to a friend’s place for connectivity and managed to get through to the psychiatrist after trying desperately for an hour. “She was on the verge of tears for she couldn’t take the isolation and the scenes of destruction any longer. For the last two months, she had been connecting with her friends on social media and through calls. But Amphan severed all that, leaving her traumatized,” said the psychiatrist who will meet the patient next week. Urban loneliness has been exposed by the lockdown and the cyclone, leaving many feeling desperate to reach out, says psychiatrist J Ram. “For a large number of people, especially those prone to depression, connectivity and normalcy are very important. Both have gone for a toss since March and it’s gradually turning unbearable for them. What made things worse is that they couldn’t even consult their shrinks due to the Covid restrictions,” said Ram. A 12-year-old Class-VI student sneaked out of his Tollygunge home on Friday morning with his father’s cell phone. He went over to a nearby road to get the phone — that had no internet connection — running. “He is used to chatting with friends on WhatsApp and had been attending online classes till last week. He is not used to life without connectivity and couldn’t take it any longer,” said the youngster’s mother. For others, the lockdown restrictions and the Amphan devastation have necessitated a change in lifestyle that’s often turning out be unacceptable. Psychiatrist Amarnath Mullick said at least a dozen of his patients have sought help for restlessness and depression since lockdown began. “Lives have changed and those used to spending time out with friends and family are affected. They are missing their weekend visits to clubs and restaurants and the lockdown has left them feeling claustrophobic. With Amphan striking just when things were about to return to normalcy, their agony has been prolonged” said Mullick. Pictures of giant trees smashing houses and vehicles, flooded roads and distressed people can be infinitely more disturbing for psychiatric patients, said Ram. A 60-year-old from central Kolkata, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, refused to sleep in his bedroom since Thursday. The only thing visible from the room’s window now is a giant tree leaning on a building across the road, said his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shrinks-flooded-with-calls-as-cyclone-triggers-depression/articleshow/75904575.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University to offer easy to fill admission forms this year||LUCKNOW: Candidates applying for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses of Lucknow University need not worry about uploading some of the documents required at the time of filling the form. Following the lockdown, the university has relaxed rules for uploading some documents, including caste certificate number and EWS certificate number, at the time of filing the admission forms. The university has also extended the date for submission of applications to around 3,500 UG seats and 4,500 PG seats till June 13. "We have allowed students to fill the form with their basic details. They can present documents at the time of admission," said LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-offer-easy-to-fill-admission-forms-this-year/articleshow/75906583.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||KRMB allots 2 tmc Sagar water to AP||Hyderabad: The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on Friday allocated 2 tmcft of water to Andhra Pradesh to meet the drinking water requirements of Guntur and Prakasam districts from Nagarjuna Sagar Right Canal. A three-member committee of KRMB along with chief engineers of both Telangana and AP discussed about water release. The board also discussed the utilisations made by both the states up to May 21. According to the KRMB member-secretary A Parameshan, both the states have agreed to release 2 tmcft of water from Sagar to utilise up to May 31. The issue of sharing of the water drawn during surplus period is to be addressed by a technical committee constituted by the Union ministry of jal shakti. He said depending on the final decision on the issue, eligible share of water between the two states may vary. “The project engineers shall be responsible for meeting the requirements of both the states. The actual water delivered to each states should be reported to the river management board invariably as a joint statement,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-allots-2-tmc-sagar-water-to-ap/articleshow/75904600.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 9-yr-old saw father floating in water, no one dared help him||KOLKATA: Nine-year-old Arpita Gayen says she will never be able to forget the night she saw her father, visibly dead, floating in the water near their home, but no one from her family — mother and uncles standing at a distance, holding her hand tightly and crying for help — stepping forward to pull him out. “I don’t know if I will ever be able to make my daughter understand why none of us could go near her father’s body,” said Aparna Gayen, the widow of Pintu Gayen, who was electrocuted while wading through a waterlogged road near his home in Behala on Wednesday. Pintu, 37, was among the 19 casualties caused by cyclone Amphan in Kolkata, 11 of whom were electrocuted, and whose bodies were found floating on the city’s waterlogged streets. Pintu last spoke to Aparna at 9pm on Wednesday when he left his office in with three of his colleagues. He was leading the group, walking through the waterlogged road, when he fell down in the water and began screaming for help. But no one dared to pull him out. “He was lying there till midnight. No one was allowed to pull him out. The CESC staff came after repeated complaints. After disconnecting live wires from three fallen electric poles, we could finally bring him out. He was long dead by then,” Aparna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/9-yr-old-saw-father-floating-in-water-no-one-dared-help-him/articleshow/75907505.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 23, 2020||Pune||This Ramzan, tradition of giving Zakat moves online||Pune: This year, because of the lockdown, a large number of people from the Muslim community have taken to netbanking and other online payment systems to give to charity during the month of Ramzan. “The actual meaning of Eid-ul-Fitr is a festival of charity. According to the Holy Qura’an, no roza will be accepted until fitra, or charity, is given,” said Haji Zakir Shaikh, president of All India Quami Tanzeem (Western Maharashtra). Shaikh added that the community members are using online facilities to give charity to the needy as well as charitable institutions, such as madrasas and NGOs. The community has played a key role in distributing ration, food parcels and articles required to prepare Eid delicacies, he said. Activist Salim Mulla pointed out that Ramzan is also considered an auspicious month to give zakaat to the poor. Mulla said, “Since most banks are closed and ATMs in containment zones are running dry, the community is making good use of online facilities for serving people suffering from financial constraints due to the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-ramzan-tradition-of-giving-zakat-moves-online/articleshow/75905737.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||HC directs Telangana to create fund for the disabled||HYDERABAD: Coming down heavily on the Telangana government for leaving the physically challenged at the mercy of donors, the Telangana high court on Friday directed the state to immediately create a separate fund for the disabled and ensure supplies of food grains, groceries, medicines and other essentials at their doorsteps. The bench of CJ Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by Shiva Ganesh Karnati of Uppal who brought to their notice the plight of the disabled during the lockdown. Kowturu Pavan Kumar, counsel for the petitioner, objected to a portion of the counter wherein officials said that whenever they receive a call from a distressed or disabled person, they invite donors to help them, and the state had allotted a mere Rs 1 crore to the entire disabled wing to assist 7 lakh disabled persons. Of this, more than 4 lakh are below poverty line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-directs-t-to-create-fund-for-the-disabled/articleshow/75904611.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||Amid talks of cabinet rejig, parties prepare for by-polls||BHOPAL: With no official word yet on cabinet expansion in Madhya Pradesh, hectic lobbying is on MLAs to stake claim for a berth in the state cabinet. MLAs are meeting state party leaders and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan regularly. Amid the cabinet rejig plans, BSP supremo Mayawati’s decision to contest all 24 assembly by-poll seats in the state independently has taken the Congress and the BJP by surprise. While the BJP asked its cadre to step up poll preparations, Congress is yet to firm up its plan. On Friday, former ministers Bhupendra Singh, Gaurishankar Bisen and Surendra Patwa called on BJP state president VD Sharma and organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat. All three had been cabinet members during the previous regime led by Chouhan. Bhupendra Singh who was quite confident of a cabinet berth after the formation of BJP government in the state lost out to Govind Singh Rajput, the Jyotiraditya Scindia supporter, who hails from the same region. Singh, who was among those who met chief minister Chouhan, however denied having talked about cabinet expansion. "I had gone to BJP office to discuss matter related to my region. There was no discussion on cabinet expansion. We are busy in fighting against corona and carrying out relief operations in Sagar district, which is our priority," Singh told TOI after the meeting. "There are speculations about cabinet expansion since last fortnight but, there is no official word from the party. We have been instructed by the party to ensure relief and works in areas where bypoll are to be conducted soon. We are sure that BJP would emerge victorious," former minister Patwa told TOI. Sources said that BSP stood second on two seats in Chambal region in the 2018 assembly elections while it came third on 10 seats with a vote share of 7,000 to 40,000. The BJP is trying to bridge the gap with intense campaigning and participation of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and hopes BSP would eat into Congress’ vote share to its advantage. Congress said that BSP has declared initial plans. The Congress is yet to finalise its strategy. "It's too early to say how we will plan our campaign for the bypoll. Corona is a big issue and the BJP has nothing to show, but to take credit of the Covid-19 crisis. The bypoll results will make the picture clear as Congress has its own vote base," said Congress state media in-charge, Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/amid-talks-of-cabinet-rejig-parties-prepare-for-by-polls/articleshow/75903050.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Testing takes a hit as labs struggle with connectivity||KOLKATA: Cyclone Amphan has hit Covid-19 testing in the state as labs battled internet connectivity for the second consecutive day. Even as majority of the labs got partial connectivity from the second half of Friday, with poor signal, the number of tests was significantly low. Lab officials said it would take a couple of more days to return to full operations as they have backlogs to clear. “We had started conducting about 1,000 tests a day. But the cyclone has kept us nailed for the past two days. We got internet connection partially back. After clearing the backlog we should be in a better position to be fully operational, hopefully by the second half of Saturday,” said Monika Pravhakar, head, Dr Lal PathLabs Kolkata. Even as power supply is back and labs have their own generator back-up, generating results, communication with Swasthya Bhawan, uploading it on ICMR website and sending it to hospitals from where the samples came require internet connection. “We could proceed with only about 200 samples on Friday,” said Somnath Chatterjee, MD, Suraksha Diagnostics. “Manpower has also become an issue as technicians and supporting staff of some labs could not travel as major thoroughfares became non-accessible. Despite this, some labs are trying to work in full swing,” said Justice (retd) Ashim kuman Banerjee, chairman, West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. “We have started running tests. But since data generation and transmission are done based on an app, we need proper internet connection,” said an official at NRS that runs about 500 tests a day. The state had hiked testing numbers to over 8,000 a day and was planning to scale it further to 10,000. But on Thursday, the number dipped to 4,242. It rose to 5,353 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/testing-takes-a-hit-as-labs-struggle-with-connectivity/articleshow/75904604.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 23, 2020||Nashik||North Maha to get 2 more Covid-19 labs||Nashik: The Nashik divisional commissionerate is starting two more coronavirus testing laboratories — one each in Ahmednagar and Jalgaon — taking the total number of Covid-19 testing labs in the region to four. While the testing lab at Jalgaon will be located at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH), the one at Ahmednagar will be located at the premises of the district civil hospital. At present, the two existing Covid-19 labs are located at the government medical college at Dhule and at Dr. Vasantrao Pawar Medical College and Hospital at Nashik. “The acquisition of two new testing labs would ease the pressure on the existing ones as the number of suspected Covid-19 cases in the region are increasing,” said state health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/north-maha-to-get-2-more-covid-19-labs/articleshow/75901170.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon civic chief recovers from Covid-19||Nashik: Malegaon municipal commissioner Dipak Kasar, who had tested positive for coronavirus on May 12, has recovered from the contagion and will resume work in full swing after two weeks of self-quarantine. Kasar said that he received the results of the second test on Thursday night. Although his wife and five staff members at his residence had not contracted coronavirus, their swabs had been sent for testing as a precautionary measure. All of them have tested negative for the contagion, he added. The civic chief said that the tests were carried out at the Covid-19 laboratory in the government medical college and hospital (GMCH), Dhule. Speaking to TOI, Kasar said that he would remain in home quarantine for 14 days. “I would be happier if the people of the textile town win the war against Covid-19. My appeal to people is that they should not shy away from getting tested if they have corona-like symptoms. It would help them in getting early treatment,” he said The civic chief said that he followed a simple diet after testing positive for Covid-19 and also took his medicines regularly while observing all the necessary quarantine rules. Kasar, who was asymptomatic, said that he worked from home while guiding the civic officials on different issues, particularly on the Covid-19 front. “I have been working for six-seven hours from home daily after testing positive for the contagion. I held video-conferencing with heads of different departments and discussed different issues, proposed covid care centres, financial aspects, etc. I did not have any physical or mental constraints while working from home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-civic-chief-recovers-from-covid-19/articleshow/75901180.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||MSRTC buses start plying||Pune: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) operated 50 buses in the rural areas of Pune district after the services resumed on Friday. “The buses are not plying in the limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations, but in rural areas like Manchar, Narayangaon etc,” an official said. The buses will operate within a particular district, except in red zones and containment areas. “The buses will ply from 7am to 7pm. A bus will not ply outside the district. The buses will move only in orange and green zones,” Abhijit Bhosale, MSRTC public relations officer, told TOI on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-buses-start-plying/articleshow/75905743.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple, son die in wall collapse||Hyderabad: A couple and their son died after the compound wall of their house collapsed at Varni in Nizamabad district. Three other children of the couple, who were injured, were shifted to a hospital in Hyderabad. The wall collapsed as it was weakened due to damage caused by bandicoots. The deceased were identified as Srinivas (34), Lakshmi (30) and Sai Kumar (1). The family was sleeping in an open area close to the compound wall when the mishap occurred. Lakshmi and Sai died on the spot while doctors declared Srinivas brought dead,’’ police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-son-die-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/75904616.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan launches 'Shram Siddhi' to provide job to all workers||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday launched the 'Shram Siddhi' campaign in panchayats of Madhya Pradesh through video conferencing on Friday. The campaign guarantees jobs to all workers whether they have a job card or not. During his interaction with sarpanchs (village heads) across the state at the launch of 'Sabko Milega Rojgar' (Everyone will get employment) campaign to distribute the MGNREGA job cards in the state Chouhan said that the people in rural areas are more aware about coronavirus than their urban counterparts. Chouhan informed under the Shram Siddhi Abhiyan, work will be given to every person in rural areas. For this a door-to-door survey will be done and job cards will be made for those who do not have one. Unskilled labourers will be provided work under MGNREGS and skilled workers according to their ability, he added. He asked the village heads to ensure good quality community work in their villages as per local requirements. Panchayats doing good work will be awarded with the first getting a prize of Rs 2 lakh, second Rs 1 lakh and third Rs 50,000. The awards will be given for making the most job cards, getting the maximum number of labourers to work, starting the most jobs, constructing structures of the highest importance and works of the highest quality, CM added. Chief minister said during the Corona crisis, the state's labourers, farmers and poor were continuously helped by the government. The amount of crop insurance, loan at zero percent interest and the amount of wheat procurement was sent to the farmers in their accounts. Chouhan asked village heads to keep their village safe from corona. “This is your responsibility. Make sure everyone wear masks in the village, maintain at least two meter distance between each other, wash hands frequently, keep cleanliness and do not crowd anywhere. Deal with migrant labourers in a humanitarian manner and ensure they have a health check-up and are kept in quarantine for 14 days,” CM said. He informed that the government has restarted the Sambal Yojana and it is being extended to migrant labourers. ACS panchayat and rural development Manoj Shrivastava informed that at present, out of 22,809 gram panchayats in the state, in 22,695 MGNREGS works are going. So far, 21,01,600 labourers have been given employment in these works, which is almost twice as compared to last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-launches-shram-siddhi-to-provide-job-to-all-workers/articleshow/75903069.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Books salvaged from storm water, fallen trees strewn on College Street||KOLKATA: On Friday morning, College Street was lined up only with two things. Uprooted trees on either of the road and thousands of books, that got damaged after water gushed into the shops, left out to dry on the pavements and the carriageway. Books worth crores got damaged in Cyclone Amphan when water accumulated inside bookstores on College Streets. The strong winds blew away several stalls leaving behind books to float on accumulated water. Even on Friday, torn pages could be spotted floating in pockets where water had not drained out. Bookstore owners, who managed to make it to their shops after roads were cleared and vehicles started plying, were devastated after seeing the condition of their shops and books inside. Many of them left the books out on the pavements and carriageway to dry. Other tried to ferry some of the books home in rickshaws. “Everything is finished. Nothing is left that I can salvage,” said Amal Basu of Swapna Book Stall on PC Sarkar Street between Calcutta University and Presidency University. Tears rolled down his cheeks when he discovered that water had damaged almost all the books inside his shop. “Even when the shop was shut for over eight weeks due to lockdown I console myself by saying the business will be good as soon as we are allowed to resume it. But the cyclone has snatched away my last hope. The double blow of Covid and cyclone has taken away everything,” said Basu. The stretch between College Street and MG Crossing and Calcutta University could not be accessed till Thursday evening because all the roads were blocked. Uprooted trees near IISWBM, Calcutta University and MG Road crossing and the waist high water made it impossible for anybody to access their shops. Uprooted trees were still lying on the road on Friday and cops said the priority was to clear CR Avenue for traffic before College Street. Employees of National Book Trust, one of the most popular bookstore on College Street, were also shifting their stock out of the shop. “Books worth lakhs have been destroyed. Fresh stock had arrived before the lockdown but we could not sell any. The stock included books for medical and engineering,” said an employee of National Book Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/books-salvaged-from-storm-water-fallen-trees-strewn-on-college-st/articleshow/75904627.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 23, 2020||Pune||Duo drown in Ghod river in Ambegaon||Pune: A 42-year-old man from Mumbai and his 17-year-old nephew on Thursday drowned in the Ghod river in Ambegaon taluka, about 100km from here. The accident occurred around 2pm on Thursday when the man, Ulhas Hiraman Kale, and his nephew Rohan Rajendra Kale, had gone swimming in the river. “While entering the water, Ulhas lost his balance and started drowning. His nephew jumped in to save him, but he also drowned,” an officer from Ghodegaon police said. The officer said the a diver from the village managed to pull the duo out of the water and rushed them to a nearby hospital. “They were declared dead on arrival,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-drown-in-ghod-river-in-ambegaon/articleshow/75905758.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||Plea for Eid prayers at mosques dismissed||Madurai: Observing that the decision to allow the opening of religious places of worship lies with the state government, the Madras high court on Friday dismissed a public interest litigation which sought to allow the conduct of Eid special prayers for two hours at all mosques in Madurai district on May 25. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing the petition filed by A K Sahulhameed, president of a social movement named Islamiya Sevai Sangam based at Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-for-eid-prayers-at-mosques-dismissed/articleshow/75905760.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nashik||Boy’s body fished out after 3 days||Nashik: Three days after a 13-year-old boy slipped and drowned in a pond, Ghoti police and volunteers from the Igatpuri plant of Mahindra and Mahindra fished out his body on Wednesday. The deceased, Pandurang Thevale, had gone to swim in a pond in Manwede village on Saturday. Some people had seen him slip and fall into the pond. A team from Ghoti police rushed to the spot and started search operations. However, they could not trace the body for three days. Harish Chaube, fire officer at the Igatpuri plant, said that he got a call from the police on Wednesday. Considering his experience in scuba diving during his time in the Navy, he and Govind Tupe, who also has rescued a large number of people who have drowned, rushed to the spot. They fished out the boy’s body in four hours on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/boys-body-fished-out-after-3-days/articleshow/75901208.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||NEET case: Man seeks bail, HC directs to place matter before CJ||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the registry to place the bail plea of a middleman who was arrested in connection with NEET impersonation case, before the Chief Justice for clarification and authoritative pronouncement by a larger bench. Justice G Jayachandran gave the direction by taking judicial notice of the fact that the Chief Justice was already seized of the issue through divergent orders passed by two single judges earlier in relation to a plea of default bail, in the light of a suo motu order passed by the Supreme Court extending limitation period for all cases. The petitioner S V Manoharan was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on February 11 by the Theni CB-CID police for acting as a middleman to secure a MBBS seat illegally for a student by arranging an impersonator. The student who got admission through impersonation, was arrested and subsequently granted bail by the district court, considering his age. On parity and length of incarceration for nearly 96 days, the petitioner sought bail stating that he is ready to abide by any conditions and cooperate with the investigation. The additional public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner is one of the key accused and few other accused from Kerala are still absconding and due to Covid-19 situation, investigation is yet to be completed. He added that in view of the suo motu orders passed by the apex court, time for filing final report was extended and the petitioner cannot seek bail. It may be recalled that after two single judges of the Madurai bench took different views with regard to grant of default bail under Section 167 of CrPC, by referring to the Supreme Court order, the Chief Justice of the Madras high court A P Sahi had constituted a division bench to resolve the matter by an authoritative pronouncement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-case-man-seeks-bail-hc-directs-to-place-matter-before-cj/articleshow/75905769.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 23, 2020||Nashik||Those without ration cards to get 5kg rice||Nashik: Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said that poor people who do not have ration cards would get 5kg rice each free of cost for May and June from the fair price shops under the public distribution system (PDS) as part of the Central govervment’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ financial assistance package. As per the Central government guidelines, the beneficiaries of the National Food Security scheme were given food grain at subsidised rates in April and May and would continue to get their share in June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in addition to the grain distributed as part of the PDS. Similarly, people who have saffron cards but are not beneficiaries of the PDS have also been given grain at subsidised rates for the months of May and June. “There are a large number of out-of-work migrant workers who do not have ration cards and are stuck up at various places. We had placed a demand for grain for such people which the Central government has now approved,” said Bhujbal. During a video conference with Union food and civic supplies minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Bhujbal also demanded that the ration stocks be increased so that the state government could accommodate the migrants in the list of PDS beneficiaries. “There are about three crore people in Maharashtra who do not have ration cards. All of them were provided grain at subsidized rates for which the state spent Rs 22/kg from its pockets. If the state quota is increased by 10% for the PDS subsidiaries, many people will benefit,” said Bhujbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/those-without-ration-cards-to-get-5kg-rice/articleshow/75901214.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 23, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad witnesses gusty winds as heavy showers lash city||DHARWAD: Dharwad received heavy rains for nearly an hour on Friday evening. Though the skies were clear in the morning, clouds started gathering early in the evening followed by gusty winds and thunder. Rain started at 5pm and continued till 6:10pm. Following the rain, market activities came to a standstill and vendors had to rush for cover. Two-wheeler riders had a tough time moving on Old PB road as one-side of the road is under construction and the other side was water-logged. Traffic diversion was made near Jubilee Circle for smooth passage of vehicles. The situation was worse at Hubballi Tollnaka due to heavy waterlogging, bringing vehicular movement to a halt. Later, HDMC staff used pumps to drain the water out and facilitated vehicular movement. As branches of trees fell on power lines, there was a power cut for more than three hours in the city. Hescom linemen were busy restoring power lines late in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-witnesses-gusty-winds-as-heavy-showers-lash-city/articleshow/75900630.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Kumartuli idols reduced to clay as cyclone blows away workshop roofs||KOLKATA: Not just mere mortals, Cyclone Amphan seems to have not spared the idols either. At Kumartuli, clay idols were found on under an open sky as strong gusts of wind blew away the roofs of many workshops. Though the lockdown has restricted the damage since many of the artisans had gone back home, the spokesperson of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sanskriti Samity fears that the cyclone will have a severe toll on Ganesh and Viswakarma Pujas this year.  Fifty eight-year-old Mahadev Pal couldn’t believe his eyes when he entered his godown on Thursday morning. For a moment, it felt like being transported to the immersion day. At least 70 Lakshmi clay idols had dissolved in the water. “I couldn’t hold back my tears. Before lockdown, my labourers and I had made 250 Lashmi idols. Just one night and 70 of them had all been reduced to clay! The one-month toil got washed away along with Rs 60,000,” said Mahadev, adding that another friend of his lost a bigger-sized Viswakarma idol in the cyclone. “In my lifetime, I have never seen such a calamity where gods became roofless,” he said. A day after the cyclone in KumartuliForty five-year-old artisan Sujit Pal was at his workshop in Kumartuli when the cyclone had struck the city. “Before lockdown, we had put the first coat of clay on the straw structures of some 40 Kali and 25 Lakshmi idols. Then the laborers left for home. It was very scary that night. Water seeped into my workshop too as the incessant rains lashed on the Lakshmi idols that some artisans had kept in the bylanes. While the gusty winds lashed on the plastic sheets and ripped them apart, the idols melted in the downpour,” Sujit added. Damaged idol at a workshop (Photo by Amit Moulick)Damaged idols in Kumartuli (Photo by Amit Moulick)According Babu Pal, the spokesperson of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sanskriti Samity, 500 artisans with their 3,800 labourers work in the city’s biggest idol-making hub that has 300-odd workshops. “However, most of them have left town left. Had they been around, their lives would have been at risk. Corona hit us during Basanti and Annapurna Pujas. We had thought the situation would improve by May. But now, we don’t see anything starting before middle of June,” he said. The advance work of making the idols for Lakshmi and Kali Puja that was usually done before work begun on Durga Puja hasn’t even started this year. Even if there is a need, he fears that Kumartuli will not even have the wherewithal to make Lakshmi and Kali Puja idols this year. Last year, 15,000 (Kali), 8,000 (Lakshmi), 2,500 (Viswakarma) and 5,000 (Durga) were sold by Kumartuli artisans. Some 58-odd fiber Durga idols were exported. This year, he is still optimistic about Durga Puja orders though he understands that the magnitude will decrease this year. Clay idols at a Kumartuli workshopIn the recent past, Ganesh Puja had started gaining popularity in Kolkata. “Apart from the religious angle, many did it to keep in pace with the times. Last year, Kumartuli had sold some 7,000 Ganesh idols. This year, all that has become history. After corona and the cyclone, I don’t know if same for Ganesh Puja. With so many factories shut, I am certain that Viswakarma Puja will take a bad hit,” he added.  Sujit, who had made some 15 Ganesh idols last year, didn’t get a single order this year. It is the same situation for 40-year-old artisan Subhas Pal who had made 15 Ganesh idols last year. One of them was 10-ft tall. Sujit went back to his Nabadwip home just a day before Annapurna Puja in February. That was after he had made 20 Annapurna idols of which only two got sold. Disappointed, he downed his shutters and left along with five labourers at his workshop which his grandfather had established some 100 years ago. “During the month of Baishak (April), we start making Laxmi and Kali idols and keep them ready in our godown. From May-June onwards, work starts on making Durga idols,” Subhas said. Last year, he had sold 50 Durga, 65 Lakshmi, 50 Kali and 10 Jagadhatri idols. This year, Subhas has no bookings for Durga and has done only 40 Kali and 25 Lakshmi idols. “I keep telling myself that this too shall pass. But I do not know how long I will be able to keep this faith.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kumartuli-idols-reduced-to-clay-as-cyclone-blows-away-workshop-roofs/articleshow/75904643.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown to blame for sleepless nights?||VISAKHAPATNAM: Sleep patterns of the public have gone for a toss since the lockdown began as young couples juggle dealing with young children without the help of the house help, while also working from home. Many are stuck all by themselves with nobody to talk to, no one to provide physical or mental support. Some are not getting enough sleep and others don’t seem to be able to wake up on time. “Anxiety spurred on by the pandemic seeping into dreams and messing up sleep patterns is a common occurrence,” Dr. Bala Raju Tadikonda, a pulmonologist and sleep expert said. “Ever since the lockdown, we have been getting a lot of phone calls about irregular sleep. Not just from people who already have sleep disorders, but also from those who have other lung-related issues,” he added. Uncertainty about the future is a recurring theme of what people are feeling. Covid-19 news alerts, a constant stream of statistics and stress from thinking about all this reflects the quality of sleep. “You could either have a problem with sleep onset or a problem with sleep maintenance and frequent fracturing of sleep. When you have an anxiety overlay, the kind of sleep that gets most disturbed is N3 (the third phase of Non-Rapid Eye Movement) sleep,” child specialist Mustaq Ahmad said. Anxiety is just one side of the coin. The lockdown has changed one’s bodily rhythms and even the dietary patterns. This too is affecting sleep and also causing digestive disorders such as gastroesophageal reflux disease, which aggravates insomnia, another doctor said. Many are stuck at all by themselves with nobody to talk to, no one to provide physical or mental support. For them, life has shrunk to a mobile phone screen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-to-blame-for-sleepless-nights/articleshow/75903109.cms||Siva G
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Admin to conduct Covid-19 testing of medical & police personnel||Nagpur: After Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s poser, the collector and commissioner of police (CP) have agreed to conduct reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests on medical and police personnel deployed in containment areas of Mominpura and Satranjipura. On Monday, justice Rohit Deo, while equating police and medical staffers with “brave hearts in the armed forces”, had asked both respondents to explore conducting Covid-19 testing on a pilot basis on those discharging duties in these containment areas. “The RT-PCR tests for medical and police personnel are proposed to be conducted where more than 15 Covid-19 positive cases are found in each of the containment zones. Those would be held in staggered phases,” a joint affidavit by collector Ravindra Thakare and CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhayay said. Quoting a survey, the affidavit mentioned that Mominpura and Satranjipura are hotspots areas, where about 798 police personnel are discharging their duties. Those ageing over 55 or showing signs of comorbidity aren’t deployed in these areas. Referring to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) medical officer’s data, the affidavit stated that 295 doctors, nurses and other health care workers are working in these areas. Of them, 42 are already tested. It was filed in the public interest litigation (PIL) by the ‘Citizen Forum for Equality’ through counsel Tushar Mandlekar, praying for conducting Covid-19 testing on all front-line workers, including doctors, cops, pharmacists and paramedical staff. After HC’s poser on Monday, the CP convened a joint meeting of all senior officials at his office on Wednesday. It was attended by the expert doctors — Dr Ravindra Khadse from the IGGMCH, Dr Kanchan Wankhede from the GMCH, Dr Sandeep Choudhary from MAFSU and Dr Sandep Shinde, in-charge at police hospital. Joint police commissioner RG Kadam and deputy commissioner Sweta Khedkar, besides Upadhayay and Thakare, were part of the meeting, where the decision to test front-line workers was taken. While directing collector and CP to reply within 48 hours, justice Deo stated that the citizens appear to be broadly appreciative of the bureaucracy’s role in handling the extraordinary situation. “The only anxiety is that both should come with a structured response to the suggestion of a pilot project and take a decision either way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admin-to-conduct-covid-19-testing-of-medical-police-personnel/articleshow/75921223.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 23, 2020||Nashik||Nashik division records 7 deaths; 39 more test positive for Covid-19||(done) Nashik: Nashik division comprising Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts has recorded seven more deaths due to Covid-19in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 115. A total of 39 people tested positive for the contagion, taking the total count of patients in the division to 1,467 while 923 have recovered so far. Nashik city, meanwhile, registered 16 new positive cases, of which six are from Satpur Ambad link road, taking the total count to 67. The total number of people succumbing to the contagion in the city remained three till Friday evening. The first Covid-19 patient was detected in Nashik division on March 13, when an Ahmednagar-based person returned from Dubai and tested positive. Nashik district recorded three deaths — all in Malegaon — while Jalgaon and Ahmednagar witnessed two deaths each. Thirteen more people tested positive for the contagion in Malegaon . “The new positive cases include people who died a couple of days back and whose swabs were sent for testing,” district officials said. Two men, aged 66 and 51 died on Monday while a woman (28) passed away on Tuesday. All the three patients were suffering from breathlessness. Ahmednagar reported two deaths. a 75-year-old woman, a resident of Mumbai, who had been to Karjat in Ahmednagar district to her daughter’s house had been admitted to a government hospital, where she died on Tuesday. Another woman, aged 67, died during treatment in a private hospital on Tuesday. Both of them tested positive on Thursday night, the officials said. Jalgaon, which is the second Covid hotspot in Nashik division after Malegaon, also witnessed two deaths — both in Bhusawal on Monday. The swabs of both the patients, male, tested positive on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-division-records-7-deaths-39-more-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75901225.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 23, 2020||Nashik||NMC begins health check-up of slum dwellers||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) health department has started conducting health check-up of slum dwellers in the city. Over three lakh residents will be screened from about 150 slums. “Some workers from Mumbai and Pune are returning to Nashik city and most of them are staying in slums in the city. And, slum dwellers often do not report symptoms like cough, fever and sneezing,” civic officials said. “Hence, we have decided to conduct health check-up of slum dwellers in the city as part of precautionary measures to curb the spread of Covid-19,” said officials. The municipal corporation has formed 200 teams, including health officials and nurses, to conduct health check-up of people residing in slums. The NMC health teams will not only conduct check-ups but also provide treatment. If they come across anyone with Covid-19 symptoms, the concerned person will be isolated and necessary procedure will be carried out, said civic officials. On May 5, a woman from Bajrangwadi slum died after testing positive for Covid-19. The slum was sealed by the civic body on the same day. Later, the authorities found that she was a close contact of an earlier positive patient from Mumbai. Soon after, mayor Satish Kulkarni had visited a few slums in the city to take stock of the situation. He had also directed the health officials to focus on slum dwellers and ensure that they are protected from coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-begins-health-check-up-of-slum-dwellers/articleshow/75901255.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||City girl bags online dance diploma||Visakhapatnam: A 14-year-old girl from the city was awarded an international dance diploma online, in which artists from 19 countries participated. Raghupatruni Harshita Teena of HB Colony participated in the competition, which took place online due to the lockdown. She was one among two other artists from India who participated. The competition was conducted by the Go To International Folk Festival and Bogazici Folklor Youth Association of Istanbul in Turkey from May 18 to May 20. Teena won a special appreciation letter and a dance diploma in the competitions, in which famous dance artists from Russia, Kazakhstan and Turkey were judges. Teena is learning Bharatanatyam, Odissi, Kathak, and Nepali and Bangladesh folk dances at the School of Theatres Arts under the guidance of dance master R. Nagaraj Patnaik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-girl-bags-online-dance-diploma/articleshow/75903129.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Indore||Anaj mandi opens today, to strike deals over WhatsApp||Indore: Corona is changing the dynamics of trade at anaj mandis. Deals will now be struck over WhatsApp and farmers will be able to choose the highest bidder and sell his produce just by using a thumbs-up emoji in the messenger app. Giving a much-needed relief to farmers, Indore district administration will start Laxmibai and Sanyogitaganj Anaj and Krishi Mandi for sale of agriculture produce. Use of technology and change in method to bring crops in the market will be done for the first time to control spread of Covid-19. Apart from stressing on ‘Sauda-Patrak’ (sale/purchase of crops on agreement between farmers and traders), wheat producers have been asked to approach traders on WhatsApp, send pictures/videos of their crop and finalize the deal as it will help them to avoid visiting mandi and saving time, energy and money. According to mandi officials, a farmer can contact multiple traders and sell crops to the highest bid received. Besides, farmers, who don’t want to make deal on Whatsapp, can visit mandi by carrying only samples of wheat crops, show it to traders and sell it as per convenience. He won’t need to bring crops in market as the trader will collect it directly from the farm or where it is stored. According to collector Manish Singh’s order, onion producers will be informed through SMS to bring their produce in Laxmibai Nagar Krishi Mandi while they will be given entry between 6am and 10am. Open bidding among traders will be held between 10am and 2pm to purchase onion. Separate guideline has been issued for wheat farmers and traders to follow in sale, purchase, transportation, storage and grading of grain. To get entry in mandi, the farmers will have to bring Kisan Rin Pustika or bank-passbook. The administration has asked visitors including farmers, traders and porters along with officials concerned to take all precautions including social distancing, use of gloves, sanitizers and masks to help keeping disease at bay. Local farmer-leaders have raised the issue of shortage of gunny bags for packaging of wheat crops. “At many wheat procurement centres including Jalodiapanth village of Depalpur, there is shortage of gunny bags. Farmers are facing huge inconvenience and have to wait two-three days to sell their crops,” state president of Bhartiya Kisan Majdoor Sena Bablu Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/anaj-mandi-opens-today-to-strike-deals-over-whatsapp/articleshow/75904990.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railway passengers to be quarantined for 14 days, local flyers to be screened||MUMBAI: Soon, railway passengers arriving in the city from other states will be home quarantined for 14 days even if they do not show any Covid-19 symptoms. If found to have symptoms, the passengers will be sent on institutional quarantine. Domestic flyers will undergo routine thermal screening on arrival and will be quarantined if they show any symptoms. If a flyer is expected to stay on in Mumbai for a few days, he or she will have to submit an address proof. These are part of the new protocol for rail and air travel the BMC is expected to announce in a day or two, considering that domestic flights will resume operations from May 25 and trains from June 1. All passengers arriving by trains will undergo thermal screening at stations. “If a passenger is arriving from another state, he or she will be quarantined for 14 days, whether they have any symptoms or otherwise,” a senior bureucrat told TOI on Friday. Meanwhile, the BMC has also tweaked the rules for international air travellers flying into the city through Vande Bharat Mission flights. They will be put under institutional quarantine in hotels for 14 days and thereafter in home quarantine for a similar duration. The flyers will undergo tests seven to 12 days after their arrival and if found negative, they will be allowed to leave with a 14-day home quarantine stamp on their wrists. Those who are asymptomatic but test positive will be discharged from institutional quarantine only after they test negative. BMC’s executive heath officer Padmaja Kesarkar said, “The decision has been taken in accordance with central government guidelines.” Around 2,350 international flyers who arrived in Mumbai were sent for quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rly-passengers-to-be-quarantined-for-14-days-local-flyers-to-be-screened/articleshow/75905073.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 66 private liquor shops get government’s permission to resume operations||NEW DELHI: The excise department on Friday ordered opening of 66 private liquor stores that sell foreign and Indian-made foreign liquor in the capital. This is in addition to about 172 shops run by government agencies that were allowed to open from May 4. Another 300-odd government-run liquor stores across the city are also in process of starting operations. An official said that 66 private stores and 300-odd government run will have to follow the odd-even rule of opening of shops in the markets. The 172 shops that were given permission to operate earlier can open every day. After Delhi government issued fresh guidelines on various activities permitted in phase 4 of the lockdown earlier this week, which paved way for opening of all liquor shops except those located in shopping malls, the excise department had come up with a separate standard operating procedure for stores run by private operators. The excise department made it mandatory for the owners of all private liquor stores to conduct a monthly stock recording activity between May 19 and 21, and submit a compliance report. Only those stores that submitted the report and an undertaking that the shop did not fall in a containment zone were to be given the permission to operate. “So far, only 66 stores complied with our order and they have been given permission,” said a senior excise department official. Of 863 liquor shops in Delhi, 475 are run by four government corporations – Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation and Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store – while 389 are owned by private players. Of these 389, about 150 are located in shopping malls and not allowed to open at least in this phase of lockdown, which will remain in place till May 31. Officials said that the opening of more shops will considerably reduce the pressure on a handful of stores that were allowed to operate in the city in the last phase of lockdown. Huge crowds were witnessed out the liquor shops earlier this month forcing government to start issuing e-tokens for people to book a time slot at a shop to avoid the crowd and the queue. The facility of e-tokens will remain available only at government-run stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/66-private-liquor-shops-get-govts-permission-to-resume-operations/articleshow/75906615.cms||Atul Mathur
May 23, 2020||Nashik||NMC to appoint pvt agency to collect waste||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation will appoint a private agency to collect plastic and other waste from open spaces and transport it to compost plant of the municipal corporation at Pathardi area of the city. The NMC has floated a tender for collecting plastic and other waste from the open spaces in Nashik East division of the municipal corporation. The tenders for the other divisions will be floated shortly. The NMC has inadequate sanitary workers as most of them are engaged in cleaning roads and colonies in the city. “Hence, the NMC has decided to appoint a private agency to clear open spaces before the monsoon. Plastic and other waste on open spaces may create health problems during monsoon. So, we want to make these open spaces free from garbage and plastic,” said NMC officials. The contractor will have to collect waste from open spaces within a month after the contract is given. The last date for submitting the bid is by 1 pm on May 28 and the bids will be opened on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-appoint-pvt-agency-to-collect-waste/articleshow/75901281.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||Mask fine: Rs 1.83L as fine collected in 3 days||Madurai: The city corporation has collected Rs 1.83 lakh as fine from people in the district in the last three days for not wearing masks. People venturing out of their homes without wearing masks are being slapped with a fine of Rs 100. A team of officials, under the guidance of the assistant corporation commissioner, are conducting checks at public places and workplaces to ensure people are wearing masks. Rs 94,100 was collected by corporation officials in the last three days from 668 city residents who violated the norm. On Friday alone, 259 people were fined a total of Rs 25,900 for not wearing masks. This included Rs 3,800 collected from zone one, Rs 4,700 from zone two, Rs 7,700 from zone three and Rs 9,700 from zone four. Meanwhile, members of Gomathypuram-Thendral Nagar Residents Welfare Association distributed masks to people who entered the locality without mask. Association president D Raghavan said that as many as 300 masks were distributed on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mask-fine-rs-1-83l-as-fine-collected-in-3-days/articleshow/75905813.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||Very few get work under MNREGA: MP||Madurai: Congress MP Manickam Tagore has alleged that not all workers registered under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Act (MGNREGA) scheme in his Virudhunagar constituency have been given work, though the government has allowed work to resume with full capacity. The MP said this after inspecting villages in Thirumangalam assembly constituency in Madurai, which comes under his constituency. For instance, 1,200 people had registered for the 100-day work scheme in Kurayur village in Kallikudi union in Madurai, but only 60 had come for work. It is important that people be given work now, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/very-few-get-work-under-mnrega-mp/articleshow/75905822.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad district records 2,500 cases, 166 deaths in 7 days||AHMEDABAD: On Friday, Ahmedabad district recorded 9,724 cumulative Covid-19 positive cases and 645 deaths. In terms of Indian cities, Ahmedabad is on third spot after Mumbai and Delhi and slightly ahead of Chennai. Analysis of the cases reveal that in the last seven days, the district added 2,553 positive cases and 166 deaths. The death rate for the past week was 6.5%. In the same time, the district also recorded discharge of 1,276 patients. As on Friday, Ahmedabad accounts for 73.3% of total positive cases and 80.4% of total deaths of Gujarat. The silver lining for the district is a decrease in the doubling rate – while it took 15 days for the numbers to double from 4,862, it had only taken nine days to double from 2,496. “The trend has not changed much in terms of average daily cases or mortality in past seven days. The cases however have spread to diverse areas of the city and district. More contact tracing and intensive identification of new cases are still important to ensure that more persons are identified and quarantined so that when lockdown is eased, we can prevent an exponential rise,” said a city-based infectious diseases expert. Within the municipal limits, a 21-year-old woman who was nine months pregnant, and who was due on delivering her child in a few days was among the 26 people who died because of Covid-19 on Friday. The woman belonged to Gomtipur area and died at LG Hospital. Eight of these people had no co-morbid conditions, while 18 had co-morbidities with two patients having heart problems, one had physical disabilities and one suffered from obeseity. Of the 26 who died in Ahmedabad city, three died in the municipal West zone — a 61-year-old man in Navrangpura, a 65-year-old man in Nava Vadaj and a 67-year-old man in Chandkheda. Of the total deaths on Friday, there were 17 men and nine women. An employee at Space Applications Centre, Isro, had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, after which SAC administration has begun intensive sanitizing activities. The technician had come to Isro campus on May 19 and Thursday. Those who came in touch with the employee have been asked to quarantine themselves. “Only senior officials of deputy secretary rank or above come regularly to the campus while other staff members come on alternate days,” said an official at SAC, Isro. Among those who died within city limits, eight each were in the 51-60 years and 61-70 years age brackets. There were three people who fell in the 20-30 years age group, while five died in the 41-50 years age group. Only two people who died belonged to the 81-90 years age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-district-records-2-5k-cases-166-deaths-in-7-days/articleshow/75904902.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Migrants sprayed with disinfectants, SDMC blames the error on machine||NEW DELHI: In an incident reminiscent of migrant workers being sprayed with chemical disinfectants in UP’s Bareily, a group of migrants in Delhi, waiting for a ride home, faced almost a similar situation as they queued up at the screening centre in Lajpat Nagar on Friday evening. As the incident sparked outrage, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) blamed the high pressure of jetting machine for the lapse. As Hemu Kalani Senior Secondary School in Lajpat Nagar-3, where the screening is going on for those registered to take Shramik Specials, is located inside a residential colony, locals demanded a disinfection drive of the compound, ground and the road, said a spokesperson. “Accordingly, as per the protocol, the disinfectant spraying was being done in the evening in and around the school. But due to the pressure of the machine, the worker could not manage it for some moments,” the corporation claimed in a statement. The staff have been asked to be more careful, the spokesperson said. “The official present at the site apologised to public,” he added. SDMC mayor Sunita Kangra said she had ordered an investigation. “But it is more likely that due to the pressure, our worker may have lost control. I was helping with disinfection in my ward and I, too, faced problem in controlling the pipe. My eyes were itching for half an hour,” she added. The agencies use a diluted mixture of sodium hypochlorite bleaching agent for disinfection. Sodium hypochlorite is the main ingredient in laundry bleach. WHO has clearly prohibited spraying of alcohol, chlorine or such disinfecting agents on clothes and bodies. “Spraying such a substance can be harmful to clothes or mucous membrane, eyes and mouth,” its advisory reads. The bleaching agent can cause irritation and inflammation. Spraying disinfectant on the streets, as practised in some countries, does not eliminate the new coronavirus and even poses a health risk, WHO has warned recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/migrants-sprayed-with-disinfectants-sdmc-blames-the-error-on-machine/articleshow/75905830.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad now has 39% recovery rate||AHMEDABAD: With 288 Covid-19 patients discharged on Friday, the recovery rate of Ahmedabad city is now 39%, up from 19% on May 5, when the new crisis management team took over. Rajiv Gupta, ACS, forests and environment, who has been put in charge of controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, said the city earlier had a low recovery rate compared to Gujarat (22.11%) and India (28.62%). “However, due to the multi-pronged approach adopted in the last 15 days, the recovery rate has increased by 140%, against the growth in the recovery rate in Gujarat (92%) and India (43%).” Gupta further said that surveillance has also increased, with 616 teams deployed against 318 earlier. The surveillance rate has also increased from, 14% to 40%, he said adding that greater surveillance has helped in a higher recovery rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-now-has-39-recovery-rate/articleshow/75904897.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||At 45.6 degree Celsius, Nagpur hottest in Vidarbha||Nagpur: The city recorded its highest temperature of the season till date, on Friday, with the mercury reaching 45.6 degree Celsius — nearly three degrees above normal. This is the first time this year that the temperature has crossed the 45-degree mark. Like the previous day, Friday too the city was the hottest in Vidarbha. It was followed by Chandrapur and Akola, which recorded maximum temperatures of 45.5 and 45.2 degree Celsius respectively. The minimum temperature recorded in the city on the same day was 22.2 degree Celsius. From the last three days, temperatures in the region have been increasing. The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, has issued a heatwave warning for the city for the next two days. As per the Met department, the maximum temperature of the city is expected to cross 44 and 45 degree Celsius in the coming week. Citizens are advised to stay indoors in the afternoons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-45-6-degree-celsius-nagpur-hottest-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75905832.cms||Manka Behl
May 23, 2020||Nashik||Fire-affected families demand relief of 1L each||Nashik: The 116 Bhimwadi slum families that were affected due to the recent fire incident in the Ganjamal area have demanded a compensation of Rs one lakh each. They also expressed their disappointment by the state government in providing the necessary relief. The sit-in agitation was led by the BJP MLA Devyani Pharande to press for the demands of the affected families. The protest was carried out by maintaining social distancing norms. Over 100 shanties in Bhimwadi were gutted on April 24, which affected more than 600 people. They were shifted to two municipal schools on a temporary basis. Pharande said the government has failed to rehabilitate these 116 affected families. She asked for immediate relief of Rs 1 lakh from the Chief Minister’s relief funds to all the families. The families also handed over a memorandum of their demand to the tehsildar of Nashik, Anil Daunde||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fire-affected-families-demand-relief-of-1l-each/articleshow/75901299.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad raises aid, money for victims of killer cyclone||HYDERABAD: Dozens of clubs, cultural associations and student groups in Hyderabad are raising funds to help lakhs of cyclone victims in West Bengal and Orissa. Most of these fund raisers are being organized by Bengalis living in the city to help victims of cyclone Amphan, who have lost their homes and have no food to eat. Most of the associations are contributing to the chief minister’s relief fund, Bharat Sevashram Sangha (BSS), Ramakrishna Mission and Voice of World, among others, whose members are on the ground helping cyclone victims. Many individuals cutting across various clubs of Hyderabad have already started providing financial support to West Bengal, after the severe cyclone left behind a trail of destruction. “Instead of waiting to collect a big amount, we have decided to immediately transfer the amount collected through our members to BSS tomorrow. We have collected a sizeable amount and subsequently as and when we receive more funds, more amount will be transferred from JUAAH,” said Debashis Basu, president, Jadavpur University Alumni Association, Hyderabad chapter. Sunil Swain, general secretary of Telangana Odisha Doctors Association said over the next three days they are planning to raise Rs 2lakh -Rs 3 lakh and send it to the CM relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-raises-aid-money-for-victims-of-killer-cyclone/articleshow/75905853.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||SARI affecting and killing more people than Covid-19 in city||Nagpur: While all eyes are on Covid-19, Severe Acute respiratory illness (SARI) has affected and killed more patients in Nagpur than novel coronavirus. At least since March 11 (day on which first Covid-19 positive case was found in city) to May 22, SARI has infected 503 patients in city against 408 of Covid-19. While Covid-19 deaths are 7 in city so far, SARI deaths are at 16. More worrisome about SARI is that it kills patients of all age groups unlike Covid-19 which is more dangerous for elderly people. In last two months, nine children aged between 0-12 years were admitted in the GMCH paediatric ward. Out of them, one kid died and seven got recovered. One is still undergoing treatment. SARI patients who have been admitted at the GMCH are of all age groups — right from infants to senior citizens. A fearful fact is that SARI patients are vulnerable to get infected with coronavirus. Due to this, it’s mandatory for all SARI patients to undergo Covid-19 test. In Nagpur, seven SARI patients have been tested Covid-19 positive so far. SARI and Covid-19 comparative picture is similar all over Vidarbha. Between March 11 and May 21 — Covid-19 cases reached from 1 to 1,110 while SARI cases are 1,083 in Vidarbha. Out of 43 Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha region, 10 were SARI patients who turned Covid-19 positive eventually. Excluding SARI patients who died of Covid-19, other 27 deaths have been reported in Vidarbha due to SARI. As per present guidelines, all hospitalized patients with SARI symptoms like fever and cough and or shortness of breath are screened for Covid-19. All SARI cases in Covid, non-Covid and private hospitals need to be isolated. As per ICMR, 1.8% of total SARI patients test positive for COVID-19. Positivity is higher among males and patients aged above 50 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sari-affecting-and-killing-more-people-than-covid-19-in-city/articleshow/75904715.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 23, 2020||Madurai||Turnstile gates, darshan booking mooted for reopening temples||Madurai: As temples continue to remain shut across the state as part of checking the spread of Covid-19, employees have suggested various crowd regulation measures like installing turnstile gates and online booking to resume darshan in a phased manner. Tamil Nadu Senior Temple Employees Association has pointed out that about 4,000 of the 44,000 temples under HR & CE department need better infrastructure to ensure safety through social distancing. Almost 90% of the temples are in the unlisted category, earning a revenue of less than Rs 10,000 a year. Controlling crowds would be easier in such temples, where hardly 100 people visit a day, than bigger temples like Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar, says S Shaji Rao, president of the association. ``Many of the temples have festivals and rituals throughout the year with processions related to it. Controlling crowds would be difficult during such times, which calls for better planning and execution,’’ he said. The association says that in temples like Meenakshi Sundareswarar crowd regulation would have to extend up to the sanctum sanctorum of goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar. This would be very cumbersome, as asking people to maintain a 6-metre distance would be a major challenge. The employees association has suggested to the HR & CE commissioner to install turnstile gates of full height in big temples to ensure social distancing. However, in temples like Alagarkoil which has many corridors, even that would be difficult. Shaji Rao suggested system-enabled online bookings for darshan to suit all types of mobile phones, not just smart phones. ``A short code, two-way SMS would be a better solution’’ he said. A paid system could be implemented for special occasions like festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/turnstile-gates-darshan-booking-mooted-for-reopening-temples/articleshow/75905847.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||2 years on, kin of firing victims pick up the pieces||Tuticorin: After a long wait, 19-year-old G Jeniston had a pleasant surprise on Thursday, a day before his father K Gladston’s second death anniversary. He has finally got the job assured by the Tamil Nadu government on compassionate grounds following the death of his father in the police firing on anti-Sterlite protesters in Tuticorin on May 22, 2018. Jeniston has been appointed as VAO assistant of Veppalodai village. He had completed Class X four years ago and started working to support the family when the firing took away his father’s life. “I was drawing Rs 3,000 a month as a crane cleaner then,” he told TOI on Friday. The lad could not get the job on compassionate grounds earlier as he could not fulfil the age requirement. The government handed over Rs 20 lakh as relief to the family, of which Rs 5 lakh went to Gladston’s mother. With Rs 15 lakh he repaid loans to the tune of Rs 5 lakh, built a small house for the family and deposited Rs 5 lakh in the name of his sister Jenista, 18, now a first year BBA student. However, the family began to struggle when he lost his job two months ago due to the lockdown. On Thursday, he joined duty soon after receiving the appointment order from the district collector. P Prabhu of the Anti-Sterlite Thoothukudi District People Federation, who is in touch with the families of the firing victims, said the government gave jobs to 21 people on compassionate grounds including the badly injured. Another victim was Sermaraj, who was long hospitalised for a bullet injury in the leg. Though he was appointed as helper in the noon meal scheme, the Rs 2,500 monthly salary was not enough to meet the expense of transportation to work and he had to turn down the offer. “The 19-year-old son of victim Antony Selvaraj is awaiting the appointment order,” Prabhu added. Relatives of Shanmugam – a youth who was killed – turned down the Rs 20 lakh relief as well as the government job. The one-member retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan commission formed to probe the 100th day protest and police firing has completed examining 492 people in connection with the incident at 20 sittings till date. Around 400 more crucial witnesses are yet to be examined. On Friday, the second anniversary of the tragedy was observed by lighting candles and paying floral tributes to the victims.  ‘They (victims) gave us the clear air to breathe’ read the boards erected for the memorial. M Krishnamoorthy, a key representative of the federation who had also played an active role in the anti-Sterlite protests, said they are dejected over the delay in getting justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-years-on-kin-of-firing-victims-pick-up-the-pieces/articleshow/75905841.cms||M K Ananth
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Jama Masjid in Aurangabad turned into quarantine facility||Aurangabad: Jama Masjid near Town Hall, one of the prominent mosques in the city, has been turned into a quarantine centre with 125 beds, food and sanitisers for Covid-19 patients. Jama Masjid is the first mosque to have been converted into a quarantine facility in the city, which has been witnessing a rising number of coronavirus cases. The mosque is spread over seven acres and is said to be built in 1612 AD. Following instructions from municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, city engineer Sakharam Panzade selected Jama Masjid and Maulana Azad Women’s College in Navkhanda to be developed as quarantine facilities. Mosque committee members Abdul Jabbar, Mohammed Rizwan and others lent full support to the civic body’s move and promised all cooperation in fighting the coronavirus pandemic in the city. The civic deputy engineer, building inspector Syed Jamsheed and ward officer Sanjay Jakkal have been appointed to look after the two facilities and ensure that all the necessary equipment is in place. The Maulana Azad Women’s College has 120-130 beds and has already been made operational for Covid-19 management. Civic health officer Nita Padalkar said that the AMC has already opened covid care centres at Qile Ark, Padampura, MIT College and MGM Sports Complex, where asymptomatic positive patients are being kept. “These centres can accommodate more patients. However, if may space is required, other centres have been made ready. At Maulana Azad Women’s College in Navkhanda, we are quarantining patients for 24 hours until we get the swab report,” said Padalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jama-masjid-in-aurangabad-turned-into-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75901317.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three employees of Cadila Pharma die of Covid-19||Ahmedabad: Three employees of Cadila Pharmaceuticals Limited have recently died of Covid-19. As many as 26 employees at the pharma company’s manufacturing facility in Dholka had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month. “We are terribly saddened by losing three of our colleagues. We are in touch with their families for extending all the necessary support and help,” city-based Cadila Pharmaceuticals’ spokesperson said while confirming the recent deaths of its three employees. Two of the three employees who lost their lives to Covid-19 were from packaging division and one was from the production department. One of them was 59 years old and had co-morbid conditions with diabetes. “We also take this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to the safety and well-being of our employees. We are in constant touch with all our employees who are in hospital or in quarantine,” added the spokesperson of the privately held pharmaceutical company. The Rajiv Modi-promoted privately held pharmaceutical company’s Dholka facility is currently under shutdown. The facility, which employs around 1,200 to 1,600 workers, was shut after 26 of its employees were found Covid-19 positive. It was perhaps the first instance in Gujarat where operations of a pharma company plant was ordered to be shut due to workers being infected with the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-employees-of-cadila-pharma-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/75904892.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Addl CP leads effort to feed migrants on 25 trains at 5-hr notice||NAGPUR: Additional CP (crime) Nilesh Bharne responded to an emergency appeal by the railways on Friday, and managed to get together food for around 13,000 migrants travelling in Shramik Special trains passing through Nagpur in less than five hours. By the time of going to the press, Bharne’s ‘Team Nagpur’ had already catered to migrants in nine trains from 5pm onwards, and was ready to serve another 16 trains expected to reach Nagpur, carrying another 17,000-18,000 migrants by 3am. In addition to the daily distribution of food, ration and sanitizers to more than 75,000 to a lakh needy people during the lockdown, Bharne especially swung into action following a call from top railway officials to help the migrants in at least 13 unscheduled trains. These trains had been diverted via Nagpur at the last moment due to operational reasons, forcing the railways to ask civil society volunteers for help with serving food and water on them. Senior divisional commercial manager, Central Railways, Krishnath Patil said, “IRCTC has the capacity to feed 30 trains but due to operational reasons there was a need to suddenly cater to another 20-25 trains for which the help was required.” “NGOs and the people of Nagpur helped in catering to the needs of the migrants travelling in the trains. Our call to Additional CP Bharne was to seek his help in roping in NGOs to provide the food,” Patil said. Bharne not only brought together many NGOs to save the day, but also rushed to the station with the volunteers to get into the thick of the action on the ground. At around 1.52pm, Bharne sounded the alarm in the social media group created by him and his team, asking everyone to get ready to serve at least 19,050 migrants of 13 trains. These were suddenly scheduled to make a halt in Nagpur for food and water. Later, the number of trains increased to 25. In another message at 3.14pm posted by Bharne, he appealed for maximum volunteers to reach the railway station and appealed to the NGOs to be quick with their services. Despite short notice, at least 18 NGOs, individuals, gurdwaras and other religious groups started dropping messages in the group about their willingness to reach the railway station with food, fruits, water, biscuit packets, masks, sanitizers and other materials. “We were preparing for 13 trains, but even when the number went up to 25, we had decided not to lose this challenge,” he said. Bharne said their aim is to feed all the 30,000 migrants before the last train passes Nagpur at around 3am. “All these trains are taking migrants back to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. We knew it would be a Herculean task but would battle it out anyhow,” said the IPS officer, who had been at the helm of the rescue operations during the Uttarakhand flood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/addl-cp-leads-effort-to-feed-migrants-on-25-trains-at-5-hr-notice/articleshow/75905860.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 23, 2020||Vadodara||Low testing keeps down new cases||Vadodara: With two more Covid-19 cases linked to the Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) surfacing since Thursday evening, Vadodara now has 791 positive cases, along with 18 new reported on Friday. However, in its wake, what seems apparent is the authorities’ new approach in combating the Covid menace. While the results of only 129 samples were available, the number of new positive cases also thus stayed low. Interestingly, more than 150 samples were tested in a single day earlier this week, which then kept falling down to 134 on Thursday and then to 129 on Friday. However, health authorities take refuge in the fact the testing is being carried out only as the ICMR guidelines. The number of patients who were discharged was also very low as only five patients were discharged on Friday. These include four from a Covid care centre and one from the GMERS, Gotri Hospital. Sources said that a woman residing in Undera in Vadodara taluka and a man residing in Gorwa area of the city were tested positive for Covid-19 since Thursday night. They used to work at BAGH and were tested as part of the testing drive of those working at the hospital. The hospital has been closed for a week and will be sanitised. A man staying on Ratanpur road in Vadodara also tested positive for Covid-19. It has come to light that he used to work win the loan department of a major private bank in Vadodara. According to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) data, 279 persons remained under treatment after testing positive for Covid-19, including 11 on oxygen and six on ventilators or BIPAP machines. The number of deceased remained at 38 with VMC not declaring any fresh deaths. As many as 477 patients have been discharged so far. Also, 1,402 persons have been quarantined at home or at private facilities. These include those who have travelled to the city from abroad or from outside the state. Eight persons were found suffering from severe acute respiratory illness or influenza like illnesses. These included eight from the red zones of the city and one from the orange zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/low-testing-keeps-down-new-cases/articleshow/75901016.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||SHRC calls for report on colour change of water in Thamirabarani||Tirunelveli: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Friday sought an explanation from various government officials on the reason for the change of water colour in Thamirabarani river. Meanwhile, Tirunelveli collector Shilpa Prabhakar Sathish said the colour change was due to sudden release of excess water from the bottom of the Karaiyar dam from May 15. The notice was issued by the SHRC based on a complaint from activist A Shankar from Tuticorin who expressed concern over the water turning yellow in the river that is the lifeline of Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts. The SHRC stated that the Tirunelveli district collector, commissioner of Tirunelveli Corporation and chief engineer of the water resources organisation and the public works department should send a response in four weeks, or else action will be taken. In a statement, the collector said water from Karaiyar dam along with slush, leaves and decomposed tree wastes changed the colour downstream. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shrc-calls-for-report-on-colour-change-of-water-in-thamirabarani/articleshow/75905863.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to get 1,500 extra beds in private hospitals||AHMEDABAD: To be better placed to offer treatment to needy Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad, the process to acquire 1,500 additional beds across major private hospitals in the city has been initiated. About 500 patients are under treatment already at these hospitals. These additional beds constitute 50% of the total beds in each of the 42 hospitals that the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has requisitioned for which payments will be made from the state and civic coffers. The main objectives of requisitioning these beds, sources in the AMC say, is to ensure that Covid-19 patients requiring critical care are given adequate treatment and to bring down the overall death rate. Additional chief secretary Rajiv Gupta, who has been put in charge of the overall Covid-19 fight in Ahmedabad, says, “The 1,500 additional private hospital beds along with 3,000 beds of 31 private hospitals across Gujarat is by far the largest requisitioning done by a government of private hospital beds in the country.” He adds that states like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have also issued similar orders to private hospitals for requisitioning hospital beds but, “the number of actual beds made available in these states by private hospitals is much less than in Gujarat.” Sources in the AMC say that over the past two days the AMC and AUDA have been cracking the whip on private hospitals that discourage Covid-19 patients from seeking treatment. On Tuesday, 17 private hospitals in the city were issued notices and serious warnings of initiating criminal and civil cases against them were given. The process of requisitioning is taking time owing to the signing of MoUs and the fact that many hospitals are a little short of beds. “It’s not that other beds, apart from the 1,500 at these 42 hospitals will not be made available to patients. They will have to be paid for,” says a senior zonal health official in the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-get-1-5k-extra-beds-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/75904887.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Lukewarm response on 1st day of bus services in Nashik, Aurangabad & Beed||Nashik/Aurangabad: The first day of the intradistrict bus service started by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) received very poor response from the citizens of Nashik, Aurangabad and Beed especially in the absence of any reason to travel. State transport minister Anil Parab said the buses were being run while ensuring that a regular 44-seater MSRTC bus has only 22 passengers “We could operate only seven buses that made 24 trips between various places in the rural areas of Nashik district. Throughout the day, we had 135 passengers. All other trips were cancelled due to lack of passengers,” said KS Patil, the district traffic officer, MSRTC, Nashik division. The highest numbers of travellers were 64, from Peth to Harsul, where buses recorded four trips. Arun Siya, the Aurangabad MSRTC divisional controller, said “We ran 28 buses in the rural area of the district but the response was nil. This could be because of the overall traffic movement which has reduced to 10% in lockdown and the movement of people for essential services is restricted to the city.” In Beed, the situation was similar. The district ran 11 state transport buses from Beed to Parli, Ambejogai, Majalgaon, Dharur, Gevrai, Patoda and Ashti and return. Raju Atkare, a traffic inspector, said, “Friday was an even date which meant that the markets were shut. So, more passengers are expected on Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lukewarm-response-on-1st-day-of-bus-services-in-nashik-aurangabad-beed/articleshow/75901353.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Aim to prevent community spread of Covid-19 in Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe||Nagpur Municipal Corporation commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has been in the hot seat ever since coronavirus broke out. He has received a few bouquets and lot of brickbats for his decisions. Everyone was expecting Nagpur to be out of the red zone but Mundhe had other plans. In this exclusive interview, he explains the rationale in asking an extension to lockdown till May 31 There are charges against you of being autocratic and not accepting advice from others.Absolutely ill-founded and wrong. All decisions are taken collectively. Everyone’s inputs are considered. I have had discussions with people, colleagues, ministers and elected representatives. I am authorized to take decisions for the good of the city, to control the pandemic and that’s what I am doing. There are 20-odd officers who are looking at different issues. We take decisions based on facts and laws, and the need of the hour. We have established 18-20 Corona management systems. All are taken into consideration. That's how we could manage systematically. Had the system not been in place, we would have been working in an ad hoc manner. A Corona War Room was established very early. It acts as the think tank and nerve centre. Everyday we meet for 2-3 hours at different times. I take advice from media, NGOs, politicians and citizens. Two things are taken into account — is it needed and good, and will it fit into our process? Do you take a decision on the spur of the moment or after a lot of thinking?Both. But I have never responded in an ad hoc manner. My approach has been to put in place a system that will last long. The input for deciding on mass quarantine came from the zonal medical officers and paramedical staff. They felt there were many who were hiding information and needed to be tested. I agreed. They said we must quarantine at least 25-30 households, take their samples and test them. On that basis, we will decide further. I agreed. Initially it was just 15-20 people. Today from Satranjipura and Mominpura more than 2,000 are quarantined of whom 300 are positive. The numbers in Parvati Nagar and Gaddigodam is 700. We have to ensure the positive cases do not infect others. There are complaints you do not consult the mayor and NMC office bearers.I am taking their inputs and doing whatever is feasible. The current situation is not normal. I can’t take suggestions on the places to quarantine. Everyone will say ‘not in my area’. I first took government institutions, then semi-government places and hostels. Then came residential buildings which are not occupied. Have I taken any private building? After these got full, I went to college hostels (VNIT, Symbiosis and Lonara college). Quarantine centres have been made as per guidelines. The purpose is to isolate suspects so that they do not infect others. How successful have you been?That is for others to judge. First priority was to check the international travellers and isolate them in own houses. Today it is even if they enter, they should not spread. Strategy has changed over time and now it is to ensure no community spread. An expert from the Centre, the Rapid Response Team, Department of Preventive and Social Medicine and AIIMS have analysed the pandemic in the city. All say our system is working well and there is no lacuna. The RRT clearly mentioned the 5-6 things which helped us contain the spread. Early testing, isolation and treatment has led to lesser mortality. Early isolation has come through contact tracing and quarantining. Yet 403 of the 407 cases have happened during lockdown. Do you think it has been successful?It is happening all over India. There are super spreaders (infect more than 10) and spreaders (more than 5). Nagpur has just six super spreaders and eight spreaders. The city’s 390-odd cases have come from just 14 cases. Had everyone followed lockdown properly and not stepped out of their houses, the numbers would have been fewer. Initially, there was lot of resistance in data collecting too. Through contact tracing, the numbers went up. If only the first person would have told us about having fever and travel history, he could have been treated and not many would have turned positive. If unchecked positive cases mix with others, they will obviously transmit. Even though Mominpura and Satranjipura are still a problem, we have been able to cut off the thread with mass quarantine in government institutions. Despite being a containment zone, Mominpura is continuously throwing up positive cases since April 5. Why?My team is constantly collecting data on those having fever, any ailment and coming in contact with positive persons. But information is being hidden. The team members have been abused, thrown out, their papers torn. Yet, we are going the extra mile to convince them. All we are asking is name, age, ailment, cough and nothing else. Unless I get information, how can I quarantine or isolate more people. Had I not followed contact tracing, quarantine and testing, the administration would have been at fault. But our systems are in place and working well. Even after identifying the contacts, they did not want to go to quarantine centres. Can you imagine what the numbers would have been had we not quarantined people from Satranjipura and Mominpura? Perhaps, far worse than bigger cities. In quarantine centres, there were complaints about the quality of food and also of room sharing.We have always followed the guidelines which said that more than one person can be put in a single room and 5-10 in a bigger room. The only parameter to be observed was 1 metre distance between beds, which we followed. If I have single rooms, I will happily offer. Nagpur has the luxury of having MLA Hostel which has many rooms. I am not breaching any guidelines of ICMR, health ministry or governments. Positive cases have emerged from institutional quarantine too.The suspects behaved irresponsibly by mingling freely. The administration cannot keep tab on each and everyone. One of two friends who were kept in a single room tested positive. No one before or after did. If the room is the source, why didn’t others? All rooms are disinfected many times. As far as food goes, the additional municipal commissioner himself tasted the food at different centres and found it okay. The complaints came only from MLA Hostel that too after the old vendor got changed. After NMC took charge of quarantining, we changed the vendor and now get three meals plus tea for Rs160. Cases are being filed against you in high court. Is there any pressure on you?If I act taking into consideration how people will react, I will never be able to take a decision. Never done it in my life. I only consider the necessity, and if it is legally and morally allowed. My objective is to save Nagpur from community spread and contain the positive cases. If am not able to do it, I am failing in my duty. You may have made more enemies than friends in Nagpur.I hope they will be on my side. Do you get good support from colleagues?I am very forthright. There is very thin line between being forthright and arrogant. I make sure I don’t cross it. If something is not doable I will say so. People may not like me for saying it, but it is the truth. On your plea, the lockdown has been extended by nine days to May 31. Would it have made any difference?This is an evolving and dynamic situation. Nobody can predict what will happen tomorrow, how the virus will behave and who it will infect. As the situation changes, decision will be taken. It is not a question of nine days, 1-2 days or two months. What is happening now is important. Last week, there were three deaths, two were out of non-containment zones. It means they got infected somewhere outside. Then look at the numbers, the positives are increasing. We are okay with the spikes as we have picked up people and quarantined them. But I cannot confidently say Mominpura or Gaddigodam are safe. Once the transmission is halted, then we can say we are ready to move on. I know the virus will not disappear. But we can prevent community spread by usage of masks, Covid distancing, sanitization etc. The government has taken a staggered approach. The government said Nagpur should be in non-red zone. But you wanted otherwise.The two current hotspots — Mominpura and Gaddigodam — are the reason. If we open up non-containment zones, many activities will be permitted. People will start moving. Plus, there are travellers coming into the city. Transmission chances are very high. The coming nine days will help us know if there are any more hotspots. A lot of test results are awaited. That the primary contacts are in quarantine centres is a good thing. Home quarantine is not strictly being followed. Asymptomatics are testing positive. These issues made me put in the request to the government. I will be happy to be proved wrong. But there is a possibility of a spike and we don’t want casualties. Would you ease more things in the next nine days?I will apprise the government at the appropriate time. As of today, I cannot commit to anything. Since May 19 when the lockdown was eased, city life has become almost normal. Have you got support from other wings of the government?Yes. There will be difference of opinion and there are ways to resolve it. I will take a decision based on my judgment. It might fail and I am ready to accept that. Many restrictions have gone and there will be more changes too. Right now the lockdown is up to May 31. Hope things improve and we can give more relaxations. What is the play beyond June 1?Nagpur should be ready to scale up facilities in case there is a spike. A Covid care centre with 5,000 beds can come up at Radha Soami Satsang on Kalmeshwar road. The state government has said that 80% of private hospitals should be reserved for Covid treatment. I said the same thing in one of my earlier orders. Is there any scientific analysis that numbers will go up?The numbers have gone up. Our focus will be on containment and non-containment zones. What could you have done more?For a city of 30 lakh, Nagpur lacks a good and big civic hospital. I hope to construct a 500-bed civic hospital in city before my tenure ends. Meanwhile, I am creating five dedicated Covid health centres which will have a corporate look. They will be ready in a week. I would have been much happier if I got constructive criticism than baseless; happier if team would have worked cohesively. But I understand this is how organizations work. As I head the organization, failure is mine and success is that of the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aim-to-prevent-community-spread-of-virus-in-city-tukaram-mundhe/articleshow/75905102.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 23, 2020||Madurai||Govt school students struggle to prepare for Neet||Madurai: Government school students, with no special coaching classes during lockdown for the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (Neet) for MBBS selections, continue to struggle to match up with private school students and those enrolled in private coaching centres. While these students are trying to make the best use of the extra time with online learning, government school students are at a disadvantage this year. In Madurai district, a total of around 510 government school students had enrolled for the government’s free Neet coaching classes this year. With lockdown in place, the planned special camps after board exams to prepare for NEET could not be held. To make up for this, online classes and tests were introduced at the start of this month for the government school students. However, many students, especially those from rural areas, are not used to online learning and hence the response was not good. “The problem is that many rural areas don’t have proper internet connection so even if the students have free laptops, they areof no use. Further, though we are in touch with students on WhatsApp, we can’t push them to actually study at home,” said the principal of a government higher secondary school. Teachers who are coordinating the free online coaching classes for a few students said these children are also unable to get the full benefit. “We started holding online classes via video conferencing. However, it was not very interactive. It is not the same environment as a physical classroom,” said one of the teachers. They further said that it was a major struggle to get students and parents to even understand how online classes work and how to use the necessary apps and websites on smart phones. Online practice tests via Google Forms were also introduced for the students. However, teachers said that it was not very helpful for assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-school-students-struggle-to-prepare-for-neet/articleshow/75905916.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Muslims indulge in charity ahead of Eid||Aurangabad: Members of the Muslim community from Aurangabad and different parts of Marathwada have decided to have low-key Eid celebrations and share their savings with the needy, saying that the auspicious month of Ramzan and Eid-ul-Fitr emphasise on charity and obligatory ‘zakaat’. Many told TOI that they have decided not to purchase new clothes for the festival and that the Arabic word fitr, associated with the Eid, itself means charity. Even traders, who had purchased articles to make some business, are distributing things for free. Mohammed Kaleem Memon, a footwear trader, has distributed few thousand pairs of slippers to migrants walking barefoot. “Looking at their sufferings, we decided to distribute the footwear stock purchased for Ramzan season, free of cost,” he said. Certain NGOs are reaching out to wealthy families from the community to make special arrangements for those who have been detected with covid-19. Senior medical practitioner Umar Khan said the community members had positively responded to the appeals. “The response has been incredible. People are voluntarily coming forward with their savings and helping the needy people across the communities,” he said. Not relying on others, some affluent families have used their savings to help the needy. Socialist leader Ajmal Khan said, “My family members have unanimously decided to give away the money meant for shopping. Using this money, we have distributed dry ration kits to few hundred poor people residing in our neighbourhood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/muslims-indulge-in-charity-ahead-of-eid/articleshow/75901432.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||30-yr-old among three Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: After massive single day surge of 99 on Thursday, Vidarbha recorded three deaths in a day for the first time on Friday. Two of the three deaths are from Akola while one is from Amravati. Both deceased in Akola tested positive post-death. Amravati’s Covid-19 victim was a 30-year-old man undergoing treatment in the isolation ward of Covid Hospital and was on ventilator. Red zoned Akola (14) and Amravati (5) continued to record new cases. Apart from Nagpur (3) and Yavatmal (2), Wardha also reported a new case. Gondia, where 27 patients were detected on Thursday, also recorded three new patients while four Mumbai-returnees tested positive in Gadchiroli. Together, 32 new cases were reported, taking overall number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha to 1143. Against 32 new cases, total 37 patients recovered on Friday. They include 11 from Amravati, 15 from Akola, 10 from Nagpur and one from Yavatmal. Now, total 726 patients have recovered from Vidarbha and this comes to 63.51%. The national average of recovery is 40% while the same in Maharashtra is 26.3%. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is way higher. According to Nagpur district administration, the recovery rate in Nagpur district is 74%, highest in India. Akola deceased from rural areas: Both deceased in Akola were admitted in critical condition on May 19. They include a 50-year-old woman from Naigaon and 52-year-old man from Balapur road. Both died the same day and their swabs were taken post death. They tested positive for Covid-19 on May 22. Amravati’s death is alarming: A 30-year-old man from Patipura succumbed to the virus late Thursday night after being ill for a week since May 15. Admitted to Covid hospital for cough, cold and fever, he tested positive on May 16. However, his health went from bad to worse and was put on ventilator. He died at 11.10pm on May 21, hospital sources said. A fourth patient from Patipura, the man became the second casualty from his locality after the home death of a 95-year-old woman on April 21 last, who tested positive two days later. It was also the sixth death at Covid hospital before or during treatment. The rest eight are home deaths, according to civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam. Wardha: One more Covid-19 positive was found in Ashti on Friday. A girl who was stranded in Mumbai brought by her brother by a car eight days ago tested positive. She was admitted to civil hospital with Covid-19 symptoms two days ago. All five members of her family who were in home quarantine have been shifted to institutional quarantine. She is being treated at Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram. The total positive patient of coronavirus undergoing treatment reached 10 in Wardha. Two new cases in Yavatmal: Yavatmal recorded two new positive cases from the hotspot area of Indira Nagar on Friday taking the total to 17. One patient in the isolation ward tested negative after 14 days quarantine and was discharged on Friday. With this, the GMC isolation ward has 16 active positive patients. So far the district has recorded 112 positive cases of whom 96 have been recovered and discharged. Twenty five swab samples have been sent to lab on Friday and reports are awaited. District collector M D Singh has set up village level committees under the chairmanship of the talathi that will take stock of the Covid-19 pandemic and create mass awareness among the villagers. All the liquor shops have opened in the district. Customers are required to maintain the social distancing by the shopkeepers. There was big rush in front of the liquor shops throughout the day. The country liquor shops have also opened and there was also considerable sale on the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/30-yr-old-among-three-covid-19-deaths-in-vid/articleshow/75905929.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cut the red tape in Covid testing: AMA||Ahmedabad: Representatives of the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) again complained to the state government’s health department about the delay in providing permission to carry out Covid-19 tests. The delay is hampering several medical procedures daily, they said. In a letter to Jayanti Ravi, the principal secretary (health), Dr Mona Desai, the president of the AMA, mentioned that a response has not been forthcoming from the chief district health officer (CDHO) for two to three days after the application for testing. “It becomes very difficult to treat the patient and in emergency cases, it would lead to fatal results,” read the letter. “You need to look into this matter, otherwise opening clinics will not serve the purpose and this system will prove catastrophic.” The state government’s policy of allowing Covid-19 tests at designated private labs only after permission of the CDHO has been criticized by the medical fraternity. The state government had then come up with a list of exceptions where the tests could be carried out on priority. However, the move has not been effective, claimed surgeons in Ahmedabad city. “We hear that the move is to ensure that there are no unnecessary tests, but if one person clears hundreds of requests a day based on merit, how much time would it take?” said a senior surgeon of a private hospital. “Not all the cases are the same — if there is an emergency procedure without a test, it can put treating doctors, medical staff and the hospital at risk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cut-the-red-tape-in-covid-testing-ama/articleshow/75904884.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Covid can damage foetus in 1st trimester, may cause abortion||JAIPUR/MUMBAI: Covid-19 may be damaging foetuses in the first trimester of pregnancy and causing spontaneous abortion, doctors at hospitals in Jaipur and Mumbai have found. A group of doctors at the Mahila Chikitsalaya in Jaipur — a dedicated Covid-19 treatment hospital to deal with pregnancies in suspected and positive women — conducted a study on 62 women, who were pregnant and tested positive for Covid-19 at the hospital. Almost all were from hotspot districts of Rajasthan like Jaipur, Dausa, Tonk and Bharatpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-can-damage-foetus-in-1sttrimester-may-cause-abortion/articleshow/75905900.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||4-month-old girl waits 2 months for surgery||Ahmedabad: The lockdown could have proved fatal or life-threatening for a four-month-old girl, Divya, (name changed) from Rajkot. Her surgery was delayed by two months while a tumour on her tail bone kept growing. The surgery finally took place on May 16 and the child will soon be discharged after satisfactory recovery. “The girl, the first child of a lecturer father and IT professional mother, was born in Rajkot in January. After about two months of her birth, her mother observed that her right buttock was bigger than the left. She immediately consulted doctors in which a 5cm tumour in front of her tail bone was detected,” said Dr Anirudh Shah, senior neonatal and paediatric surgeon. The family was to travel to Ahmedabad but due to lockdown inter-district travel was not possible. The girl’s family members said they were also not sure whether the procedure in time of Covid-19 was safe. They waited through phase II and III of lockdown. Before the phase IV was announced, the family gathered courage and reached to the city for the surgery. On the same day – May 16 – the surgery was carried out by Dr Anirudh Shah, Dr Amar Shah and a team of anaesthetists led by Dr Pathik Shah. The surgery lasted for about one and a half hours. Dr Amar Shah, neonatal surgeon, said that the tumour is identified as sacrococcygeal teratoma. “It’s seen in one of about 35,000 children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-month-old-girl-waits-2-months-for-surgery/articleshow/75904925.cms||Parth Shastri
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pandemic caused 61% drop in reporting of strokes: Study||AHMEDABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic not only affected those infected by the spread of the virus, but also those with other ailments – a study covering 13 established stroke centres in India including those in Gujarat found. The study revealed that there is 61% reduction in reporting of stroke cases. The paper, published in Annals of New York Academy of Sciences, USA, had city-based neurologists Dr Sudhir Shah and Dr Arvind Sharma as co-authors along with NIPER-A faculty Dr Pallab Bhattacharya. Some of the institutes covered in the study included AIIMS Delhi, PGI Chandigarh and CMC Ludhiana along with NHL Medical College, Sterling Hospital, Zydus Hospital and Neuro1 Hospital from Ahmedabad. Cities covered in the study included Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, Pune, Mumbai and Kolkata. “Overall reduction of 61.22% in reporting of weekly stroke cases has been observed across the country since the lockdown. Intravenous thrombolysis and endovascular procedures have been severely impacted with 64.76% and 67.21% reduction respectively,” said Dr Shah. “The drop in cases occurred equally in both Covid-19 designated and non-designated hospitals.” The study also noted similarities in the impact of Covid-19 on stroke care in India and the US. “The decrease in acute stroke cases presenting to emergency rooms at stroke centres has been estimated at 30-40% in the US, about two-thirds of the reduction seen in India,” said Dr Bhattacharya, adding that India has higher incidence of strokes compared to the US. The study pointed out that the efforts to raise awareness about not ignoring life-threatening emergencies such as stroke was lacking in India as patients and their relatives feared approaching hospitals. “Extreme measures adopted to contain the spread of Covid-19 have resulted in a fall in the number of stroke patients reaching hospitals in India. The lockdown helped to contain the virus and break the chain, but it also created difficulty in timely consultation with caregivers, leading minor stroke cases to remain undiagnosed,” said Dr Sharma. “We observed that several patients delayed approaching hospitals even at the onset of symptoms and those requiring follow-ups showed up late.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandemic-caused-61-drop-in-reporting-of-strokes-study/articleshow/75904879.cms||Parth Shastri
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Yella Hoithu.... survivor’s wordsring loud in IPS officer’s ears||Mangaluru: Hysterical babbling of either Mohammad Umer Farooqi or Mohammad Usman, two of the eight survivors of IX812 still ring out loud in the ears of senior IPS officer Seemanth Kumar Singh. Not sure if it was Umer or Usman, Singh, then city police chief however vividly recalls words of seeming doom and despair the survivor uttered - Yella hoithu, Yella Hoithu…. . (All is gone, all is gone.. .) around 6.30am on May 22, 2010. A decade later, Singh who is now handling a logistical challenge of a different kind in Shramik Special trains told TOI, “I still remember (about the air crash).” In fact, it was around 20-minutes earlier that the city control room alerted him to a call it received from an eyewitness who heard a loud sound and smoke billowing from Adyapady, the place where the plane crashed. The news of an air crash was very hard to believe, Singh said, adding he directed the control room to call the number back and tried doing so personally. Luckily, Singh was able to get hold of the caller. Even as he was trying to piece the information together, one of the survivors, who had fallen on a tree near the burning wreckage of the plane and had managed to make his way to the road came stumbling by. “The picture became clear then,” he said. Had the survivor not given first-hand information of the tragedy, the official response could still have been late, Singh said. One of the persons who stood shoulder to shoulder with Singh in handling the crisis was then in-charge deputy commissioner SA Prabhakar Sharma. Then DC V Ponnuraj was away on training. Sharma said the air crash had posed the biggest challenge of his administrative career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/yella-hoithu-survivors-wordsring-loud-in-ips-officers-ears/articleshow/75901493.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmers burn cotton to protest delay in procurement||Aurangabad: Owing allegiance to the Shetkari Sanghatana, farmers across the state burnt cotton on Friday to mark their protest against the central and state governments for delay in procurement of cotton. Shetkari Sanghatana state president Anil Ghanvat said that cotton worth crores of rupees is lying with the farmers even as the government continues to delay its procurement. In a statement issued on Friday, Ghanvat and other Shetkari Sanghatana leaders said that the agitation was launched simultaneously across the state at 11 am on Friday. The farmers wore an onion garland and burnt cotton to register their protest against the governments for ignoring the farming community and their issues. Ghanvat, who too wore the onion garland and burnt the cotton at his home in Shrigonda of Ahmednagar district, said that though the government has began purchasing cotton at some centres, they are not accepting most types of cotton. The procurement is also taking place at a snail’s pace, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-burn-cotton-to-protest-delay-in-procurement/articleshow/75901498.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolhapur||BJP, ruling parties continue to spar over handling of Covid-19||Pune/Kolhapur/Nashik: Leaders of the ruling and opposition parties continued to exchange barbs at each over the handling of the Covid-19 spread in the state. BJP again attacked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, suggesting that he steps out of Matoshree (his residence), while Congress asked BJP MLAs to serve the people instead of going to meet the state governor. While BJP maintained that around 2.50 lakh party workers participated in the ‘Mera Angan Mera Rangan’ agitation, Congress described it as a damp squib. Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil told the media in Kolhapur that the CM would never understand the ground reality by sitting in Matoshree and all the elected representatives must come out to address the situation. “Entire health system has collapsed. Police are being attacked and dying because of Covid-19. Police are not getting ambulance to reach the hospital. What does this indicate?” he asked. He also drew comparison between Kerala and Maharashtra saying that Covid-19 patients were traced in both the states at the same time. “Kerala has 600 patients, while Maharashtra has around 40,000 patients. It shows the government’s failure,” Patil said. Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, who is also the state revenue minister, accused BJP of playing politics. In a press statement, Thorat said all political parties extended cooperation to Prime Minister on his appeal but BJP workers were playing politics in Maharashtra. Thorat said that BJP should make constructive suggestions and use their good office and bring maximum assistance to Maharashtra from the Centre. “Maharashtra must get maximum share of the central assistance in view of its contribution to the central exchequer”, he said. In Pune, around 5,000 BJP workers wore black badges and held placards condemning Thackeray government as a part of the agitation. In Nashik, city unit president Girish Palve, MLAs Devayani Pharande and Rahul Dhikale and others maintained physical distancing and held the protest. Dindori MP Bharati Pawar said, “It is difficult to make out who is running the government — the bureaucrats or the elected representatives. Why is the situation in the state going from bad to worse?” In Aurangabad, Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad, former assembly speaker Haribhau Bagde, MLA Atul Save blamed state government for failing to control spread of covid-19. “For the past two months, we have been making requests and suggestions to the state government, but in vain. The administration has failed to bring a check on spread of infection,” he said. NCP demands support NCP MLC from Aurangabad Satish Chavan on Friday urged the BJP to cooperate with the state government in its fight against Covid-19 instead of resorting to meaningless Maharashtra Bachao agitation. Chavan said the situation has worsened because the central government-imposed lockdown without any preparation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-ruling-parties-continue-to-spar-over-handling-of-covid-19/articleshow/75901566.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||CM doing fine job, BJP tells Khaunte||Margao: BJP’s South Goa district president Tulshidas Naik on Friday condemned the remarks made by Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte against chief minister Pramod Sawant and waste management minister Michael Lobo, and maintained that the government was doing “an excellent job”. On Khaunte’s accusations against Lobo for sheltering migrants in Calangute, Naik said, “There were 18,000 voters in Porvorim in 2012. The number has since risen to 25,000. Will Khaunte tell us who imported these voters?” Naik said. Sharmad Raiturkar of the BJP said that Sawant was working “day in and day out” to ensure that Goa remains safe, and that Khaunte’s remarks were inappropriate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-doing-fine-job-bjp-tells-khaunte/articleshow/75905963.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Takia slum dwellers selling snacks, water in Shramik Specials||Nagpur: At a time when Railway Protection Force (RPF) is putting all its energies at Nagpur railway station, unauthorized vending is rampant in ‘Shramik Specials’ that halt briefly on the outer between Ajni and main stations while awaiting clearance. BJP corporator from Prabhag 16 Lakhan Yerwar has filed a written complaint with DRM office drawing attention of the Central Railway administration that even as Covid-19 threat looms large, the Takia slums residents in Dhantoli and some vendors are involved in selling snacks, food, water, pan masala and gutkha to migrants when the passing ‘Shramik Specials’ make a halt near the slums awaiting clearance at main station. Yerwar said, “Daily thousands of migrants are being shifted across the country. Several such special trains pass through Nagpur. We don’t know whether these migrants have symptoms of coronavirus or not. A slightest of mistake could land the entire Takia slums into problem. The dwellers sell items to these migrants who are short of eatables and water.” Yerwar said the slum dwellers are taking advantage when trains are stopped and make good money. Due to lockdown food stalls are closed and moreover as per the guidelines these migrants are not supposed to get down at stations even to fill drinking water. Central Railway senior divisional security commandant (SrDSC) Ashutosh Pande said, “I learnt about it today. We have posted RPF men near the area to check the menace.” 130 tickets sold from counters On day one when railway reservation counters opened for public, 130 tickets were sold for passengers trains that will start from June 1. Of these 130 tickets, 52 were sold from counters at Nagpur and Ajni under Central Railway fetching Rs 60,000, while 78 were sold from Itwari under South East Central Railway (SECR), earning revenue of over Rs 49,000. The SECR also refunded Rs 47,000 towards cancellation of 41 tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/takia-slum-dwellers-selling-snacks-water-in-shramik-specials/articleshow/75904921.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||State runs out of money for crop loan waiver||NAGPUR: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which had assured complete crop loan waiver, has run out of money even though over 11 lakh farmers are yet to get the benefit of the scheme. This came to light during the crop review meeting conducted by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. A state government press communiqué stated that 60% target of the crop loan waiver scheme has been achieved. “About 32 lakh farmers were to be provided Rs20,000 crore. So far, 19 lakh farmers have been provided Rs12,000 crore. However, due to lack of funds, Rs8,100 crore loans of 11.12 lakh farmers could not be waived off,” adds the communiqué. In order to provide relief to these farmers, district central cooperative banks (DCCBs) have been asked not to consider these farmers as defaulters and provide them fresh crop loans. The government has not made it clear whether the remaining 11.12 lakh farmers would be extended the crop loan waiver benefit in future. Meanwhile, the DCCBs have been asked to utilize funds received so far under the waiver plan for granting farm loans. The cooperatives have been asked to give priority to farm lending as they may reduce granting other types of loans, said a source. An agriculture official said seeking help from district banks was futile. “Most of these banks are in the red and are seeking dole from the government. They can’t provide loan to defaulters,” he added. As nationalized banks do not come under direct control of the state government, a proposal has been put up before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to allow the proposed arrangement of lending the borrowers whose accounts have turned NPAs, but covered under the waiver. As per the farm lending norms, no fresh credit can be provided if an earlier loan is defaulted. Nationalized banks have major share in the yearly crop loans lent to farmers to meet their sowing expenses. A source who took part in the review meeting said once the RBI gives permission, even nationalized banks will start lending to those borrowers who have been covered under the waiver but the amount was not credited to their accounts due to lack of funds. The state government is expected to clear the dues in July, said the source. Before the government was formed, it had promised to waive off entire crop loan irrespective of the amount. However, when Thackeray announced the loan waiver scheme, the amount was capped at Rs2 lakh each. If this was not enough, the government then decided not to waive off loans of farmers whose loan amount exceeded Rs2 lakh. This led to protests from farmers and even MVA allies like Raju Shetty’s Swabhimani Paksha. In Nagpur district alone, about 15,000 farmers have been deprived of the crop loan waiver. According to revenue department, 48,566 farmers had applied for the loan waiver. “Authentication of 43,891 farmers was done and Aadhaar certification of 35,122 cultivators was completed before coronavirus lockdown halted the work. So far, 33,511 farmers have received about Rs290 crore. However, some 2,000 farmers have complained of not getting full amount and we will look into it,” said an official. Under the crop loan waiver scheme of the previous government, about 50 lakh farmers had got Rs28,000 crore. The district’s figure was 23,691 farmers and Rs461.70 crore. Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in state assembly, slammed the government. “They first said they will waive loans of all farmers. Then they excluded large number of them including those who had suffered loss due to unseasonal rains in October 2019. They had announced compensation for crop losses, but did not pay a single penny. MVA has been betraying farmers ever since it came to power,” he told TOI. Former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar also flayed MVA for claiming it did not have money. “The government has Rs1 lakh crore deposits in various banks. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has another Rs56,000 crore. The government can use this money now and return it later. The government is, in fact, not even spending Covid funds received from Centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-runs-out-of-money-for-crop-loan-waiver/articleshow/75905988.cms||Ashish Roy
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP tourism delivers food at your doorstep||Bhopal: Changing its way of functioning during the lockdown, MP tourism development corporation launched the system of delivering food through its ‘Fusion App’ on Thursday from the Roof Top Restaurant at Minto hall . The corporation has joined hands with Zomato for the ‘no touch’ food delivery that began on May 21. Emphasising on the hygiene aspect of the food during the ongoing Covid pandemic and its delivery, managing director of the corporation, Sonia Mina said, “Special training was imparted to the cooks hospitality staff involved in kitchen and food delivery people. Issues of sanitisation have been taken care of. Masks, caps and gloves are mandatory for the people working in the hotel, especially the cooking and kitchen staff,” she said. This is a pre-paid food delivery and there will be no cash transaction. She said, “This will be a no touch delivery. The food packets will be delivered at the doorstep of the customer and the menu includes several lip-smacking vegetarian, non-vegetarian, continental and oriental delicacies.” Thali, priced at Rs 100, will also be available with a different menu every day of the week, said Mina and added, “This will definitely attract many customers, especially those living in hostels, hospital staff, nursing staff etc. For bulk order, people can also contact the head office of the tourism corporation or the regional office at the Minto hall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-tourism-delivers-food-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/75903443.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||BSF sets up centre for infected staff||JAISALMER: After spike in Covid-19 cases among paramilitary forces, BSF Rajasthan Frontier has set up a dedicated 45-bed health centre in Jodhpur for its personnel and their families who are infected. Rajasthan Frontier IG Amit Lodha said a large number of paramilitary personnel are getting infected in different parts including Jodhpur. Training was imparted to doctors in April and necessary equipment were purchased to set up this centre. BSF Frontier headquarters (Rajasthan) is managing this centre. DIG (medical) Dr Durga Prasad Patnayak said in the first week of April, patients started coming. In recent times, 57 jawans of 126th battalion of BSF were brought here from Delhi after they got infected while discharging their duties in the national capital. Currently, 8 patients are undergoing treatment at the centre, while six have been kept in quarantine centres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-sets-up-centre-for-infected-staff/articleshow/75904979.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Train from B’luru brings 350 Jalore migrants home||JAISALMER: A Shramik Special train from Bengaluru brought back 350 migrant labourers to Jalore on Friday. Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta said around 350 people alighted from the train which reached Jalore at 2.15pm and it left with remaining labourers for Jodhpur and Jaipur. These labourers were taken to the stadium where they were screened after which they were sent to different districts. Bhilwara resident Lakshmi, along with husband Ganpat and her baby, heaved a sigh of relief on getting back home. An elderly lady Badami Devi said after lockdown it became difficult to run the family due to which she had to return to her state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/train-from-bluru-brings-350-jalore-migrants-home/articleshow/75904977.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Excise official booked in Pandharpur||Kolhapur: Pandharpur police in Solapur district has registered an offence against a state excise department official for allegedly being involved in sale of liquor during lockdown. Sale of liquor is banned in Solapur district till May 31. The official, Milind Madhukar Jagtap, has been summoned by police to record his statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/excise-official-booked-in-pandharpur/articleshow/75901589.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||At 7.4%, Dungarpur records max positive cases per 100 tests||JAIPUR: Dungarpur, the epicentre of migrant crisis, has recorded the highest number of 7.4% positive cases per 100 Covid-19 tests, making the border town most vulnerable for coronavirus. Till Friday afternoon, it recorded 292 positive cases out of 3,915 tests. The percentage is much higher than the hotspots like Jaipur (3.11%), Jodhpur (2.1%) and the latest hotspot Udaipur (3.75). Health officials said that the number of cases in the tribal town will increase in the coming days due to the arrival of migrants from cities like Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Pune, Surat and Vadodara. The officials further said, the situation demands rapid testing in the entire district. “It simply means more testing among those who had come from other states. Besides, everyone who is coming from other states should undergo 14-day quarantine.” It is official that all Covid-19 positive cases in Dungarpur are either of those who migrated from outside Rajasthan or related to them. Even the location of some has been tracked to Mumbai’s biggest hotspot Dharavi. “The authorities are taking all measures to ensure not a single migrant cross over without proper screening,” said an official at the district collector office of Dungarpur. The cases in Dungarpur were under 50 till the opening of the border on April 26. Thereafter, the cases have been witnessing a sharp rise due to the entry of migrants from Ratanpur border. An official in Jaipur has been expecting a similar rise in districts like Pali and Sirohi. In past 24 hours, fresh cases have been recorded from the offices of the collector, SP and the police line, forcing senior officials to go for self-quarantine. “One guard each at collector and SP office has been down with the infection, while one barber at the police line turned positive has put at least 20 police personnel under suspicion,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-7-4-dungarpur-records-max-ve-cases-per-100-tests/articleshow/75904974.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||105 new cases in southern TN, 10 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: Theni district on Friday recorded its second Covid-19 death even as the total number of cases in southern districts went up to 1,181 after 105 cases, including 86 imported ones, were reported. The victim was a 70-year-old man with co-morbid illnesses, diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to the Theni medical college on May 10 and the end came 12 days after admission. His cause of death was recorded as metabolic encephalopathy, accelerated hypertension, cardiogenic shock, Type 2 diabetes mellitus and Covid-19. Theni district also crossed 100 cases on Friday, after five more cases took the total to 101. The five included a person who had returned from Telangana and four local cases, all of who had contact history. Among the southern districts, the highest number of cases on Friday was reported in Madurai. The district saw 33 more cases, taking the overall total to 224, second behind Tirunelveli’s 271. The medical bulletin said 29 of the 33 had come from Maharashtra, one each from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, and one local case with contact history. The district collector said that some of the cases may be cross-notified to other districts and that all 33 may not be Madurai cases. Virudhunagar district saw the 26 cases, 14 of whom had come from Maharashtra and 12 from Delhi. The district now has a total of 95 cases. Tirunelveli continued to see a spike as 17 more cases from Maharashtra and one local case was reported on Friday. In Tuticorin, three more imported cases and six local cases, including a five-month-old girl baby, were reported. Ramanathapuram reported 13 cases while after two days with no cases at all a 40-year-old man who returned from Andhra Pradesh tested positive in Dindigul. The central districts recorded ten more cases on Friday including a 23-year-old police constable attached to Tamil Nadu special police battalion in Trichy. He has been in Chennai for training since February and had returned on May 19 by bike to join duty on Thursday. However, test results showed he was positive. A native of Thiruverumbur, he was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. The district recorded four new Covid-19 cases including him all of whom were residing in Trichy city. An aged couple tested positive on their return from Chennai where they were staying with their children. The fourth case was a 32-year-old woman from Periya Milaguparai whose mother was a Chennai returnee. Health department officials said the mother was yet to be tested for Covid-19. In Pudukottai district, three people including a couple tested positive, taking the total to 18 cases so far. Three more cases have taken Tiruvarur district’s count to 35. Karur government medical college hospital discharged two more patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/105-new-cases-in-southern-tn-10-in-central-districts/articleshow/75905970.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||Some private schools seeking fees: Parents||MADURAI: Parents of children studying in private schools in Madurai district have complained that some schools have started asking for fees for the next academic year. This, despite instructions by the state government not to force parents to pay any kind of fees during lockdown. “My child is studying Class XI and is yet to write a single exam but the school is asking us to pay the fees for Class XII before June 15,” said a parent of a student from a private school in Nagamalai-Pudukottai. Another parent of a Class IX student from a private school in Kosakulam alleged that the teachers were repeatedly calling them up trying to guilt trip them into paying the fees or else they won’t get their salaries. Private schools maintain that there is no harm in demanding the fees. “Those who can afford, can pay us. We understand the financial stress that everyone is facing because of lockdown. We are not hounding anyone. Schools are also trying their best to return to normalcy. We need the money for maintenance work, getting books and paying salaries for the staff. Usually, fee payment for the next academic year is done by May,” said the principal of a private school on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, officials at the office of the Madurai district chief education officer (CEO) said they will look into the complaints. “We received a complaint about a school 10 days ago. The school authorities replied saying they merely shared the bank account details and did not ask parents to pay up. We will once again send a circular and ensure strict action if schools demand the fees,” CEO R Swaminathan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/some-private-schools-seeking-fees-parents/articleshow/75905964.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 23, 2020||Goa||Technology comes to aid of those with Parkinson’s during virus lockdown||Panaji: With lockdown restrictions and social distancing norms in place in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic, Candolim-based Nancy Rasquinha has not been able to take her septuagenarian husband Godfrey to Mapusa to attend the weekly group sessions organised by the Parkinson’s Society Goa. After two months of living without rehabilitation services, the internet has brought a ray of hope into the couple’s life. They are now attending group sessions online to continue coping with Godfrey’s condition. “The motivation to work out was not there for a while. In his condition, it is very important to workout to keep fit physically and mentally. The online sessions have therefore been helpful,” Nancy said. Various online platforms such as WhatsApp, Google Hangouts and Zoom are being used to continue their group therapy sessions. “We have been also sending them videos and home exercises as well as following up with them to ensure that they were doing it correctly,” said Dr Joanne D’souza, coordinator, Parkinson’s Society Goa. The society was established in 2016 and has five support groups in Mapusa, Panaji, Margao, Vasco and Ponda.Due to the lockdown, many patients have missed their rehabilitative services over the past two months. “It is a difficult time, but this will not stop us from the mission to raise awareness about Parkinson’s and reach out to as many people as possible,” D’Souza said. Maria Lena Sequeira, a Porvorim resident has been taking her husband Harold for evening walks within the Green Valley, Porvorim to ensure that physical dementia doesn’t set in. At home, they watch the videos and attend online sessions. “The exercise videos keep him mentally going as well. There are also some craft videos and dance sessions on Zoom that are shared which help with the motor sensory activities,” she said. D’Souza said that depression and anxiety are two of the most common mental health issues seen in persons with Parkinson’s. Many caregivers also experience exhaustion and negative feelings, she said.The Parkinson’s society has started free online counselling service for persons with Parkinson’s as well as for caregivers to ensure that they do not feel isolated. Those seeking help can call 9923288429/ 9987216057 or email on parkinsonsocietygoa@gmail.com.  In an effort to keep the therapeutic sessions going, a video challenge was initiated by the society earlier this month to motivate the patients to keep exercising. “We also have a talent and volunteer campaign to raise awareness and will be conducting a caregiver session shortly.” D’souza said.-||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/technology-comes-to-aid-of-those-with-parkinsons-during-virus-lockdown/articleshow/75905992.cms||Nida Sayed
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Pharma City project to be fast-tracked||HYDERABAD: The state government has decided to fast-track the Hyderabad Pharma City (HPC) project, in light of several firms planning to shift out of China post Covid-19. The move is also important to consolidate Hyderabad’s pre-eminent position in the pharma sector. Having already acquired 8,400 acres for the project, the government is now planning to acquire another 6,800 acres in next three months. The entire project is being planned in three phases, spread over 19,333 acres, and completed by 2025, as per the HPC master plan. Officials said the government is keen on rolling out phase I by this year-end, to cash in on the greater demand for drug and vaccine formulations and pharma and life sciences sectors in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic. HPC, which is coming up at Mucherla village in Rangareddy district, has link roads and internal roads and other infrastructure facilities. Senior officials of the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) and the revenue department officials met last week to thrash out the land acquisition details. Official sources said land would be acquired in two mandals — Mucherla (1,023 acres), Meerkhanpet (270 acres) and Panjaguda (10 acres) of Kandakur mandal and Kurmidda (1,738 acres), Medipalli (1,601 acres), Nanaknagar (678 acres) and Tadiparthi (1,492 acres) of Yacharam mandal. TSIIC managing director EV Narasimha Reddy said 8,400 acres has already been acquired. “While link roads are readied in phase I, internal roads and other facilities will be completed soon. We want to fast-track phase I and take up phase II soon,” Narasimha Reddy told TOI on Friday. The Pharma City is 48 km away from Hyderabad. He said the government is planning to make phase I operational by the end of this year by providing infrastructure facilities. “Pharma companies have evinced interest to set up their units in HPC and submitted applications for allotment of land,” he said. Official sources said the government is seeking financial assistance from the Centre to fast-track HPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pharma-city-project-to-be-fast-tracked/articleshow/75904988.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||UDH min inspects developmental work sites in Kota||KOTA: UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal on Friday inspected developmental work sites in the city and directed officials to complete the projects in time, along with ensuring quality. The minister was accompanied by special officer, Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC) R D Meena, secretary Rajendra Singh and engineers. Emphasizing on the quality of work, the minister directed officials to develop the parking with a modern design. He asked the officials to regularly monitor the parking work and to ensure its completion before Diwali this year. Dhariwal also visited the under-construction OPD site in MBS Hospital and instructed officials to raise resources to speed up the work. The minister expressed displeasure at the slow pace of work of the parking site in multi-purpose school premises and asked the officials to issue notice to the contractor or suspend his tender and allot it to another contractor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-min-inspects-developmental-work-sites-in-kota/articleshow/75904980.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Railways open booking counters to poor response||Margao/Vasco: Reservation counters of Konkan Railway and South Western Railway (SWR) in Goa were opened from Friday to facilitate booking of 100 pairs of trains scheduled to commence journeys from June 1. While Konkan Railway opened its booking counters at all its railway stations in Goa, as also the one at Panaji, South Western Railway opened its booking counter only at Vasco railway station. “The reservation counters are only for the purpose of booking tickets on these 100 pairs of trains,” Baban Ghatge, deputy general manager, public relations, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd, said. Konkan Railway sources said that only the reservation counter at the Margao railway station will work in regular two shifts – 8am to 2pm and 2pm to 8pm— while all the remaining counters will be operational in a single shift. “Depending on the response, the second shift at the counters will be started,” a senior Konkan Railway official said. Nizamuddin–Ernakulam–Nizamuddin, Mangala Lakshadweep Express, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus–Trivandrum–Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Netravati Express and Nizamuddin–Eranakulam–Nizamuddin Doronto are scheduled to run on the Konkan Railway route. Nizamuddin–Vasco Goa Express will run on the South Western Railway route. While Mangala Lakshadweep Express, Netravati Express and Goa Express will run as a daily service, Doronto is a weekly train. SWR has opened counters only at major stations in the first phase. In its Hubballi division, reservation counters have been opened only at seven stations – Hubballi, Belagavi, Bellari, Vijayapura, Dharwad, Hosapete and Vasco. E Vijaya, chief public relations officer of SWR said, “All measures for social distancing have been implemented at the reservation counters. Hygiene and sanitation of the booking offices are ensured.” Day One of booking, however, evoked very poor response with hardly a few tickets being booked at the counters on Friday, railway sources said. At the Vasco railway station, only 93 tickets were booked. Railway sources said that with many zonal railways, including the Konkan Railway and the SWR, having handed over their rakes for Shramik special trains that carry stranded migrants to their native places every day, formation of rakes for running the 100 pairs of trains would be a tough task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/railways-open-booking-counters-to-poor-response/articleshow/75905982.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||189 new cases take Madhya Pradesh tally to 6170||BHOPAL: Though the tally of positive cases in the state crossed has the 6,000 mark, more people recovered from Covid-19 than testing positive on Friday. While 189 people tested positive, 246 were discharged after recovery from the hospitals all over the state. With such a large number of people recovering in a single day, the total number of people recovered so far in the state is now more than the number of active patients admitted all over the state. While there are 2,809 active patients who are undergoing treatment in hospitals all over the state, a total of 3,089 people have recovered so far. With these new 189 cases, the tally of positive patients in the state reached 6,170. Apart from these new cases, two deaths were also reported from Indore, taking the death toll due to the deadly virus to 272 in the state. Districts where these new cases were reported includes Indore (76 new cases), Bhopal (38 new cases), Ujjain (23 new cases), Morena (9 new cases), Gwalior (7 new cases), Sagar (6 new cases), Singrauli (6 new cases), Dewas (4 new cases), Rewa (4 new cases), Burhanpur (3 new cases), Bhind (2 new cases), Jabalpur (2 new cases), Satna (2 new cases) and 1 cases each in Dindori, Mandsaur, Ratlam, Seoni, Shivpuri, Umaria and Vidisha districts. On the brighter side, a total 246 patients, who were admitted in hospitals across the state, were discharged after they recovered, taking the total number of patients recovered in the state to 3,089. As per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services, Madhya Pradesh, reports of the samples of 1,29,060 people have been received so far in the state. Of these, a total of 6,170 have tested positive so far. The administration has declared 741 localities across 49 districts as containment zones and movement in and out of these containment zones is strictly prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/189-new-cases-take-mp-tally-to-6170/articleshow/75903476.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||City pays tribute to air crash victims||Mangaluru: Despite the pressing concerns raised by the Covid-19 pandemic, the city paid trbute to the 158 victims of one of the worst civil aviation disasters in Indian history, here on Friday. All stakeholders came together to remember those who lost their lives when flight IX812 from Dubai crashed while landing at Mangaluru International Airport on May 22, 2010. District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari placed a wreath at the specially erected memorial constructed by Airports Authority of India at the 22/5 Park on banks of the Phalguni River. He was followed by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mangaluru International Airport director VV Rao, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh and DCP (Crime and Traffic) Laxmi Ganesh. A simple flower decoration on the memorial that resembles the tail of an aircraft was the only cheering sight in what was otherwise a sombre occasion. The park that New Mangalore Port Trust has developed on its land is the final resting place of 12 unidentified crash victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/city-pays-tribute-to-air-crash-victims/articleshow/75901652.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||HC refuses to stay NMC notification on extending lockdown||Nagpur: In a disappointment to several citizens hoping for an early end to the lockdown, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday refused to stay Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) notification extending the lockdown and keeping the city in the red zone. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar directed the petitioners to place the case before regular bench for final hearing. “Several factual aspects are involved in the matter. Unless the notifications challenged are declared unconstitutional, it’s not possible for us to grant stay to it. Put up this matter in regular course,” the judges said. The HC was hearing a bunch of petitions, including one by four lawyers — Shreerang Bhandarkar, Prakash Jaiswal, Kamal Satuja and Manoj Sable — challenging NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe’s decision to extend the lockdown in the city while allegedly ignoring the Centre and state government guidelines. Earlier, NMC counsel Sudhir Puranik informed that the commissioner has issued notification on Thursday declaring Nagpur to be in the red zone. He also informed that the government has also included Nagpur in the red zone. Interveners — former District Bar Association (DBA) president Sudeep Jaiswal and Satish Uke — earlier raised objections to the petition’s maintainability and also questioned the locus of petitioners. Expressing concern over professional ethics displayed by the petitioners, the interveners contended that such a case seeking relief of opening liquor shops ought not to have been filed by the lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-refuses-to-stay-nmc-notification-on-extending-lockdown/articleshow/75904957.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Home delivery business takes a hit as people prefer home-cooked meals||BHOPAL: The district administration had allowed home delivery of ‘ready to eat’ food stuff in lockdown-1 itself in the hope that people, particularly youth, will welcome the move. On March 31, the first day when the supply of ‘ready to eat’ food began in the city, food safety officer D K Verma, who is supervising the home delivery system of essential goods and food stuff, in a press communique said, “Today, on the first day of resumption of ‘ready to eat’ food stuff, 750 orders were received and families ordered food at their homes”. But, it was also the day when the first death of a coronavirus suspect from Neemuch, who was undergoing treatment at AIIMS Bhopal, happened. Within no time, Bhopal, which had just three coronavirus cases till then started reporting a flurry of Covid-19 cases, compelling people to avoid outside stuff and the ‘ready to eat’ food supply taking a hard hit. “At one point of time, several families in our society had given up the use of eggs and bread also. There were some not using milk either. In such a situation, expecting them to order food from outside was a little difficult to imagine,” said Onkar Tiwari, a resident of Gulmohar colony. Besides, food being served on order was not from known hotels or restaurants except for a few and people, who were already wary of ordering outside food stuff, were all the more hesitant in ordering food cooked at ‘anonymous’ kitchens, said Ashok Mishra, whose children often used to order food from outside, but are not being allowed to do it now by Ashok and his wife. “They are not pressing for it either,” said Mishra. The district administration, took some steps in course of time to negate the fear among people about food cooked outside, making screening of delivery boys mandatory and sanitizing them before they leave the premises with food packets, but it failed to work and the administration’s home delivery system largely remained restricted to the supply of grocery and vegetables. When asked about the drop in volume of business of app-based companies like Zomato and Swiggy in Bhopal, D K Verma said, “It has been huge. That is why all of them, including Amazon and Flipcart, are taking online orders for supply of grocery.” He further said that Domino’s, which according to observers has suffered the least in Bhopal, used to get 4,000 pizza orders daily, which dipped to 2,000 and has come down further of late. However, the sight of delivery boys of Zomato, Swiggy and other such outfits resting in a shade in MP Nagar or in Trilanga in their uniforms or on their two-wheelers surely give an impression that these companies have not given up. With top hotels and restaurants coming back to business in the lockdown-4, they would also make a comeback sooner rather than the later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/home-delivery-biz-takes-a-hit-as-people-prefer-home-cooked-meals/articleshow/75903507.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||Admin changes stand on salons, says it’s still risky to open now||BHOPAL: Those itching for a haircut or desperate for a shave will have to wait a little longer for it. After the initial announcement of opening salons from Friday, district collector, Tarun Pithode, had second thoughts and decided not to allow salons and beauty parlours to open in Bhopal because of consistent increase in new coronavirus cases in the city. District administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, who had informed about the decision to open salons and beauty parlours on Thursday, said, “Salons and beauty parlours are not opening in Bhopal because we are in the red zone.” An order issued by principal secretary, home, L N Mishra, on Thursday had said that salons and beauty parlours will open in the entire state only after fulfilling certain terms and conditions. It included use of hand sanitizer before each customer’s entry into a salon or a beauty parlour, use of face mask, mandatory head cover and apron by the barbers, use of disposable towel/paper for each customer, sanitizing of machines and equipment after each use, sanitizing of hand by the barber after each haircut and disinfecting common area, floor, lift, lounge, stairs and handrails. Pithode, however, later decided not to allow opening of salons and beauty parlours in the city because it may be ‘risky’ at this point of time. Talking to TOI, Pithode said: “We have received directions from the state government to open salons and beauty parlours. When we order for the same, you will get the information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/admin-changes-stand-on-salons-says-its-still-risky-to-open-now/articleshow/75903537.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jodhpur||As wait gets longer, migrants book tickets to head home||JODHPUR: With the railway ticket counters opening their windows on Friday for journeys starting June 1, the migrant workers started queuing up to book seats to their respective destinations. Even with the lockdown toned down and industries gradually resuming operations, the migrants want to go home only to return after the work begins full swing. TOI spoke to some of the migrants who had come for reservation of tickets. Jai Singh from Itawah, who works in agriculture industry in Jodhpur, wants to go home and only come back when the pace of work improves. “I had been waiting for the lockdown to open. I was sitting idle all this while but want to go home the industry will take some time to bounce back,” he said. When asked that the lockdown had opened and industries started functioning, if it was appropriate to go home now, they all appeared uncertain and wanted to go home instead of waiting for jobs. Mason worker from Malda Rajeshwar said all his family members wanted him to be back once and wait for things to leap back to normal. “There is no point waiting here. I would go home and return when the construction industry springs back to life,” he said. Sandeep from Howrah also was uncertain of the jewellery industry rebounding anytime soon. “I work in jewellery industry in Jodhpur which was shut since the lockdown. I could not wait until the work begins. I will assess the situation until the date of my departure and if the work doesn’t resume, I’d better be leaving instead of waiting here,” said Sandeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/as-wait-gets-longer-migrants-book-tickets-to-head-home/articleshow/75904981.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Samples go missing from Bharatpur lab||ALWAR: At least 12 Covid-19 samples have been found missing from the corona testing lab in Bharatpur. According to information, the samples had arrived in Bharatpur from Dholpur on May 9. The lab caters to samples from Dholpur and Karauli as well. The carelessness does not seem to end here as one sample was also found to have leaked. Seeing the rapid increase in the coronavirus cases in this region, the state government had set up the testing lab at Bharatpur Medical College. While the news was kept under wraps for long, Bharatpur Medical College’s principal Dr K K Sharma said, “I am extremely shocked and surprised to find that 12 of the samples sent to us from Dholpur are missing. Whenever samples are sent to us for testing, the box containing them is not opened as a precautionary measure and we receive the list of the number of samples.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/samples-go-missing-from-bharatpur-lab/articleshow/75904982.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Give free quarantine to Gulf returnees: TRS MLAs to Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Four TRS legislators have written to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to provide free government quarantine instead of paid quarantine to Telangana workers returning from the Gulf. The joint letter was signed by MLAs of the erstwhile Karimnagar district — Chennamaneni Ramesh of Vemulawada constituency, K Vidyasagar Rao of Korutla, M Sanjay Kumar of Jagtial and Ravi Shankar of Choppadandi. In the letter, the ruling party MLAs said in view of the coronavirus pandemic and closure of a number of companies in various Gulf countries, a large number of Telangana workers have lost their jobs and some of them have decided to come back to Telangana “A large number of the workers hail from northern Telangana districts. In view of their financial difficulties, we request you to approve the provision of government quarantine with basic amenities to all those who would like to avail it,” they said. The Gulf workers, as part of the ‘deeksha’ they undertook in the state and also in the Gulf, wore black masks to bring to the attention of the government their inability to pay for their quarantine in Telangana. They also urged the government to provide for their airfare. Bheem Reddy Mandha, president, Emigrants Welfare Forum, thanked the MLAs for their iniative and urged them to pay special attention in providing free quarantine to all the workers who return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-free-quarantine-to-gulf-returnees-trs-mlas-to-kcr/articleshow/75905986.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Madurai||‘Nature needs to be left alone to prosper’||MADURAI: Commemorating ‘International Day for Biodiversity’, observed each year on May 22, environmentalists said that the lockdown has reduced human activity across the world allowing nature to heal itself and prosper. “The rapid increase in the frequency of zoonotic transmission be it HIV, SARS, swine flu or bird flu, have indicated towards transmission of diseases from wild animals. It is time to acknowledge the fact that restoring the habitats of wild species, reduced degradation and deforestation along with conserving and managing the species in their own healthy ecosystems can help humanity in the long run,” said Dr PS Navaraj, founder of Madurai Science Forum. Environmentalists further said that both the government and the public can learn lessons from lockdown to find ways for sustainable development. “It is always easier to lay blame on everything except ourselves. During this Covid-19 pandemic, even with no scientific proof, bats are being blamed for Covid-19 without realizing the important role they play in maintaining ecological balance,” said Dr Rajesh M, assistant professor, department of zoology, The American College. The importance of sustainable green spaces in cities and terrace gardens have also been highlighted during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nature-needs-to-be-left-alone-to-prosper/articleshow/75905981.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 23, 2020||India||Should hotels reopen? Karnataka govt in a fix||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government is in a dilemma over responding to the demand of hotels and restaurants to restart full operations, as the Centre is yet to provide guidance on the issue. The industry has threatened to halt food takeaways if the establishments are not given approval to open their doors. The issue has gained urgency as domestic flights are set to resume on May 25. “There could be a chaotic situation if hotels don’t open by Monday (May 25) because several people arriving in the city, especially those on a business trip, may not have a place to stay and eat,” said tourism minister C T Ravi, adding that he has discussed the issue with chief minister BS Yediyurappa. Industry representatives are expected to meet chief minister Yediyurappa on Sunday with their concerns. Hoteliers had earlier threatened to stop parcel services, but agreed to maintain status quo for three days after Yediyurappa’s request. “The next course of action will depend on the outcome of a meeting with the chief minister on Sunday. Hopefully, our demands will be met by then. Otherwise, we will be left with no option but to close parcel services as a mark of protest,” said PC Rao, president of the Bangalore Hoteliers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/should-hotels-reopen-karnataka-govt-in-a-fix/articleshow/75907522.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to charge green tax from vehicles entering Doon||Dehradun: City’s civic body is mulling to charge green tax from vehicles entering the city to secure more revenue for completion of development projects. The tax will be charged from vehicles which are registered outside Uttarakhand. Talking to TOI, municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey said, “The proposal for implementing green tax has been discussed during the working committee meeting. We are exploring the legalities involved in its implementation. The proposals discussed in the meeting strictly focus on generating more revenue for DMC so that we can expedite development work planned for the 100 wards and especially for the new wards”. During the meeting, it was also decided that a separate biomedical waste treatment plant will be set up in Dehradun. The official said that the disposal of biomedical waste, including face masks, has become a challenge and the waste treatment plant will help in proper disposal of waste. The officials will also be conducting visits to different sites to ascertain the feasibility of the plant site. It has also been decided that a discount of 20% will be given for house tax and property tax payment. Also, a grace of 15 days will be given to deposit the pending taxes for the financial year 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-charge-green-tax-from-vehicles-entering-doon/articleshow/75901679.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Non-corona patients to get pvt cabs: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has hired 200 private cabs to ferry non-critical patients and non-Covid patients to and from hospitals in the wake of high demand for ambulances due to the coronavirus outbreak. The decision has been taken to ensure that while the government has dedicated its resources in fighting Covid-19, people suffering from other illnesses do not suffer. The health and family welfare department of the AAP government has decided to hire 91 Uber cabs and 110 Ola cabs during the lockdown 4.0. “The taxis will be placed at the disposal of the director, CATS ambulance, who has to use these vehicles to carry non-Covid patients and non-critical patients to and from the hospitals in coordination with CATS Ambulance Helpline 102,” a government order stated. The coronavirus outbreak in Delhi is advancing towards its peak. As many as 591 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported within 24 hours on Saturday, taking the total cumulative number of the coronavirus positive cases to 12,910 out of which 6,267 people have recovered. Every day, 500 to 600 new cases are being reported. Experts blame it on people not strictly following the lockdown measures. They fear a spurt in the Covid-19 cases in near future. The rise in the number of cases has kept the ambulance service in high demand. Two government hospitals — Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality — are dedicated Covid hospitals. Apart from these, the ambulances are also engaged in other Covid facilities of the government. CATS, at present, has a fleet of around 200 ambulances many of which are engaged in Covid services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/non-corona-patients-to-get-pvt-cabs-govt/articleshow/75927171.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Dr Sudhakar got threat calls, feared he was being stalked||VISAKHAPATNAM: Narsipatnam area hospital anaesthetist Dr K Sudhakar Rao was under tremendous stress and anxiety not because of his suspension in early April, but due to the threats he allegedly received, and the fear of his family being stalked. The doctor’s son K Jatin, who is currently pursuing his M Tech from Andhra University, told TOI that his father was least bothered about his suspension. “He knew he would be reinstated within 90 days. He was mainly worried about the stalking of family members,” Jatin said. Dr Sudhakar was suspended on April 8, with the state government accusing him of violating service rules after his video on shortage of PPEs went viral on social media. On May 17, the doctor was arrested by the police in Visakhapatnam for allegedly creating nuisance on public road in a drunken state. Stripped to the waist, he was seen being taken away by the cops with his hands tied behind. The AP high court on Friday asked the CBI to probe the case and file the investigation report within eight weeks. Jatin said his father never targeted the chief minister or any political party, but had only voiced his concerns for attending duties in Narsipatnam area hospital without N95 masks and PPEs. “He only sought safety kits for all doctors and nurses. After his suspension, he started getting threat calls and social media messages from some people. This affected him badly,” he said, adding that Dr Sudhakar didn’t get sleep during that phase. “My father spent several sleepless nights, staring at his phone all the time, fearing threat calls and messages, and reading the tweets targeting him. He was never into social media before. But within a month of his suspension, he learnt using all kinds of social media. He often talked about our house and our movements being trailed. It was not his imagination, as we found out after an incident on April 30,” Jatin added. He said he was driving his bike when he received a phone call. “I parked my bike on the side of the road. A car came from behind, someone got down and went off with my bike. The incident happened so fast and unexpectedly that I could not note down the car number. When I went to the IV Town police station to file a complaint, I was told that someone had dropped my bike there. But the police said they did not have the keys, nor had they any idea about came and parked it there. The bike is still at the police station,” he said. On May 16, Jatin said, he saw his father go out in his car. “He was already in a stressful state. He told us later that he felt someone was following him and some passers-by were mocking at him. He got down from the car and reacted to the taunts. But police tied his hands and dragged him to the police station. We came to know he has been booked under charges like attempt to suicide and creating public nuisance,” he said. Doctors at the government hospital for mental care, where Dr Sudhakar has been admitted, said he is suffering from acute transient psychosis, which can however be treated with medicines and counselling. “My father even discouraged me, my brother and other family members from visiting him at the hospital fearing that our lives will be in danger, but now he seems to be improving,” said Jatin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dr-sudhakar-got-threat-calls-feared-he-was-being-stalked/articleshow/75903568.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Murder case: Jodhpur IG visits crime spot||JAISALMER: District SP Kiran Kang on Friday refuted allegations by cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad and said that police did not misbehave or lathicharge women, children and elderly people while trying to nab the accused in the Mohangarh murder case. Police so far have arrested 15 accused in the matter. Jodhpur range IG Navjyoti Gogoi reached Jaisalmer and inspected the crime spot in Mohangarh town on Friday. The town is under curfew due to corona cases. A day earlier, minister Saleh Mohammad and other family members submitted memorandum to collector at collector’s office and expressed anger. Minister Saleh Mohammad had said that there is resentment in the community. If judicial enquiry is not ordered by May 31 then the minority community will be forced to demonstrate and sit on fast unto death. In response, IG Navjyoti Gogoi said that I have visited the spot in Mohangarh area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/murder-case-jodhpur-ig-visits-crime-spot/articleshow/75905003.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Herculean task on hands as 19,000 SSC pupils to answer English paper today||PANAJI: After starting the Class X state board exam with two minor subject papers, the exam for the main papers will begin on Saturday, as 19,222 students will appear for the English language paper. With norms of social distancing requiring around 3,000 teachers and volunteers to be engaged and, besides facilities like thermal screening, sanitisation of exam halls, among others, the exam is set to be a massive exercise. The Class XII board exam for the three remaining papers ended on Friday with 1,392 appearing for the paper on the last day. On Friday, another 1,951 Class X students appeared for the National Skills Qualification Framework optional subject. For the Class X exam on Saturday, additional classrooms have been engaged to ensure that only 9 students on an average are seated in an exam room. In the meantime, teachers said that while masks, sanitisers and water bottles are being supplied free of cost to students, none of these facilities are being provided to teachers who are attending to duty to ensure that the board exams take place smoothly. “The deputy conductor has sent us a message stating that we should carry out own mask, sanitisers and water bottles. If students come to the exam centre without these things, they are being supplied it free of cost. But no thought is being given to the safety of teachers. Many of us have been posted to centres, which are far off from our place of residence. Teachers from Divar are posted to Cumbharjua,” said a teacher. Teachers said that they were also facing difficulties reaching the exam centre due to fewer buses plying during the lockdown. “The exam begins at 9am and we have been asked to reach the exam hall at least by 8am. But in many rural areas there are no buses plying this early at present,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/herculean-task-on-hands-as-19k-ssc-pupils-to-answer-english-paper-today/articleshow/75905996.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||‘Govt must come clean on testing’||Margao: Pointing out that there were “defects” in the details given in the daily medical bulletin issued by the government pertaining to number of Covid-19 cases reported, Congress demanded that the government come clean over the number of tests conducted, the methodology adopted for testing, and the final results. “Goa government should immediately put a full stop to the confusions in testing of Covid patients and should not play with the lives of the innocents. When there are doubts raised on the cause of death of two-time Congress MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu, now fresh reports are emerging on defects in Covid testing reports of people arriving from other states,” GPCC president Girish Chodankar said. Congress demanded health minister Vishwajit Rane clarify the reason for suspension of the approval for Covid testing given to a ICMR-approved private laboratory. “Rane should make it clear whether the Mobilo Diagnostics providing services at GMC are perfect and if there are no defects,” Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-must-come-clean-on-testing/articleshow/75905998.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||38 new cases take Bhopal’s Corona count to 1,153||BHOPAL: Thirty-eight people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital on Friday taking the tally of patients testing positive in the city to 1,153. While 38 were tested positive, 34 persons were discharged from the hospital taking the total number of people recovered so far in the district to 740. Thus there are 405 active patients in the state capital. Official sources said that so far a total of 42 people have died in the state capital. On Friday a total of 34 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital. Of the total 740 people who have recovered from the disease, more than 50 patients are aged above 60 years, said official sources. So far in the state capital reports of 39,509 people have been received and of those 1153 have tested positive. A total of 174 localities in the state capital have been declared as containment areas. Chief medical and health officer, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari said, “A total of 38 patients tested positive in state capital”. The residence areas of new patients were also declared as containment areas by district administration. Three positive patients who were sent for home isolation after their samples were taken, were booked as they left their residences without the permission of the administration. Samples of all the three were later tested positive. Of the three, two are residents of Misrod area and remaining one is resident of Bagh Farhat Afza in old city area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/38-new-cases-take-citys-corona-count-to-1153/articleshow/75903598.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fire at Covid hospital, all safe||NEW DELHI: Eight patients admitted to Cygnus Orthocare Hospital — a designated Covid-19 care centre — were rescued after a fire broke out at the third floor of the hospital. According to the fire department, a call was received around 5.54pm on Saturday about a blaze at the Cygnus Orthocare Hospital. Eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot. “Since the fire was at the hospital and that too a Covid-designated centre, we immediately made three teams of two persons and entered the building to douse the flames,” a fireman said. Eight patients, present in the hospital, were evacuated safely, which include five men and three women. Though there was smoke all around, the patients managed to walk and had to be guided for directions. The six fire officials, who went in to rescue the patients, were immediately rushed for sanitisation and had to change their fire gear.” Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services, said. As a precautionary measure, the fire department also advised office owners and other people who were using air conditioners after a long time to get it serviced properly to reduce the chance of fire. Dr Amit Vig, unit head at Cygnus, said: “A minor fire broke out in the SDA unit of the hospital on Saturday evening around 6pm. The fire was first reported in the third floor of the hospital, which houses operation theatres. Personnel from DFS, along with the hospital’s fire division, managed to control the blaze. There was no loss or damage to life. Everyone was moved to safe areas promptly in an organised fashion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fire-at-covid-hospital-all-safe/articleshow/75927178.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chennai||‘Just 1.1% of TN people in Dubai returned home’||Chennai: A right to information (RTI) reply has disclosed that of the 32,329 people, all residents of Tamil Nadu, who have registered at the consulate general of India in Dubai to return to India, only 1.1% of them have returned home until May 15 as part of the central government’s Vande Bharat Mission to bring back stranded Indians from various countries. At least 359 TN people, who were stranded in Dubai following the Covid-19 pandemic, had returned home until mid-May under the repatriation exercise. RTI activist Karthikeyan, a resident of Kodambakkam, had sent a query to know the number of Indians stranded in Dubai in his RTI application dated May 16 No.CGIDU/R/E/20/00020 to the consulate general of India in Dubai. He received the reply from Sanjeev Kumar, consular and the central public information officer in Dubai, on Friday. The RTI reply also disclosed that at least 3,48,000 Indians have registered at the consulate office in Dubai to return to India, but only 2,056 of them have returned home until May 15 i.e. just 0.59%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/just-1-1-of-tn-people-in-dubai-returned-home/articleshow/75906000.cms||A Selvaraj
May 23, 2020||Hubballi||Govt shuts inter-district health screening checkposts||HUBBALLI: In a major relief to people travelling within the state, the government has done away with inter-district health screening checkposts. According to a circular issued by the commissionerate of health and family affairs dated May 21, there will be no inter-district checkposts for health screening across the state. Earlier, people crossing districts were being subjected to health screening and they would be referred to quarantine depending on their health condition. The recent circular states that health screening will be done at the origin of the journey and passengers with symptoms will not be allowed to travel. They will be taken to fever clinics for further examination. It is now the duty of the district administration and the public transport department to conduct health screening of all passengers compulsorily before they start their journey. Shivanand Karale, additional deputy commissioner, Dharwad, told TOI: “We have recieved the circular. It states that there will be no inter-district checkposts for health screening. There are 19 checkposts in Dharwad district. People travelling to other districts from Dharwad will be screened in Dharwad itself before letting them to travel to their destinations. But health screening of people who are coming from other states will be done at the checkposts like before and they will be put under quarantine as per norms. However, there will be no health screening of passengers travelling by private vehicles across districts in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-shuts-inter-district-health-screening-checkposts/articleshow/75901709.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 23, 2020||Goa||As precaution, AC system at Covid hosp switched off||Panaji: Although the ESI hospital converted into a Covid-19 hospital has central air conditioning, this has been turned off to ensure that the hospital and entire system is not contaminated with coronavirus. The wards are using fans and special standing high efficiency particulate air (Hepa) filters ready for use in the operation theatre and in the ICU. These are air purifiers filter the virus and help decrease viral load in that space. The hospital currently has 38 Covid+ patients, including a pregnant lady, a senior citizen aged 61, a four-year-old infant whose mother tested negative and three children aged 3, 6 and 11 along with their mother who have all tested positive. The one-year old baby girl who tested positive along with her family members last week was discharged on Friday and sent to institutional quarantine. The patient’s family members are strictly not permitted to visit their loved ones but are encouraged to communicate with them via phone. After the active positive patients went from nil to 40 plus in a week’s time, the hospital’s capacity was doubled this week. The 100-bedded hospital was expanded to 170 beds on Tuesday and to 200 beds on Thursday. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said there are plans to further enhance the hospital’s capacity to 220 beds. Till date none of the Covid+ patients who have been admitted to the hospital including the initial seven cases, ever required to be admitted to the ICU or ever required oxygen or to be put on a ventilator. All the positive patients admitted to the hospital over the past week arrived in Goa either by train, by road in a car, via a special bus and by sea. All the doctors, nurses and multi tasking staff and housekeeping working at the hospital have all been provided with accommodation in the vicinity of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-precaution-ac-system-at-covid-hosp-switched-off/articleshow/75906005.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bhopal||Wedding bells to ring at quarantine centre in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: A quarantine centre in Piparia, Hoshangabad will turn into a wedding venue for a 27-year-old girl, who came back to the city after from Indore on May 15. The district administration authorities on learning about the family background of the girl decided to allow the families of the bride and groom to hold the wedding at the quarantine centre at Berseba English Medium School on May 23. Speaking to TOI, the bride Rekha Sahu said, “My sister-in-law and I had gone to Indore for the wedding shopping before the lockdown was enforced. We got stuck there for a month and were only able to come back home in May. I was to get married on April 26, but the wedding had to be postponed. After the second lockdown when I got the permission to come back, I was supposed to be in home quarantine as all my tests were negative. But some neighbours informed the administration and my sister-in-law, her 15-month-old daughter and I were sent here.” She said that as there was no other ‘muhurat’ for another year and a half after May 23, the family sought permission from the district administration for the wedding. The authorities allowed the wedding to take place at the quarantine center itself following all rules of social distancing and allowing only 25 extra people to attend the wedding from both sides. Her sister-in-law who is also in quarantine with her is helping her out with all the rituals. SDM Hoshangabad, Madan Raghuvanshi, told TOI that the district administration allowed the wedding to take place after they came to know about the problems in her house. “They had made all the arrangements for her wedding and it would have all gone to waste as there will be no muhurat for another year. So we permitted the family to hold a small ceremony inside the quarantine centre itself,” Raghuvanshi said. The ceremony will take place in the school ground and the guests will leave soon afterwards, he added. Tehsildar Rajesh Borasi who is supervising the safety measures and decorations for the unique wedding said, “We have set up a mandap in the field and a stage for the var-mala. The wedding will take place between 5 pm and 7 pm. Only 25 extra people will be allowed inside the centre for those two hours.” The bride, however will not be able to go back with her husband to Obedullaganj after the ceremony as a few days of her quarantine need to be completed. “The vidai will only take place on May 25 as the girl was quarantined on May 15. We will allow her to leave only after she completes the quarantine period,” said Borasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/wedding-bells-to-ring-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75903656.cms||Shuchita Jha
May 23, 2020||Vijayawada||AP high court sets aside new GO on party colours||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Friday set aside the state government order (GO No 623) specifying the colour scheme to be adopted for painting government buildings. The high court also directed that contempt of court proceedings be initiated against the chief secretary, the principal secretary (panchayat raj) and the commissioner of panchayat raj department for not complying with its earlier order. Allowing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition moved by one Suryadevara Venkata Rao, the high court observed that the state government did not take the orders of the high court seriously and issued the GO with a new colour scheme akin to that of YSRC party flag colours by adding one more colour. Earlier, the high court suspended the GO issued by the state government that specified the colour scheme for painting government buildings. The Supreme Court also upheld the orders of the high court after the state government challenged the same. After the apex court turned down the special leave petition by the state government, the GO 622 was issued stating the guidelines to be adopted to paint government buildings in accordance with the high court order. Subsequently, the state government issued another GO 623 specifying the colour scheme with green, blue, white and terracotta colours. As the new colour scheme included the colours akin to that of YSRC flag colours, Venkata Rao moved high court challenging the GO. Justifying the new colour scheme, the state government argued that the colours were chosen by the committee appointed as directed by the high court. The panel had suggested these colours which reflect the geographical and socio-economic background of the state. The high court bench headed by Chief Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheswari and Justice Nainala Jayasurya observed that the sate government under the guise of reflecting the agrarian nature and allied subjects of the state, cannot play foul with the orders of the high court. The high court further observed that the state government had violated its own guidelines issued in GO 622 by adding blue, green and white, colours in the YSRC party flag, in GO 623. Finding fault with the officials responsible, the HC said officials have not given explained if they intend to comply with the orders of the high court. The high court directed the high court registry to initiate contempt proceedings. The court said officials will have to be present in court on May 28 if they fail to comply with its orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-sets-aside-new-go-on-party-colours/articleshow/75903652.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Sketch of Sawai Madhopur rape accused released||JAIPUR: More than a year after an 11-year-old Dalit girl was raped in Sawai Madhopur, the Crime Against Women cell has released a sketch of the accused. According to officials, the sketch was made a few months after the rape but it was not released in public. The case was recently handed over to the circle officer of the crime cell and after talking to the survivor, the sketch has been circulated. The minor was raped allegedly by an unidentified accused last year on April 19. On the fateful day, the girl along with her younger sibling went to the market when the accused, who was on a bike and his face semi-covered, stopped next to them and asked the girls to go with him for picking up flour from a mill. “The accused asked the minor girls to help pick up flour and when they agreed, he took them both to the nearby fields where he allegedly tied the younger child and raped the elder one. The girl’s parents registered a case and an investigation was initiated but unfortunately it did not move forward,” said Om Prakash Solanki, circle officer, women cell, who is spearheading the investigation. The case was registered at Bowli police station and cops also had a preliminary sketch of the accused by December last year but it was not released to the public. Solanki added, “It is difficult to comment on the reason as to why the investigating officer did not release the sketch of the accused but I spoke to the girl again and now the final sketch has been circulated to media, informants and locals to find the accused and get justice for the child.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sketch-of-rape-accused-released/articleshow/75905034.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown is no ground for rent waiver: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 lockdown cannot be a ground for tenants to seek rent waiver by invoking the ‘force majeure’ — act of God — clause, Delhi high court said on Friday. Rejecting a plea by a Khan Market tenant to waive off rent during the lockdown, Justice Prathiba M Singh laid down parameters to deal with various issues regarding rent suspension due to the Covid-19 crisis, interpreting Indian Contract Act and Transfer of Property Act (TPA) — the laws that govern tenancy and leases and also have the ‘force majeure’ clause. The pandemic “has had largescale implications for human life. Contractual relationships and jural relationships between parties are severely affected due to the lockdown. The question as to whether the lockdown would entitle tenants to claim waiver or exemption from payment of rent or suspension of rent is bound to arise in thousands of cases across the country”, Justice Singh noted. The tenant had sought waiver on the ground that the commercial premises remained shut on the government’s orders, which itself described it as a ‘force majeure’ event. However, the court said the clause didn’t apply in his case as there was no contract. Moreover, under TPA, “there has to be complete destruction of the property, which is permanent in nature, due to the force majeure event”, it pointed out. If a tenant wishes to retain the premises and there is no clause giving any respite in the contract between him and the landlord, the rent or the monthly charges would be payable, the judge observed. The “fundamental principle” will be that if the contract has any relief clause, “only then the tenant can claim the same”, she emphasised. In its absence, Justice Singh said, the only concession can be deferred payment of rent. ‘Force majeure” is defined as “an event or effect that can be neither anticipated nor controlled” and according to a dictionary, “the term includes both acts of nature (e.g. floods and hurricanes) and acts of people (e.g. riots, strikes and wars)”, the court explained. “Temporary non-use of premises due to the lockdown... cannot be construed as rendering the lease void under TPA. The tenant cannot also avoid payment of rent,” the judge said. Only Delhi Rent Control Act will apply in the case and the plea is liable to be rejected as while seeking suspension of rent on the basis of a force majeure event, the tenant doesn’t intend to surrender the premises, the court observed. However, “some postponement or relaxation in the schedule of payment can be granted owing to the lockdown”, the court added and directed that the use and occupation charges for March would be paid on or before May 30, 2020 and for April and May, by June 25, 2020. In 2017, a court ordered the eviction of the tenant on the plea of the landlord who had given the premises on rent in Februrary 1975 for Rs 300 via a lease deed. Following the Covid-19 lockdown, the tenant moved the waiver application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-is-no-ground-for-rent-waiver-hc/articleshow/75906353.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 23, 2020||Goa||Governor asks Raj Bhavan to cut expenditure||Panaji: After contributing 30% of his salaries for the entire financial year 2020-21, governor Satya Pal Malik has told the Raj Bhavan to economise expenditure and make optimal use of resources. The Raj Bhavan will work to limit expenditure to 80% of its overall budget, thereby saving 20% as an austerity measure, a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan states. The governor said that this will be a small but significant contribution towards combating Covid-19 and mitigating the plight of the people. The Raj Bhavan will not undertake any new capital work during the financial year. Only the ongoing works will be completed and even repair and maintenance works will be minimised to ensure proper upkeep of assets, reads the statement. Other measures proposed to reduce expenditure include cutting consumption of office consumables by 20%, floral arrangements for day-to-day functions and other ceremonial events will be curtailed and the list of invitees will also be reduced by 25%. The food menu, floral decoration and illumination will also be arranged on a smaller scale. To cut down power consumption, the Raj Bhavan will be switching off its lights earlier than usual and reduce usage of all lights by 30%, according to the statement. Most of the Raj Bhavan staff have contributed a day’s salary and a few have contributed more than a day’s salary to the Covid relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/governor-asks-raj-bhavan-to-cut-expenditure/articleshow/75906006.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Antarctica scientists, seamen in South Africa set for Goa arrival||Panaji: Twelve scientists from the Vasco-based National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research (NCPOR) back from an Antarctica mission and stranded in Cape Town for over a month during the lockdown were brought back to India by a special flight on Friday morning. The twelve NCPOR scientists were among a group of 28 scientists and logistics operations people from various organisations in India who were all part of NCPOR’s mission to Antarctica. The team that left India for Antarctica in November last year, completed their mission and were on their way back to India from South Africa in April when the pandemic hit. While one group of scientists on the same mission already arrived in India early this year as they travelled by air from Antarctica, this second group which travelled via the sea route from Antarctica to South Africa have just arrived home. “They were stranded in a hotel in Cape Town since mid April,” director NCPOR M Ravichandran told TOI. The NCPOR sends 100 scientists on the Antarctica mission via South Africa each year. Fifty scientists return after one year and the rest return by the sea route and air route. The flight landed in Delhi and then proceeded to Mumbai. While 12 NCPOR scientists are expected to reach Goa by road on Saturday early morning, four returned to Ahmedabad, ten to Delhi and two to Maharashtra. A group of 40-odd seafarers also travelled on the same flight from South Africa as the stranded scientists. “They were picked up directly from the airport and sent in three KTC buses to Goa. We didn’t want them to be quarantined in Bombay,” ports secretary and nodal officer for people stranded abroad P S Reddy told TOI. “We will be following this strategy of bringing those who land in Mumbai, directly to Goa. As far as possible we are also trying to bring any seafarers who are arriving by sea directly to MPT instead of passing through Mumbai,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/antarctica-scientists-seamen-in-south-africa-set-for-goa-arrival/articleshow/75906012.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP resumes infra works; labour shortage a concern||BENGALURU: The BBMP has got its contractors to resume work on 12 major projects worth Rs 300 crore but scarcity of migrant labourers might checkmate the civic body’s plans to fast-track infra works across the city. The projects include flyovers, underpasses and road repair works. “We are happy to have started work on some projects. The number of commuters on the roads is less. We hope this will help speed up work,” a senior BBMP official said, adding: “The delay in road infrastructure projects is largely because of time constraints and excess traffic. Many a times, we delay our work considering the traffic.” The official, however, admitted that there are certain challenges that might hinder the projects. Many labourers, mainly from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, have gone back to their hometowns due to the lockdown, he added. “We are operating with just 40% strength and that’s challenging. We are hoping that everybody will return to work soon,” the official said. “White-topping and asphalting works were done by migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh and North Karnataka. They were well-versed in the job and had the required expertise,” said Somashekar C, BBMP chief engineer, Road Infrastructures. “Migrants from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan were involved in flyover and underpass works,” he said. Contractors have been told about the need to finish projects early. “Many contractorshave been able to retain their labourers and have provide them the necessary support,” added Somashekar. Aroma Bakery Flyover to be opened on May 27 The 800-metre, four-lane flyover at Aroma Bakery junction on Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan Road in Yelahanka New Town is slated to be inaugurated on May 27. “Work on the project began on August 2017 and has been completed. We are waiting for the inauguration and the local MLA has requested the chief minister to be present on the occasion,” a senior BBMP official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-resumes-infra-works-labour-shortage-a-concern/articleshow/75904866.cms||Nithya Mandyam
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||ST starts ops in rural areas, to allow 22 persons in a bus||NAGPUR: After shifting over 15,000 migrants to state borders, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has started passenger services within the district from its four depots on Friday. The MSRTC has deployed 18 buses to ferry passengers from Katol, Ramtek, Saoner and Umred depots. These buses will cater to rural population from Narkhed, Sawargaon, Kalmeshwar, Bhiwapur, Khapa, Parsheoni, Mohpa, Mouda, Kuhi and other small towns. “We plan to run 3,950km through 144 trips. The basic idea is to provide transportation to villagers and farmers who have no alternative transport. The buses will operate from 7am to 7pm,” said divisional controller Nilesh Belsare. Belsare said the state government has already allowed fertilizer and agriculture-related material shops to open. “If farmers from these villages have to go to bigger towns for purchases, there was no transport. Nagpur being red zone, these buses will not enter corporation limits,” he added. Belsare said apart from these services, if there is need to ferry more passengers to a specific destination then depot managers have been told to arrange additional buses. “We are following all Covid-19 precautions. Only 22 passengers wearing mask will be allowed in each bus. Drivers and conductors have been provided with hand sanitizers. Besides, restrictions have been imposed on travel of children below 10 years and persons above 65,” said Belsare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/st-starts-ops-in-rural-areas-to-allow-22-persons-in-a-bus/articleshow/75905621.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Reports of 48 quarantined persons to reveal Bajeria girl’s source of infection; 3 new cases in city||Nagpur: Residents of Bajeria suspect that the 16-year-old girl from the area who tested positive for Covid-19 contracted the infection at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) where she was admitted after consuming poison on May 18. With Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) notifying a small pocket as containment zone covering hardly 100 houses, speculations have only grown. In other cases, containment zones have covered up to 2km radius, with another 3km radius as buffer zone. NMC officials are tight-lipped over notifying a small area as containment zone. On Friday, three more persons from the city tested positive for Covid-19, including two from Gaddigodam and one from Mominpura containment zone. The district’s tally has now increased to 410. Doubts regarding the source of infection in the 16-year-old girl’s case will be cleared after reports of 48 persons, including 16 doctors and staff of IGGMCH who have been quarantined, are declared. The girl reportedly developed fever and cough, and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21. IGGMCH quarantined two senior doctors, four resident doctors and 10 nurses as girl was treated as a non-Covid patient without wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kit and other precautionary measures. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe issued a notification declaring the area and boundaries of containment zone after an NMC squad led by Dr Praveen Gantawar spoke to residents of Bajeria to know the source of infection and trace contacts. Sources from NMC told TOI that officials will take decision on area of containment zone after receiving reports of 32 quarantined persons, including three family members and one close friend. In the last 73 days, there has been no case from IGGMCH and GMCH about non-Covid patients getting infected. Only two persons who were staying with positive family members and persons in isolation wards had contracted the infection. Some residents told TOI that the girl contracted the virus from the hospital as there have been no cases from the area before and the girl had no travel history. With three cases in city, Mominpura’s tally increased to 220 while Gaddigodam has registered 22 cases so far. Ten patients persons were discharged from IGGMCH and GMCH, taking the tally of discharged persons from the district to 320. Now, 83 patients are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reports-of-48-quarantined-persons-to-reveal-bajeria-girls-source-of-infection-3-new-cases-in-city/articleshow/75905054.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||State should declare Rs 50k cr package: BJP||Nagpur: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders staged Maharashtra Bachao Andolan all over the district to protest state government’s failure to handle the coronavirus pandemic and the economic situation. Former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule demanded that the government should declare a Rs50,000 crore package for poor people of the state. “Due to the lockdown most of poor and middle class people are unable to earn their living. Unfortunately, the government is not supporting them at all. If they don’t get relief they will have to go without food soon,” Bawankule told the party workers. The ex-minister demanded that poor workers and self-employed people should be given at least Rs3,000 per month for making their two ends meet. “This government has announced a large number of schemes but has not implemented a single one. The ministers are only interested in saving their chairs,” he added. City BJP leaders targeted municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for his failure to contain coronavirus. “The number of cases has gone beyond 400. Whenever, a new patient is found Mundhe seals the entire locality and quarantines hundreds of people. The centres do not have any facility and people have to suffer for no fault of theirs,” said Pravin Datke, MLC and city BJP president. The BJP leaders staged agitations by wearing black clothes or black masks outside their homes or party offices. The leaders restricted the protests to their areas. MP Vikas Mahatme, MLAs Krishna Khopade, Mohan Mate and Vikas Kumbhare, MLCs Anil Sole and Girish Vyas, former MLAs Sudhakar Deshmukh and Milind Mane and others participated in the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-should-declare-rs-50k-cr-package-bjp/articleshow/75905614.cms||Ashish Roy
May 23, 2020||Udaipur||Four Udaipur police station areas out of containment zones||UDAIPUR: After a review meeting of the district disaster management authority on Friday, four police station areas, including Savina, Pratapnagar, Goverdhan Vilas and Sukher, were declared to be out of containment zones in the Udaipur municipal area. Meanwhile, the remaining areas would continue to be in containment zone for an extended period of a week, collector Anandhi said in an order issued on Friday. With a sudden spurt in positive cases, the administration had declared the entire municipal area of the city excluding the industrial area as Covid containment zone till May 22. The situation in the zones were reviewed and it was found that positive cases from the four police stations were comparatively lower and the earlier reported cases had turned negative. The highest number of positive cases has been reported from Kanji ka Hata area which is the epicentre of Covid-19 here. The adjoining areas — Meenapada, Mukherji Chowk, Kheradiwada, Nayakwadi, Naiyon ki Talai, Kalaji Goraji, Bhatiyani Chohatta, Amal ka Kanta, Brahmapuri, NadaKhada, Kumawatpura, Kumharwada, Kishanpole, Sarvaritu Vilas, Regar colony, Udiapole, Agrasen Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, Kailash colony, Udiapole, Macchla Magra, Swaraj Nagar etc — were considered to be sensitive in the review meeting and hence, the consensus was drawn to extend the restrictions in these areas. On Friday, 13 more patients tested positive for the virus and the tally reached 446 in Udaipur district. Among the fresh cases are seven from the close contacts of the patients in the epicentre, while three migrants from Mavli and Khedi, one from Gogunda, one staff of the government hospital and there was one fresh case from Padmawadi in Gogunda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/4-udaipur-police-stn-areas-out-of-containment-zones/articleshow/75905044.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Man enters quarantine facility, tries to take couples for a ride; arrested in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Hundreds of people who have been sent to paid institutional quarantine on arriving in Bengaluru have been complaining of inadequate facilities in places where they have been housed. At lease one instance of a conman trespassing into a hotel quarantine and attempting to cheat gullible returnees has come to the fore. The conman, Krishne Gowda, 56, from Mysuru Road has been arrested. On May 16, two elderly couples were accosted by Krishne Gowda at the reception of a private hotel in Gandhinagar, which is an institutional quarantine facility. The couples had returned from Delhi and were among 70 people housed in the hotel with 20 hotel management staff. Gowda asked the couples how much they were spending on their institutional quarantine. Sensing something amiss, the couples smartly turned on the recorder in their mobile phones and continued the conversation. “They told the man they were paying Rs 19,600 for the 14-day institutional quarantine, and Rs 4,000 per head for Covid-19 tests,” a senior BBMP health officer said. Gowda offered them a deal: “Pay me Rs 25,000 and I will get you tested and released from quarantine so that you can go home with a Covid-19 negative certificate.” BBMP official alerted“The couples backed out and immediately called Dr Nanda BY, BBMP medical officer (health). They narrated the incident to him and also shared the recordings. We immediately lodged a complaint against Krishne Gowda,” said Dr Ravi Surpur, special commissioner (health). “It is surprising how the man entered the hotel. We have ensured that no outsiders are allowed into institutional quarantine buildings,” Surpur said. Upparpet police registered a complaint under various IPC sections and arrested Gowda on Friday. “We understand that many people are restless and want to go home. Once the institutional quarantine period is over, they will be sent home,” Surpur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-enters-quarantine-facility-tries-to-take-couples-for-a-ride-arrested/articleshow/75904768.cms||Nithya Mandyam
May 23, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Shy antelope doesn’t mind being photographed in Mahisagar||VADODARA: It seems the wild is regaining its territory as humans stay home during lockdown to protect themselves from Covid-19 in the state. The shy four-horned antelope species or chausinga is now throbbing with life in the jungles of Mahisagar district. While it was always known that antelope exists in the jungles of Mahisagar, it was rarely photographed. The 2015 herbivores census in the state could not record any four-horned antelope even as neighbouring Panchmahal district had stray population. The total population of the antelope in the state was 1,811 with Gir alone having around 1,100 of them. Earlier this week, personnel of forest department spotted a chausinga that had come to quench its thirst in tanks prepared by the forest department for animals. The personnel also made a video of the antelope that is the smallest among four antlers found in the state, said Mahisagar in-charge deputy conservator of forests R D Jadeja. Jadeja said antelopes had been spotted in the jungles of Sant Matro in the district. Notably, earlier a tiger that had strayed into the state from Madhya Pradesh was also spotted in the same area before it was found dead. Jadeja said peace in the area due to lockdown has encouraged the antlers to move around. “There is good activity of the species in the area,” said Jadeja. The state has witnessed high movement of wildlife, including lions, leopards, hyenas and crocodiles around towns and cities during lockdown. There have also been incidents of man-animal conflict during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/shy-antelope-doesnt-mind-being-photographed-in-mahisagar/articleshow/75901026.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Sops, loan moratorium part of package to revive MSMEs||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday said the government would support micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to revive their operations. While releasing the first tranche of incentives to the MSMEs from the CM’s camp office on Friday, Jagan said MSMEs were the biggest employment providers with small investments and there was every need to protect the sector. The chief minister announced a six-month moratorium on all loans granted to the MSMEs. He said that they have spared Rs 200 crores as investment capital to provide low-interest loans through SIDBI. Interacting with owners of MSMEs and district collectors through video-conference, the chief minister said the government has decided to release the dues despite financial constraints since the revival of MSMEs was most important to re-start the state’s economy. He said that small amounts of incentives would pump life into the struggling industries and help them back in business. The chief minister directed district collectors to encourage the MSMEs and assign one joint collector to look into the grievances of the small entrepreneurs. He said the government has identified around 360 items to be purchased from MSMEs. “All the government departments which procured stocks from MSMEs will be directed to clear the payments within 45 days. While 25 percent of the total procurement should be from MSMEs, at least 4 percent from the procurement should be done from the units owned by SC, STs and three percent from the women,” the CM directed. The CM said that they have already waived fixed monthly power charges for the MSMEs for three months, which would amounts to Rs 200 crore. He said that they have released Rs 450 crore on Friday and grant the remaining Rs 660 crore in June benefiting nearly 98,000 units which employ more than 10 lakh people. The CM said the previous TDP government did not pay nearly Rs 828 crore industrial incentives between 2014-2019. He said that they have decided to release entire dues in three spells to revive the industries which suffered losses due to Covid-19 outbreak. The chief minister asked the collectors to make a skill gap study with the industries and impart the required skills among the youth through the proposed skill development colleges. Industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy, chief secretaty Nilam Sawhney were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sops-loan-moratorium-part-of-package-to-revive-msmes/articleshow/75903688.cms||Samdani MN
May 23, 2020||Goa||‘Some netas took cut from hoteliers’||Panaji: Some elected representatives demanded monetary benefits from hoteliers to include their properties as quarantine facilities for returning seafarers, Goencho Avaaz alleged on Friday. The NGO alleged that these “unreasonable demands” delayed the return of Goan seafarers stranded abroad on cruise vessels. tnn Goencho Avaaz’s executive core group member Roshan Mathias said that the government should crackdown on such corrupt practices. He said that the delay forced stranded Goans to fend for themselves, which is nothing short of a “criminal act” by the BJP-led government during a humanitarian crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/some-netas-took-cut-from-hoteliers/articleshow/75906018.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||HC ticks off Telangana on dumping workers at Maharashtra border||HYDERABAD: Stating that the state should pick up migrant workers from wherever they are found and send them either to the nearest temporary accommodation or ensure their safe passage in buses and trains, the Telangana high court on Friday directed the government to immediately take care of the stranded labourers on Medchal highway and also stop the unacceptable practice of dumping them at the Maharashtra border near Adilabad. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave these interim directions while hearing an urgent plea filed by professor Rama Shankarnarayan Melkote of Hyderabad who brought to the notice of the court one such incident which resulted in 20 persons lying in a helpless condition at Adilabad border though their native place is Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh. “Now, trains and buses are running. There is no point in getting rid of them like this by dumping them at irrelevant places,” Vasudha Nagaraj, counsel for the petitioner, said.  Despite scorching weather, women and children are walking on the highway and some of the women are forced to deliver children on the roadside, Vasudha said. Advocate general BS Prasad told the court that the government has already provided ample facilities for the welfare of the migrant workers, who are trying to cross the state. Referring to the forcible dumping of people at the Adilabad border, the AG said that 20 persons had hired a private truck to reach Bilaspur. No migrant workers is stranded on the Adilabad border as of now, he said. To this, the bench said that it is the foremost duty of the state to look after the migrant workers. “The migrant workers who are walking on that highway should immediately be collected and taken to Medchal and be housed in the marriage halls of Medchal. Once they are housed, it is the duty of the government to ensure that they are provided food, shelter, water and toilets,” the bench said.  It also asked the AG to file an action taken report on May 29 regarding migrants at Medchal highway and Adilabad border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-ticks-off-t-on-dumpingworkers-at-maha-border/articleshow/75906023.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Michael Lobo hits back at Rohan Khaunte over ‘quarantine’ jibe||PANAJI: Refuting accusations of promoting quarantine tourism in his constituency, ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo hit back at Porvorim legislator Rohan Khaunte, and clarified that only a few hotels have been used as quarantine facilities. “I want to tell Khaunte to stop playing politics over Covid-19,” Lobo said. He was reacting to the former revenue minister who had claimed that hotels in Calangute have started a new concept of quarantine tourism. “Tourists who arrive in the state are residing mostly in hotels or in their second homes in Calangute constituency. Lobo appears to have started this new concept called quarantine tourism in Goa and is busy entertaining the guests,” Khaunte had said. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, Lobo said that 100 hotel rooms have been utilised by Goan seafarers who recently returned. The minister also said that as per guidelines of the ministry of home affairs and district collectors, all hotels in Calangute have ceased operations. “None of the hotels are open, except those being used as quarantine facility,” he said. Those coming to Goa are kept for one or two days at these hotels, and once their reports are confirmed negative, they proceed to their homes, Lobo said. Reacting to his jibe terming chief minister Pramod Sawant as ‘pappu’, Lobo reminded Khaunte of the time when Sawant had inducted him in the cabinet. “Today, Khaunte claims Sawant has become a ‘pappu’. Tomorrow, if Lobo steps down as minister and Khaunte is invited to be sworn-in, would Sawant be a gentleman?” Lobo said. He also said that if Sawant invites Khaunte to join cabinet, the latter would be the first to stand outside Raj Bhavan seeking entry. The minister also countered Khaunte for terming BJP as ‘communal’. “Khaunte first joined the BJP government under the leadership of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar and was re-inducted in the Sawant government. So at that time, the BJP wasn’t communal?” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-hits-back-at-khaunte-over-quarantine-jibe/articleshow/75906026.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hubballi||Teachers travel in convoys with returnees to ensure safety||BELAGAVI: Over a 1,000 teachers posted on the border, are ensuring the safety of returnees entering the state from Maharashtra. The government schoolteachers have been assigned to travel along with guest workers and other returnees entering the state from Belagavi district. Despite facing many odds, teachers are doing their bit in the country’s fight against the novel coronavirus. The teachers are required to wait at the border along with other officials, for the arrival of vehicles. A single teacher is assigned to travel on a designated route, when a convoy of nearly 15 vehicles moving on that route, come to the border. The teacher will then hop on to the escort vehicle, and go with them right till their destination. The teachers work in two shifts, from 10 pm to 6 am and 2 pm to 10 pm. Many teachers have travelled over half-a-thousand kilometres, with little to no food, from Nippani to Mangaluru. Bahaubali S Lakkanavar, a cluster resource person, who is monitoring the duties at Nippani, said, “Teachers are braving odds to perform their duties. No teacher has complaints about what they are doing. Several of them have travelled to Mangaluru and Udupi, which are far from Belagavi.” The purpose of escorting the returnees is to ensure that the travellers do not make unnecessary stops. Prashant P, a teacher who travelled on May 16 to Udupi, along with a convoy of 15 vehicles, said it was a challenging experience, but was satisfying. “All through the journey, I ate dry fruits, groundnuts and fruits for sustenance. We travelled for nearly 400km.” He added that at Udupi, after ensuring that the returnees were received by the district administration, Prashat returned, and on the long journey back, survived only on apples. Another teacher, Dadasaheb Chidananda Wakpate, said that he was on Covid duty from April 1 to May 13, when he received a phone from the block education officer (BEO). After receiving the BEO’s call, he immediately moved to Koganoli checkpost, and from there to Bengaluru. “I took a parcel of food at Dharwad, but from there, nothing was available. It’s government duty and a unique experience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/teachers-travel-in-convoys-with-returnees-to-ensure-safety/articleshow/75901782.cms||Shreyas HS
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: No electricity, water for 48 hours in Kolkata; KMC, utilities grapple with crisis||KOLKATA: Forty-eight hours after Cyclone Amphan ripped threw the city, pockets of Kolkata continued to suffer without electricity, water supply or mobile network. Anger and frustration that had been simmering since Thursday evening boiled over on Friday when people erupted into spontaneous protests in different parts of the city, nearly all of them in peripheral areas, where the power network is overhead and bore the brunt of the monster cyclone. Their misery refusing to end, residents living along Kasba connector, Anwar Shah connector, Ajoynagar, Baghajatin, Naktala, Haridevpur, James Long Sarani, Roy Bahadur Road, Behala Chowrasta, Bamacharan Roy Road, Thakurpukur, Howrah blocked roads. “Is anyone bothered about our suffering? No CESC or civic official has visited our area to cut uprooted trees or repair snapped power lines. In absence of electricity, pumps can’t be operated, and so, there is no water,” said Subir Sen from James Long Sarani. Subhojit Pal, another local, claimed, “I even visited the KMC borough office but no civic official was there to hear about our woes.” Ramen Mondal, a resident of Paris Para, located off Behala Chowrasta, said storm water had not receded from roads even 48 hours later. “I tried to call the KMC emergency number and CESC call centre, but to no avail,” he said. In Tollygunge, including Netaji Nagar, Ranikuthi, Azadgarh and Garia, as well as Haridevpur, people demonstrated against inaction by the civic body and power utilities; power to areas beyond Tolly’s Nullah is supplied by state-owned WBSEDCL. Student Tirthankar Chakraborty, who lives in Azadgarh, said he could not refrigerate his mother’s medicines. People living off Bypass, including Ajaynagar, Shahidnagar and Kasba, also blocked roads in a desperate bid to draw the authorities’ attention to the crisis. Many residents were forced to cough up Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 to hire generators to draw water to their reservoirs. Even in north, Jessore Road near airport was blocked for an hour, while incidents of unrest were reported from Baguiati, Birati, Panihati and Budge Budge. Protests in Belur forced local MLA Baishali Dalmiya to rush to the spot.  CESC officials conceded they were overwhelmed by the sheer scale of disruption. “We had set up control rooms and kept 5,000 men ready but we could not gauge the magnitude of the destruction. We are working continuously but even then, repair is taking time,” said an official. CESC, he said, received 112 complaints of wire snap and 43 dislodged poles on Thursday morning and the figures rose to 600 and 200 on Friday evening. “We are now focusing on temporary repair. A thorough repair will be taken up later,” the official said. CESC sources claimed they were not getting access to snapped wires as KMC had not removed uprooted trees. A KMC parks official conceded it was becoming difficult for them owing to lack of adequate manpower. The department has 1,000 gardeners, but at least 60% of them are stuck in their villages for lockdown. KMC has deployed conservancy workers but even then, it might take till May 31 to finish work in entire Kolkata. While localities around the city are expected to get power back by Sunday, WBSEDCL can’t offer any deadline for places North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore, Hooghly and Howrah, where network has been ruined. “We don’t know when the entire restoration will be over, but we are working,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-electricity-water-for-48-hours-kmc-utilities-grapple-with-crisis/articleshow/75905077.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Discom halts power cuts due to heatwave||VISAKHAPATNAM: AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) has said there will be no power outages from Saturday keeping in view the heatwave conditions and sultry weather in the state over the past two days. The discom carried out maintenance works on Friday. Power was interrupted at several areas in Vizag city, causing severe discomfort among local residents. Speakin to TOI, APEPDCL Visakhapatnam Circle superintending engineer TV Suryaprakasa Rao said, “We have decided to temporarily halt power maintenance works keeping in view the safety and welfare of the people.” Meanwhile, the state registered maximum temperatures above 40 degree Celsius at 560 locations. “The state registered above 45 degree Celsius temperature at 147 locations in the last 24 hours. On Friday, Prakasam district registered above 45 degree Celsius temperatures,” an official said. Temperatures in Vijayawada soared to as high as 47 degrees Celsius on Friday, according to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS). District administrations across the state have been put on high alert in view of a heatwave warning issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for four days. The State Disaster Management Authority has said daytime temperatures will fluctuate between 43 and 48 degree Celsius till May 25. APSDPS reported Pamidimukkala village in Krishna district and Bhattiprolu in Guntur district as places recording the highest maximum temperature in the state at 47.8 degrees Celsius on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/discom-halts-power-cuts-due-to-heatwave/articleshow/75903717.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad students protest, seek fee waiver||HYDERABAD: Students of University of Hyderabad on Friday staged an online protest, putting forth their demands that include fee waiver, no detention policy, protection of biodiversity on the campus, among others. Under the aegis of Youth for Inclusive and Sustainable Society (YISS), the students protested by going live on social media and sharing videos. They said at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has left a devastating impact on the student community, policy decisions taken by the UoH administration is creating confusion and stress among them. Students said they should be evaluated using the continuous assessment instead of the semester examination.  Gowd Kiran Kumar, coordinator, YISS, said ever since the lockdown had begun, they had raised several issues concerning students, but received no response from the administration. Their other demands include increasing number of PhD seats as per UGC regulations, providing students’ assistance for May and July, waiving off mess charges for April, May and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-protest-seek-fee-waiver/articleshow/75905093.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Samples of person who committed suicide test +ve||Mangaluru: Two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada and three people tested positive for the disease in Udupi on Friday. This includes a person who committed suicide on Thursday. A 55-year-old hotelier, who had come from Maharashtra on Wednesday, and was quarantined at a school in Kadandale in Moodbidri, was found dead at 6.30am on Thursday. Authorities surmise that the person could have committed suicide owing to personal reasons. However, as a precautionary measure, they collected his swab sample and sent it for testing. The sample collected from the person’s throat tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. His body was cremated as per protocol, in the presence of family members, at the electrical crematorium in Boloor. As on Friday, the total number of active Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada stands at 36. Meanwhile, three more positive cases were reported in Udupi on Friday. All the fresh cases reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, were people who had returned from Maharashtra. A 29-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19, and was admitted to the designated Covid hospital in the city. Meanwhile, two men aged 31 and 55 and a 48-year-old woman from Udupi have been admitted to the designated Covid hospital in Udupi, after they tested positive for Covid-19. Udupi DC warns miscreants Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that some miscreants have been making calls to officials, and sharing the voice recording on social media. “Those miscreants, who use abusive words against the DC, SP, AC, MP and MLAs will be put behind bars from tomorrow. Sitting in Mumbai they speak like dons. The district administration will not tolerate this. We know how to bring them from Mumbai. We have been working day and night for the past three months without taking food on time,” the DC said. The DC directed officials to prevent people from handing over food or any other items to their relatives at quarantine centres. “People want to serve home food to their relatives who are in quarantine. It will lead to the spread of the virus through the food containers and vessels they use. Safety of 13 lakh people in the district is important for us. Hence, I have directed officials not to allow family members to bring food and other items to their relatives who are in quarantine,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/samples-of-person-who-committed-suicide-test-ve/articleshow/75901824.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Two days for power, 7 for clearing streets: Kolkata civic body||KOLKATA: It will take another seven days for Kolkata to stand on its feet. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators governing KMC, on Friday appealed to Kolkatans to bear with the civic body and other state agencies working round the clock to restore normalcy. Hakim on Friday conceded that residents of large parts of the city were suffering due to power cut and water crisis. According to him, lack of coordination between KMC and the power utility was the root cause for difficulties being faced by lakhs. “Restoration of power is of utmost importance as it is triggering water crisis. I have taken up the matter with CESC and West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Ltd (WBSEDL) officials, asking them to restore power in all areas in another two days,” Hakim said. According to a KMC official, while CESC officials expressed their helplessness in restoring power due to non-removal of uprooted trees, a section of civic officials felt that the power utility agency was not in tandem with KMC. “I have asked the KMC parks department and civil engineering department to barricade areas where big trees are lying uprooted so that even if the tree is not removed, CESC and WBSEDCL can work to restore the lines,” Hakim said. Removal of uprooted trees continues to be the big challenge for KMC, Kolkata Police and other agencies, conceded a civic official. Not more than 20% of the trees have been removed in past 48 hours. “Acute dearth of manpower, which is triggered by the lockdown, and shortage of tools have made the job difficult. We have roped in conservancy labourers, Kolkata Police and also requested NDRF to clear major thoroughfares in seven days,” said a KMC parks department official. Apart from restoration of power, restoration of cable lines was also on the top of civic agenda. Hakim on Friday held a meeting with the cable operators and asked them to restore the lines at the earliest. Hakim has asked police and the KMC parks department to cooperate with the cable operators. Amidst the clean-up challenge, Khalil Ahmed, who was holding the dual charge of state urban development secretary and KMC commissioner, was relieved of his duties as the commissioner on Friday. Binod Kumar, a secretary in the state minority affairs department, has replaced Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-days-for-power-7-for-clearing-streets-civic-body/articleshow/75905094.cms||Saikat Ray
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrants from UP move lock, stock and pet dog on bike||HYDERABAD/NIZAMABAD: For the last two months, NH-44 is filled with migrant workers walking, cycling or hitchhiking atop trucks, in a desperate attempt to return to their native places due to the hardships they endured during the lockdown. Among them are Jogul Nisad and his family, which comprises his wife, brother, sister-in-law, two sons and a daughter. But what makes this family stand out from others is their four-year-old pet dog Julie. Nisad and his family stayed in Moti Nagar area and used to do painting work for a living. However, they stopped getting work since the lockdown was imposed in the state. It was in the city that Nisad and his family adopted Julie, a street dog, in 2016 when it was just a few weeks old. “I just picked her up from the streets one day. I think it was four-years ago. She was very tiny and was desperately searching for food. Since then, she has become a part of our family,” Nisad, who was caught travelling along with three other family members and Julie on a two-wheeler near Dichpally on National Highway 44, told TOI. Despite all the exhaustion, lack of food and money, the family was determined to undertake the 1,100-km journey to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. “We are not going to leave the dog on the streets just because we are going back to our village now. I still remember how she was struggling to find food when I first saw her. We cannot put her back in that situation. It is a little difficult to travel on the bike with three people and a dog but we will manage,” said Nisad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-from-up-move-lock-stock-and-pet-dog-on-bike/articleshow/75906073.cms||Moulika.KV
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Migrants’ return a boon for industries||LUCKNOW: The movement of migrant workers back to UP is coming as a boon for industries in the state. Industries minister Satish Mahana has said that work orders which would have gone to units in other states like Delhi, Punjab and Maharashtra are being cancelled due to unavailability of labour there, and coming to UP. The result, he said, is that almost 84% of industrial production which had come to a halt during the lockdown, has now been revived in the state. The industries department has based this claim on the power consumption pattern of industrial parks. In February, before the lockdown was implemented, power consumption across the 518 industrial parks was 8.360 million units (MU). By April, this had come down to 3.198 MU, which was just 37% of February’s consumption. However, as per current data available with the power department, industrial consumption is now back to 7.246 MU as on May 21 which is 83.96% of February’s per day consumption. “We are making great progress in restarting industries after the lockdown. Factories have started manufacturing. After the second lockdown, industrial usage of electricity has gone up which indicates that industrial processes have restarted,” said Mahana. The minister said that a reason for the push was the increased number of work orders that units in UP were receiving.  “Due to the movement of migrant workers back to UP, industries in other states are finding it difficult to start work as they do not have labour. UP is benefitting from this and many industries here are getting up to three times the work orders they were getting before the lockdown. For instance, Punjab had a lot of units making cycle and rickshaw parts. That work is also moving to UP now,” he said. Currently, UP has permitted industrial work to restart across the state with the exception of containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrants-return-a-boon-for-industries/articleshow/75906070.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Kudumbashree aids adivasis in Alappuzha||ALAPPUZHA: As the lockdown was implemented, adivasi families in Alappuzha were a worried lot. The Kudumbashree Mission in the district came to their rescue through a WhatsApp group ‘Nammal’, which was used to address their needs and share their traditional art forms and handicraft works. The district has the smallest population of scheduled tribes in the state; 2,600 people from 468 adivasi families are residing in 72 grama panchayats. From children to elderly people of these adivasi families here are now busy shooting short films, TikTok videos and performing their art forms and sharing them in this WhatsApp group. If they face shortage of food items or medicine, they just have to post their needs in this group and Kudumbahsree will arrange it. Two years ago, Kudumbashree started to implement P K Kalan project for the upliftment of scheduled tribe families here. As part of the project, Kudumbashree was executing various programmes for their social development, renovating their homes and bringing them to the mainstream of society. “But after the announcement of lockdown, the execution of the project came to a standstill and we could not keep in touch with the them. Scheduled tribe families normally are not active in public. It is our duty to ensure food, medicines and keep them happy during this lockdown time. Many have smartphones and thus, we decided to start a WhatsApp group for them to share their their issues and entertainment activities. It has become a big hit,” said Molji Khalid, district programme manager of Kudumbashree. “We give them instructions on various activities daily. Every morning, we post a question in the group which they should answer. They can shoot videos of their traditional dance, handicrafts works and other cultural activities. The elderly people and the young generation are actively participating with TikTok videos and short films are being posted in the group. All their performances are amazing. An 83-year-old Padmakashi posted her singing video in the group. The elderly are mainly doing their traditional works for posting in the group. They are very happy, and we ensure their needs are addressed at the earliest,” she said. The activities are being coordinated by district mission coordinator (DMC) Prasanth Babu and ADMC Xavier K V.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kudumbashree-aids-adivasis-in-alappuzha/articleshow/75901848.cms||Sajimon P S
May 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kochi: 501 return from Jordan, Dubai & Rome||KOCHI: Three repatriation flights from Jordan, Rome and Dubai, operated as part of phase II of Union government’s Vande Bharat mission, brought a total of 501 passengers to Kochi on Friday. The special repatriation flight from Jordan, which reached Kochi on Friday morning carrying 142 passengers, also had a 58-member film crew, including actor Prithviraj Sukumaran, who were stuck in Jordan’s Wadi Rum desert where they were on a shoot. The flight from Dubai IX 434 operated by Air India Express had a total of 186 passengers, including 87 men, 84 women, nine children and six infants. The Air India flight from Rome (AI 122), which arrived via Delhi, had a total of 173 passengers. The flight AI 1902 operated by Air India had a total of 129 male passengers, one child aged below 10 and 13 women. There were also two pregnant women in the flight. Of the lot, 136 passengers have been shifted to Covid-care centres. Six passengers have been asked to undergo home isolation. The film crew, including Prithviraj and director Blessy, were engaged in the shoot for film ‘Aadujeevitham’ based on a novel by Benyamin. Actor Prithviraj was spotted driving his car from the airport. They are required to undergo quarantine for 14 days as a preventive measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/501-return-from-jordan-dubai-rome/articleshow/75901873.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Crackdown on ‘offensive’ social media posts||VIJAYAWADA: In a slew of instances, police have booked four persons and suspended a government official during the last 15 days across the state for allegedly criticising the chief minister on social media. Apart from this, police have booked another man for making ‘false claims’ of red sanders smugglers turning into illegal liquor sellers on social media. The recent case registered at Crime Investigation Department (CID) police station in Amaravati against one P Ranganayaki from Guntur town for making ‘objectionable remarks’ against the government on Facebook on the LG Polymer gas leak has created a political storm. A day after producing an arrest notice against her, one Malladi Raghunath was booked as accused number two in the same case for sharing her post. The CID has issued statements via press releases justifying the arrest of P Ranganayaki citing her as ‘habitually trying to mislead the public by projecting anti-government feelings ill feelings among public.’ The CID has included a Facebook post by Ranganayaki as an example of ‘projecting anti-government’ feelings, which takes a dig at Jaganmohan Reddy’s Ammavodi, Rythu Bharosa, RTC merger with the government, monetary aid for auto drivers and the three-capital issue. “The main accused Poonuthota Ranganayaki (60) is being projected as champion of LG Polymers Issue of Visakhapatnam. LG Polymers issue is one among the other issues against her,” the CID press release reads. The CID states that the post is a ‘creation of superstitions’ against the government of AP and that it cannot be justified as ‘expression of personal opinion’. “Her intention is not for justice in the LG Polymers issue, but there is a clear design and purpose to create and spread disaffection towards the democratically elected government by engineering such misleading social media posts,” the CID stated. Prior to this case, the police department had suspended an executive engineer M V Vidyasagar for allegedly ‘abusing’ the CM in a WhatsApp chat. Meanwhile, activists objected to governments’ suo moto criminal action as a ‘means of curbing free speech’. “Some of these posts merely criticise the government on issues that are affecting people. In all four cases, the government should take constructive criticism in the right spirit,” Namburi Sreemanarayana, Poura Hakkula Sangham Joint Secretary told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/crackdown-on-offensive-social-media-posts/articleshow/75903742.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||No thermal screening at New Delhi rly stn||After being stuck in Delhi for more than 60 days, Amrita Didyala, special correspondent with the Hyderabad bureau, travelled on the special train to Secunderabad, which reached earlier this evening. Here is her account of the train journey There was no thermal screening or checking of tickets when I arrived at the New Delhi railway station at 5.30 pm on Thursday to board the NDLS-SBC special passenger train headed to Hyderabad, Telangana. At the station’s entrance, a policeman asked me, if I was a passenger. I said yes, and he immediately asked me to go ahead. I took the overbridge to reach platform number 6, and easily found my compartment, and sat down at my designated berth 30 on A6 two tier coach. While most passengers were seen carrying sanitizers and wearing masks, some were wearing gloves. The railways maintained social distancing with only 25 passengers each in several of the compartments and they served food and water also. As the train chugged out of New Delhi, I had a sense of relief after spending 60 days away from my hometown. I met 45-year-old Nandlal Sharma, a television mechanic from Jeedimetla, who was frantically calling his neighbour to get all required documents to travel back from the railway station. He was hoping to meet his family after two months on Friday night. “In my absence my wife and three children were all alone. They had to manage everything alone and I had been worried about them,” he told me, while lamenting that the government should have at least given 3-4 days for people to return to their hometowns before imposing the lockdown across the country. A 26-year-old techie from Warangal said that he was working from his rented accommodation in Noida, since mid-March and had been all alone during the lockdown. “I was scared to even sleep alone and was trying to book the train for a week, but could only get one now,” he said, talking about the stressful time. A B-tech student, Vishwanath Sai was studying on the train, fearing that his exams will be announced anytime soon. "I was desperately waiting to return home, I was feeling lost there in Noida. I had stayed two months with just two pairs of clothes," he said. There was also a jubiliant family of four travelling back to Kazipet to celebrate Eid with their complete family. " We were keen to get back home before Eid and luckily we could get the tickets," said Mohd Rashid. Once I got down at platform number 10 in Secunderabad on Friday evening, there was a huge deployment of police and passengers were being monitored for social distancing. After negotiating various checks, including thermal temperature checks, submitting my Aadhaar card and PNR number of the ticket, I was made to enter my address and advised home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-thermal-screening-at-new-delhi-rly-stn/articleshow/75905116.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||BJP finds support in Mayawati in Congress bus row||LUCKNOW: Amidst a bitter tussle with Congress over its offer of 1,000 buses to ferry migrants home, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh received unexpected support from a political foe. BSP chief Mayawati hauled up Congress over BJP’s allegation that Congress-led Rajasthan regime demanded Rs 36 lakh from UP for transporting students from Kota in 70 buses to the state border and termed it inhuman. This is not the first time Mayawati has spoken out against Congress in the ongoing confrontation over buses. Earlier, she advised the grand old party to pay for the migrants’ train fare, instead of forcing UP government to use its buses. “The Rs 36.36 lakh fee demanded by Rajasthan’s Congress government for sending home 12,000 students from Kota shows its inhuman side. The display of disgusting politics between two neighbouring states is painful. While the Congress government in Rajasthan is charging arbitrary rates for sending back students from Kota to UP, it’s talking about providing buses to ferry migrant workers to their homes in UP. Is this the kind of politics they should be playing in time of crisis,” Mayawati asked. On Thursday, the BSP chief also told Congress that it rather deploy 1,000 buses in states governed by it, like Punjab, where migrant workers were reportedly swimming across rivers to cover the distance. Mayawati, with whom Congress burnt bridges after failing to drum up alliances for various state elections and then poaching BSP MLAs in Rajasthan, has left no stone unturned in taking on Congress during the lockdown. Even as she blamed the Centre and state governments for the pathetic condition of migrant workers, who are being forced to walk home, she often singled out Congress by asking it to focus on its own states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-finds-support-in-maya-in-cong-bus-row/articleshow/75906086.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tough to trace contacts of those with helps||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials confirmed that tracing primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients who have drivers and domestic workers has turned out to be a hectic task.  Citing an example, officials said that a resident of Allwyn Colony, who has been tested positive for coronavirus, had employed a driver who lives in a hostel. “The driver tested positive too. We received his report on Friday and are probing his travel history. We will also need to check for symptoms among people living in the hostel,” said a GHMC official. In another case, the lane where detective inspector of Balapur police station who tested positive lives, has been sealed. “The main challenge is to identify the people who are not showing any symptoms. With patients who have domestic workers and drivers the process becomes even more difficult as one domestic worker may be employed in multiple households,” said a GHMC official. In another instance, when a Moosapet doctor tested positive officials said that they could identify contacts easily as he did not have any domestic worker or driver. A source also confirmed that the doctor did not treat any patients as he was working as a professor in medical college. “He was not in touch with people since colleges have been shut,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tough-to-trace-contacts-of-those-with-helps/articleshow/75905109.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Man sent home after quarantine tests +ve||Udupi: A man who was quarantined for 14 days after coming from Telangana, was sent home on Thursday. However, before he reached home, health officials called him and informed him that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, and that he should not enter his house. He was then admitted to the designated Covid hospital in Udupi. All the 14 people who were in the quarantine centre with him, are in a state of panic now. A group of 15 people had come to Udupi on May 4, and all of them were quarantined at Byndoor taluk for 20 days. After two tests were performed on the individual, though officials at the centre said that he tested negative for the novel coronavirus, it was later realised that it was a mistake. Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said, “There were three people with the same name at the quarantine centre, of whom two people tested negative and one person tested positive. Due to confusion, this man was sent home by the staff at the quarantine centre. Health official immediately realised the mistake and brought him to the designated Covid hospital in Udupi, and got him admitted there. “This confusion was created by the person who was discharged, as he registered two people using his mobile number. All the other men with him at the quarantine centre need to remain in home quarantine for another 14 days,” he added. The patient denied that he had registered another person with the same name and mobile number, and alleged that it was a mistake committed by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-sent-home-after-quarantine-tests-ve/articleshow/75901878.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra pradesh: YSR Congress suspends events to mark one year of govt||AMARAVATI: In order to avoid controversies, YSR Congress has decided to suspend the week-long celebrations planned to mark the completion of YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s one year rule in the state. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday directed party leaders and cadres not to organise any celebrations keeping in view of the lockdown till May 31. In a statement, party general secretary and government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said that they have decided to put off the planned programmes as the chief minister advised the party leaders it was not wise to organize political activities during the lockdown period. “Party leaders have been asked to distribute food and fruits to the poor through NGOs or ward/village volunteers without directly participating in the programmes,” said Sajjala. He said that they had planned party flag hoisting programmes and welfare programmes from May 23 to May 30 to mark the history victory of the party in the assembly and general elections last year. He, however, said that they have decided suspend all the activities following the CM’s instructions. The high court had recently expressed serious displeasure with some YSRC legislators for participating in rallies to distribute food to the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ysrc-suspends-events-to-mark-one-year-of-govt/articleshow/75903769.cms||Samdani MN
May 23, 2020||Kochi||Khadeejakutty returns to rest in peace||THRISSUR: When 73-year old Khadeejakutty died due to Covid-19 at Chavakkad on Wednesday, in a way her wish was fulfilled. Though she has been living in Mumbai for long, she always wanted to breathe her last at her native place. Her six children, three of them who are still in Mumbai and three others who are in Kerala, tried to dissuade her from travelling in the backdrop of the pandemic. But, Khadeejakutty, who also had age-related ailments like diabetes and high BP, was adamant to return home. And that’s one of the reasons why she even travelled with strangers in a car to Kerala from Mumbai. Khadeejakutty had relocated to Mumbai around 55 years ago after her marriage to late Kottungal Muhammed from Chettuva near Chavakkad. Muhammed was then working with HMT. She continued in Mumbai for some more years even after the death of her husband 25 years ago. Khadeejakutty, who relocated to Kerala with her two sons and a daughter, 15 year ago had gone to Mumbai earlier this year for attending a marriage. She had booked her return tickets just before the lockdown began and had to cancel later. She had received the pass for May 22 to return to Kerala after testing negative for Covid 19 in Mumbai. But she advanced her trip when someone from the family informed her that a family from Ottappalam was returning on May 19. However, she became unwell during the trip, and her son went with an ambulance to Perinthalmanna at 5am on Wednesday, when the car was about to reach. “We went straight to taluk hospital. She was lying with her head on my lap in ambulance. I gave her water frequently. The doctors at taluk hospital said she should be shifted to the medical college hospital and she breathed her last when she was being taken back to the ambulance,” said Kasim. “When her relatives and friends were teasing her that she was Bombaywala, she used to retort that she will die in her home village, and she could fulfil this wish,” said Rafeeq her son-in law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/khadeeja-returns-to-rest-in-peace/articleshow/75902212.cms||T Ramavarman
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||‘Covid-19 made our lives miserable. Amphan turned it into hell’||KOLKATA: As if the four-hour pounding by cyclone Amphan was not enough, miseries have been piling up on residents across Kolkata, Howrah and Salt Lake over the last 48 hours. Plagued by lack of electricity and water, some households continue to remain cut off with dead landlines and no cellphone or internet connectivity. Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey and Krishnendu Bandopadhyay speaks to several such people across localities. BehalaLarge parts of Behala are marooned without electricity, water and communication network. “We are not even getting drinking water, forget about water to bathe. We are struggling without electricity for last 48 hours. Covid-19 had turned life miserable, Amphan has turned it into a hell,” said Ashok Karmakar, a Satyen Roy Road resident. Similar is the situation at Panchanantala near Behala police station. “We have got in touch with everybody, but everyone said ‘Dekhchhi’ (Let us see). We are sick and tired with the situation,” fumed Gaurav Sinha, a lawyer. Biplab Sarkar, a retired government employee living at the Thakurpukur Government Housing Society, added: “We are confined to our homes and have not been able to come out since Wednesday afternoon. There is waist-deep water outside. We tried to pump out water, but to no effect.” Lake Gardens In some pockets of Lake Gardens, the situation is equally bad. “Two days have gone and there is still no power. Got the overhead tank filled for Rs 2,000 by an enterprising man going around the neighbourhood with a generator,” said Ratnottama Sengupta, a Lake Gardens resident. Minu Ghosh, an old-time resident said, that her daughter and son-in-law, who live behind the Lake Gardens post office, have no power since Wednesday after a transformer caught fire. Howrah Even on Friday, large stretches of Howrah city remained dark as CESC, which manages 85% of connections here, was unable to restore power. The same was the case with WBSEDCL, which manages the rest of the connections. Police had to intervene after people complained on helpline numbers against the poor pace of power restoration. “At the slightest pretext of rain, the ground floor of our house gets submerged. It’s worse this time. There’s knee-deep water on the ground floor. Our refrigerator, pump set, inverter — everything is damaged,” rued Ayan Chatterjee, an accountant. There have been four electrocutions within the city limits. Large stretches of north and central Howrah remained waterlogged too. The worst-hit are wards 45 to 50 as the Howrah Municipal Corporation could not pump out water because the canals were completely choked. Garia-Narendrapur-HaridevpurIt has been nearly 50 hours that many stretches in these areas have been without power. Locals said they were reminded of the 70s and 80s when power cuts were normal but even then, the duration had never been this long. “Since there is no electricity, we can’t even switch the pump on. So we have ran out of water,” said management teacher Sukanya Das. On Friday, the area saw some people moving around in the area with generators, helping to fill up tanks against payments. “We paid Rs 500 to fill our tank, but my mother, who lives in Selimpur, was told she would have to pay Rs 6,000 for the one-time service,” Das said. Kasba Some portions of Kasba reeled under power crisis and waterlogged lanes till Thursday evening, after which things started normalising. While water subsided from Swinhoe Lane and R K Chatterjee Road on Thursday afternoon, Bosepukur and portions behind Kasba police station saw power cuts that stretched from 2:30pm on Wednesday to 8pm on Thursday. “We weren’t prepared for this long stretch of power cut. So, our tanks went dry and we went without water for the whole of Thursday. Connectivity is another problem we are facing,” said a senior resident. Though power was not a problem at Swinhoe Lane, waterlogging was for a large part of Thursday, said BSF officer Suhrid Chandra Paul. Sinthee The entire area off B T Road here is waterlogged. Some houses in areas like Bidhan Park have the ground floor underneath water. Power has not been restored in most places and people have been calling up power utilities for help. “We are retired and don’t have the physical ability to run around to get things fixed up. At the slightest pretext, things go from bad to worse. It has been like this for years. Why can’t the service providers get to the bottom of the problems and amed things once and for all?” asked AL Goswami. Lack of connectivity and cellular network made things worse for people of these areas as well. Salt LakeSalt Lake has seen a huge loss of greenery, with uprooted trees damaging boundary walls, cars and windows. The clean-up work has reportedly been very slow. Though some pockets were lucky to have power, most blocks of the township went without electricity till late Thursday. “Though we had power, there was no connectivity and it was like the pre-mobile age. Internet connectivity was also poor. We did not have cable TV connection as well,” said Sumitra Ray, a retired school teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-19-made-our-lives-miserable-amphan-turned-it-into-hell/articleshow/75905112.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Inflated’ power bill woes: Forum threatens action||Visakhapatnam: A consumer association in the state has said it will move court if no action is taken on “inflated” power bills for March and April. The association has sent a five-point advisory to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. “For no reasons the two electricity corporations – Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company and Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company – are sending inflated bills to the consumers.,” said Vikash Pandey, state president of AP Consumer Rights Organisation. In May, most consumers received a power bill close to almost three times of what they receive. This is attributed to two reasons. First, electricity companies have levied charges according to a new increased tariff with effect from April 1 and second, the bill was calculated jointly for March and April. The power bill is calculated on the basis of slabs, each of which has different rates. For consumer whose consumption is less than 100 units, charges for the first 50 units are Rs 2.60 per unit and for 51-100 units it is Rs 2.60. For a consumer with a per month consumption of around 60 units, the power bill for two months is being calculated or 120 units (instead of 60 units each), with a charge of Rs 2.60 for the first 100 units and Rs 3.60 for next 20 units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/inflated-power-bill-woes-forum-threatens-action/articleshow/75903787.cms||Arpit Basu
May 23, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid count drops as 9 recover, 2 more positive||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 cases dropped to 38 on Friday even as two more patients — who arrived from Maharashtra by road — tested positive. While confirmatory tests of three more persons who tested positive on the TrueNat screenting test were awaited, as many as nine patients, including a family of five, recovered fully from the disease and were discharged. “Two individuals who travelled by road from Mumbai have reported positive for coronavirus,” health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters on Friday. “Out of the first lot of Covid patients, nine patients have recovered. Their tests were repeated twice, and today, they have been discharged.” The nine will be kept in facility quarantine for seven days, and then in home quarantine for another seven. “The same protocol that was followed the last time will be applied now,” she said. In April, after the first seven Covid-19 patients were recovered and discharged, they were placed in quarantine for 14 days, the first seven in a facility, and the remainder at home. Out of 542 samples sent for testing on Friday, 513 came negative, and 16 reports were awaited. Seven suspects were placed in isolation wards. In total, 873 persons were placed in facility quarantine. Mohanan said that work was underway to bring private laboratories on board for testing. On Thursday, the health department cancelled the permission granted to a private laboratory to collect swabs after it was revealed that three cases it reported positive tested negative when tested at the virology laboratory of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Meanwhile, while domestic airlines are set to resume operations from Monday, the state still awaits the standard operating procedure (SOPs) and guidelines from the Centre. “We are expecting to receive them very soon, and accordingly, we will move forward,” Mohanan said, replying to a question on whether every air passenger would be tested as is being done for those travelling to Goa either by road and rail, and whether they will be quarantined on arrival. Also, as questions are being raised on whether those entering the state are indeed Goans, Mohanan said that those wishing to enter must upload their documents online, and that there is an e-pass system managed by district collectors. “The applicant must have proof of residence and only then does the application get processed,” she added. Revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar said that for rail and air passengers, the state government can’t ask for proof of residence as those are Central subjects. “The list of passengers is shared with the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-count-drops-as-9-recover-2-more-positive/articleshow/75906096.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 23, 2020||Goa||As air tickets go live, Goa braces to see 15-22 flights, 1,500 daily arrivals from Monday||PANAJI: Airlines opened bookings for flights to Goa on Friday, and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that 15 flights would land at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Monday. While the AAI has informed airport officials that 15 flights will arrive on Monday, online ticketing portals suggest that as many as 22 will touch down on Tuesday. AAI officials on Friday met with private agencies and state government authorities to chalk out the plan for the resumption of domestic flights. “There are 15 flights from major airports connecting to Goa as per the tentative schedule of the DGCA’s first slots. The number of flights will increase in the coming days as load factor increases,” said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. Malik said that he expects 1,400-1,500 people to arrive at Goa International Airport on a daily basis, as initial passenger load models suggest that each flight will have around 100 passengers, as against a capacity of 160-180 passengers. The initial schedule shows that there is a daily flight from Goa to Hyderabad, Kochi and Mysore. The frequency of daily flights to Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Bengaluru is more, with as many as six flights heading to Chennai. Sources suggested that an IndiGo flight to Hyderabad has already seen 92 seats booked. The first flight is expected to land at 7:30 am on Monday, and the last flight of the day will depart from Dabolim at 8:30pm. Passengers will be screened and their baggage sanitized before they can enter the terminal. “I have requested the government of Goa and written to health secretary to provide paramedics and let us know the health protocol for arriving passengers. We have also asked Goa police to ensure that there is no crowding outside the terminal, and to ensure smooth traffic movement,” said Malik. As per the arrangements made by AAI, all passengers will have to check-in online. To ensure minimal interaction, authorities have erected plexiglass around all counters. Security clearance will see CISF personnel keeping safe distance. Passengers will not be subjected to pat-downs anymore. “Fifteen people at a time will be allowed to board the aircraft,” said Malik. “The passengers will have to scan their own boarding pass. Airline staff will be behind a glass shield and can provide assistance if required. During the boarding process, a mask, face shield and sanitiser will be given to each passenger, which they have to use during the flight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-air-tickets-go-live-goa-braces-to-see-15-22-flights-1500-daily-arrivals-from-mon/articleshow/75906099.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath receives life threat at UP 112||LUCKNOW: A message, threatening to attack CM Yogi Adityanath with a bomb, was received on the WhatsApp number of UP Police control room during wee hours of Friday. An FIR was lodged at Gomtinagar police within 19 minutes of receiving the message. UP STF is investigating the case. Confirming the incident, senior officials of UP 112 said the CM has received death threats in the past too. SHO Gomtinagar Dheeraj Kumar said an FIR had been lodged against unidentified person for causing fear or alarm in the public, to commit an offence against the state or against public tranquility, threat to cause death and using anonymous communication for issuing threat. In the FIR, Kumar said, “The message was received at UP 112 WhatsApp service (7570000100) at 12.32am on Friday.” Joint commissioner of police, crime, Lucknow, Nilabja Choudhury, told TOI: “Probe is underway and the surveillance cell is tracing the location of the number. Cyber cell are also providing assistance.” STF officials said they were tracking the number but refused to share details. In the first week of May, UP police had nabbed a constable in Ghazipur for a Facebook post in which he called for the killing of the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-receives-life-threat-at-up-112/articleshow/75906101.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Experts on edge as biodiversity takes back seat||VIJAYAWADA: A lack of focused attention to conserving the rich biodiversity in Andhra Pradesh has raised concern among ecologists, who believe the state should start planning to protect its natural wealth. AP has a variety of ecosystems, ranging from forests and grassland to freshwater bodies, brackish water wetlands and agricultural land, making it a rare habitat for diverse flora and fauna. “AP has all the natural resources to becoming the first green state of the country if it adapts to a green economic policy,” said Abdul Razak, noted urban planning expert and dean at School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Vijayawada. Another ecological expert said, “Environmentally sensitive urban and regional planning should orient towards respecting Vijayawada city and Krishna district as a biodiversity hub and eco-conscious area. The hillocks that exist in Vijayawada and its vicinity are nationally important as part of the Eastern Ghats. The Nallamala hills, followed by Kondapalli hill located at the southern part and Papikondalu at the northern part of the Eastern Ghats fall in the Krishna-Guntur region. Further, the AP Biodiversity Board lists about 2,800 plants, of which 1,800 are used in traditional medicine. These need to be understood, valued and conserved.” “The unplanned developments with high magnitude of human intervention including encroachment, illegal quarrying around the hill slopes (Kondapalli), lakes (Brahmalingeshwara), the Krishna river and canals cannot be left unnoticed and ignored by planners and policy makers,” cautioned Razak, adding that protection and conservation of the region will also benefit rural areas and the livelihoods of thousands. Biodiversity spots, Razak said, require mapping and identification of hinterlands though preparation of regional district and sub-regional level plans for balanced development of rural and urban regions of a state, and pointed out that AP should develop a policy to develop such spots and regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/experts-on-edge-as-biodiversity-takes-back-seat/articleshow/75903803.cms||Samdani MN
May 23, 2020||Mysuru||Two Mandya police stations sealed, cops to undergo test||MANDYA: With the sealing off of two police stations in Mandya district late Thursday after a policeman tested positive, all Covid-19 frontline warriors will undergo tests for the virus in the coming days. A head constable attached with the KR Pete Town police station tested positive, forcing the district administration to seal off KR Pet Town and Rural police stations, which are housed in the same building. Mandya superintendent of police Parashuram got himself tested for Covid-19 on Friday. Mandya district has the second highest number of cases in Karnataka, after Bengaluru, reporting eight fresh cases taking the total to 209. Deputy commissioner Venkatesh said 173 of them had returned from Mumbai. The district administration has requested Belagavi authorities to tighten check-post vigil to check influx of migrants into Karnataka and later into Mandya district. A senior police officer said the district administration decided to subject all Covid warriors to medical examination because many cases were asymptomatic and the chances of infection spreading without detection were high. An officer of the social welfare department has tested positive and his travel history across Mysuru and Chamarajangar districts has become a cause of concern in the district. From Chikkamulagudu in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district, the officer works in Mysuru district. Besides extensively shuttling between Mysuru and Mandya districts, the officer is said to have attended a marriage in Chamarajanagar a few days ago. After he tested positive, the district officers have launched a massive operation to identify his primary and secondary contacts spread over three districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2-mandya-police-stations-sealed-cops-to-undergo-test/articleshow/75901913.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyd teacher on fast-unto-death for salary, job||Hyderabad: Alleging that he was paid only a part of his salary in April and May, a teacher of a concept school in Ramanthapur launched a fast-unto-death at his residence. Ravi Kumar, who teaches English, said he won’t give up until full salary is paid and job security is assured for all teachers. However, Saritha Agarwal, principal of Narayana Concept School — where 42-year-old Ravi has been working since last year — denied the charges and said all teachers were paid in full. Ravi, who started his fast on May 19, said all teachers received only part payment. “Management said it would be paying only part of salary for next two months,” he said. He further said, “On May 19, 60% of our salaries were deposited. But, there was no uniformity as some teachers got 70%. When I questioned the principal, she did not give satisfactory reply.” He said private teachers across Telangana are facing a similar predicament but their voices are stifled. Another teacher said, “It’s not like a deferred salary. We have been told to forgo a part of our salaries.” In support of Ravi, fellow teachers and students launched a movement on WhatsApp to create awareness on plight of teachers. Some of them even took to social media. As his fast entered fourth day on Friday, Ravi told TOI he is fighting on behalf of all teachers who are struggling to make ends meet. “I will continue my struggle until my demands — full salary and job security for private and corporate schools’ teachers — are met.” While management of Narayana Group of Institutions failed to respond, Saritha Agarwal said all staff members received their salaries three days ago. “How is it possible that one teacher doesn’t receive it and others do? We released full salaries,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-teacher-on-fast-unto-death-for-salary-job/articleshow/75905152.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||CM nod for film shoots from June||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday told a delegation of the Telugu film industry that shootings can be resumed in June. A decision on reopening film theatres will be taken later. The delegation included prominent names such as Director SS Rajamouli and actor Chiranjeevi Initially, indoor production work with lesser presence of technicians could begin, the CM said. .“Film shootings can be taken up by adhering to the coronavirus guidelines and lockdown rules,” the chief minister said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-nod-for-film-shoots-from-june/articleshow/75905128.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Goa||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane favours testing air travellers for antibodies||PANAJI: As domestic flights are set to resume on Monday, health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that he was strongly in favour of antibody testing of all air passengers arriving in Goa. The state has written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for clarity on the issue. “If no testing is done, asymptomatic patients will pass through and ultimately lead to community transmission, which is very dangerous,” Rane said. He also said that chief minister Pramod Sawant and he are on the same page in favouring a stringent testing protocol for people entering Goa. “I have written to the ICMR and to the Union minister of civil aviation,” Rane said. “I also had a detailed discussion with the CM on the subject.” He said that in his email, he has informed the ICMR that the people will arrive in Goa from hotspots such as Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru. “A majority of Goa’s positive cases are from Maharashtra and Delhi,” he said. “The ICMR’s response is awaited.” Rane said that ICMR guidelines are advisories and not directions. He also said that the ICMR has advised that antibody testing can only be done for Covid-19 hotspots. As of Friday evening, the Goa government was yet to formulate its standard operating procedure (SOP) for air passengers. Rane said that the state would draw up its own protocol once it receives a response from the ICMR. “This is the need of the hour to keep Goa safe,” he said. “I’m of the strong opinion that antibody testing has to be done for all air passengers,” Rane said. “The antibody test gives results in five to six minutes. It can also be replicated at railway stations, but currently, we use the TrueNat screening test there.” Goa airport director Gagan Malik had written to the state’s health department seeking to know whether air passengers would be subjected to testing and quarantine on landing at the airport. He said the response was awaited. There seems to be wide consensus that screening and testing should be done. Ports minister Michael Lobo said that he isn’t aware about what’s being planned regarding air travellers, but that he would speak to Rane and tell him that they must be screened. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat too is in favour of testing. He said that the state should follow uniform testing guidelines on all passengers irrespective of their mode of transport. Meanwhile, Rane said that a new machine for Covid-19 testing which was approved last week will be installed at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-favours-testing-air-travellers-for-antibodies/articleshow/75906104.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Zilla panchayat elections dates after SSC exams, says govt||PANAJI: Panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho said on Friday that the new dates for the zilla panchayat elections would be announced after the SSC examinations, which end on June 6. The issue of the ZP elections was raised by some MLAs during the recently-held BJP legislature wing meeting. “After successfully conducting the SSC and HSSC exams, we will conduct the ZP elections,” Godinho told TOI. “We will pick up from where we left off.” The elections were initially scheduled for March 15, after which the state government postponed it to March 22. As the threat of coronavirus loomed, the state government was adamant on going ahead with it. But on March 20, after PM Narendra Modi advised social distancing due to coronavirus, Sawant indefinitely postponed the elections. Modi then called for a ‘janata curfew’ on March 22. A total of 203 candidates are in the running for the elections to two bodies — South Goa ZP and North Goa ZP – each compising 25 constituencies. BJP has fielded candidates for 43 seats while Congress has put up candidates in 38 seats. MGP, which has an informal pact with Congress, will fight the election in 17 seats. AAP and NCP have put up candidates in 17 and six constituencies respectively. Besides, 79 independent candidates are also in the fray. Forty-nine members remain to be elected to the ZP as one from Sancoale has already been elected unopposed. Thirty of the 50 constituencies are reserved for women, ST, SC and OBC candidates. A total of 9,500 staff were roped in for the elections, that were to be held across 1,210 polling booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-poll-dates-after-ssc-exams-says-govt/articleshow/75906103.cms||Murari Shetye
May 23, 2020||Pune||All arrangements in place for domestic flights from May 25||Pune: The city airport director, Kuldeep Singh, on Friday iterated that domestic operations would resume from Pune on May 25, after a gap of 60 days.“All arrangements have been made and the standard operating procedures (SOP) will be followed,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. Asked if the Maharashtra government had permitted the domestic flight operations, he said only the state government would be able to comment on it.There will be 84 flight movements — 42 arrivals and departures each — from the Pune airport as per the summer schedule of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), announced late on Thursday. There were 170 flight movements from the city airport before the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the city.Air Asia will connect to Kolkata, Bengaluru, Delhi and Jaipur with eight flights. Air India will connect Pune to Delhi and Alliance Air will connect the city to Nashik with one flight. GoAir will operate six flights to Nagpur, Bengaluru, Delhi and Ahmedabad.IndiGo has the largest share with around 14 flights connecting to Kolkata, Bengaluru, Nagpur, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad. SpiceJet will have seven flights to Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Kochi and Kolkata. Vistara will have five Pune-Delhi flights. Most of the flights will start operating from May 25. Some will fly either from May 26 or in June.Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents Association of Pune, said many people were confirming bookings. “Most of them are either stuck or travelling on business or medical emergencies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-arrangements-in-place-for-domestic-flights-from-may-25/articleshow/75906171.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 23, 2020||Business||Insurers told to settle claims for damages caused by Amphan||Hyderabad: In a bid to offer respite to individuals and enterprises hit by super cyclone Amphan, that ravaged coastal districts of the eastern part of the country earlier this week, the Insurance Development and Regulatory Authority of India, (IRDAI) on Friday issued guidelines to be followed by life and general insurance companies for expeditious settlement of claims arising out of damages caused by the natural calamity. The general insurers have been asked to nominate a senior officer as a nodal officer for the affected states and would be coordinating the receipt, processing, and settlement of all eligible claims. Besides, it may also appoint a district-level nodal officer in each affected district to liaise with district administration. The insurance watchdog directed that all claims be surveyed immediately and claim payments/on account payments be disbursed at the earliest without exceeding the stipulated timeline. It also said that an adequate number of surveyors be engaged immediately by insurance companies. Life insurers too have been asked to nominate a senior level officer who would act as a nodal officer in the state to liaise with the state administration to facilitate identification of policyholders among the deceased. “With regard to claims involving loss of life, where difficulty is experienced in obtaining a death certificate due to non-recovery of body..., the process followed in the case of Chennai floods in 2015 may be considered,” it said, adding that a simplified process/procedure including relaxations in the usual requirements, wherever feasible, may be considered to expedite claims settlement. The insurance companies have been asked to launch awareness campaigns highlighting the measures taken by them and at the same time encourage policyholders to use electronic communication wherever possible for correspondence to ensure safety during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/insurers-told-to-settle-claims-for-damages-caused-by-amphan/articleshow/75905165.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||SOP must while reopening industries in Telangana, say Experts||HYDERABAD: Following the recent Styrene leak in Visakhapatnam and the reactor blast on Thursday at IDA Bollarum, experts warn that standard operating protocol (SOP) must be enforced, especially during the opening up of industries post lockdown. Speaking to TOI, industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan clarified that Thursday’s incident had nothing to do with the post lockdown opening up of industries. Terming it as an unfortunate accident, he, however, stressed that all industries are being asked to follow the SOP. “We have carried out an audit of industries using gasses in the state. We have sensitized them to guidelines and warned of repercussions in case of deviations.” The state had conducted an audit of over 200 industries following the Visakhapatnam gas leak. Only one unit in Mahaboobnagar district was found to have a leak of some unused solvents. The plant had been closed for the last four years and the leak was not serious, Ranjan had said earlier. In light of recent incidents, the National Disaster Management Authority issued guidelines to chief secretaries of all states on “restarting manufacturing industries after lockdown”. It said that re-opening of industries could be a danger if residual chemicals are left behind in valves and pipelines, hazardous chemicals in storage units are not checked and maintenance of equipment not carried out. Besides stressing on an on-site management plan, the guidelines said: “State governments shall also ensure that the off-site disaster management plan of Major Accidental Hazard (MAH) units are up to date.” Sagar Dhara, former member of the consent of operations committee at the pollution control board, said: “Accidents can be minimized by putting in place stringent engineering and administrative control systems.” He also emphasized that in the future, annual safety audits must be carried out by the workers at the industry with local residents’ involvement. “Self-audit should be done away with,” said the expert in safe industrial practices, speaking of the situation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-sop-must-while-reopening-industries-in-t/articleshow/75905192.cms||Uttara Varma
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s ‘plug and play’ plan for US businessmen||LUCKNOW: In order to attract the US industries shifting their base from China, the UP government on Friday offered a 'plug and play' facility in the MSME sector, promising them a hassle-free business environment. A webinar between the state government and representatives of the US companies under the banner of the US, India Business Council and the Indo-US Chamber of Commerce was organised here on Friday. During the webinar proactive MSME and foreign investment minister Sidharth Nath Singh, principal secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal and economic advisor to the UP government KV Raju aggressively marketed the state’s potential to the US companies. Industrial development commissioner (IDC) Alok Tandon also attended the webinar. The MSME minister said that when he told the US representatives that a pharma park would be set up in Lucknow for their convenience, they said that the US pharma industry is exploring possibilities of setting up main ancillaries of major pharma companies in UP. “With its skilled manpower and perfect infrastructure, the state is ready to offer a 'plug and play' policy to foreign industries. Under the 'plug and play' policy, industrialists can start their units without wasting time in seeking permissions and completing formalities,” he added. Meanwhile, the industrial development commissioner gave a presentation on 'why UP would be the best destination for foreign industrialists'. US pharma giants Pfizer, GSK and Baxter Medtronic and defence companies Lockheed Martin and BAE Systems participated in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-plug-and-play-plan-for-us-bizmen/articleshow/75906157.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 23, 2020||Mysuru||Seating arrangement throws social distancing for a toss||Mysuru: The first train to operate in Karnataka after lockdown checked into Mysuru from Bengaluru at 12.10pm on Friday. But it hardly had passengers — from the Mysuru side, 59 passengers left to Bengaluru, while their number from the IT capital was just 63. This is the first inter-district train that was operated in Karnataka post-lockdown. The passengers were upset as the railway authorities, by issuing tickets to all three seats in the rows, did not ensure social distancing. During the timing of booking, the passengers were told that only two persons will be allowed in a seat for three. “But that was not the case on the train, which is like undoing the preventive measures taken up as part of the monthslong lockdown. The efforts will go waste if they continue with this kind of seating arrangement,” passengers rued. Saying that the timing of trains at both the ends is not ideal, the passengers requested the authorities to change it. K Srinivasan, who heads a private firm in Mysuru, was upset with the seating arrangements. Like him, many passengers were upset over sharing the seat with the third one, fearing a possible virus spread. Tulsi, an engineering student who was travelling to Benglauru from Mysuru railway station, said she was happy to see the resumption of the train service after nearly two months. “But the railway authorities must focus on the safety of passengers by ensuring social distancing,” she added. Priya Shetty, divisional commercial manager and PRO, said the train from Bengaluru reached Mysuru at 12.10pm with 63 passengers onboard. Fifty-nine passengers, who had registered online, left for Bengaluru from Mysuru. “Depending on the patronage, the number of trains on this line may be increased after June 1. Those wanting to travel in this train should either register online or book a seat at the reservation office at the Mysuru station. Ticket bookings should be done four hours before the journey (9am),” Priya said. The train service to Bengaluru is available on all days of the week barring Sunday. From Monday onwards, refunds will be made at reservation counters. ——— 1.2k migrants from Bihar sent on train Mysuru: The Mysuru division railway authorities on Thursday sent migrant workers from Bihar in a 20-coach train to their hometown. The train left Ashokapuram railway station carrying the migrants to Purnea and other places in Bihar. The authorities arranged the train in response to a request by the railway board at 3pm. Priya Shetty, divisional commercial manager (Mysuru division), said: “We got a notification from the state government, and managed to make necessary arrangements in a short notice. Around 1,200 migrant workers left to Bihar.” Early this week, two Shramik Special trains were run from the Ashokapuram station to Uttar Pradesh, ferrying over 3,000 workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/seating-arrangement-throws-social-distancing-for-a-toss/articleshow/75902023.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Furnish details of transporting produce: HC to Telangana, Centre||HYDERABAD: The high court on Friday sought a reply from the state and Centre regarding the strategy to transport perishable produce from Telangana to other states. The HC bench, comprising Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, was hearing a petition filed by veterinary doctor K Narayana Reddy, which said that the state and central government need to work in tandem with the needs of the farmers. In his PIL, Narayana said that the uncomsumed fruits and vegetables were not being transported due to the nationwide lockdown. Stating that the restrictions had considerably reduced, the court said that the produce can be moved now, before they perish. The court said although welfare schemes were being adequately implemented through Rythu Bandhu in the state, concerted efforts have to be made before the farmers incur losses. “What is the use of the schemes if you do not rescue the farmers now,” the bench asked state advocate general BS Prasad. “The agricultural market yards must play an instrumental role in getting things done in an instantaneous manner, the bench said. Otherwise, there is a danger of huge number of farmers falling in distress in the next six months,” the bench added. While filing a counter affidavit, Prasad assured the court that the state, which is known as being farmer-friendly, will move quickly in the matter. He said that the state has also taken initiatives for setting up cold storage units. The bench reminded the state counsel that only 4-5% of the 5.03 lakh metric tonnes of sweet oranges grown in Telangana is being consumed within the state. The remaining crop has to be sold Delhi, Punjab and Kolkata. A report was sought by June 4 from the state and Centre on the efforts to aid the seasonal fruit growers. The matter was further posted to June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/furnish-details-of-transporting-produce-hc-to-state-centre/articleshow/75905199.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 23, 2020||Pune||Public transport to Lohegaon facility after order comes||Pune: The district administration said public transport to the airport would be reinstated with immediate effect if the flight operations from the city resumed on May 25 but till Friday evening it did not receive any communication from the Centre regarding it.Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI, “We are yet to receive any communication from the ministry of civil aviation or home affairs. Pune is a red zone. So, public transport options like buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited, cabs of Ola and Uber, and autorickshaws are not being allowed to ply. If and when we receive the order about the resumption of flight services, we shall immediately reinstate the services.” Pune police commissioner K Venketesham and joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisave said, “We shall work out a system regarding allowing passengers leaving early for the airport or coming home late from there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/public-transport-to-lohegaon-facility-after-order-comes/articleshow/75906208.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai’s poor hit hardest by Covid, show micro clusters||CHENNAI: More than three of five people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state aren’t part of any cluster. The directorate of public health has clubbed more than 9,000 people into the group of “non-Tablighi and contacts” – most of them living in low socio-economic conditions in Chennai and neighbouring districts. On Thursday, there were 1,370 people in the Tablighi cluster, one of the first noticed in late March. Since April 24, when the Koyambedu cluster was noticed, officials have tracked down 1,097 primary cases and 1, 957 close contacts testing positive. Since the second week of May, 547 natives who returned to various districts from other states were added to Covid-19 registry. Outside these groups, 8,989 are grouped as “non-Tablighi and contacts”. Directorate of public health officials say the group includes a few hundred people who returned from other states or countries and their contacts, frontline workers such as doctors, nurses, conservancy staff and their families, and people from community. “Many of these people haven’t stepped out of their houses much. Yet, they were infected because they live inside a containment zone that is crowded. Nearly 80% of this group is in Chennai,” an official said. “We named it ‘non-Tablighi’ only because we did know how to name it.” “Call it by whatever name you want, but let’s admit there is a community spread,” said Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, member of the National Task Force-constituted research committee on (Covid-19) epidemiology and surveillance and chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE). “It’s there everywhere across Chennai City. And it is no one’s fault. The virus is lapping its guts out.” “There is no point in going after the virus. You can’t stop the flood with a teaspoon. Lockdowns aren’t helping. So, the best thing to do is to isolate vulnerable population, ease the lockdown and ask people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms until vaccines arrive,” he said. A majority of TN districts have flattened the curve, while Chennai remains in the red zone, with most cases still in micro clusters. “There is challenge in containing them because of living conditions. They share common toilets, water pipes and live in less than 250 sqft houses,” said Greater Chennai Corporation nodal officer J Radhakrishnan. NIE scientists recommend testing 100 per lakh population and high risk contacts of positive patients. NIE deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur says containment is a challenge but if efforts are intensified it can be achieved as experts know where to find cases. “In the Delhi congregation cluster we knew the source of infection. So everyone who went to the conference were tested and treated. Koyambedu market, on the other hand was a geographical cluster. People who worked and visited the area took it to a larger group. What we see outside these two clusters in the city are also still in micro clusters. The number of isolated cases we see is minimum.” Infectious diseases expert say cases may rise when lockdowns are relaxed. “That’s inevitable. We can’t keep people indoors for long but a few things we must adhere to now is prevent crowding and ensure social distancing. So, no malls, schools/colleges, gyms, resorts or pubs for a few more days,” said Dr V Ramasubramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-poor-hit-hardest-by-covid-show-micro-clusters/articleshow/75905156.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||Pune adds latest 1,000 Covid-19 cases in just six days||PUNE: The Pune municipal areas added the latest 1,000 Covid-19 cases in just six days, the least so far, taking the total patient tally above 4,000. It took over 45 days for the first 1,000 cases to emerge in the PMC limits, while the second 1,000 cases were added in 11 days and the third 1,000 in just nine days. Data from the PMC’s health department shows that positive cases have been on the rise in the municipal limits since the last three weeks, which has mostly been attributed to increased sample collection of suspected patients. Health officials said the rise was also due to rigorous surveillance and contact tracing. PMC data shows that the daily case burden was around 100 at the beginning of the month and it surged beyond 150 in the last few days. On May 21, positive cases in the municipal limits reached 4,154, with highest single-day addition of 222 cases. In the last one week, the daily case load was more than 200 on two days, while it was above 150 on other two days. The daily average of new positive cases during the last six days has been around 174. “The focus of the administration was more on tracing high- and low-risk contacts and getting them tested. The first contacts of positive cases are crucial to decide the line of action. Our teams are doing it rigorously for the last few days. We have also told them to pay attention to the citizens aged above 60 with co-morbidities like diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney-related ailments and respiratory problems,” a civic official said. The PMC has introduced over 10 mobile medical vans to collect swab samples of the residents of the containment areas. The teams attached to the vans are also checking body temperature and blood oxygen of vulnerable groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-adds-latest-1k-covid-19-cases-in-just-six-days/articleshow/75906214.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Pvt buses allowed to ply in state; ticket fares allowed to be hiked by 15%||Raichur: In a decision that will ease the life of many residents, apart from reducing the burden on the state-owned transport agency, the Karnataka government agreed to allow private bus operators to ply, and acceded to their demand to hike fares on their vehicles by 15%. Private buses fill a huge mobility gap in several districts, more so in Dakshina Kannada, where hundreds of people travel by them on a daily basis. The government had prohibited private buses from plying following the enforcement of the lockdown. However, the buses will have to ensure that passengers are seated at a safe distance from each other to prevent transmission of Covid-19. Karnataka transport minister Laxman Savadi, also the deputy chief minister, in Raichur on Friday to take stock of the district’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, announced that the government would permit operations by private bus operators. “They wanted the government to allow a revision in fares by 50% so as to recover their losses. But the government has agreed to allow a 15% hike,” Savadi said. In addition to ensuring social distancing among passengers, Savadi said that operators would have to ensure availability of sanitisers, in addition to mandating masks for those travelling by their vehicles. “Drivers and conductors must compulsorily wear masks. Operators are likely to restart operations in Karnataka in a day or two,” said the deputy CM, adding that the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation had been incurring losses owing to the excessive operational burden. “KSRTC buses have so far helped bring back 18,000 people back to Karnataka,” said Savadi, admitting to the state government being aware of the effect that returning residents from Maharashtra and Gujarat had had on the Covid-19 tally in the state. However, the deputy CM said that the state government would assist those stuck in the three Covid-19 districts in Maharashtra to return home soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-buses-allowed-to-ply-in-state-ticket-fares-allowed-to-be-hiked-by-15/articleshow/75902119.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bookings resume but confusion continues among travellers||Ahmedabad: In a major step towards returning normalcy after the two-month lockdown, commercial flight operations will finally resume from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport in Ahmedabad from Monday onwards. Airline sources confirmed that flights will operate according to the summer schedule; however, to begin with, only one-third of the frequency will resume. As far as Ahmedabad is concerned, flight operations are expected to resume to destinations including Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chandigarh, among others.While some airlines have opened bookings, confusion among travellers as well as travel agents and tour operators continues to remain. “DGCA has specified norms for bookings. However, while booking tickets for some of the airlines, the baggage norms are in accordance with the former system. So travellers are reluctant to make bookings,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Tour Operators And Travel Agents’ Association of Gujarat (TAG).Travellers are also apprehensive of booking tickets because many of them have not received refunds for their past bookings and merely credit notes for future bookings. “Only two airlines have provided flexible payment options so far, and thus bookings resumed only late on Friday,” said Pathak.Most of the bookings are either for urgent business travel or else by those who are stranded. Tour operators also confirmed that there is good traction in movement towards Kolkata and Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bookings-resume-but-confusion-continues-among-travellers/articleshow/75904048.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||Onus of check on house helps on societies’ mgmt||Pune: The residents of Windsor Avenue Housing Society at Wanowrie have started letting house helps, car cleaners and gardeners into the premises after the Pune municipal commissioner issued an order allowing the move. Every service provider must go through a thermal scan before starting their job, domestic helps have even undergone medical checks. The housing society is in a non-containment zone but the challenge is to ensure that none of the daily visitors are from a restricted area. “Doctors in our society are checking the workers. As many as 70 house helps, security guards and other staff have been certified by doctors. Plus, the employers have to give an undertaking to the committee that the person is from a non-containment zone,” shared Chandrashekar M, a society committee member. Gautam Idnani, secretary of Koregaon Park Mohalla Sudhar Samiti, said they still do not allow any maids to enter his housing society based on notice by the local police. “Exceptions, such as care givers, undergo a temperature, wash their hands at the gate, ensure they wear masks and verify that they do not live in a containment zone,” said Idnani. Chairperson of Pune District Cooperative Housing Federation Suhas Patwardhan told TOI all its members must follow guidelines issued by the state and district officials. “Society members should take every precaution. Whether it is housemaids, drivers, electricians, carpenter or any one else, they should be allowed into the premises with utmost precaution. Committee members should ensure the checks and note down details at the entrance itself,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onus-of-check-on-house-helps-on-societies-mgmt/articleshow/75906255.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Women to offer namaz with ‘close’ male family members||AYODHYA: With the pandemic-triggered lockdown barring congregational namaz in mosques, this Eid-ul Fitr will fall back on a unique Islamic tradition in which women in the family will participate in Eid prayers along with male members at their homes. Many families have decided to arrange a joint jamaat of men and women, comprising ‘mehram’ members to offer Eid prayers. According to Islamic jurisprudence, ‘mehram’ is one with whom marriage is forbidden and includes sons, daughters, parents and in-laws. Talking to TOI, Fazlurrahman, scholar and teacher by profession, said, “due to the lockdown, the centuries-old tradition of gathering at Eidgahs has been broken. But, this has given us a unique opportunity to offer prayers with women family members. During prophet’s time, women would offer prayers in mosques, but this was later discontinued.” Echoing the idea, Sayyad Tahir Ali, an advocate, said, “we should consider this as an opportunity to re-establish an Islamic tradition. However, jamaats for namaz will comprise mehram (close family members) only as laid down by Shariat. “If any non-Mehram member wishes to offer prayers, she has to observe purdah in the jamaat,” said Qari Irfan Ahmad, a cleric and Mufti of Faizabad. “We have chosen a room in our house where Eid namaaz will be offered. As we are a joint family, every member will offer Eid namaz separately with their mehrams,” said Yusuf Khan, a businessman and resident of Ayodhya. “It will be a new practice, this Eid, but under Shariat guidelines, we will pray with our family for our country and for all humanity,” said Rabiya Khan, a housewife and resident of Faizabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/women-to-offer-namaz-with-close-male-family-members/articleshow/75906236.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Four guest workers from Aavin test positive for Covid-19||CHENNAI: Four guest workers from Odisha and West Bengal, who were engaged as loaders at the Aavin dairy in Madhavaram, have tested positive for Covid-19. They were shifted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Friday. They were among a group of 38 workers from Odisha, West Bengal and Bihar who decided to stay back and work instead of returning home after they were promised jobs in the dairy. “The remaining workers were asked to continue to stay at Aavin’s old office and not to work. We have alerted the Aavin officials not to engage them,” said a Greater Chennai Corporation official. But general manager of Aavin, Madhavaram, R S Pugalendhi said no worker had tested positive for the infection. “Some vested interests are spreading rumours. No such guest worker is staying on our campus or have tested positive for Covid-19,” he said. When TOI spoke to Kaluswain, one of the workers engaged in the dairy, he said: “All of us were staying together for the past two weeks. Though the old building has sufficient space to maintain physical distance, we were sharing a single bathroom. A few of the workers developed fever three or four days ago. Today, four of them tested positive but nobody has screened the rest of us.” The 32 year-old labourer from Ganjam district of Odisha said he has breathing difficulty and mild cough, while another worker has similar symptoms. Before taking up the job at the dairy, Kaluswain was staying with 350-odd workers from Odisha and Bihar in Guru Nanak College, one of shelters for guest workers in the city. After contractors from Aavin approached them, promising a job with a monthly salary of Rs 12,000 along with PF benefits, free food and accommodation, 27 of them agreed to work. They were engaged in the work on the same day and were put in the night shift to load Aavin milk packets and other dairy products on the vehicles. After three days, six of them left. The others continued to work along with 16 workers from West Bengal. They were housed in the old office building in Madhavaram. “We have been working till Tuesday,” Kaluswain said adding that all the workers now want to return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/4-guest-workers-from-aavin-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/75905198.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 23, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra advised to be ready with more oxygen supply beds||PUNE: More beds with oxygen supply will be needed as Covid-19 cases are expected to rise in the coming months, especially in Mumbai and Pune, health experts have said. Efforts are on in both cities to ensure that hospital beds are equipped with an oxygen supply system. The state government has already directed reservation of 80% beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. At present, there are 8,000-9,000 such beds in the state at various hospitals. Epidemiologist and technical advisor to the state government Subhash Salunkhe said Covid-19 cases will rise in the next two, three months and beds with oxygen supply would be needed. “We can’t run around in the last minute looking for oxygen beds. Efforts are being taken by both the Pune Municipal Corporation and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. But care should be taken that the beds with oxygen supply system are ready,” he added. The new directive of 80% beds in private hospitals will open up more beds in both these cities, chief executive of Mahatma Jotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana Sudhakar Shinde said. He told TOI that over 2,000 beds in Mumbai and over 1,000 beds in Pune will be made available. “These are critical care beds and will be a huge respite,”he added. According to the state report from the public health department, there are 1,863 beds in the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, 1,751 isolation beds at health centres and 6,067 beds at the care centres. Ventilators are in short supply, director of health services Satish Pawar said. Patients requiring ventilator support are 1 to 1.5% of Covid-19 patients in the state, but those requiring oxygen support are more than 20% . “Hence, we are focussing on oxygen supply for all beds and are using jumbo cylinders. We have got industries and the Centre to help with supply of oxygen for all the hospitals in the state, especially for Pune and Mumbai,” he added. In Pune, there is 13.8% utilisation of ICU beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and 5.5% utilisation of hospital ICU beds in Covid-19 health centres. Pune has the maximum utilisation of ventilators in the state in the dedicated hospitals. “We are hoping to get more beds with reservation of more beds in private hospitals,’’ Pune district health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/need-for-beds-with-oxygen-supply-to-grow-in-next-two-months/articleshow/75906261.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana SHRC pulls up state over Bollarum blast||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Human rights Commission took suo motu cognisance of a report published by TOI on Friday about a reactor blast in chemical unit in IDA Bollarum. Three persons were earlier found injured on Thursday, but on Friday morning a body was found amidst the rubble by cops at the blast site at the PNM Lifesciences. The commission called for report from the member secretary, Telangana state pollution control board and the labour commissioner, Telangana, by June 24. It asked for an enquiry report about the incident, action taken by authorities and also with regard to the injured labourers’ condition, treatment being given to them and any financial assistance provided to them Startup owner found dead in factory rubbleA day after a reactor went off at a chemical factory in IDA Bollaram, owner of a startup company Mohammed Abdul Sattar was found dead under the rubble on Friday. Family members demanded a thorough investigation and blamed the company for the death of Sattar, who was a postdoctoral fellow from University of Texas, US. Police filed a case under section 304(A) of the IPC against the company and launched an investigation. Prashanth, inspector, IDA Bollarum, said the body of Sattar was found in the early hours of Friday (around 2 am) when cops were searching the rubble. “He was found under a slab of the shed where the reactor blast occuredt,” he said. He said three persons were injured and shifted to a hospital. Relatives said Sattar had gone to the PNM unit on some work. Cousin Sheik Faiz Ahmed denied reports that Sattar was working for PNM Lifesciences. “He had gone there as part of his startup work. After work, h told his family that he was going to break his Ramzan fast. But we lost him,” Faiz told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/startup-owner-found-dead-in-factory-rubble/articleshow/75905209.cms||Uttara Varma
May 23, 2020||Varanasi||Two dead, eight hurt as vehicle carrying migrants from Gujarat turns turtle in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: Two migrant labourers died on the spot while eight others sustained injuries in varying degrees after a mini-container turned turtle on the Delhi-Badaun highway near Raniwala in Bulandshahr district on Friday. According to the local administration, the vehicle was ferrying migrant labourers from Gujarat to their native place in Bijnor district. The deceased were identified as Nizamuddin, 30, and Intezaar, 18, both residents of Kamruddinnagar under Bijnor's Raipur police station. “There were at least 20 people in the vehicle. All belonged to the same place in Bijnor and were related. The injured were rushed to a local hospital where condition of five of them remains critical,” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar said. All on-board used to work at a local bakery in Surat and had started from there on May 18. On their way to Bijnor, their vehicle broke down in Madhya Pradesh, from where another vehicle was arranged by the bakery firm. They had entered UP from Agra and had reached Bulandshahr on Friday when they met with the accident,” an official said. According to sources, the vehicle lost control while trying to save an animal on road and skidded extreme left to hit pole. “The stretch was almost deserted. The vehicle turned turtle after it took a sharp left and hit a pole,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-dead-8-hurt-as-vehicle-carrying-migrants-from-guj-turns-turtle-in-bshahr/articleshow/75917486.cms||Piyush Rai
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Two dead, eight hurt as vehicle carrying migrants from Gujarat turns turtle in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: Two migrant labourers died on the spot while eight others sustained injuries in varying degrees after a mini-container turned turtle on the Delhi-Badaun highway near Raniwala in Bulandshahr district on Friday. According to the local administration, the vehicle was ferrying migrant labourers from Gujarat to their native place in Bijnor district. The deceased were identified as Nizamuddin, 30, and Intezaar, 18, both residents of Kamruddinnagar under Bijnor's Raipur police station. “There were at least 20 people in the vehicle. All belonged to the same place in Bijnor and were related. The injured were rushed to a local hospital where condition of five of them remains critical,” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar said. All on-board used to work at a local bakery in Surat and had started from there on May 18. On their way to Bijnor, their vehicle broke down in Madhya Pradesh, from where another vehicle was arranged by the bakery firm. They had entered UP from Agra and had reached Bulandshahr on Friday when they met with the accident,” an official said. According to sources, the vehicle lost control while trying to save an animal on road and skidded extreme left to hit pole. “The stretch was almost deserted. The vehicle turned turtle after it took a sharp left and hit a pole,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-dead-8-hurt-as-vehicle-carrying-migrants-from-guj-turns-turtle-in-bshahr/articleshow/75904098.cms||Piyush Rai
May 23, 2020||Pune||ATMs in sealed areas out of reach for cash refill vehicles||Pune: Cash management agencies tasked with refilling ATMs are finding it hard to reach kiosks in the city’s sealed micro clusters. ATMs in non-containment areas too are running dry, albeit because of increased withdrawals.Per PMC’s May 19 order, there are 65 micro-containment zones covering 3% of the city, including densely populated areas like Bhavani Peth, New Nana Peth, Kondhwa, other Peth areas and slum pockets. Banking and allied functions such as cash management and ATM maintenance companies come under essential services, but there have been instances of ATM cash-loading staff being sent back by police. With ATMs running dry in containment zones, people in need of cash are the worst-hit. TOI visited containment zones in Kondhwa, Bhavani Peth, Nana Peth, New Nana Peth and other Peth areas, and found most ATMs dry.“The difficulty faced by cash vans in containment areas is due to road blockades and, in some cases, restrictions on working hours of branches providing cash,” a senior manager with a public sector bank said. “Banks can approach the zonal deputy commissioners of police for help if they are facing problems in replenishing cash in ATMs. Each containment zones have one or two municipal officers in charge — banks can approach them too for help,” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atms-in-sealed-areas-out-of-reach-for-cash-refill-vehicles/articleshow/75906298.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘If more tests done, 70% would test +ve’||Ahmedabad: The issue of early discharge of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients without testing and reduced testing was fiercely debated in the Gujarat high court on Friday and the advocate general said that if everybody is tested, 70% of tested people would be found positive and it would create fear psychosis among citizens. The arguments took place between advocate general Kamal Trivedi and senior advocate Anshin Desai, whose client is objecting to the new discharge policy as well as reduced number of tests in Gujarat. While advocate Desai insisted on more tests and demanded that family members of Covid-19 patients must be tested, advocate Trivedi objected and said that if more testing is done, 70% of people tested in Ahmedabad would be found positive. And this will create fear psychosis among citizens. To this, advocate Desai raised a counter question on why the government should be bothered about it. He argued further, “The government needs to meet with this situation with better preparedness. We have been fighting for acquisition of hospitals. Maharashtra has acquired 80% of private hospital beds.” The lawyer cited examples of private hospitals, which refused to abide by government norms for epidemic and insisted that they must be acquired to deal with the worst possible situation that is likely to arise in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/if-more-tests-done-70-would-test-ve/articleshow/75904099.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB reopens Hasmathpet road||Secunderabad: A road connecting Hasmathpet road to Kalyan theatre road in Bowenpally, which was barricaded due to the coronavirus scare, was reopened by the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials on Friday morning. The residents of several residential colonies in that area, including Maruthi Nagar, Prithvi Enclave, Sai Baba Colony, Vittal Enclave and Seethrampur among others, told TOI that removal of barricades was a relief for them as they had to otherwise undergo a lot of hardships. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-reopens-hasmathpet-road/articleshow/75905217.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar urges Pune MPs to get funds from Centre||PUNE: Deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said elected representatives should be taken into confidence in fight against Covid-19, while urging MPs from Pune to put in efforts to bring more funds from the Centre. Pawar was in the city to review the Covid-19 preparedness. During the meeting, he assured adequate availability of funds from the state government and appealed to the Pune MPs, including Vandana Chavan, Girish Bapat, Supriya Sule and Shrirang Barne. Pawar said efforts were under way on various fronts to keep a check on the spread of the virus. But these efforts should progress in cooperation with the elected representatives, he said, while seeking suggestions from the MLAs and MPs present at the meeting. Chavan suggested more active updates through social media and also demanded timely updates on the various directives issued by the civic and other authorities. These updates should reach the elected representatives, she said. Bapat demanded more trains for ferrying migrant workers to their homes. He sought more funds for the Cantonment areas and put emphasis on strengthening rural hospitals. Sule, on her part, appreciated the efforts taken on transportation of migrants to their respective villages. MLA Sharad Ranpise wanted micro-level committees to tackle the local issues. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, district collector Naval Kishore Ram, municipal commissioners of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad Shekhar Gaikwad and Shrvana Hardikar also attended the meeting. Earlier in the day, Pawar visited the war room of Pune Smart City Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-pawar-urges-pune-mps-to-get-funds-from-centre/articleshow/75906289.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune records single-day highest 15 deaths and 358 cases||PUNE: Fifteen Covid-19 casualties and 358 fresh cases, both highest for the 24-hour period, were recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday. Of the total cases, the Pune municipal areas accounted for 317, which is the highest for the civic limits. With this, the patient and casualty counts in the region have increased to 5,167 and 257, respectively. Earlier, the highest coronavirus deaths were recorded on May 20, when 14 people succumbed to the contagion. Prior to that, 12 people had died on April 8 and the same number on May 8. As for the cases, 265 fresh cases were recorded in the PMR on Thursday and 228 on May 16. In between the two dates, the case has remained above 150 daily. Among Friday’s 358 cases, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 317 positive patients, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation nine and rural parts 32. The PMC for the first time reported over 300 fresh cases on a single day, taking the case count to 4,471. Officials from the PMC’s health department said over 1,735 swab samples were collected on Friday. About 189 patients were cured and discharged from various hospital and centres on Friday. Around 169 patients were in critical condition, of which 49 were on ventilator support. Among the 15 deaths, seven patients succumbed at Sassoon General Hospital. These included two men aged 62 and 70 from Parvati, a 72-year-old woman from Ganesh Peth, a 33-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 45-year-old woman from Ghorpadigaon, a 48-year-old man of Nana Peth and a 56-year-old man from Keshavnagar. Two patients, including a 40-year-old man from Nana Peth and a 70-year-old woman from the Gultekdi area, died at Naidu hospital. Five patients succumbed at private hospitals. These included a 69-year-old woman from the Camp area, an 80-year-old man from the Bundgarden area, a 90-year-old man the Yerawada area, a 93-year-old man from Bhavani Peth and a 57-year-old woman from the Yerawada area. One more person succumbed to the infection at a city hospital, whose details were awaited till going to the press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-records-single-day-highest-15-deaths-358-cases/articleshow/75906299.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 23, 2020||Pune||Pune Cantonment Board nod to private lab for mobile nCov test unit at Golibar Maidan||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has allowed a private laboratory to station its mobile unit at Golibar Maidan for collecting swab samples for Covid-19 tests against charges fixed by the state government. PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said, “The appointed agency or laboratory will carry out the sample tests in accordance with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. At the time of the enrolment, an individual has to submit or upload on the website a doctor’s prescription advising the swab sample test.” He added, “Laboratory staffers will verify the applications and reject the doubtful ones. The objective of the imitative is to make available such a facility for people unwilling to visit government hospitals or laboratories due to various reasons. We had received such requests from many people in our area. Considering all these aspects, the board approved the proposal at its general body meeting a few days ago.” People willing to get the tests done have to visit the private laboratory’s website for enrolment, make an online payment and generating a confirmation message, which they can show, along with their Aadhaar cards and doctors’ prescriptions, at the mobile unit at the time of sample collection. The results will shared online within 24 hours. The price for each test has been capped at Rs4,500 Chetan Rawal, director of the private laboratory, Bio Genics Labs, said, “In a private set-up, samples are usually collected from homes. However, many citizens are hesitant to call a lab technician wearing a protection suit for sample collection to avoid social stigma. At the mobile testing unit at Golibar Maidan, there will be minimum interaction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-nod-to-pvt-lab-for-mobile-ncov-test-unit-at-golibar-maidan/articleshow/75906310.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, inspector tests positive for coronavirus in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Days after Telangana witnessed the first death of a police constable due to novel coronavirus, a detective inspector (DI) of Rachakonda police commissionerate has tested positive for Covid-19. The inspector is the ninth cop to have tested positive in the state. After the inspector tested positive on Thursday, samples of 38 cops who were in contact with him were collected and they were placed under quarantine. Samples from all the primary contacts have also been sent to the lab. The DI, was showing symptoms of illness four days ago. “On May 19, he was down with fever and on Wednesday night, he developed body pains. His samples were collected at the local government hospital and sent for examination. On Thursday night, he tested positve,” a Rachakonda police official said. According to police, it is difficult to find out from whom the inspector might have contracted the virus. “Since the beginning of the lockdown, he has been involved in various duties like tracking of Tablighi Jamaat congregation visitors, tracing their contacts, and performing duties at containment zones ,” said a police official.  “After lockdown was announced, the DI has sent his family to their parents’ house as he was performing duties near containment areas in Balapur. He was very careful. Never went to his flat in elevator. Always used stairs,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-inspector-tests-ve-for-coronavirus/articleshow/75905268.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 23, 2020||Pune||Private hosp discharges Covid-19 patient in five days, re-admits her within hours||Pune: A Covid-19 positive woman from Rakshewadi in Khed taluka, who was discharged on Thursday night by a private hospital in Pune just five days after she was admitted, was brought back to the medical facility after the district health officer and Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad got wind of the matter. Prasad has ordered an enquiry. The woman was sent home late on Thursday night in a private car by the hospital without informing the district health department. The private hospital officials said she was discharged as per the new policy guidelines issued on May 9. Her husband, who works in the same hospital, had tested positive first, and 11 of his contacts, including his wife and relatives, were tested later. His wife and three others had the coronavirus. She was admitted in the hospital where her husband works, and the three relatives were taken to Aundh Chest Hospital. According to Khed taluka sabhapati, Ankush Rakshe, the husband developed fever around May 15 and reported to the local doctor in Khed. When the fever did not subside, he was tested for the coronavirus locally and admitted to the hospital where he worked. Rakshe said, “On Thursday, we got to know from relatives and villagers that the wife was coming back. The test was conducted only once before she was admitted which was positive. After that, they did not conduct any test before her discharge, and have not followed any protocol of admission to a hospital as even the changed policy does not permit discharge in five days. We were shocked to know that the woman came in a private car to a non-containment zone.” When the woman reached her house, Rakshe and his team, who had kept watch, raised the issue with the district health officer and Prasad. Prasad, in coordination with the health officials, enquired into the matter and soon the hospital authorities sent an ambulance to pick up the woman for readmission at 3am, Rakshe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/private-hosp-discharges-covid-19-patient-in-five-days-re-admits-her-within-hours/articleshow/75906303.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||MLA’s letter to HC spurs discussion on Civil Hospital||Ahmedabad: What led the Gujarat high court to lambaste the authorities for their handling of Covid-19 at Hospital was the mention by a lawyer about a letter by Congress MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh, written to Justice J B Pardiwala four days ago.On May 18, Shaikh wrote to the National Human Rights Commission as well as the HC judge, who took up the hearing of a suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and the lockdown. He complained that at the Covid-19 facility at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, patients are not treated for co-morbidities. He highlighted how senior doctors have been keeping distance from patients and left everything to junior doctors and paramedical staff. He claimed that the high number of fatalities of Covid-19 patients at the Civil Hospital indicate a deficiency in treatment.The MLA further said that patients’ kin are not appraised about their treatment and condition. In some cases of death, the kin were not even informed. The families are forced to launch a search operation to trace a patient at Civil, and in one case a patient was found dead on a street after being admitted to the Covid-19 ward. “Residents of the city are afraid of going to Civil Hospital for Covid-19 treatment. Patients are not treated according to medical protocol,” the letter reads.During proceeding on the suo motu PIL, advocate Anand Yagnik mentioned Shaikh’s letter and submitted, “There is a feeling among people that SVP Hospital is for Hindus and Civil Hospital is for Muslims. There are two divisions, and that Muslim patients die more in Civil Hospital, though there are Hindu patients admitted here. Persons from all communities are admitted here, but there is a perception that all Muslim patients are admitted to Civil Hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mlas-letter-to-hc-spurs-discussion-on-civil-hospital/articleshow/75904113.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chennai||17 Stanley Hospital doctors test positive in Chennai||CHENNAI: Seventeen doctors from Stanley Medical College and Hospital are suspected to have tested positive for Covid-19, multiple sources from the hospital told TOI. A state government official, however, said the information was “false”. The hospital, with 400 beds in the Covid-19 ward, has been overflowing with patients. Congested corridors and lack of isolated entry/exit points aggravated the condition. A testing centre was set up in the hospital exposing more people to the virus. Public interest litigations (PILs) were filed in the Madras high court about low quality personal protective equipment (PPEs) provided to doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and workers. “Some of the doctors who tested positive on Friday, were professors who didn’t deal with Covid-19 patients directly and participated only in administrative meetings,” said a doctor from the hospital, requesting anonymity. While some of the doctors were quarantined, others were told to go on medical leave, the doctor said. Hospital authorities said the samples were sent for testing and results were expected on Saturday. G R Ravindranath from the Doctors Association for Social Equality (DASE), which is party to the HC case, said the government has stopped releasing list of doctors and healthcare workers testing positive in the daily bulletins as similar cases were being reported in other government hospitals. There was no transparency on the precautionary steps taken to protect doctors and healthcare workers, he said. Quality PPEs were not provided to healthcare staff, including those who collect samples at testing centres, Ravindranath said. K Senthil, president of Tamil Nadu Medical Council, said instead of deploying doctors at Covid care centres, where institutional isolation was provided, AYUSH practitioners, non-medical staff and paramedical staff could be deployed since ICMR guidelines allow attenders to take care of patients who are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/17-stanley-hospital-doctors-test-positive/articleshow/75905204.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||UP govt doing petty politics, says Sachin Pilot||Jaipur: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday accused the UP government of doing petty politics over the issue of buses for migrants, while transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas demanded that Yogi Adityanath be booked for allegedly defying the Centre’s orders on plying of vehicles. Khachariyawas said the UP chief minister first gave clearance for entry of buses but later created “hurdles” by saying that permits of buses were not valid. The fitness of the buses was also questioned by the UP government. He said the UP chief minister should be booked for allegedly defying the Union home ministry order which had said that documents such as licence, permit and fitness of vehicles will not be checked till June 30. Speaking to reporters here, Pilot also slammed the Centre for not making any concrete nationwide policy for transportation of migrant workers. “Taking help doesn’t diminish someone’s stature. UP government did politics and blamed Congress. We condemn it. Congress had made arrangement of buses for the migrant workers when there was no help from the Centre,” Pilot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/up-govt-doing-petty-politics-says-sachin-pilot/articleshow/75906311.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two walk to highlight migrants’ woes||HYDERABAD: Two volunteers decided to raise awareness about the conditions of migrant workers by walking barefoot. Romila Gillella and Abhijit Biswas walked from their home in Ashoknagar, Himayathnagar to Venkatadri, Pocharam, to distribute ration to a group of migrants. They covered close to 20 km barefoot to empathise with the pain of the migrant labourers walking hundreds of kilometres at a stretch without food, water or rest. Speaking to TOI, Gillella said: “Many of our migrant labourers have walked miles and miles to reach home with limited food and water. Some of them passed away and some of them reached after miles of a difficult journey.” Seconding this thought, Biswas said: “Change begins with empathy. Today’s act was to feel a part of the pain and sorrow that migrants go through.” On reaching Venkatadri, they connected migrants with a local person to provide ration which they would fund. “We will also help them register with the police so they can get back home to Chhattisgarh,” said Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-walk-to-highlight-migrants-woes/articleshow/75906305.cms||Uttara Varma
May 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Brick kiln workers not keen to return home||Bhubaneswar: Migrants from western Odisha who work in brick kilns of southern India feel that they need not hurry to return home since they are safe, working and earning. Labourers from Balangir, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Sonepur, parts of Bargarh and Boudh districts migrate to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in November every year and return in June. With the Covid-19 outbreak, labourers working in other industries faced difficulties due to closure of the units located within towns or cities but not the brick kilns. Researchers working on migration trends said the brick makers work away from the hustle and bustle of the cities making the environment safe. Besides, they have to work in proportion with the advance they have received. Out of 180, 000 brick makers, around 10,000 have returned so far while the number of returnees working in other sectors is more than 50,000. Bhakta Hans, a native of Ranimunda in Nuapada district is now working in a brick kiln in Telangana’s Rangareddy district along with his family. “I have registered with the Odisha government portal to return but I am in no hurry. I will complete my work as I have received the payment in advance. Second, here we are staying at an isolated place and don’t have any fear of the disease. We fear we might contract the disease while travelling in train with others. We have urged our brick kiln owner to provide us a bus so that we (limited people) can travel home in that,” Bhakta told TOI. Saroj Barik of Aide et Action, who has been observing the migration trend of the brick makers for a decade now said the brick making labourers will delay their return as they want to complete their work. Jagannath Bag of Tikrapada in Balangir’s Titlagarh block working in a brick kiln in Andhra Pradesh said they are working day and night to complete the assigned work as they have already received the advance amount. “Let the rush at railway stations ease. We will then plan our return. As such, we will have to spend close to one month in quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/brick-kiln-workers-not-keen-to-return-home/articleshow/75904106.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||450 complaints from seniors addressed||Pune: From providing food packets and medicines to resolving domestic issues, the senior citizen cell of the city police has addressed 450 grievances of the elderly over the last one-and-a-half month. A bulk of calls pertained to non-availability of food, while a few callers also raised concern over domestic issues. The police, with the help of social organisations, provided food to these senior citizens. Inspector Vaishali Chandgude, in-charge, senior citizen cell, told TOI that since the announcement of lockdown, the cell has made calls to as many as 11,000 senior citizens in the city. "We spoke to them and asked about their well-being. We also gave them tips about how to remain safe during the pandemic," Chandgude said. Since the last one-and-a-half month, the senior citizen cell has received about 473 calls. Most of these calls pertained to non-availability of food due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/450-complaints-from-seniors-addressed/articleshow/75906301.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 23, 2020||Bareilly||Elderly couple robbed of cash, valuables worth Rs 3 lakh||Bareilly: An elderly couple was robbed on gunpoint in the Izzatnagar area of Bareilly district late on Thursday. According to the family, a group of three armed robbers barged into the house through the roof and took away cash and valuables worth Rs 3 lakhs. Police have registered an FIR and are looking for the accused. This is the first such incident reported in Bareilly district since the beginning of the lockdown.Superintendent of police (crime) RK Bhartiya suspects involvement of a local gang. Retired revenue inspector Vijay Saxena (62) shifted to his new house in Izzatnagar after retiring in 2018, where he lives with his wife. On Thursday midnight, three men barged into his house and looted nearly Rs 34,000 cash, along with jewellery and other valuables. The accused escaped after locking the couple in the house. Later, police were informed and an FIR was registered under IPC section 394 (injuring someone while committing robbery).“We are trying to check CCTV footages of nearby houses. It is possible that the accused belong to a nearby village and were keeping an eye on the family. A crime branch team is working with the local police on the case and a breakthrough is likely within 72 hours,” Bhartiya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/elderly-couple-robbed-of-cash-valuables-worth-rs-3-lakh/articleshow/75904111.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 23, 2020||Pune||Citizens’ role key to avert red zone status||Pimpri Chinchwad: Civic chief Shravan Hardikar on Friday said it was the citizens’ responsibility to keep the twin townships out of the red zone and urged them to adapt to the new norms of social distancing. “It won’t take much time to get back into the red zone. A minimum of two feet distance is necessary between two persons, as over 80% of the people are asymptomatic,” the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner said. On Thursday night, the civic body announced some lockdown relaxations. Hardikar said PMPML buses would ply outside the containment zones, but no passenger would be allowed to travelstanding. Mayor Usha Dhore said the citizens should be careful because “the Covid-19 is here to stay”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-role-key-to-avert-red-zone-status/articleshow/75906307.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cyber cheats steal 11 lakh from advocate||Ahmedabad: A 50-year-old advocate, Dhaval Nanavati, a resident of Galaxy Apartments in Bodakdev lodged a complaint at the cyber police station on Thursday, alleging that cyber cheat siphoned off a total of Rs 10,95,261 from his PayTM and bank accounts. According to the FIR, Nanavati whose office is at Elite Business Park near Kargil Petrol Pump, stated that his firm has an account in the Bodakdev branch of a private bank. He stated that on May 18, at 11.24am he received a text message on his mobile phone stating: “Dear customer please complete your PYT and MKCY documents, which expires today. Your service will be blocked within 24 hours. Call us at 8392098802, thank you”. Nanavati said that he did not call the number despite seeing the text message. “At 12.39am he got a call from the same number anf one Deepak Sharma was on the other end. He told him that his PayTM KYC was pending and he had called for online verification. The FIR states that Sharma told him to go to the PayTM passbook and fill in credit card details, which he did. Afer this, the first transaction of Rs 9,499 was done from his credit card. Later, without Nanavati’s knowledge, the cheats obtained his bank details and siphoned off money from there as well. On May 19, they contacted Nanavati on the pretext of giving him a refund, kept cheating him. Nanavati stated that he learned of these transactions on looking at his bank account records. The cheats had siphoned of Rs 84,490 from his credit card and Rs 10,10,771 from his bank account. “We are tracking the mobile number and bank account into which the money was transferred,” said deputy commissioner of police Rajdeepsinh Jhala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyber-cheats-steal-11-lakh-from-advocate/articleshow/75904164.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Scribe house demolished after MLA report||Hyderabad: Members of journalists’ union have furnished a representation to finance minister T Harish Rao and Sangareddy collector, seeking justice for a TV journalist who alleged that his house in Narayankhed was demolished after he reported violation of lockdown norms by a TRS MLA. On May 7, a grocery distribution event was organised at a function hall in Narayankhed on the occasion of local MLA M Bhupal Reddy’s birthday. Accoring the MLA, social distancing was maintained at the event and essentials like grocery, hand sanitisers and masks were distributed to around 500 people. However, a Telugu channel later aired videos of the crowd flouting the norms. Subsequently, local Congress leaders lodged a complaint against the MLA at Narayankhed police. Following this, Narayankhed municipal officials demolished the under construction house of the reporter S Parameshwar on Thursday. The municipal commissioner G Srinivas said that the construction was demolished as it was illegal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scribe-house-demolished-after-mla-report/articleshow/75905267.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Vadodara||Anand records two more cases, tally reaches 91||Vadodara/Anand: Anand, which was heading to become a Covid-free district, has gradually started recording more Covid-19 positive cases. On Friday, two more positive cases surfaced from Anand's Umreth town and Lalpura village of Anand taluka taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 91. A 62-year-old woman from Pipdiya Bhagol area of Umreth and a 60-year-old woman from Lalpura village of Anand taluka tested positive. Both the fresh cases have no travel history but suffer from co-morbidities. The woman from Umreth, who is a patient of hypertension and diabetes, is on ventilator while the one from Lalpura, who suffers from hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is receiving oxygen support. So far, samples of 1,484 individuals have been tested in the district and 1,393 came negative. While nine patients died, 76 patients were discharged even as five continue to be under treatment. Of the five patients, two are being treated at cardiac care centre, Khambhat and three at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Of them, four patients are receiving oxygen support and one has been put on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-records-two-more-cases-tally-reaches-91/articleshow/75901033.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Pune||Cantonment under 3-day lockdown again from Sunday||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board has decided to impose another three-day complete shutdown in its limits from Sunday. This gives residents, who just came out a three-day lockdown on Friday, a day’s respite to stock up on essentials and get important work done. PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said they would issue an order to this effect on Saturday. “On Thursday, we recorded 21 positive cases from Bhimpura, New Modikhana and Modikhana, which was the highest one-day rise so far,” Kumar said. Only medical shops will be allowed to operate, from 10am to 1pm and 5pm to 8pm, while milk booths and vegetable shops will be allowed to open from 7am to 10am. “With the help of police and volunteers, we have managed to supply essential items to citizens in severely affected areas,” Kumar added. “The strategy of three-day total shutdown and a day’s break seems to be working fairly well,” board member Atul Gaikwad said. “People stock up on vegetables and fruits for three days during the one-day relaxation. This also helps keeping crowds to a minimum,” he said. Meanwhile, the results of 10 employees, whose swab samples were collected on Wednesday, have come back negative, said Kumar. “We have closed all our sections till Monday as a precaution. Fewer than 10 employees out of 100 are currently working at our head office near Golibar Maidan.,” the CEO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cantonment-under-3-day-lockdown-again-from-sunday/articleshow/75906314.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Halls shut, roofs become kalyana mandapams||CHENNAI: M Sree Ganesh and T Sovia were to get married at the Kundrathur Murugan temple on May 9, but the lockdown was imposed. As a photographer, Ganesh had seen concerts and birthday parties held on the mottamaadi (terrace) of houses and apartments. Why not our wedding too, he asked his fiancé, who agreed. With the help of a marriage planner, Ganesh organised everything in five days and the marriage was held on the terrace of Sovia’s house at Aminjikarai on May 11. “Since we had no idea when the lockdown would end, we decided to live with corona and let nothing stop the event,” said Ganesh. Though the couple could have invited 50 people, they restricted the number to 20, considering the difficulty in maintaining social distancing at the house. “I first informed the nearest police station (Nolambur) that we are going to conduct the marriage on the terrace and they asked us to follow the precautions. We had only 20 people including the priest and percussionists. We are glad that it worked out well,” said the couple. Ganesh, however, gives credit to his marriage planner Divya Jennifer. “Ganesh was very particular about the flowers for decoration, and I had a tough time finding them with the lockdown. I somehow managed to get some using my local sources. This is the first marriage that I organised on a terrace,” said Divya, who will be organising another one at Medavakkam on June 7. Ashwin Subramaniam, who is going to tie the knot with Sandhya on the terrace of her independent house at Medavakkam, doesn’t want to compromise on customs. Since it is an Iyer-Iyengar marriage, we will follow all the traditional customs. I will be doing my ‘vratham’ (fasting) in the car porch while my fiancé will perform hers inside the hall. The ‘muhurtham’ will be held on the terrace itself,” said Ashwin, who works with an investment major. “We have planned the ceremonies over two days (June 6 and 7),” said Divya. “Food will be arranged in the house itself. We will provide masks and santizers on every floor of the house,” she said.  “A big marriage hall was booked, but we had to cancel with the lockdown. We are happy that marriages can be conducted even on the terrace,” said Ashwin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/halls-shut-roofs-become-kalyana-mandapams/articleshow/75905257.cms||M T Saju
May 23, 2020||Kochi||Over 84 lakh survival kits distributed in Kerala||ALAPPUZHA: The government has distributed Covid-19 survival kits to over 84 lakh ration-card holders in the state. Nearly 87 lakh kits have been prepared and distribution is expected to be completed by May 26. Over 22.1 lakh households of the nearly 24.8 lakh in the non-priority, non subsidy (NPNS) category received the kits. While 24.1 lakh of the 25.04 lakh non-priority subsidy (NPS) card holders collected their kits, in the priority households (PHH) category, beneficiaries added up to 31.2 lakh of a total of 31.5 lakh families. Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) card holders number 5.92 lakh, out of which 5.86 lakh collected their kits. Each kit contains: salt (1kg), sugar (1kg), green gram (1kg), Bengal gram bold (1kg), coconut oil (500ml), loose tea (250gm), atta (2kg), rava/broken wheat (1kg), chilli powder (100g), coriander powder (100g), toor dal (250g), turmeric powder (100g), fenugreek (100g), mustard (100g), soap (2 numbers), sunflower oil (1 litre), and washed blackgram (1kg).  “This initiative is an achievement in every sense. It was executed effectively due to the team work, hard work and dedication of the entire team of the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco). Though we faced shortage of several products, our team and officials put in a lot of effort to procure them in a time-bound manner. All steps were taken in a transparent and people-friendly way,” Supplyco general manager Krishna Teja said. ”Kerala is a consumer state. So 90%products of the kits were brought from other states. We have mainly depended on states like Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh. Apart from trucks, we have also brought goods through three trains,” said , Supplyco CMD Ali Asgar Pasha. The distribution of kits was started on April 1 and AAY card holders were the initial beneficiaries. “Supplyco organized 1,300 packing centres for this programme. Over 9,500 people and 15,000 volunteers worked very hard for the smooth execution of this initiative. All the kits were packed by employees and officials in a time-bound manner,” said Satheesh Babu, maketing manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-84l-survival-kits-distributed-in-state/articleshow/75902294.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Jaunpur witnesses surge with 43 new Covid-19 cases||LUCKNOW: After spike of Covid cases among migrants in Basti and Barabanki, Jaunpur recorded 43 of them on Friday. According to district authorities, all these persons had returned on May 15-16 and had been quarantined since then. “All the patients had been isolated in the Meerpur level-1 Covid hospital. All of them are migrants hailing from different areas of the district, including Mungra Badshahpur, Karanjankalan, Badlapur , Machlishaher, Shahganj among others,” DM Dinesh Singh told reporters, adding, “the total for the district reached 91 including two deaths and 10 discharges.” UP recorded 232 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the overall Covid tally to 5,763. Health officials said that 2259 were active right now. As many as 120 discharges were also recorded in different hospitals taking the total number of recovered patients to 3,324. The state also recorded 14 deaths in different districts, making it 152 so far. Although health officials claimed that the deaths were subject to verification by an audit, they recorded five deaths in Agra, two each in Jaunpur and Ayodhya and one each in Aligarh, Unnao and Maharajganj. Officials in different districts sai that the deaths took place on different dates. Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said, "Samples of 7,249 people were sent for testing on Thursday and 928 pools were also tested.” Admitting the problem of rising number of migrant covid cases, he said: “The state government has asked them to strictly follow home quarantine. The village and mohalla nigrani samitis are keeping an eye on them.” Health officials sai that surveillance work was under way. “We are emphasising on surveillance and over 3.49 crore people have been surveyed by 87,141 teams in Uttar Pradesh," he said adding that references from Aarogya Setu mobile are also be verified. Jaunpur was followed by Badaun, Ghazipur and Siddhartnagar with 17, 14 and 12 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jaunpur-witnesses-surge-with-43-new-covid-cases/articleshow/75906322.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Sloth bear beaten to death in Kamareddy||Hyderabad: A sloth bear was beaten to death by villagers after it strayed into Kannapur village in Kamareddy district on Friday morning. According to the forest officials, two persons Gidda Narasimhulu and Deme Balanarsu were injured as the bear tried to attack them after it entered the village. “While most of them ran to safety when they saw the bear, two people who could not run away were mauled by the bear. Before our staff could reach the location, the villagers chased the bear, attacked it with sticks and boulders. The bear succumbed to the injuries,” said J Vasantha, divisional forest official of Kamareddy district. Officials further informed that the two people who were injured by the bear were rushed to Kamareddy government hospital where they are undergoing treatment. A case was registered against 25 villagers who attacked the bear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sloth-bear-beaten-to-death-in-kamareddy/articleshow/75905272.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bareilly||Charge-sheet filed against Sonakshi Sinha, 4 others in cheating case in UP’s Moradabad||Moradabad: Over 455 days after filing a case, police in UP’s Moradabad on Friday filed a charge-sheet against actor Sonakshi Sinha and four others setting the stage for their trial in a court here. All of them have been booked for cheating. According to the allegations, Sinha did not attend an event in Delhi in spite of charging an advance of Rs 24 lakh in 2018. The complaint was filed by a city-based event organiser Pramod Sharma in February 2019 at Katghar police station of Moradabad.The charge-sheet was filed days after complainant Sharma tweeted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and senior police officers alleging delay in progress of the case.The investigating officer (IO) in the case, sub-inspector Bijender Singh said, “During the course of investigation, the allegations levelled by complainant Pramod Sharma were found true from our side. So, we have filed the charge-sheet against Sonakshi Sinha, Abhishek Sinha, Edgar Skarai, Bhoomil Dhakkar and Malika Punjabi under the IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust).”Giving the background of the case, the IO said, “Sonakshi had agreed to attend an event in Delhi in September 2018. For that complainant Sharma had given an advance and had also sent flight tickets to her, but she didn’t turn up. It caused a huge loss to the event organiser.”IO Singh said that during the course of inquiry, it was found that the money transaction indeed took place through net banking.“The complainant had also produced a copy of memorandum of understanding (MoU) that was signed by Sonakshi Sinha,” the IO said. Sinha had earlier released a statement and dismissed the allegations made against her.“An event organiser who couldn’t live up to his commitment obviously thinks he can make a fast buck by maligning my crystal clear image in the press. There is full cooperation with the authorities from my end for the investigation to be conducted,” the actress had tweeted.Sharma had alleged into his complaint, “The event was organised under the banner of ‘India’s Fashion and Beauty Award’ and was to be held on September 30, 2018, at Sri Fort Auditorium in New Delhi. Sonakshi Sinha had agreed to distribute the awards to makeup artists. And for this I had paid Rs 24 lakh. All the money was transferred to the accounts of her Mumbai-based associates, who run the Talent Fullon entertainment company.”“Sonakshi had also released a promotional video of the award show after accepting the payment. She had also signed an MoU for the event. On the day of the event, seven return air tickets from Mumbai to Delhi were booked -- two in business class and five in economy class. They then called me up to change the timing of the event which I denied. The function timing was fixed at 4pm and the tickets for the event were sold out,” claimed Sharma.In July, 2019, a police team from Moradabad also visited Sinha’s house in Mumbai in connection with the cheating case.In August 2019, Sinha reached Moradabad to record her statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/charge-sheet-filed-against-sonakshi-sinha-4-others-in-cheating-case-in-ups-moradabad/articleshow/75904171.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: RJ doxxed on Instagram, FIR filed||AHMEDABAD: Sanket Shah, 32, a resident of Kalindi Flats in Gulbai Tekra and the programming head of an FM radio channel lodged a complaint with the cyber police station stating that someone texted one of his radio jockeys (RJs)on WhatsApp, saying that if she did not speak to the person, they would put her her mobile number on Instagram. According to the FIR, Shah was present when this happened. The RJ forgot about the threat and moved on. After a while, the RJ started getting calls from unknown numbers and when she asked them how they got the number, they would tell her that they got it from an Instagram account ‘_ruchitapatel’. The FIR states that the Instagram account did not have the RJ’s name or photograph, just her mobile number. These calls stopped for some time. The unknown calls started streaming in again later, and the RJ learned that her number had been posted on another Instagram account, ‘Jiyapatel712’. The RJ had then submitted an application of complaint to the cyber police station. After the cops obtained the IP address of the person who created the Instagram IDs and posted the RJ’s number on them, Shah lodged an FIR. The RJ is pregnant and is unable to come to the cyber police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rj-doxxed-on-instagram-fir-filed/articleshow/75904185.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Corporation school students go online; 5,000 smartphones distributed||CHENNAI: Online classes for the 6,820 Greater Chennai Corporation school students who will appear for the Class X exams from June 15 are in full swing. Teachers were first trained to use the Zoom application and WhatsApp on their phones before they began teaching, said corporation deputy commissioner (education) Grace Pachuau. Corporation school teachers and students are slowly but surely getting used to lessons through ZoomThe civic body will also begin such classes for those just passed out of Class IX and on Thursday began distribution of 5,000 smart phones procured through NGOs and corporate funding. Many of those appearing for the exams next month were initially scared. While S Aamina of corporation higher secondary school, Kodungaiyur, who is being raised by relatives, managed to get a smartphone, a few others weren’t as lucky and still use the basic model phone. “They will be given smart phones soon,” said Grace Pachuau. “On the first day of class,” said Divya Priya, “there were internet connectivity issues and some difficulty in using the application. But slowly we got used to it.” Lokesh Kumar said it was a different experience. “We were all interactive and soon got the hang of it,” he said. R Vijayalakshmi, a mathematics teacher, said most students were from economically poor backgrounds. “We interacted with them and their families. We also helped many with groceries. The class strength was not 100% but it is slowly growing,” she said. Juliet Gnanathepam, headmistress of Chennai Higher Secondary School on Thiruvottiyur High Road, said many students could use phone only before 9am and after 6pm and classes were scheduled accordingly. “It is going really well as students excitedly share pictures of their homework, drawings, graphs and maps,” she said. Volunteers of Teach for India, an NGO, trained the teachers on the usage of Zoom app and also provided smartphones to students. Several other NGOs and corporate entities are tying up with corporation to help these students, said Grace. Assistant education officer, V Munian said they wanted their students to be on par with others in the state. “There will not be any misuse as it is all in the way we train them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-school-students-go-online-5k-smartphones-distributed/articleshow/75905275.cms||Komal Gautham
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana mulls treating mild patients at home as per ICMR norms||HYDERABAD: Making a major shift in the treatment protocol of Covid-19 patients, the medical and health department is now contemplating treating mild patients also after coming across instances of entire families getting infected with coronavirus. This move is considered as more than 60% of the cases in the state, especially in Greater Hyderabad limits, are from a few families. Authorities felt that since Hyderabad has about 200 families (till May 16,180 families in GHMC area have been infected) contributing more cases and individual cases being less, the state can risk treating the patients from among the Covid-19 infected families at their homes. There have been many cases where the entire family is getting infected, with some of them contributing to more than 10 positive cases. “In such cases, the severe and vulnerable patients can be taken to Covid-19 designated hospitals like Gandhi, while the rest of the cases can be given care in the home itslef. Since the infected family members are locked down in a containment zone anyways and their movement is restricted, the mild patients can be under the direct watch of health, police and GHMC authorities,” said sources. This is also because of the reason that Telangana has a very high rate of 62% recovery of Covid-19 patients, a source said. Even those who are under quarantine will be monitored on a daily basis. Sources said the decision is in tune with the ICMR’s recent guidelines wherein it said that mild patients can be treated at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-mulls-treating-mild-patients-at-home-as-per-icmr-norms/articleshow/75906327.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: WFH, closure of hotels have hit washermen hard||BENGALURU: The dhobi ghat in Srinagar is eerily silent for a weekday morning. A handful of washermen and a lone woman wait listlessly. While Sindhu Kumar Singh, 25, has about 20 pieces of clothes that need ironing, others sit near ironing stations, with nothing to do. Although the lockdown has been eased, around 10 lakh hobis in the state face an uncertain future and they feel it’ll be a long time before things get back to normal for them. This sector is broadly divided into three groups — workers at the dhobi ghats, those with pushcarts & small shop owners as well as dry cleaners. With not many guests in hotels, restaurants having only takeaways and few in-patients in hospitals, the sector has been badly hit. The government announced relief of Rs 5000 each for 60,000 washermen. “The scheme will cover less than 10% of our workers. What about the others?” asked M Narayan, secretary, Hindulida Dhobi Madiwala Sangha. He says people need monthly rations till business improves. Chelva Raju, who works in an 8ft x 8ft space, now offers door-to-door drycleaning and ironing. “With most people working from home, fewer clothes require dry cleaning. Safety is our priority. We know residents of houses from where we collect clothes. We don’t take clothes from those who have travelled recently,” he said. Some like Selvi and Dhanraj, who own a pushcart, are waiting to head home. “We’re from Vellalapatti in Madurai district and are saving money to go back. Working as daily wage labourers on farms is a better option,” Selvi said. Mazhar, who works with James Bond drycleaners which has five outlets in Bengaluru, said, “Most of our processes are automated. Nevertheless, we use sanitisers and gloves while collecting clothes and ensure thermal scanning of all employees at the factory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wfh-has-hit-washermen-hard/articleshow/75903533.cms||Manuja Veerappa
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Corporator, spouse flout mask and flexi rules; fined||HYDERABAD: Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao on Friday directed officials to penalise two AIMIM leaders for not wearing masks and flouting rules at a recent event. KTR, who was invited as the chief guest for the inauguration of basti dawakhana in Erragadda ward, noticed that Mohammed Shareef husband of AIMIM corporator Shaheen Begum was attending the event without a face mask and asked GHMC officials to initiate necessary action. Following this, GHMC officials imposed a penalty of Rs 1,000 on Mohammed Shareef. Shaheen was also penalised with Rs 20,000 for raising a flex about the inauguration of 45 basti dawakhanas that will be operational from today. Meanwhile, inspections by GHMC revealed that some people in the city are not taking the basic precautionary steps against coronavirus. Verification revealed that mandatory mask rule is not being implemented strictly in various parts of the city. Some people are also wearing masks on their chin. However, according to GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar there is no rule to penalise people for wearing mask on chin. “ If there is no one around you, removing mask for better oxygen supply is acceptable,” said Kumar. According to officials, around 250 people were penalised with Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks, in the last one week. “In Serilingampally zone alone, which covers the city’s IT corridor, we penalized 41 people for not wearing masks. All of them seemed to be educated individuals with awareness about the repercussions of flouting rules, ” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-spouse-flout-mask-flexi-rules-fined/articleshow/75905274.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 23, 2020||Meerut||As Covid-19 fans communal mistrust, vendors team up to keep business going in Muzaffarnagar||Muzaffarnagar: With the coronavirus outbreak leading to prejudices along religious lines in India, fruit and vegetable vendors in Muzaffarnagar — which saw deadly riots in 2013 — were finding it hard to do business without their identity being questioned. That’s when two of them — Sanjay Kumar and Mansoor Ahmed — came up with a solution. They pooled in money to buy the items and started visiting colonies together. “Now we have representation from both communities. I sell to Hindu households and Ahmed to Muslim homes. We divide the profits at the end of the day,” Kumar, 30, told TOI.While the duo may be making more money than earlier, they agree that the circumstances behind their joint enterprise are saddening. Kumar confesses that many times they have been asked to show their identity cards by customers who wanted to ascertain their identity before buying from them.Soon after the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi was identified as a Covid-19 cluster, Ahmed, 31, said he lost many of his long-term customers. “There were random allegations that members of my community were deliberately trying to spread the virus. It was very upsetting,” he said.Notably, on April 8, Meerut police had booked two people for circulating a video on WhatsApp that urged people to stop entry of vendors from minority community as they were “spreading coronavirus”.After teaming up, the duo is now earning a net profit of Rs 400 daily from increased sales. Talking about their partnership, Ahmed said, “We are just trying to make a living for us and our families. Kumar was an acquaintance but now he is a friend.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-covid-19-fans-communal-mistrust-vendors-team-up-to-keep-business-going-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/75904194.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Shots fired outside liquor vend, two held||Dehradun: Two persons, in their mid-thirties, have been arrested by police on charges of firing gun shots outside a liquor shop in Patel Nagar area of Dehradun. The accused have been identified as Subhash Negi, 34, and Rajendra Singh Rana, 35, both residents of Shyampur in Rishikesh. Police have recovered a 32-bore pistol and five live cartridges from their possession. Upon receiving information of the crime, a police team led by inspector Surya Bushan Negi reached the spot. After seeing the police team, the accused escaped in their SUV which was intercepted by cops near police lines. “On being interrogated about the firing incident, the two accused said that they mistakenly opened two round fires at Transport Nagar junction. They also seemed reluctant in showing the license of the pistol, following which a case was registered in the matter,” said inspector Surya Bhushan Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shots-fired-outside-liquor-vend-two-held/articleshow/75902292.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||N95 masks sold at higher rates from Amul outlets, alleges Cong||Ahmedabad: The state Congress on Friday alleged that the state government was charging higher prices for N95 masks being sold from Amul outlets. The Congress said the prices charged for these masks was higher than the price fixed by Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Limited (GMSCL). Producing a copy of a note of GMSCL dated March 30, where it fixed the maximum price of procurement of a single unit of N95 mask at Rs 49.61, Congress said people were being charged Rs 65 for an N95 mask at Amul parlours. A statement issued by the party said that at a time when people are bearing the brunt of the lockdown because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government is looking to earn profits from the sale of masks. Meanwhile, although the government announced a couple of days back that triple layered masks and N95 masks will be sold from Amul outlets, several people were left disappointed, as the masks were not made available at a majority of Amul outlets in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/n95-masks-sold-at-higher-rates-from-amul-outlets-alleges-cong/articleshow/75904200.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||VCET develops low-cost respiratory support system||Mangaluru: Technical institutes in this coastal district are upping their game to come up with local solutions to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Some of these solutions have come in the form of face shields, 3D printed splitters for ventilators, lab-developed sanitisers and decontamination chambers using low technology and refrigeration. Joining this trend is Vivekananda College of Engineering and Technology, Puttur, which has developed a low-cost respiratory support system. Envisioned by Radhakrishna Bhakta, correspondent of VCET, it was a collaborative effort between the departments of electronics and communication (E&C) engineering and mechanical engineering, and a team of doctors from City Hospital, Puttur, that saw this basic ventilator weighing 2 kg, take shape. Built from scratch, using materials available in the lab, the teaching staff and doctors worked on the concept, and came up with the machine in 10 days, said Bhakta. Shrikanth Rao, HoD of E&C engineering, said apart from ambu bag and locally procured acrylic material for fabrication, components available in the IoT lab were used. This respiratory support system is called Viveka Jeevavardhaka, and it takes care of the volume of oxygen that the patient needs, and the rate at which it must be pumped. “A person needs 6-10ml/kg of oxygen. This device controls the quantity and speed of oxygen supplied from the oxygen cylinder,” he said. The creators gave a demonstration of this device to deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, anaesthesiologist Jacintha D’Souza and Vijay Kumar, a physician at Wenlock Hospital, and representatives of DHO Ramachandra Bairy, and they were impressed. A similar device in the market is at least six to seven times costlier, Bhakta said. The support system can easily be mass produced, if the need arises, and works both on battery and AC power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/vcet-develops-low-cost-respiratory-support-system/articleshow/75892438.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Many containment streets lack signages, people walk in at will||CHENNAI: Even as the number of streets under containment in Chennai has come down drastically in the past few days, a status check by TOI shows that not all have proper signages that indicate entry and exit points.  For instance, streets in T Nagar, Madipakkam, Ambattur and Mandaveli were found to have only police barricades; signages were absent. In fact, one street in another part of central Chennai a few weeks ago was found to have no signage despite officials carrying out disinfection on a regular basis. Greater Chennai Corporation barricades all entry and exit points of a street if one or more Covid-19 cases are found in either an apartment or house. This is to ensure that people from the area don’t move out and outsiders don’t enter. Official data shows that as of Friday evening, 635 streets are under the containment plan in the city. However, 517 streets had been removed from the list as no fresh case was registered for 14 days. According to civic officials at the zonal level, containment zones are demarcated in an ad-hoc manner in some areas. TOI had observed a few locations in the city where only police barricades and makeshift wooden check posts were in evidence, with people passing through them at will, unchecked. “In most places, we place an asbestos sheet with a poster stating that the area is under containment, to give a clear indication to the public,” an official in Ambattur (zone 7) said.  In Madipakkam, after the staff of an eatery on Bazaar Main Road tested positive, only a portion of the road was barricaded with asbestos sheet. “Since it is a main road, we blocked traffic on the particular stretch and the vehicles were diverted on the opposite side. The area is now removed from the containment list,” an official said. In some places, these warning signs were being removed by vandals, said a civic official in Teynampet (zone 9).  In areas such as Royapuram and Thiru-vi-ka Nagar, which are the city’s hotspots, proper barricades have been erected with warnings written in English and Tamil announcing the start of a containment zone.  A few days ago, GCC changed the policy of demarcating a place as a containment zone. “If a person tests positive in an apartment complex, only the complex is under containment. In case of less than five cases, the house with the infected person and the houses neighbouring it will be under containment,” said an official. With the virus spreading beyond the hotspots in the city, proper signages and strict enforcement of containment measures become all the more important.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/many-containment-streets-lack-signages-people-walk-in-at-will/articleshow/75905288.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||In grip of heatwave, Delhi’s max at 43.8°C||NEW DELHI: The capital on Friday witnessed the hottest day of the season so far with mercury soaring to 43.8 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Palam and Lodhi Road, meanwhile, touched a record high temperature of 45.4 degrees and 44.4 degrees, respectively, and even witnessed heatwave conditions. The previous highest this season was on Thursday, when Safdarjung recorded 42.7 degrees Celsius and Palam crossed 44 degrees. A Met official said no significant relief from heat could be expected till May 27. “At Safdarjung station, which is considered base for the city, the temperature will be between 42 and 44 degrees. Heatwave is likely to continue over a few places in Delhi and its neighbouring regions during May 23-25. This is due to dry and northwesterly winds prevailing over northwest India,” the official added. With the approach of fresh western disturbance from May 28, the city can expect some relief, the official told TOI. On Saturday, partly cloudy sky is expected with possibility of very light rain or thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 43 and 24 degrees Celsius, respectively. At 199, the air quality index on Friday was in the ‘moderate’ category. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, has forecast a significant increase in dust transport, which is expected to influence Delhi’s air quality. Watch Heat waves hit Delhi, temperature touches 43 degrees Celsius||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-grip-of-heatwave-citys-max-at-43-8c/articleshow/75906372.cms||---
May 23, 2020||India||PM announces Rs 1000 crore aid for Bengal; toll at 86||KOLKATA/BHUBANESWAR/NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Friday announced interim central assistance of Rs 1,000 crore to West Bengal and Rs 500 crore to Odisha after an aerial survey of the devastation wrought by cyclone Amphan, especially in south Bengal, where the death toll was revised to 86 after government agencies were able to reach areas inaccessible for two days. On his first trip outside the national capital since the countrywide lockdown started, PM Modi said the loss of lives, homesteads, infrastructure and standing crops were a double whammy for Bengal after being hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Staying home and social distancing are the safeguards against corona, whereas moving out from homes and reaching safer places are advisable in case of a cyclone. The state had to fight the two challenges together. However, West Bengal, under Mamata ji, has tried to fight strongly,” he said in an eight-minute video message from Basirhat in North 24-Parganas district. Expressing solidarity with Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, who has had run-ins with the Centre on multiple issues, Modi said, “The Centre was in constant touch with the state government and the two jointly worked hard. Still, over 80 people lost their lives, which saddens me.” He announced ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured from the PM's Relief Fund. The PM said a central team would visit the state soon and both the governments would “work together for the rehabilitation, restoration and reconstruction of the West Bengal”. He and Mamata held an hour-long administrative meeting in Basirhat. Mamata later said she urged the PM to "release quickly whatever money" the Centre wanted to give. "I did not ask for anything (from the PM). I only urged him to release the money fast, whatever the Centre wants. Else, we will have to start work on our own. Repair of embankments and restoration of power lines cannot wait. The state has already put aside Rs 1,000 crore on its own for restoration work. We also want the centre to release the Rs 53,000 crore it owes us (by way of devolution of funds, food subsidy and other social schemes)." Preliminary estimates by the state government peg the extent of damage caused by Amphan at "Rs 1 lakh crore at least". "Vast areas have gone under water following the damage in embankments. Power lines got snapped, crops went under water. There has been immense damage to houses, livestock and fisheries," Mamata said. Modi’s flight had touched down at Kolkata airport at 10.45am, after which he had a 45-minute chopper ride with Mamata and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar over stretches of Minakha, Hingalganj, Basirhat and Rajarhat in North 24-Parganas and Bhangar, Patharpratima, Namkhana and Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. Union minister of state Babul Supriyo described the Basirhat meeting between Modi and Mamata as a discussion between two "able administrators". "The CM thanked the PM several times; the PM did the same to the CM," he said. "This is not the time for politics," his ministerial colleague Debasree Chaudhuri said. The only discordant note was struck by Bengal BJP president and MP Dilip Ghosh. "I want the PM to transfer the compensation to the next of kin of the dead directly to their Jan Dhan accounts; else, the money may not reach them." The Left Front and Congress criticised the Centre for "doing too little". After an aerial survey of northern Odisha later in the day, PM Modi hailed the state for its preparedness to face the cyclone, which affected 44 lakh people and damaged one lakh hectares of standing crops. No loss of life was reported. "At a time when everyone is busy fighting Covid-19, we had a super cyclone. This was a matter of grave concern. But because of the well-established process in Odisha, there was huge success in saving lives. Everybody, down to the village level, knew what had to be done. For this, the citizens of Odisha, chief minister Sriman Naveen (Patnaik) babu and his entire team deserve praise," Modi said in Bhubaneswar. Watch Cyclone Amphan: PM Modi announces Rs 1,000 crore relief for West Bengal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-announces-rs-1000-crore-aid-for-bengal-toll-at-86/articleshow/75907677.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||HC stays arrest of Gayatri Pariwar chief||Haridwar: The Uttarakhand high court has stayed the arrest of spiritual guru Pranav Pandya while hearing the sexual exploitation case registered against him in Delhi on a complaint lodged by a Chhattisgarh woman. The court will further hear the matter on June 12. The matter was heard by the single bench of Justice Lokpal Singh. Pandya, who heads All World Gayatri Pariwar, has been directed to cooperate with the police in the investigation. The zero FIR filed in the case by Delhi police on May 5 was transferred to Haridwar police on May 8. Subsequently on May 9, Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishnaraj S constituted a team of two officers for investigation the matter. Notably, the woman, who served as a cook at Shanti Kunj from 2010 to 2014, has alleged sexual exploitation by Pandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-stays-arrest-of-gayatri-pariwar-chief/articleshow/75902297.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 23, 2020||Trichy||Shortage of workers for semi-ring road project||Trichy: The ongoing work for the decade-old semi-ring road project interlinking national highways connecting five districts including Madurai with Trichy city will be delayed as supervisors and skilled workers are stuck in other states, with only a minimum workforce currently employed. The semi-ring road interlinks Trichy with Thanjavur, Pudukkottai, Madurai, Dindigul and Karur. The proposal made in 2006-07 was delayed due to several reasons including poor planning and protest from farmers to safeguard waterbodies. A modified semi-ring road project was resurrected in late 2017. Work for a portion of the project linking Trichy-Thanjavur NH and Trichy-Pudukkottai NH, a most awaited stretch connecting industrial units, educational institutes and Trichy international airport was relaunched in late 2019. The 13 km stretch connecting Thuvakudi (Trichy-Thanjavur) with Mathur (Trichy-Pudukkottai) was expected to be completed by February, but got delayed due to the monsoons and the lockdown. Only work on 4km of the stretch is pending. “Site engineers and skilled workers required to operate the specialised paver machines have been stuck in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh since the lockdown. Once they return, the Thuvakudi-Mathur stretch work will be completed in a month,” a source in the project said. Construction materials required for the road are available with the suppliers. The paver machines are sensor-enabled and requires expertise to operate them, sources privy to NHAI said, adding such machines cannot be operated by recruiting locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shortage-of-workers-for-semi-ring-road-project/articleshow/75905285.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 23, 2020||Pune||Ghorpadi GP first Pune doctor to die of Covid-19 infection||PUNE: A 56-year old general practitioner (GP) from Ghorpadi became the first doctor from the city to succumb to the Covid-19 infection on Friday. The doctor was on ventilator support at Sassoon hospital for over a week. “He succumbed to Covid-19 induced respiratory complications at 4.30pm on Friday. He had no other pre-existing conditions,” said a doctor from the hospital. The doctor was the only patient in Pune region to be put on Tocilizumab, a monoclonal antibody which has emerged as an alternative treatment for Covid-19 patients with hyper-activated immune response called cytokine storms. The drug is very expensive and was sought on compassionate grounds. The doctor from Sassoon hospital said,“The doctor’s condition worsened rapidly following the onset of illness on May 11. He got admitted to Sassoon hospital on May 13. He had been undergoing aggressive treatment on ventilator support since May 17. His throat swab sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) had tested positive for the infection,” The deceased doctor’s son has appealed to the state government to extend insurance and other benefits to his father as given to doctors involved in the care of Covid-19 patients at government hospitals in Maharashtra. “Responding to the state government’s call, my father kept attending to patients relentlessly ever since the lockdown was imposed in Pune. He never closed his clinic. He contracted the infection while dispensing his duties as a doctor,” he said. Health activist Sanjay Dabhade said, “Many private medical practitioners are rendering crucial services and risking their lives every day while screening and treating patients. In many cases, they are the sole bread-winners of the family. The state government should show sensitivity towards these warriors. In the pandemic phase, every doctor should be encouraged and supported by the state government as every doctor is equally at risk.” About 450 private medical practitioners have tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far. “A doctor from Govandi in Mumbai was the first medical practitioner in Maharashtra to die of Covid-19 in April,” said senior family physician Avinash Bhondwe, the state president of the Indian Medical Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ghorpadi-gp-first-pune-doc-to-die-of-covid-19-infection/articleshow/75906342.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 23, 2020||Bareilly||Migrant labourer booked in UP for misbehaving with ASHA worker||BAREILLY: A migrant labourer, who returned from Haryana, was booked by police in Lakhimpur Kheri for allegedly misbehaving with an ASHA health worker who went to put up a 14-day quarantine notice outside his house. Suneel Kumar Yadav had returned to Debera in Tikunia area recently. Suneel was taken to community health centre where he was examined by the doctors. Later, he was quarantined at home and ASHA health worker Kunti Devi was deputed to monitor him and other migrants in the village. On Wednesday, Kunti Devi had an argument with Suneel and the latter allegedly used foul language and even threatened to kill her with a spade. Tikunia police station SHO Hanuman Prasad said, “We have registered an FIR under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule). The accused is currently quarantined at home. Further action will be taken soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/migrant-labourer-booked-formisbehaving-with-asha-worker/articleshow/75904206.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||SVPI airport director transferred||Ahmedabad: The director of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad, Manoj Gangal, has been transferred. He will be assuming charge as regional director in Kolkata. SVPI airport is set to be taken over by Adani Enterprises Limited, which won the bid for privatisation. However; owing to the lockdown, the take over has been delayed, sources said. Till the airport is taken over, the general manager for the air traffic controller (ATC), A K Verma, will take over as airport director, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svpi-airport-director-transferred/articleshow/75904218.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Two booked for quarantine violation||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police on Friday booked two for violating home quarantine and transferred them to institutional quarantine. Police said that one of them even opened his shop soon after returning from Tamil Nadu. The cases were registered at Kalady and Kothamangalam police stations. At Kalady, a youth who resides at Sreemoolanagaram was found loitering around in the town within days after returning from Tamil Nadu. Police said that the man had crossed the Kumily checkpost and reached the state on May 19. He was spotted by residents who alerted the police. Police booked him under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. In the second incident from Kothamangalam, a Pollachi native who runs a shop at Kothamangalam opened his shop on Friday. The man had returned from Tamil Nadu two days ago and was instructed to remain at home. Police were again tipped off by residents. He too was booked under the ordinance and was moved to institutional quarantine. Rural SP K Karthick said that the violators would face stringent action. “It is a time when several people are returning to the state from other states. These people should strictly follow the conditions of home quarantine. Everyone should maintain vigil. Inform the authorities as soon as you notice a violation,” said the SP. Ernakulam rural police said that 3588 are in home quarantine under their jurisdiction alone. “There are 434 in institutional quarantine. Person to person check is being held. However, with more people going into quarantine by the day, the returnees must show some social responsibility and follow home quarantine. By violating this restriction, the offender is risking the lives of so many people,” said a police official. Rural police said that Happy at Home, an application developed for tracking the well being of those in home quarantine, is also being used to ensure that persons in quarantine are safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-booked-for-quarantine-violation/articleshow/75902333.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Focus on minimum contact as IGI Airport gears up to resume operations||NEW DELHI: After two months of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Indira Gandhi International airport is all set to resume one-third of the domestic flights from Monday. The first flight will take off at 4.30am. There will be initially 190 departures and 190 arrivals from the airport’s Terminal-3 daily which are likely to benefit 40,000 passengers. On Saturday, TOI took a tour inside the terminal to see how the airport experience is set to change for a passenger due to the corona crisis. From the check-in facility to checking-out, DIAL assures that there will be minimum human-tohuman contact. On Saturday, it announced that it was all set to provide a “safe and healthy environment” to passengers flying out of the airport.  With domestic air travel making a comeback from Monday, the flight bookings are in full swing. Officials say they are expecting at least 60% of each flight to be occupied. The airlines will ensure that the safety norms are followed at all hours. Four shops at the airport will sell PPE kits and other necessary safety gears for passengers. Several measures have been taken, including installation of automatic hand sanitiser at more than 400 spots in the airport, floor markers, allocation of entry gates and check-in islands for departure passengers, to encourage compliance of social distancing norms and minimise human contact at the airport. “We have implemented several unique initiatives at the airport to ensure passengers’ safety without compromising on their comfort and experience. Our teams have worked round-the-clock to sanitise the vast terminal to provide a hygienic condition. DIAL will continue its awareness drive by educating and encouraging passengers to maintain social distancing while at the airport,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL. To distribute passenger load in the departure forecourt, the authorities have moved from the current method of allowing entry to passengers from all airlines through all gates to now allocating designated gates to different airlines to enter into the terminal building. It will be mandatory for a passenger to either download Aarogya Setu application or fill up a self-declaration form that will be available in the forecourt area itself. Only those who are marked ‘safe’ on the app will be allowed to travel. Apart from this, provisions have also been made for thermal scanning of passengers. The carpet on which passengers will walk has been sanitised so that the sole of their shoe is disinfected before they enter the main area. In order to avoid close contact and crowding at the counters, passengers will be encouraged to check in at home or use self-service facilities, such as self check-in facility, self bag tag facility, scan and fly, etc, said an official. When the international flights also start to operate, officials said, there will be proper alignment of queues to ensure social distancing among CISF/immigration staff members. Queue managers will be deployed. Social distance marking and seating arrangements with social distancing norms have been made before the security check counter to avoid crowding. Tray disinfection SOP for passenger safety will be maintained and automatic hand sanitiser machines have been kept for passengers to use after security and immigration checks. After the security check, the passengers will move to security hold area (SHA) where they can go to the food court, lounges and retail shops. Strict and stringent SOP will be maintained for food and beverage shops, lounges, retail shops and all other non-aero areas to ensure safety, health and hygiene, said an airport official. Passengers will be encouraged to download HOI app, a dedicated AI-enabled app for Delhi and Hyderabad airports, for contactless commerce. It can also be used for contactless food ordering. Apart from this, the passengers can use self-ordering kiosk at the food court to avoid queuing. They can also avail of the unique food delivery service—Food Genie. Digital payment and digital menu will be encouraged. At the boarding gate, the seating arrangement is made with marking on chairs for non-usage of a few chairs in between. Queue managers will be deployed near boarding and bus gates too. For arriving passengers, social distance markings have been put up at aerobridges, piers, lifts and travellators. As per the government’s directive, a passenger can carry only one piece of each cabin and check-in baggage. All departure baggage will be disinfected at the ultraviolet light disinfection tunnel developed by DIAL. Similar SOP is being developed for arriving international baggage. Social distance markings have been put up around baggage belts and additional seating arrangements have been made for the waiting passengers. Social distance markings will also be there in all transport waiting areas and the SOP is being readied for disinfection of cabs before use at the airport. Visitors’ entry into the terminal will remain temporarily suspended. For the safety of passengers and staff, trolleys would be disinfected in the tunnel after each use, the official said. “Air inside the terminal will be among the cleanest. We have systems which replace air inside the terminal every 10 minutes. DIAL will also have facilities to isolate suspected Covid-19 passengers at the airport,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-shields-igi-ready-for-action/articleshow/75927550.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Auraiya tragedy: Cops in Alwar to trace driver & owner of killer truck||Lucknow: A five-member UP police team reached Alwar in Rajasthan to trace the owner and driver of the lime-laden trailer-truck that rammed a stationary DCM truck on National Highway 19, killing 27 migrant workers and injuring 31 in Auraiya on May 16. At least 30 migrant labourers were bundled inside the ill-fated truck along with lime sacks. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police, Auraiya, Suniti, said, a five-member police team has been sent to Alwar to nab the driver of the trailer truck, Akhtar Khan. “Distant kin and relatives of the driver were questioned about his whereabouts, but he seems to have fled his native village, Piproli, in Ramgarh area of Alwar,” she said. She also said the team is enquiring about the fitness and insurance of the vehicle. The officer said, electronic surveillance of the driver’s mobile showed he fled towards Kanpur Dehat, just hours after the tragedy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/auraiya-tragedy-cops-in-alwar-to-trace-driver-owner-of-killer-truck/articleshow/75906348.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre to Telangana: Finish land acquisition||HYDERABAD: The central government, in order to expedite the expansion and development of national highways, has asked the Telangana government to complete the land acquisition process, shifting of utilities and get forest clearances for development of highways in the state. The Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry wrote to the state government on expansion and four-laning of highways in Telangana by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). At a high-level committee meeting on the issues pertaining to shifting of utilities, land acquisition and forest clearances, Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar directed the officials to expedite pre-construction activities for national highways and to prepare district-wise pending issues to be followed up with collectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-to-t-finish-land-acquisition/articleshow/75905313.cms||Roushan Ali
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Red Snakelet rescued from Mathura DM camp office||Agra: A baby Rat Snake was found stuck between the boundary wall of the district magistrate’s camp office in Mathura on Thursday. The snakelet was rescued by a team of Wildlife SOS, an NGO, and later released into the wild.On being alerted, a team from Wildlife SOS rushed to the location with necessary rescue equipment and protective gear against Covid-19.As the snakelet was trapped in a narrow space, the team had to first break off a part of the brick wall to safely extricate the distressed snakelet. The rescue operation lasted over 30 minutes and the snakelet was later released.The Red Snake is a medium sized constricter and is said to pose no threat to human beings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/red-snakelet-rescued-from-mathura-dm-camp-office/articleshow/75904227.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Shorter hospital stay likely for asymptomatic patients||BENGALURU: Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild to moderate infection are likely to be discharged after 10 days of hospitalisation provided they test negative, according to a new report being prepared by Karnataka’s Covid-19 taskforce. At present, they have to stay in hospital for a minimum of 14 days. Of the 1,605 positive cases reported in Karnataka till May 21, 1,352 or 84% were asymptomatic. “Patients will be tested by the 10th day and will be permitted to go home if found negative. Only one test will be enough, unlike the present protocol that requires one to test negative twice in 24 hours to be eligible for discharge. The new guidelines will be rolled out shortly,” said multiple sources with access to taskforce deliberations. The taskforce has held detailed meetings pertaining to early discharge of patients with no symptoms like fever and cough but who are still in isolation for a minimum of 14 days. “We need to relook certain aspects. After the duration of hospital stay comes down to 10 days, we will also examine the option of allowing suspected patients to be under home quarantine. We need to conserve resources if cases go up drastically. The number of fresh cases is crossing 100 every day. Hospitalisation is mandatory to avoid deaths,” said a senior doctor working with the taskforce. While the Centre in its May 10 guidelines suggested asymptomatic patients be discharged without a test, the state government wants to ensure they are tested by the 10th day and discharged only if they turn negative. Any change in treatment protocol must not cause worry to the public, the doctor said. “We don’t want to leave a Covid positive person in the community. As of now, hospitalisation is a must. In the coming months, depending on the patient’s condition, we may take a call on considering home treatment for asymptomatic patients, who can afford a single room, separate toilet facility and support from their families,” the doctor added. The new guidelines will also look at enabling suspected patients with access to effective home quarantine to avoid institutional isolation. “Institutional quarantine will be made mandatory for those who can’t afford self quarantine. Zilla Panchayat officers have already worked out a plan to ensure home quarantine in rural facilities if cases are seen in the countryside,” the sources said. If there’s a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, the government may look at lodging asymptomatic patients in 10-day institutional quarantine, where their health can be monitored, said doctors. Doctors involved in calibrating Karnataka’s response to the emerging Covid-19 scenario said the recovery rate, which dropped from 49% on May 9 to just about 36% on May 21, will go up with the new norms. “Though the recovery rate is on a declining mode mathematically, in reality patients are recovering very well in Karnataka due to constant care and coordination between the expert team and treating doctors. The rate will be low when more than 100 cases are being reported in a day,” said a doctor. Experts said the guidelines have to be modified given that the virus is six months old globally and over two months old in Karnataka. Experts have suggested the government start non-Covid treatment at Victoria Hospital. “If the cases increase, we need to be prepared with another dedicated hospital for Covid-19 patients. The Broadway Road hospital is ready for occupation. It’s likely to be opened as a designated Covid-19 hospital by early June. This will enable Victoria Hospital to start regular OPD in various departments,” said sources privy to discussions in the government on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-day-hospital-stay-likely-in-asymptomatic-mild-cases/articleshow/75904230.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 23, 2020||Kochi||All set for safe conduct of SSLC, higher secondary examinations: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday unveiled the elaborate arrangements being put in place for the safe conduct of pending SSLC and higher secondary exams that are scheduled from May 26 to 30. The CM said that thermal scanning would be conducted on all students appearing for the exams. The government would also provide transportation facilities for the students in need. "Suppose some students are not able to appear for this examination, they would be given a chance to take the regular exam along with the supplementary chance being given to students who fail in the first attempt. Students from other states would need to go on home quarantine for 14 days," he said. Separate seating arrangements would be made for students coming from containment zones and those from other states to take the examination.  "After attending each examination, students should take a bath before they come into close contact with their family members," he said. War rooms would function at general education directorate as well as the districts from May 23 onwards, the chief minister said. Teachers who are on examination duty would wear gloves while everyone should be wearing masks. Answer papers would be kept at the respective centres for seven days. "As many as 5000 Infra-Red thermometers would be purchased. Health workers have been given instructions to provide masks and leaflets containing Covid-19 related instructions at the houses of SSLC students. For higher secondary students, masks would be distributed through NSS," the chief minister said. Enough sanitizers and soaps would be arranged at all examination centres, the CM added. The education department would have the support of local self-government institutions, health, transport, and police department for the smooth conduct of the exams. Pinarayi Vijayan said all mandatory clearances have been obtained for conducting examinations in the Gulf countries and Lakshadweep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/all-set-for-safe-conduct-of-sslc-hs-examinations-cm/articleshow/75913819.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Burglar sneaks into house in Delhi's Jangpura, rapes, assaults woman||NEW DELHI: The southeast district police have arrested a 23-year-old on charges of raping a woman in Jangpura on Sunday. Police said that the rape took place in the intervening hours between Sunday and Monday. The accused, arrested on Friday, has been identified as Sonu, who had police record of thefts. In her complaint, the woman claimed to have been standing on her balcony and watching some video on her phone, when the interloper entered her house. She alleged that he caught hold of her and asked her to hand over the valuables she had in the house. According to the complaint, Sonu asked the woman for her ATM card and its PIN and beat her when she refused to share these details. Angered by her resistance, the accused allegedly overpowered her and sexually assaulted her. He also tried to strangle her during the act, the woman told police in her statement. He fled the house when the woman managed to raise an alarm. The cops were informed about the crime and an FIR was registered for rape, criminal trespass and assault against the accused. Four teams were formed to go after the culprit. However, since the survivor couldn't give a description of her assailant since he had masked his face, police started going through the footage from the CCTV cameras installed in the area. The accused was captured by one of the cameras and an electronic route map of the roads he took was created. Police informers were deployed to identify him by through features like his built, walk and some other physical traits. Sonu was eventually identified as the culprit.  After his arrest, he was presented before a magistrate and interrogated before being sent into judicial custody at Tihar Jail. Sonu’s antecedents were verified and his criminal record confirmed. He will be asked to give his consent for a test identification parade. Police are also investigating if Sonu was a party in other similar crimes. As of now, they have established only that he was involved in thefts earlier. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/burglar-sneaks-into-house-in-jangpura-rapes-assaults-woman/articleshow/75905350.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Now, train trips to Bengaluru will be 20 minutes shorter||CHENNAI: Passengers on trains to Coimbatore and Bengaluru from Chennai will save 20 minutes on their trips as Southern Railway has removed a bottleneck at Jolarpet junction. A bend on the track and a diamond crossing that slowed down trains to 15kmph have been removed. This will help trains pass through Jolarpet at 110kmph when services resume. Three work key for speeding up the trains — elimination of three diamond crossings of tracks, conversion of two reverse curves into simple curves and upgrading of 4km railway yard – were carried out during lockdown. The intersecting tracks were a complex layout and did not allow trains to speed up. “The work to remodel the yard started on May 14 and was completed on May 21. There won’t be a need for speed restriction along the stretch, which handles around 190 trains daily at one of the busiest railway junctions in the south,” said an official. The lockdown and suspension of rail services came in handy to complete the work, which, otherwise would have affected train services. Railways also switched to modern and safer electronic interlocking system that prevents a train from crossing a signal unless the line is safe and clear. In addition to this, railways has also made provision to receive and dispatch trains simultaneously towards Bengaluru by isolating the yard line. Removing of the bottleneck and remodeling the yard is crucial to allow trains to pass through the tracks that converge and branch off to Salem and Bengaluru. Other work that help in faster movement of trains includes renewal of 42 main signals and 24 subsidiary signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-train-trips-to-bluru-will-be-20min-shorter/articleshow/75905324.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Institutions make use of 3D printing tech to combat Covid-19||Mangaluru: Three dimensional (3D) printing, which is otherwise used for academic and other related purposes, at educational institutions, is now helping to combat Covid-19. Several educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have turned to 3D printing technology to combat Covid-19. Manipal Academy of Higher Education, National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK) Surathkal and Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, among others, have been using this technology to manufacture various equipment, to fight the pandemic. Medical equipment such as face shields, respirator masks, ventilator manifolds and no touch sanitary tools have been manufactured by these institutions. “When the lockdown was announced, our 3D printing machines used for research, became free. We started brainstorming on how to put these machines to use to fight Covid-19, and the result was that we started manufacturing faceshields, 3D printed masks, ventilator splitters and connectors. Faculty members and research scholars developed the technology using open resources. Only two faculty members were on campus and the rest helped remotely,” explains Gangadharan K V, coordinator, NITK Centre for System Design (CSD). The splitter for ventilator was 3D printed at different places. NITK Centre for System Design printed the first prototype and got it tested at Mangalore K S Hegde Hospital at (Nitte deemed to be university). “We have now designed technology to manufacture 3D face masks. The production cost is high, and we will only produce them when there is an emergency need,” he added. So far, NITK Surathkal has supplied hundreds of face shields to MRPL, NMPT and other institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/institutions-make-use-of-3d-printing-tech-to-combat-covid-19/articleshow/75892504.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Don’t invite friends on Eid, greetover phone: Dargah Aala Hazrat||Bareilly: Ahead of Eid Al-fitr festival, the sajjadanasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri has appealed to community members that they should not invite or attend Eid feasts at their friend’s house. People have been advised to exchange greetings over phone.Media coordinator, Dargah Aala Hazrat, Nasir Qureshi said, “In his message to the community members, sajjadansheen has appealed to people that they should celebrate the festival at their homes with their family members. He has asked people to refrain from inviting guests to their houses for exchanging Eid greetings and should also not go to anyone’s home. He also asked people to avoid handshakes and hugs. He told people to follow the guidelines of the government on steps to be taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. He asked community members to avoid unnecessary rush in the markets.”The alvida namaz (last Friday of the holy month of Ramzan) was offered in a few mosques in Bareilly, strictly following the government's guidelines. Very few people were present for the prayer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dont-invite-friends-on-eid-greetover-phone-dargah-aala-hazrat/articleshow/75904243.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Mysuru||Robbery bid at coffee dealer’s house||Madikeri: Two miscreants made a robbery attempt on the inmates of the house of a coffee and pepper dealer at Virajpet in Kodagu district early on Friday morning. However, alert neighbours foioled their bid in taking away cash and valuables. In the early hours of Friday, the miscreants cut open the window grills and entered Shabeer Ahmad’s house located near the junction that connects Virajpet and Gonikoppal roads. The duo allegedly entered the bedroom where Shabeer’s cousin Mohammd Taha, 22, was sleeping. When Taha woke up, they sealed his mouth using a plaster and also wrapped his face with a bedsheet. Hearing commotion, Shabeer entered the bedroom, only to be threatened by the miscreants at knife-point. Shabeer told the robbers that they can take Rs 40,000 kept in the almirah, “and not to harm any of us”. But when they pushed, Shabeer fell on the ground, after which his wife Kairunnisa cried for help. Realising that the neighbours were rushing for help, the miscreants fled the spot by taking two cellphones and a power bank. They rushed to a car waiting nearby and drove away. SP Suman D Pannekar, DSP Jayakumar and CI Kyathegowda visited the spot. Virajpet police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/robbery-bid-at-coffee-dealers-house/articleshow/75902377.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Eight locals arrested by Nepal police for trying to tresspass||PITHORAGARH: Nepalese police arrested eight youths from Dumling area of Darchula district of Nepal on Thursday night while they were on their way to hoist the Nepalese flag at Kalapani, which is near Lipulekh Pass and falls under Indian territory. Police arrested them on charges of lockdown violation. According to sources, the youths had started on foot from Lekam village of Darchula district of Nepal and had covered the almost 60 km distance to Dumling in three days. They still had around 50 km more to cover before they could reach Kalapani. The youths, identified as Jeewan Bisht, Madan Bisht, Ganesh Singh Bisht, Deepak Bisht, Surendra Bisht, Anil Saud, Deepak Saud and Janak Singh Saud are said to be members of Nepal Communist Party (Moist - Viplava group).The party has been at the forefront of opposing the new Kailash Mansarovar road which enables vehicular access till near the Lipulekh Pass. The almost 80-km-long road was inaugurated by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on May 8 and tension has been festering in the India-Nepal border area adjoining Uttarakhand ever since as Nepal claims the Lipulekh Pass as part of its territory. On May 10, members of Nepal’s ruling communist party had issued a statement claiming that the road encroaches upon Nepalese territory as it passes through Ward Number 1 under Byas village municipality of their country. A joint statement issued by party secretary Uday Singh Badal and president Ganesh Singh Khatri alleged that “even though both countries had agreed to amicably settle the border dispute, India had taken unilateral action in this regard.” The statement added that “construction of road and other development work in Limphiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani areas disrespects Nepali sovereignty and integrity.” It further said that “according to the Sugauli Treaty, areas of Limphiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani located to the east of Mahakali river historically belong to Nepal.” and demanded that work on the road be stopped immediately. The Darchula district committee of Nepal Communist Party (Revolutionary Maoist) had also demanded that work on the road be stopped immediately. Subsequently, Nepal has opened an armed police border outpost at Chhangru village near Lipulekh Pass, and has recently drawn up plans to open three more border outposts along the border with Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/8-locals-arrested-by-nepal-police-for-trying-go-towards-indian-territory-to-hoist-nepalese-flag/articleshow/75900567.cms||Prem Punetha
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Min: Need to work together for nature||Hyderabad: To celebrate the International Biological Diversity Day during the lockdown, the Telangana State Biodiversity Board (TSBDB) hosted a webinar where speakers emphasised on the need to re-examine relationship with nature in current circumstances. Environment minister A Indrakaran Reddy said people need to be partners in biodiversity conservation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-need-to-work-together-for-nature/articleshow/75905355.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: With no income to pay room rent, they seek refuge in concrete pipes||BENGALURU: The lockdown has rendered many Bengalureans jobless, penniless and homeless. While migrants are heading to their hometowns, on foot or by bus/train, lakhs are left behind in Bengaluru. With landlords sparing no thought for tenants, many of them are taking shelter in four-ft diameter sewage pipes dumped across the city for laying of fresh sanitation lines. A TOI team on Thursday afternoon chanced upon a group of 12 people, including women, living in sewage pipes under the abandoned railway underpass in Okalipuram. With volunteers coming to hand over food and rations having reduced to a trickle nowadays, other members of the group had gone out in search of work. Shantamma, who is from T Narasipura in Mysuru district, said she stayed back and didn’t join the others as she wasn’t keeping well. “I haven’t eaten well for a few days and I’m tired,” said the 50-year-old. She washed dishes for a living at a Majestic hotel till the lockdown ended her employment and forced her to vacate the single room she had rented for Rs 1,200. “I didn’t know where to go as I don’t have any family back home. I walked around and spotted these scattered cement pipes a few weeks ago. Some people staying here invited me in and gave me food,” said Shantamma, tears rolling down her cheeks. Roopa, 36, was quick to console her neighbour with reassuring words that the crisis will end soon and they’ll have a roof over their heads. Roopa and her husband Raju R, 51, are from Udupi and worked as construction labourers in the city before the lockdown snatched away their jobs. “I came to Bengaluru as a 14-year-old and lived on the streets before making a better life for myself. This lockdown has brought us back to the streets. We have nowhere to go and these pipes won’t ask for rent,” said a dejected Raju. Weather is the biggest enemy for these people crammed inside concrete pipes with their belongings, mainly clothes and utensils. The recent spell of rain gave a preview of how things would be once the monsoon sets in. “We were desperately trying to keep ourselves away from the water but got drenched,” said Roopa, as she prepared to head out in search of drinking water. Police personnel, according to pipe dwellers, are also a bother as they chase them away on some occasions. The group often returns when the patrol car leaves. To use the toilet, the group has to walk a little less than a kilometre to a public facility near KSR City railway station. Pipes dumped on Gundopanth Street, Chickpet and New Bamboo Street have also turned abodes for Bengaluru’s new shelterless. “I have kept my clothes in the pipe and come here to spend the night. I lost my job as a waiter in an eatery and my employer threw me out of my accommodation in Chickpet. I don’t even have money to go back home to Belagavi,” said a man sitting on the pavement outside Prasanna Coffee Club on Gundopanth Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/left-without-jobs-and-homes-they-seek-refuge-in-concrete-pipes/articleshow/75904278.cms||Petlee Peter
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Haven’t got a single penny from govt, how do we fulfill ‘wish lists’ of quarantined people, say gram pradhans in U’khand||Dehradun: From branded grocery items to gas cylinders and utensils, gram pradhans in Uttarakhand are getting ‘wish lists’ from people in quarantine who are asking the village heads to spend the money that the government has given them for the welfare of those who are quarantined. The pradhans however claim that most of them “haven’t received a single penny from the government.” Dharmendra Singh, pradhan of Manpura village in Uttarkashi district, told TOI that he was manhandled by families of those in quarantine as he failed to provide them grocery items that they had asked for. “People are alleging that we have got funds from the government and we should spend them. Some people are making requests of tea of a particular brand while some have been asking for branded soap and shampoo. When I told them that we haven’t received any government funds and are instead spending on our own, they abused me," said Singh, who has also registered an FIR against some of the villagers in this regard. The Uttarakhand government had last week announced funds of Rs 10,000 for each village in the hill state, which has over 7,000 villages. Cabinet minister Madan Kaushik in an interaction with TOI had said that funds have already been transferred to the accounts of every pradhan for quarantine management and in case they spent the entire amount in a day, “their accounts will be re-filled with a similar amount within 24 hours.” Pratap Rawat, president of Gram Pradhan Sangathan in Uttarkashi, said that annoyed with the government’s announcement of providing money but not giving anything, over 500 gram pradhans in his district had observed a ‘Maun Vrat’ on Thursday. Devendra Singh Rawat, pradhan of Reda village in Jehrikhal block of Pauri Garhwal said that “it is unfortunate that most of the villagers feel that village heads have kept the money that they received from the government for personal use.” "The truth is that we are managing the quarantine centres from our own funds,” he added. Manju Devi, pradhan of Kitrauli village in Chakrata, told TOI that she had written to the district administration seeking help to manage the quarantine centre in her village. Mukesh Chandra Baudh, head of Bhumka village in Okhalkanda in Nainital district also maintained that he hasn’t received a penny from the government but was assured by the district administration that he will be reimbursed for masks, gloves and sanitisers that he had purchased for quarantine centres, if he submits proper bills. Prem Singh, head of Birkhola village in Almora said that government has "done injustice to pradhans by advertising that they are giving thousands of rupees to us although most village heads have got nothing,” adding that he has arranged utensils and gas cylinder for the returnees on his own initiative. When TOI queried cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik regarding the issue, he reiterated that “every tehsil and block has received payments for pradhans and those protesting are making false claims.” "Even if in 1% case, the money has not reached the pradhan, they can submit bills and we will reimburse the money," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/havent-got-a-single-penny-from-govt-how-do-we-fulfill-wish-lists-of-quarantined-people-say-gram-pradhans-in-ukhand/articleshow/75902368.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 23, 2020||Mumbai||Finally, home delivery of liquor gets BMC nod||MUMBAI: The BMC on Friday finally issued orders allowing home delivery of liquor during the lockdown; across-the-counter sale remains barred. Deliveries will not be allowed in containment zones, or areas where a Covid-19 patient or his high-risk contacts live. While the order permits shops to operate from Friday midnight, a retail liquor vendors’ association said its members would be able to implement it only from Sunday as they need an excise pass for staff, transport vehicles, and a go-ahead from collectors. The shops may also tie-up with e-commerce platforms for the purpose. However, association president Arvind Miskin said currently there was no plan to join hands with e-commerce platforms as such a move might lead to customers having to pay more. All other measures to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak remain in force, which means all malls, markets and complexes would remain closed. Only shops selling essential goods in markets and complexes would be permitted. Sumit Chawala, a liquor vendor association vice-president and a shop owner, said shops had no intention of tying up with the e-commerce chains as there was more than enough staff and infrastructure with the retailers. “It will be like snatching their bread and butter if we tie-up,” he said. A May 12 order of the state government that had allowed home delivery suggested that tipplers may ask for liquor—barring country liquor—to be delivered to their home address from retail shops in their neighbourhood during the period of lockdown. In many cities, the facility came into effect a week ago. Only the city and Aurangabad were awaiting endorsement from their respective municipal commissioners. The state government permission had given the impression that orders for purchase should be placed only through phone calls or messages. Later, the detailed guidelines suggested that e-commerce platforms would be allowed to tie up with the retailers and wholesalers, indicating a shift to an online mechanism of placing orders. The home delivery system promises prevention of crowding at liquor shops, helping the local administration ensure physical distancing. The sale of liquor will help the excise ministry meet its revenue targets. Excise officials pegged the losses in March and April at Rs 1,800 crore. To ensure that items like beer do not cross their sell-by date, the state excise allowed bars and permit rooms to sell their stock to either liquor shops or parcel customers during the lockdown. They may not, though, purchase new stock to sell in this manner. Some liquor shops in parts of the state where across-the-counter-sale is allowed have implemented the e-token system, where the shop issues token numbers with fixed timings to the consumers through the phone or an app developed by liquor wholesalers. The consumers collect their stock in the time slot allotted for their token number. The excise department mandated that delivery would be made to only those possessing drinking permits and the staff deployed for the delivery of liquor use a mask and hand sanitisers at frequent intervals. It is mandatory for the delivery person to have a medical certificate of fitness duly signed by a doctor and possess an identity card. It is the responsibility of owners to ensure that no contagious diseases spread through the delivery person and to take care of proper storage during transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/finally-home-delivery-of-liquor-gets-bmc-nod/articleshow/75906378.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
May 23, 2020||Delhi||SC allows ED to attach properties of JP Morgan||NEW DELHI: In a setback to Mauritius-based firm JP Morgan, the Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Enforcement Directorate to attach its properties after the agency informed the court that it detected Rs 187 crore as proceeds of crime in the firm’s financial transactions with the Amrapali group. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain told a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit that the agency, in its preliminary investigation, had found violation of rules and regulations in investments made by the firm in the real estate group. The apex court had ordered ED probe against J P Morgan after holding that the Rs 85 crore investment by the firm in Amrapali group through FDI and taking away Rs 140 crore by selling its shares to shell companies at inflated value was a ploy to divert home-buyers’ money overseas. The court had accepted the findings of the SC-appointed forensic auditors who concluded that the investment made by J P Morgan was in violation of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and Companies Act in connivance with the Amrapali group. Jain told the court that preliminary investigation against the firm has been conducted and pleaded the bench to allow the agency to attach its properties as per Section 5 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Allowing his plea, the court permitted the agency to proceed against the firm as per law. The forensic audit report had revealed that the firm had sold its shares worth of Rs 140 crore to two companies—Rudraksh and Neelkanth— whose directors at that time were peons of the Amrapali group. J P Morgan had refuted allegations of violation of any law in investing in Amrapali Group and later selling its stake. But the bench had rejected its plea and held that FEMA rules prohibited transactions route adopted by the company to invest in Amrapali. “We are in agreement with the findings of the forensic auditors,” it had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-allows-ed-to-attach-properties-of-jp-morgan/articleshow/75906377.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt vigil on 18 lakh migrants back home||LUCKNOW: With more than 18 lakh migrant workers having been sent home from quarantine centres in rural and urban areas of UP, nighrani samitis or surveillance teams have been tasked with ensuring that home quarantine rules are strictly adhered to by these people. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also praised the work of ASHA workers and monitoring committees for having contributed significantly in the prevention of the coronavirus. Officials said that with many Covid-19 positive cases being asymptomatic and therefore sent home, the onus of ensuring that home quarantine rules are followed has been on community surveillance. “The committees have been given details of all those who have been sent home, either directly or from institutional quarantine. Till now, more than 16 lakh people have returned home from quarantine in rural areas and over two lakh in urban areas. With these details, the committees are visiting each person who is supposed to be in home quarantine and ensuring that they are following all protocols to prevent the spread of the infection,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. Meanwhile, the CM has also directed that a senior officer of the rank of additional chief secretary, principal secretary, and secretary should be nominated for each district where they will be expected to travel to and assess the situation. They will not just ascertain the condition of hospitals, quarantine centres and community kitchens but also maintain dialogue with district officials and guide them when required. “The officials will camp in their districts for a week. Services of forest and commercial tax department officers may also be taken for this purpose,” Awasthi said. Currently, more than 100 trains and buses are ferrying hundreds of migrant workers into the state each day. Shramik special trains have brought 5.36 lakh people from Gujarat, 2.46 lakh by 192 trains from Maharashtra, 1.80 lakh from Punjab and 69,000 from Delhi by 47 trains. “So far 930 trains have arrived in the state carrying 12.33 lakh migrants,” Awasthi said. To enforce Lockdown 4.0 more strictly and ensure there are no accidents on highways, the CM has asked for effective police patrolling. He has directed that foot patrolling should take place in all markets to ensure that social distancing norms are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-vigil-on-18-lakh-migrants-back-home/articleshow/75906370.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 23, 2020||Agra||AMC launches drive to clean city's drains||AGRA: The Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has launched a citywide nullah cleaning campaign. According to civic body officials, there are 446 small and large drains in the city. All these are supposed to be cleaned by June 10. Mayor Naveen Jain has ordered that all the temporary and permanent encroachments over the drains should be razed. Majority of the city's drains are in a poor condition. They frequently get choked and cause inconvenience to the residents. During the monsoon season, the blockages in major nullahs cause waterlogging. Additional municipal commissioner Vijay Kumar said, “The nullah cleaning work has started. All the drains in the city's 100 wards will be cleaned by June 10. Sanitation inspectors have been directed to ensure all the encroachments over nullahs are removed." To ensure proper cleaning of nullahs and transparency in work done, Mayor Naveen Jain has ordered for photography of the work done on a daily basis. Besides, officials have been directed to physically inspect the cleaning work. There are 21 major nullahs in Agra. Besides, there are over 400 small drainages which flow through the city's 90 municipal wards. These all discharge into Yamuna. Nullaha Mantola, Mahavir, Sundarpada, Rajshri, Khateekpada, Gadhi Bhadauria, Khatena, Kheria Modh, Shahi Canal, Ahmed Bukhari, Taj Mahal western gate, Kolihahi, Kazipada, Chunapchan, TVDC, Kanskhar, Sadarban, Ashok Nagar, Rajnagar, Kothi and Meena Bazaar are the city's main drains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-launches-drive-to-clean-citys-drains/articleshow/75904292.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports39 fresh Covid cases||Aurangabad: The district has reported 39 fresh Covid-19 cases between Thursday and Friday, as the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 1218. As many as four Covid-19 deaths were recorded in 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to 45 in Aurangabad As many as 24 people were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of patients discharged to 581 until Friday.  The new cases were reported from Jaibhim Nagar (5), Garam Pani (2), Rahemaniya Colony (2), Kavarpalli, Raja Bazar (1), Surana Nagar (1), Mill Corner (1), Nyay Nagar (4), Bhawani Nagar, Old Mondha (2), Rahim Nagar, Jaswantpura (1), Pundalik Nagar (1), Satara Parisar (1), Jawahar Colony (1), Times Colony, Katkat Gate (4), Cidco N-2 (1), Kailas Nagar (1), Roshan Gate (1), Ravindra Nagar, Shah Bazar (1), Kanchanwadi (1), Garkheda (1), Cidco N-12 (1), Katkat Gate (2), Bhadkal Gate (1), Yadav Nagar, Hudco (1), Shivaji Nagar (1) and in Sillod (1). A 55-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, died at 11 pm on Thursday. He was a resident of Khadkeshwar. The patient’s condition had deteriorated due to bilateral pneumonia with severe respiratory illness and heart condition. A 41-year-old patient, who was a resident of Sanjay Nagar, died at 1 pm on Thursday while undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital. Arvind Gaikwad, the nodal officer for media interaction, said, “The bilateral pneumonitis with acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19 in a known case of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism is the cause of her death.”  A 70-year-old woman from Bahadurpura died at 3.15 am on Friday. The cause of her death is bilateral pneumonitis with acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19 cerebrovascular accident (stroke) in a known case of left hemiparesis with diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypothyroidism, said Gaikwad. Another person died due to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment in the district civil hospital on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports39-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/75902438.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||‘Rajasthan sent reminders to UP for bus fare’||LUCKNOW: In the ongoing feud between Congress and UP government over buses, deputy CM Dinesh Shama fired a fresh salvo on Friday, alleging that the Congress-ruled Rajasthan had kept sending them reminders for the Rs 36 lakh bill. Sharma said UP government cleared all the bills on May 20. Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSTRC) had sent Rs 36 lakh bill to the UP government for transporting students from Kota to UP last month. In addition to the bus fare, it had also raised a bill of Rs 19.7 lakh for fuelling UPSRTC buses. RSTRC sent letters on April 27 and April 28 seeking the bill amount and then a reminder on May 8, said Sharma. In April, UP government had decided to bring home students stuck in Kota due to the lockdown. It had assessed that 10,000 students were stranded, but the figure turned out to be 12,000 instead. UP had then sought Rajasthan government’s help. “We were asked to make a written request and also pay the fare by RSTRC,” said Sharma. UPSRTC managing director Raj Shekhar then wrote to his counterpart in Rajasthan government, asking for 94 RSTRC 94 buses. RSTRC buses then dropped Kota students at Fatehpur Sikri, from where they were brought home. Sharma said many buses were old and had no fuel. Over 560 buses were deployed to bring students back from Kota. RSTRC also provided fuel to about 320 UPSRTC buses for which it charged more than Rs 19 lakh. Minister of state for transport (independent charge) Ashok Kataria said the Kota episode has only exposed the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/raj-sent-reminders-to-up-for-bus-fare/articleshow/75906376.cms||Neha Shukla
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Four booked for violating lockdown||Hyderabad: A case has been booked against four people for operating a swimming pool in violation of lockdown rules at Rein Bazar on Friday. Police raided the pool after a tip-off from credible sources and booked the four under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by the public servant) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-booked-for-violating-lockdown/articleshow/75905381.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Meerut||For docs fighting pandemic, no sacrifice is too big||Meerut: Dr Javed Ali Huda had barely removed his PPE after a long day attending to the patients at the emergency OPD of Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College when he received the news of his father’s death. He had to give the funeral a miss. “I wanted to go home and see my father one last time. But, I am a doctor and could not have risked the lives of others back home,” he said.In Meerut, which has recorded the second highest Covid-19 cases in UP so far, several other doctors have made such personal sacrifices in the line of duty.Dr Ali, the 30-year-old junior resident doctor, said, “I was put on a video call and my family sent me pictures of my father’s burial. I am under home quarantine currently and will be tested for Covid-19 on Saturday. If I test negative, I have my travel pass ready to return home.” His 20-year-old brother and 15-year-old sister, are meanwhile, consoling their mother back home.In another case, Dr Nirupama Gupta, 36, who has two more days to complete her Covid-19 ward duty before getting tested and going on quarantine, has missed her daughter’s fourth birthday and her wedding anniversary as her husband, who is also a doctor, is on Covid duty in Kerala.“My husband has been studying cardiology in Kerala for the last two years. I am in Meerut and my daughter is in Delhi with my in-laws. She wore fairy-like pink wings on her birthday as we saw her cut the cake over a video call. My daughter and my mother-in-law stayed with me in Meerut until the pandemic broke out. However, when my Covid-19 duty started, I sent them to Delhi where my father-in-law lives. I couldn’t have risked their safety,” the doctor said.“Not just this, it was our wedding anniversary on Thursday and my husband and I could talk only at 9pm, because I was in the Covid-19 ward duty and couldn’t have picked up calls there,” said Dr Nirupama.Meanwhile, Dr Adeeb Khan, 26, has started living with his sister and brother-in-law – both of them doctors too – at their house in Meerut instead of living with his elderly parents in the same city, hardly a few kilometres away. “My parents are old and will have a constant risk if I go back to home after duty every day. This is why I decided to move in with my sister and brother-in-law,” Dr. Khan said.Recounting a harrowing experience, Dr. Khan said, “During my duty, I came in contact with a gunshot victim who had to be treated immediately. During the process of reviving him, we had to remove our face shields due to fogging and even our gloves tore apart. Later, he tested Covid-19 positive. I was put into quarantine and luckily tested negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/for-docs-fighting-pandemic-no-sacrifice-is-too-big/articleshow/75904300.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 23, 2020||Mangaluru||DCC warns of protest; Bommai defends cops’ action||MANGALURU/MYSURU: District Congress Committee (DCC) of Dakshina Kannada has warned of a protest condemning the FIR filed by Sagar police in Shivamogga district against Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. Police filed FIR based on a complaint over tweets posted on the official Twitter handle of the party criticising the utilisation of the PM CARES fund. Congress MLC Ivan D’Souza said the DCC will hold a protest till the case is withdrawn. “Their intention is very clear that no one should question the Prime Minister. Those who question the PM are branded anti-nationals. Sonia Gandhi asked only the accountability of PM CARES fund. It is meant for the public welfare and not private property. People have the right to seek information about the fund. Isn’t it a politics of revenge to file FIR for seeking information on the fund?,” D’Souza questioned. “Congress will fight against such developments. Many cases were filed against Congress leaders in Karnataka. The FIR should be withdrawn immediately and action should be taken against the police officials,” he said. In Mysuru home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the Shivamogga cops have followed the law and the SC directive in filing a case against Sonia Gandhi following a complaint. “There has been a hullabaloo against the action of cops and Congress is questioning police action and demanding that the case be withdrawn.. Filing FIR is part of investigation. Cops have acted according to the Supreme Court directive as when a complaint is received they have to file FIR. Investigators will decide about it,” Bommai stated. “I want to ask Congress why they were silent when 1,500 complaints were filed against TV anchor Arnab Goswami across India,” the home minister questioned. Meanwhile, former minister B Ramanath Rai criticised the BJP government over its unanimous decision with regard to the administration of gram panchayats in the state. Rai opposed the state government’s decision to appoint administrative councils at the GP level while postponing polls to the local bodies for six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dcc-warns-of-protest-bommai-defends-cops-action/articleshow/75902445.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP MLC, 21 others booked for lockdown violation||Aurangabad: Beed police have registered an offence against newly elected BJP MLC Ramesh Karad and 21 others on Thursday night after photos of him thronging Gopinathgad along with his supporters went viral. In the photos that are making rounds in social media, not a single person can be spotted wearing mask. They are also seen paying no heed to social distancing norm—a rule being promulgated by government authorities to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In a span of three days, Karad has become the second BJP MLC to have been booked for violating lockdown orders. MLC Suresh Dhas was booked for visiting a containment zone from where Covid-19 cases were reported recently. After getting elected, Karad, along with his supporters, had gone to Parli Vaijnath tehsil in Beed district for paying obeisance at Gopinathgad—a lotus shaped religious structure constructed in the memory of political stalwart late Gopinath Munde. Police said that Karad thronged Gopinathgad with his supporters without any prior intimation or permission. Authorities said that an FIR has been registered against 22 people at Parli rural police station under sections 143, 188 , 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “From the photos and videos that have gone viral on social media, we found that there were more people than the permissible limit and so an offence has been registered.” Reports about Karad visiting Parli without permission from the district administration could not be independently confirmed. Despite repeated attempts, Karad could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-mlc-21-others-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75902488.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Police initiate action against 2-wheeler riders during relaxation hours||Aurangabad police have been drawing flak for initiating action against two-wheelers during relaxation hours. Several people have claimed that they were issued challans by police while they had stepped out to buy essential items. As per figures obtained from the city police commissionerate, during the current lockdown, over 780 offences have been registered against those stepping out of homes without any valid reason and 171 vehicles have been seized. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) NS Kode said fine of over Rs 1 crore has been recovered during lockdown from traffic violators. Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel said, “This is sheer insensitivity of police to target people stepping out for purchasing essentials during relaxation hours.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-initiate-action-against-2-wheeler-riders-during-relaxation-hours/articleshow/75902467.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||With 9 ordinances, Yogi makes UP ready for post-pandemic days||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath flying to Gorakhpur for his temple abode on Friday after a gap of over two and a half months days in the midst of the Covid-19 battle, is a clear indication that the situation is gradually improving in the state. Officially, the CM had gone to inspect the demolition of a wall of Gorakhnath Peeth – where he has been staying for over 25 years – to pave way for the construction of four-lane road. But his absence from the state capital also highlights his confidence in the Team 11 and corroborates the fact that his trusted officers are doing their job much to his satisfaction. To fortify UP against the novel coronavirus pandemic and to minimise the death rate, the CM took a series of decisions. From having only one lab and doing just 200 tests per day in March to having 27 labs and conducting 30,000 tests daily the state has come a long way under leadership of Yogi Adityanath. He along with his Team 11 is fully succeeded in creating a decent medical infrastructure in just 45 days. Within the same span, the UP government passed nine ordinance not only to protect corona warriors but also make the state industry friendly. Historic labour and farm reforms were also set in motion in the same period. If top officers of the state remained on toes to implement his planning and strategy in the Covid fight, the CM also set an example of following the 'raj dharma' by not attending the last rites of his father who had died during the lockdown. As soon as the CM realised that the average Covid mortality rate is much less in the state as compared to other states, he included the agenda of economic revival in his war against the virus. Now his teams are busy in attracting industries from across the globe to rise to PM Modi's words -- Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-9-ordinances-yogi-makes-up-ready-for-post-pandemic-days/articleshow/75906383.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 23, 2020||Meerut||2 months on, forest dept yet to trap tigress in rubber factory||Bareilly: An adult tigress which has taken refuge in an abandoned rubber factory, 18 km from Bareilly city, is proving to be a challenge for the forest department.For over two months, since its arrival on the sprawling 1,200-acre defunct factory campus, the tigress has eluded capture, refusing to take the bait set up to trap it by the forest department. The officials have been closely monitoring the movement of the tigress but have not been able to draw up a pattern to isolate the big cat.Meanwhile, the forest department has sought help of Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII). Its team is expected to reach by month-end.Earlier, forest department staff set up traps for the tigress by installing cages in the factory premises. But the plan did not work. They also tried to isolate the big cat in a room which has an auto-closing door as it often went near it to rest. For some reason, the feline never entered the room.Forest officials here have been observing the tigress to ascertain lf there is a pattern in its movement. However, they are yet to get any useful leads.Chief conservator of forests, Rohilkhand zone, Lalit Verma, said, “We are monitoring the movement of the tigress within the factory. We are awaiting the arrival of WII team after which we will decide on what to do next.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-months-on-forest-dept-yet-to-trap-tigress-in-rubber-factory/articleshow/75904309.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Cuttack||HC: Sex on false promise of marriage does not mean rape||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has ruled that indulging in sexual intercourse on the false pretext of marriage does not amount to rape. The high court said this while setting aside a lower court order that had rejected the bail plea of a person accused of committing rape on Thursday. Police had booked the person under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for committing rape on the basis of a complaint lodged by a 19-year-old girl. She had alleged that he had promised to marry her and taking advantage of her innocence, established a sexual relationship with her and made her pregnant. Justice SK Panigrahi said holding that false promise of marriage amounts to rape appears to be erroneous as the ingredients of rape codified under Section 375 of the IPC do not cover it. In his judgment, Justice Panigrahi said, “The definition of rape as codified in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code wherein rape has been defined as certain sexual acts when committed on a victim, falling under any of the seven descriptions: First; against her will; second; without her consent; third; with her consent, when consent has been obtained under fear of death or hurt, fourth; where consent has been given by the victim in the wrong belief that the man is her husband, fifth; when the consent is given when she is of unsound mind or intoxicated and unable to understand the nature of consequences of what she is consenting to, sixth; consent from a girl under the age of 18 years; and seventh; when she is not in a position to communicate the consent.” While recommending that the case deserves “a serious relook”, Justice Panigrahi observed, “The intention of the lawmakers is clear on this issue. The rape laws should not be used to regulate intimate relationships, especially in cases where women have agency and are entering a relationship by choice.” He, however, added, “It is also equally disturbing that many of the complaints come from the socially disadvantaged and the poor segments of the society and rural areas where women are often lured into sex by men on false promises of marriage and then dumped as soon as they get pregnant. The rape law often fails to capture their plight.” Justice Panigrahi further said, “It is an undeniable fact that our society is still largely conservative when it comes to matters of sex and sexuality. Virginity is a prized element. Even if such relationship existed, though it is unequivocally denied by the accused, a consensual relationship without even any assurance obviously will not attract the offence under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code.” In his judgment, Justice Panigrahi cited the recent case of Anurag Soni vs State of Chhattisgarh, where the Supreme Court attempted to make a distinction between a promise which is unfulfilled and a promise which is false from the very beginning. “The natural corollary that flows from it is that if a man can prove that he intended to marry the woman but changed his mind later, then it’s not rape. It’s only considered rape if it’s established that he had dubious intentions from the beginning of the relationship,” he said. “In yet another decision in Arak Sk. vs State of West Bengal, the Calcutta high court held that though the act of the accused in abandoning the girl he promised to marry on her becoming pregnant is highly reprehensible, such conduct by itself did not become a ground for holding the accused guilty of a charge of rape under Section 376 of the IPC,” he added. While granting bail to the accused, Justice Panigrahi said, “The factual matrix of the case is based on a prima facie view based on records, as so many aspects of the matter are hungry for a thorough trial and till that time the benefit of bail deserves to be passed on to the appellant (accused)”. The alleged victim of rape had lodged the complaint with the Patangi police station in Koraput district on November 27. The accused has been in custody since the court of sessions cum-special judge Koraput-Jeypore rejected his bail plea on December 11, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/hc-sex-on-false-promise-of-marriage-does-not-mean-rape/articleshow/75904322.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 23, 2020||Mysuru||Chicken prices soar due to drop in supply||Mysuru: Chicken prices, which had nosedived in the beginning of 2020 owing to rumours linking the bird with coronavirus and the subsequent outbreak of bird flu in a few surrounding districts, has seen a steep increase in recent days. Earlier, thousands of chickens were culled or buried alive owing to bird flu and due to reduced demand. The lockdown also affected the industry. Now that most lockdown restrictions have been lifted, demand for chicken has skyrocketed and so has its price in Mysuru. A kg of poultry chicken (with skin) is sold for Rs 220 while without skin, the price is Rs 240. The same is sold for around Rs.260 in bigger cities like Bengaluru. The price of a kg of mutton has touched Rs 610, bringing smiles back on those involved in the business. “In February and March, chicken was offered at wholesale prices in rural areas. But suddenly the price has increased and is expected to increase further on Sundays,” said Sadashiva Bedage, a resident of Ashokpuram. A chicken seller in Nanjumallige Circle expects prices to go up further. “There is hardly any supply as in February and March many stopped raising birds,” he said. “Prices may come down in the next 38-40 days as all poultries have now opened and birds are being raised,” he added. Manjesh Kumar Jadhav, head of the Broiler Coordination Committee, Karnataka Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association (KPFBA) said, production cost of a kilogram of chicken is around Rs.100. “Now chicken production is down by 70% which resulted in some improvement in prices,” he said. “Now that people no longer believe rumours linking chicken with coronavirus, they are consuming it more,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chicken-prices-soar-due-to-drop-in-supply/articleshow/75902503.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Offices, salons open; state buses start operating in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: With several restrictions lifted in the fourth phase of the lockdown, many salons and offices opened in the city for the first time on Friday after a gap of almost two months. The district administration has made it compulsory for all the barber shops and offices to mandatorily sanitise their premises and record body temperature of people with thermal guns. However, on paying a visit to some of the salons,, it was found that a new cloth was not being used for each customer. Even the chairs and equipment were not being sanitised after every use. Many of the offices which opened on Friday with limited staff did not have the gun for thermal scanning of employees. However, other precautionary measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing were observed. A barber who runs a shop in the Tarabai Park area said that he could not arrange for sanitisers in his shop as they were not available in the market. “I had asked my regular customers to bring their own towels to clean their face after shave and haircut. Despite reminding them, many did not get their towels.” “Henceforth, I will charge customers for use of a new towel which I will be providing if they fail to bring their own. I ensured that a clean towel was used everytime for a new customer. I am going to put up a board of do’s and dont’s outside my shop from Sunday onwards,” said the barber. The social distancing norm was observed both inside and outside the barber shops. The barbers used both handkerchiefs and masks to cover their face. The state transport has been allowed to ply buses in the district. Most buses were parked at the Central bus stand in Kolhapur as there were not many passengers. It was only in the afternoon that a bus left for Ichalkaranji and many more arrived from rural towns. Only one passenger was allowed on one seat to ensure social distancing. The ticket collectors gave sanitisers to the passengers boarding and leaving the bus. The seats were sanitised after the bus arrived at the destination. The passengers were allowed entry only after wearing a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/offices-salons-open-state-buses-start-operating-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75902510.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||ECI postpones MLC election by 45 days||Hyderabad: The Election Commission of India (ECI) further postponed the election to the local authority constituency of Nizamabad (MLC) by 45 days. The election was supposed to be held on April 7, but postponed due to Covid 19. Former MP Kavitha from TRS, BJP nominee Laxminarayana and Congress candidate Subash Reddy are in the fray. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eci-postpones-mlc-election-by-45-days/articleshow/75905412.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Rampur's ex-MP Naipal Singh passes away||Rampur: Naipal Singh, Lok Sabha's former member from Rampur and senior BJP, died of a cardiac arrest in Moradabad on Friday afternoon. He was 79 years old.Before being elected as MP, Singh had been a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council. He was elected from Bareilly-Moradabad Division Graduates constituency for five terms.Speaking with TOI, Rampur district government counsel (revenue) Ajay Tiwari, a close associate of Naipal Singh, said, "Naipal Singh died due to a cardiac arrest on Friday afternoon. and His cremation will take place in Moradabad on Saturday morning."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rampurs-ex-mp-naipal-singh-passes-away/articleshow/75904318.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In Covid times, pacemaker queers last rites||MUMBAI: Doctors at Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar, were faced with a peculiar dilemma when they received a body with a pacemaker on Friday morning. The man had died at home, but nobody was willing to remove the pacemaker, as his Covid status was unknown. In regular circumstances, any doctor would have made a tiny cut and removed the device before cremation, but Covid-19 makes things tricky, reports Sumitra Deb Roy. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of the hospital, said that the family had brought the body to the hospital as no doctor was willing to touch the body to remove the pacemaker. “One issue was that nobody was willing to remove the device and the second dilemma was whether the body could be cremated in an incinerator,” said Thakur. What followed were a number of frantic phone calls to a cardiologist, forensic experts, a pulmonologist and even a pacemaker company. “Everyone said the device must be removed before the body was placed in an incinerator. However, there were some who said if the body was cremated on a wooden pyre, it probably wouldn’t lead to an explosion,” said Dr Thakur. At the time of going to press, TOI couldn’t confirm what happened with the remains. Dr Prafulla Kerkar, head of KEM Hospital’s cardiology department, said that removing the pacemaker before cremation is the usual norm as the fear is the device could explode under intense heat. “Previously, KEM used to reuse pacemakers and, therefore, even got many donations. However, that trend no longer exists,” he said. Forensic expert Dr Shailesh Mohite said Covid-19 had created a dilemma over conducting the last rites of those with pacemakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-covid-times-pacemaker-queers-last-rites/articleshow/75906388.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown will be total on Sundays, says Bengaluru top cop||BENGALURU: Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Friday said the next two Sundays will be ‘full curfew days’ and the city will be under complete lockdown between 7pm Saturday and 7am Monday. Addressing the media, the top cop said all essential services will be excluded from the curfew. “People attending weddings and other ceremonies can travel. Those wanting to buy food products or medicines too can step out. However, like in lockdown 1.0, people found loitering unnecessarily will be punished,” he said. According to Rao, city roads will be barricaded like how it was done during lockdown 1.0 and 2.0. A senior police officer told TOI that during this period, vehicles could be seized under the Disaster Management Act-2005. “So, we request the public not to come out unnecessarily. If we find people roaming in vehicles, we shall seize the rides and owners will have to approach the court later to get them released,” he said. The government has extended the lockdown till May 31, which includes two Sundays. Earlier in the day, the state government allowed inter-state travel from Karnataka with the consent of the receiving state. Praveen Sood, Karnataka DG and IGP, said, “Inter-state pass is not required to go out of Karnataka as long as you have the consent of the receiving state. Due to the lockdown, migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons are stranded at different places. They would be allowed to move as usual.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-will-be-total-on-sundays-says-bengaluru-top-cop/articleshow/75904333.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops help those with criminal records with essentials||Aurangabad: The city police have provided dry ration kits and other essentials to several people with criminal records during the lockdown so they abstain from committing any kind of property or other offences to meet their daily needs.Police are also keeping a track of the people being granted emergency parole to provide essentials. A woman, who was arrested on the charges of committing large scale cheating, was released on emergency parole on Thursday. She was provided with essentials.Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “Once a criminal is arrested and a chargesheet is filed, it is for the court to decide his fate. Pandemic is no time to deny essentials to a suspect just released on emergency parole or a person with criminal record.” Under the city police’s community policing initiative, assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne reached out to their homes and gave dry ration kits and other essentials. The officer said that around 100 such people including those being released on emergency parole have been helped by the city police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-help-those-with-criminal-records-with-essentials/articleshow/75902538.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Another relief package for Puri servitors likely||Bhubaneswar: The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) in Puri is likely to announce another financial package for the servitors, whose livelihood has been affected owing to the closure of the shrine in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On April 17, the shrine body announced a package of Rs 5,000 each for the families of its 2,130 servitors. The SJTA said Puri district collector Balwant Singh will draw up a fresh welfare scheme. “We will identify the servitors, who are solely and fully dependent on the temple to earn their livelihood. We will provide them financial assistance. The district collector will work on the welfare plan,” SJTA’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar said. District collector (Puri) Balwant Singh said he will hold a discussion with the servitors of different nijogs (associations) in the next two or three days before drafting the welfare plan. “We will plan instant relief for the sevayat families in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. The financial condition of the servitors is being examined. The temple’s welfare subcommittee is also exploring ways to provide assistance to the servitors,” Singh said. Some servitors said the previous assistance of Rs 5,000 for each family was grossly inadequate. “There are several families with more than one or two servitors, who have been rendering hereditary services to the temple. The Rs 5,000 assistance goes to the family at large, not to the individual servitor. That means if one family has two or three servitors (father and sons or brothers), the Rs 5,000 would be divided among them,” a servitor said. Some of the servitors offer daily services to the deities in the 12th century shrine, while others carry out their duties on specific days in a year. Every day, nearly 80 servitors are required to perform around 20 or 22 rituals in the shrine. The servitors are paid according to the number of days they are assigned to perform the rituals. Sources said the servitors get anything between Rs 500 to Rs 2,500 a day as remuneration. The servitors said their income had shrunk since 2014 when the temple administration had banned pilgrims from getting atop chariots during the annual Rath Yatra. Several servitors used to earn their livelihood by escorting devotees to the chariots and performing puja for them in front of the deities. “The practice has been discontinued since 2014, stripping the servitors of their income. In 2018, the administration had imposed a ban on the collection of dakshina and donation by servitors from devotees in the temple. Many families of servitors find it difficult to make their ends meet,” said Jogendra Dasmohapatra, another servitor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/another-relief-package-for-puri-servitors-likely/articleshow/75904329.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Fear grips Bijnor-Amroha border villages after 11 injured in leopard attacks in a week||Bijnor: With cane harvesting almost drawing to an end, vast fields lie bare bereft of any vegetation, exposing leopards and herbivores that live amid the cane stalks.Therefore, man-leopard conflict is inevitable. Over the past one week, 11 villagers have been attached in Bijnor's Chandpur area bordering Amroha district.While all the injured have been hospitalised and are stated to be out of danger, villagers are living in fear of leopard attack. Farmers venture out to work in their fields in groupsOn its part, the forest department believes that one big cat is responsible for all the attacks. The department is trying to get permission to tranqulize the leopard before panic-stricken villagers take matters in their hands and harm the carnivore.Last week, villagers captured a leopard in Amroha district and handed it over to the forest department. But, it died soon after under mysterious circumstances. But on the other side of the border, villagers in Bijnor said they have seen another leopard and the danger is present.Bijnor's divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, "We are coordinating with Amroha's forest officials. The leopard has attacked villagers on the bordering area. We are planning to trap it. Camera traps have already have been set up in the area to trace it. Besides, we have sought permission from higher authorities to tranqulize it. We will capture it soon."Since November last year, six people, including a schoolboy, were killed in leopard attacks. The last attack took place in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fear-grips-bijnor-amroha-border-villages-after-11-injured-in-leopard-attacks-in-a-week/articleshow/75904324.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Chennai to UP's Balrampur, migrant covers 2,000-km journey on bicycle||LUCKNOW: A resident of Balrampur district pedalled about 2,000 kilometres to reach home from Chennai. Mohammed Arif Khan (38) was left with no option, but to sell off his mobile phone, utensils and ceiling fan to buy a bicycle for Rs 5,500 and then began his 12-day journey home. He reached his village Indirapur on May 22. “I was not sure whether I will be able to do so or not. Covering this distance on bicycle was not easy. However, I got help from people all along the route and I cycled day and night,” he said adding that “I used to earn Rs 15,000 per month by working in a car factory. I tried but did not get train or bus to reach home.” “I got worried for once when while cycling on the third day its tyre got punctured near Ring Road in Telangana. I had to pull the cycle for about 50 km when a traffic cop offered me help in getting the tyre fixed,” he said. “In Satna, I met one Sikander who is also from Balrampur and gave him lift on bicycle. We used to cover 110-km alternatively,” he said. “We took a day's rest in Prayagraj before setting out for the journey. In all, I had ten bananas and was offered food at three places – at Adilabad in Telangana, Seoni in MP and Prayagraj,” he said. “We were overjoyed on May 21 to see a milestone that states Barabanki 100 km.” Khan will now be kept in quarantine for 14 days along with Sikander. It took him 12 days to cover nearly 2,000 km, roughly 166-km a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chennai-to-balrampur-migrant-covers-2k-km-journey-on-bicycle/articleshow/75906389.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Confusion over chemical used for disinfection||Jaipur: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has shot a letter to the district administration seeking information about the kind of chemicals to be used in spraying disinfectant.At present, JMC is using sodium hypochlorite 1% for knapsacks and 10% for fire tenders. JMC wants to purchase new vehicles for each zone which will be smaller in size and will have low maintenance costs compared to fire tenders. However, these new vehicles will be able to spray only nitrogen peroxide (The JMC recently procured 20,000 litres). Moreover, according to experts, spraying nitrogen peroxide will not be effective as it loses its impact due to dust in public places. Hence, JMC has asked district administration about the chemical to be used in this case. A senior JMC official said, “We have asked the district administration to look into this and suggest us a solution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/confusion-over-chemical-used-for-disinfection/articleshow/75905437.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Patna||179 more Covid-19 cases, 1 death in Bihar; tally rises to 2,166||PATNA: Bihar crossed the 2,000 cases mark on Friday with 179 more people testing positive for the Covid-19 virus taking the total to 2,166 while one more death was reported, taking the statewide toll to 11. The total number of active cases now stands at 1,526 while 629 people have recovered so far. According to the State Health Society and a health department release, the death was reported from Khagaria district. As per information shared by health department principal secretary Uday Singh Kumawat on his Twitter handle, Covid-19 cases were reported from 14 districts, with maximum number of positive cases reported from Madhubani where 34 people have tested positive for the virus. Other four districts with large number of cases include Katihar with 19 positive cases, Begusarai with 17 positive, Samastipur with 10 positive cases and Patna and Goplaganj with nine positive cases each. Maximum number of cases so far has been reported from Patna with 186 people testing positive for the virus. However, 52 people have recovered in Patna and two have died, taking the active cases to 132. Other districts which have touched the three-digit figure include Munger which has reported 137 cases, Rohtas 123 cases, Begusarai 122 cases, Madhubani 115 cases, Jehanabad 106 cases and Buxar 100 reported cases so far. Kumawat stated that 58,905 samples have been tested in Bihar so far and 36 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours after getting recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/179-more-cases-1-death-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-2166/articleshow/75904334.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 23, 2020||Meerut||Indian Boozers Association demands MSME status for tipplers, welfare schemes||Meerut: At a time when many state governments have increased the taxes on liquor to generate the much-needed revenue after the economy shut down due to the lockdown, Bulandshahr-based Indian Boozers Association (IBA) has demanded elevation of status of "40 crore tipplers in the country on a par with that of farmers and the MSME (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises) sector." Their argument is that if tipplers are contributing huge revenue to the government coffers, there should be welfare measures and government schemes for them. IBA came into existence in 2015 when 50 eminent persons in Bulandshahr and nearby districts came together to fight for the rights of liquor lovers and to create awareness among the masses to remove the "stigma" attached to drinking."During the ongoing pandemic, the government machinery came to a standstill and when every source of revenue for the government choked due to successive lockdowns, it was the tipplers who descended as angels to rescue the government by buying liquor. If we demand dignity and welfare schemes for liquor consumers and their families, what is wrong in that? After all we, like doctors and nurses and policemen, are also contributing to the fight against coronavirus. We should also be officially termed as 'Corona Warriors'," said IBA founder president Hari Angira. District president of IBA, Laxmi Narayan, said, "One thing is very clear. Liquor lovers are subjected to all sorts of harassment. Of late, governments of various states have increased excise duty on liquor unreasonably, still consumers are willingly paying for it. It is we who are contributing to the government coffers at the moment. We want MSME status, concessional loans and relief package. When there are so many welfare schemes for a farmer, why not one for liquor lovers. We demand insurance schemes for consumers' families. Everyone feels they are drinking for pleasure but the reality is they are also contributing to the state exchequer." Angira said, “On the face of it, the entire concept might sound hilarious but a grave reality lies hidden behind it. We have a logical demand here. Either the government completely ban production, stocking and sale of liquor thereby squeezing collection of huge tax revenue or it earmark a substantial amount of the tax collected for the benefit of boozers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/indian-boozers-association-demands-msme-status-for-tipplers-welfare-schemes/articleshow/75904340.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 23, 2020||Mysuru||MCC extends rebate period on property tax||MYSURU: Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has extended the property tax rebate period till May 31 due to the lockdown. According to the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act 1976, the civic body provides 5% rebate on the tax payable by the property owners in April — the first month after the end of the financial year every year. But due to the lockdown, MCC authorities had written to the government to extend the date for availing the benefits in a bid to avoid people thronging the banks. After getting approval from the directorate of municipal administration, the MCC has extended the last date to avail rebate on property tax till May 31. The civic body. which is in deep financial crisis due to defaulters not paying taxes, is badly hit by the lockdown. MCC deputy commissioner (revenue) T B Kumara Naik told TOI that there has been minimal property tax collection from March 25 in the region due to the lockdown.“From March last week, MCC has not received any tax amount. We had set a target of getting Rs 160 crores for the financial year, but we have managed to get Rs 127 crores,” he added. There are 1,83,535 properties in MCC limits of which 1,58,156 are general properties while 25,379 are revenue properties. Out of the general properties, 13,972 are sites, 1,34,871 are houses and 1,34,871 commercial establishments. MCC, which had the budget of around Rs 713 crore, had expected revenue of around Rs 160 crore through property tax. The civic body had collected around Rs 105 crore tax by end of December 2019 and had expected to collect the remaining Rs 60 crore pending amount by end of the financial year in March. Speaking to TOI, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said, “Due to the lockdown, bank counters at the zonal offices are closed. Once the situation normalises, the counters will be opened up to the tax payers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mcc-extends-rebate-period-on-property-tax/articleshow/75902585.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 23, 2020||Meerut||100 women among 150 booked for 'grand funeral' of a cow in UP's Aligarh||AGRA: Police have registered a case against 150 people, including 100 women, for allegedly taking out a “grand procession" to bury a cow's carcass in Aligarh on Thursday, and defying the Covid-19 lockdown norms. A case has been registered against 25 identified and 125 unidentified persons under sections 188 (disobedience) and 269 (act likely to spread infection) of IPC and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, after a video of the lockdown violation went viral on social media. Confirming this, Civil Lines circle officer Anil Samaniya said that the locals took out the procession in Memdi village on Thursday morning. Police said that since cow is considered a "holy animal", people usually perform its last rites. This abandoned cow was sick for the past few days and was found near a general store owned by one Dinesh Chandra Sharma. Locals then decided to organise the last rites with full honour. Sharma, the general store owner, said, “If someone took part in the funeral at their own will, how can I stop them? I took her for the burial. There is nothing wrong in it. I am ready to face any action." Another resident Mani Singh said that the cow was staying in the village for the past many years and it was their responsibility to give the cow an honourable funeral. “We don’t have any regrets for taking out the procession," he said. People, who gathered to witness the cow’s funeral, as it passed through the streets, said that they violated all social distancing norms and weren’t even wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/100-women-among-150-booked-for-grand-funeral-of-a-cow-in-aligarh/articleshow/75904339.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham Devsthanam Board allotted Rs 10 cr, more temples likely to be included under its ambit||Dehradun: The first meeting of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board was held at the chief minister’s residence on Friday. During the meet, a provision of Rs 10 crore was made for the board, which has been constituted to oversee the management of more than 50 temples in Uttarakhand, including the Char Dham shrines. It was also decided that the funds of Badri-Kedar Temple Committee (BKTC) would be transferred to the board. A high-level committee headed by state’s chief secretary would be formed for coordination among government departments to ensure that religious yatras are organised smoothly. Besides, the board has decided that online “darshan” of the temples (except the inner sanctum) and puja through audio-visual means will be facilitated for devotees. Later, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the board had a detailed discussion on the situation arising out of Covid-19 and on the efforts required to start the yatra. “This can be called a landmark meeting as it is the first meeting of this board. We have kept a provision of Rs 10 crore for the board and a high-level committee headed by the chief secretary will be constituted to coordinate with different government departments for smooth organisation of a religious yatra,” said the CM. “Many temple committees have expressed their desire to be under the ambit of the board and we may do so in the future,” added the CM. He did not fail to mention that matters related to priests were also discussed in the meeting. “For all their legal matters and other issues, the board has announced to form a tribunal so that they can be resolved,” the CM informed. CM Rawat directed the board members, which also include chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh and Garhwal commissioner Ravinath Raman, to ensure online darshan of temple premises – barring the sanctum – for the devotees and arrange prayers and “aarti” for them through audio system. However, it will be ensured that all religious rituals and traditions are kept in mind for online darshan and aarti. The remaining funds of the BKTC would be shifted to the board. Besides, the BKTC employees would be merged with the board. An additional CEO of the board would be appointed and the members gave their permission for the creation of a post of finance controller. NIC will upgrade the official website of BKTC and it would be renamed as Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board. The members have also given nod to the proposal to have a separate logo for the board. The CM also announced setting-up of a museum where ancient statues and manuscripts will be kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-devsthanam-board-allotted-rs-10-cr-more-temples-likely-to-be-included-under-its-ambit/articleshow/75902560.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||Toys from cops light up migrant kids’ faces||Jhansi: The cute little smiles on the faces of little children of migrant workers who were gifted toys on Friday here made everyone forget the heat of scorching sun with mercury touching 43 degree Celsius at the MP UP border in Raksa, Jhansi. As a goodwill gesture the local administration and police distributed toys apart from mask, sanitisers and gloves to the passing migrant workers. DM Jhansi, Andra Vamsi, SSP, D Pradeep Kumar, CDO, Nikhil Fundey reached at the border and distributed the items. The gesture was welcomed by the migrants who have been travelling day and night from different corners of Gujarat and Maharashtra and trying to reach home. Reacting to the toys, Sanjana Jha a migrant worker coming from Mumbai and going towards Bihar viewed while looking on the face of her five year old son, “we are travelling continuously for past five days in this unbearable heat. Food and water that we have been receiving at some of the places was only the novelties that we had. But this kind of gesture is indeed very soothing as I can see happiness on the face of my child after so many days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toys-from-cops-light-up-migrant-kids-faces/articleshow/75906395.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Penalty for violating lockdown norms||From now on, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) will penalise people not wearing masks, flouting social distancing norms and selling tobacco products. As per new guidelines issued by state administration, JMC will penalise people seen violating the rules of modified lockdown. JMC has appointed officers in charge for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/penalty-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75905445.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Water quality in rivers, canals improves during lockdown, finds study||JAIPUR: The overall quality of water bodies in the state has improved during the lockdown which should be seen as a positive sign. As per the latest report published by Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB), the overall water quality of the canals and rivers has improved in all major parametres. To know the impact of lockdown on surface water quality in the state, sampling and analysis of water quality was carried out in the last week of April, 2020 in all the sixty monitoring stations for surface water (river, canal, lake and dam). The analysis results of the samples collected were compared with the analysis results of the samples collected in April 2019. For evaluating the impact of lockdown on water quality; data of April 2019 and April 2020 was compared on five parameters, i.e., Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Dissolved Oxygen (DO), Total Coliform and Conductivity. The concentration of BOD in rivers and canals of Rajasthan ranged between 1.24 to 5.56 mg/l in April 2019, whereas the same ranged between 1.08 to 4.32 mg/l in April 2020. The concentration of COD in rivers and canals of Rajasthan ranged between 13.94 to 70.89 mg/l in April 2019, whereas the same has ranged between 8.28 to 41.20 mg/l in April 2020. The water quality of the rivers and canals monitored with respect to Total Coliform, meets stipulated water quality criteria at all stations. Total Coliform values show increasing trend in all the rivers and as coliform is not harmful, this is a positive sign. Similar decline has been seen in other parameters as well. Besides, it has been observed that water quality of the lakes and dams in terms of all the above parameters has improved including Pushkar Lake, Ajmer, upstream of Chhapi Dam and Piplaz Dam, Bhawani Mandi. Improvement of water quality of the lakes located in Udaipur and Mount Abu may be due to minimal tourist inflow in the lockdown period. Similarly, the improved water quality in Pushkar Lake can be attributed to minimal pilgrims and almost nil community bathing and washing activities at the ghats. The water quality of upstream of Chhapi Dam, Piplaz Dam at Bhawani Mandi, Kodar Dam at Mount Abu and Gambhiri Dam at Nimbahera has improved as compared to April 2019. Improvement of water quality in these dams may be due to minimal human intervention at the dam and their catchment areas during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-quality-in-rivers-canals-improves-during-lockdown-finds-study/articleshow/75905451.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt will promote Indian medical practices: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said ayurveda, homeopathy, unani and other Indian medical practices have an important role in realising the resolve of ‘Nirogi Rajasthan’. The state government will not be found lacking in promoting these systems. He said that during the time of Covid-19 epidemic, the doctors and nursing staff associated with these medical practices have worked with full dedication. Gehlot was interacting with medical personnel associated with ayurveda, homeopathy, unani and other Indian systems of medicine through a video conference on Friday. He said that these methods have also contributed well in fighting against corona. The efforts made by the ayurveda department to increase immunity through decoction (kada) and other medicines have shown good results. Also, other methods have contributed in their own ways to strengthen the immune system. The CM said the relevance of these systems has increased with modern lifestyle. Confidence in the public has increased. Research in these systems should be made more useful towards the current needs. He laid special emphasis on yoga and naturopathy to make people healthy. Health minister Raghu Sharma said Ayush workers have rendered commendable services in this challenging phase of epidemic. It is the effort of state government that these systems emerge in new forms and more and more people can get benefit from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-will-promote-indian-medical-practices-gehlot/articleshow/75905453.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Don’t exclude 116 villages from ESA list: MP to Centre||Kolhapur: Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has written to the Centre objecting to the Maharashtra government’s proposal to exclude 116 villages from Kolhapur and Sindhudurg districts from the list Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESA) of the Western Ghats.The MP said these villages key to the protection of the Western Ghats’ ecology. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday sought the inclusion of 2,092 villages in the eco-sensitive zones during a video conference with Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar. The state government, in making more space for industrial and mining activities, had recommended dropping around 388 villages out of 2,133 villages listed as ESAs by the Centre in its report on the finalisation of eco-sensitive zones in the Western Ghats.The MP said that he was aware of the state’s need to generate employment in times of crisis but excluding the 116 villages would open them up to exploitation. “This should not happen at any cost. I have pleaded with Centre to allow sustainable development activities and not construction and mining which have the potential to destroy the ecology developed over centuries,” he said.In his letter to Javadekar, the MP said that easing restrictions would lead to environmental disasters and reminded him of the floods last year which had wreaked havoc in the Kolhapur and Sangli districts.“Mining in eco-sensitive areas must be banned. It has already been recommended by the Kasturiranjan and Madhav Gadgil committees. In the rarest of rare cases, permission should be given for development activities on a smaller scale and that too after a thorough environment impact assessment. Locals should have their say in such activities,” Sambhajiraje wrote in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dont-exclude-116-villages-from-esa-list-mp-to-centre/articleshow/75902565.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops told to file case for removing quarantine sticker||Kolhapur: The civic body has given orders to the police to register a case against people violating quarantine orders. A case would also be registered against those removing ‘home quarantine’ stickers pasted on the doors of their houses.Kolhapur municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said the civic body has put in place a policy to curb the spread of Covid-19. People travelling from red zones are being placed in institutional quarantine, and after testing negative, the individual is advised seven days of home quarantine. A sticker stating ‘home quarantine’ is also pasted on the doors of the house. Kalshetti said that the locals residents have raised complaints about such violations and asked ward committee members to take matter seriously. He said that officials and local leaders in the committee, if found favouring anybody, will also face action. “The list of the travellers coming from outside is shared with the local staff. Since institutional quarantine facilities are full, people who travelled are being advised home quarantine from 7 to 14 days. We are also ensuring that the containment measures are adopted immediately if an individual advised home quarantine tests positive for Covid-19,” added Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-told-to-file-case-for-removing-quarantine-sticker/articleshow/75902581.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Jaipur||Four from city die in mishap near Bharatpur||JAIPUR: Four persons from the city were killed in a road accident in Bharatpur’s Lakhanpur police station area on the Jaipur-Agra national highway. The deceased were from Jhotwara in Jaipur and were killed when their car collided with a tanker. The deceased include a minor as well as two women. Initial investigation suggested that the tanker was ahead of the smaller vehicle and suddenly applied brakes due to which there was a collision. The deceased were identified as Abdul Gani (17), Shehzad (30), Shakila (45) and Salma (47) who were travelling in a hatchback car from Bharatpur to Jaipur. “We received information about the accident around 6am and on reaching the spot found that all four passengers had died on the spot. It appears that the tanker applied brakes suddenly and the car which was just behind it lost control because of which it collided with the heavy vehicle,” said Govind Singh, assistant sub inspector, Lakhanpur police station. According to officials, the accident was quite gruesome and a crane had to be called to separate the car from the tanker. The tanker’s driver fled from the spot. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-from-city-die-in-mishap-near-bharatpur/articleshow/75905449.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||After gruelling journey, fallen homes greet West Bengal migrant workers||HYDERABAD: Migrant workers from West Bengal stranded in Hyderabad have been anxious with the impact of Cyclone Amphan on their hometown. On the other hand, migrant workers who have reached back home were left to stare at their damaged houses and loss of property. As his income reduced to nil in the past two months during the lockdown, Nimoy Sarkar’s only option was to go home and work at his farm until the situation got better. Sarkar, from Malda district of West Bengal, who is still stuck in Hyderabad, cannot fathom the circumstances now after the cyclone destroyed his paddy farm. “Even if I go home, there will be no work available, so I thought of taking the responsibility of the paddy farm. But my father informed that the entire farm has been destroyed in the cyclone,” said Sarkar, who worked in a construction site on Raj Bhavan road. Similar is the situation for 16 other workers from the state staying with him in Hyderabad. “Since the past two days, my family only wished the roof of the house doesn’t fall on them due to the cyclone,” said Toton Das from Murshidabad, who is currently staying in MS Maqta area. Kanai Mahato from Nadia district, who reached home from Hyderabad on Tuesday, said a tree fell on a portion of his house. He wonders how he will repair the damage, with little money to survive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-gruelling-journey-fallen-homes-greet-west-bengal-migrant-workers/articleshow/75905550.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 23, 2020||Business||Healthy elderly can fly; Aarogya Setu app not must for air travel: Hardeep Singh Puri||NEW DELHI: The Centre iterated on Friday that domestic flights to all places would resume from Monday, despite resistance from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, and termed as “impractical” calls for quarantining domestic flyers after they disembark. Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri clarified the healthy elderly wouldn’t be stopped from flying. The use of Aarogya Setu App, he said, was preferable, and not mandatory, for air travel. Airlines started opening bookings from Thursday night after DGCA approved a schedule of 8,216 weekly domestic flights from Monday, a third of the original summer schedule of 24,643. While all airlines are taking bookings for travel from May 25, GoAir is doing so from its originally announced date of June 1. Till 5 pm on Friday, over 1 lakh tickets are learnt to have been sold, with almost 60,000 of them by market leader IndiGo alone. “Domestic passengers are pre-cleared. Some of the anxiety which is being shown would have been there at any time. Now we have been under lockdown for 57 days and are opening after three days. Between March 25 and June 1, what’s going to change? We are going ahead with this. And if some states feel anxiety (about allowing domestic flights) and quarantine people for some days, that is not practical. We would face the same issue even if we were to start on June 1,” Puri said. The places opposing domestic air travel from Monday are “accepting trains and the number of people coming by air is very small. I personally don’t see any problem (with everyone coming on board for domestic flights from Monday),” he added. “There’s tremendous pent-up demand, as is visible from the number of bookings made in a few hours. We are not sending passengers from abroad. Even those coming from abroad are doing so after taking all precautions, and then states have all quarantine facilities for them. Here we are bringing in (domestic) passengers who are making declarations when they do a web check-in. They have to tick boxes about things like not coming from a containment zone or not having tested Covid-positive in the last two months. Only if they fulfil these conditions are they given boarding cards,” Puri said. About restricting the very elderly from flying, the minister said: “The important thing is that this is an advisory applicable not just to the elderly but also to pregnant women and people with health issues. Initially only those who need to travel will travel. If you are aged and healthy and need to travel, you can travel. Similarly, the use of the Aarogya Setu App is also preferable, not mandatory, for travel. A healthy elderly person will not be stopped from travelling."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/healthy-elderly-can-fly-aarogya-app-not-must-for-air-travel-puri/articleshow/75907783.cms||Saurabh Sinha
May 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur records 28 new Covid-19 cases, Satara 20||Kolhapur: The steady rise in number of patients detected with Covid-19 has brought the total cases in Solapur and Satara districts to 500 and 200, respectively, on Friday morning. According to the Solapur health department data, they received 108 swab sample reports on Friday morning, of which 28 were positive, while 80 were negative. Six men, who tested positive for the contagion, succumbed to the infection. Solapur has recorded 40 deaths so far. At the same time, nearly 218 patients have recovered from the contagion, while 252 are undergoing treatment in Solapur. Meanwhile, Satara recorded as many as 20 new Covid-19 cases until Friday evening, taking the tally to 201. Most of the new patients have travel history to Mumbai, while others are close contacts of earlier patients, Satara health department officials said. Of the 201 cases recorded so far, as many as 114 patients have recovered, while 82 are undergoing treatment in hospitals. Satara also recorded one death due to the contagion. A 58-year-old patient with co-morbid conditions passed away at Krishna Medical College in Karad. Sangli reported as many as eight new cases till Friday evening, taking the total cases to 70. According to health department officials, a patient with co-morbid conditions passed away on Friday taking the death toll to two in Sangli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-28-new-covid-19-cases-satara-20/articleshow/75902604.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Four held for beating up Dalit teenager||HYDERABAD: Jannaram police arrested four persons on the charges of assaulting a Dalit teenager for befriending a girl from the BC community. On May 17, the teenager along with his friend approached cops with bleeding injuries, alleging that he was assaulted by four persons from his village when he was with the girl near a temple in Jannaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-held-for-beating-up-dalit-teenager/articleshow/75905458.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Dehradun||Niranjpur Mandi wears deserted look after vendor tests Covid-19 +ve||Dehradun: A day after a vendor at city’s Niranjpur Mandi was tested positive for Covid-19, the vegetable market wore a deserted look on Friday. The office bearers kept the market closed on the day as a precaution measure and conducted sanitisation drive across the market. Talking to TOI, Rajesh Sharma, president of Uttarakhand Mandi Samiti, Dehradun, said “The closure will not have much of an impact on the trade. The teams will carry out sanitisation drive for two-to-three days before the market re-opens on Tuesday. We have already written to the health department asking them to conduct random survey of people as a precaution.” The vegetable market will be operational only on Saturday after which it will be closed on Sunday as it the weekly-off day and on Monday as it is Eid-ul-Fitr. In addition to this, the officials claimed that more precautionary measures will be taken after the market re-opens on Tuesday. Vijay Thapliyal, secretary of Mandi Samiti, told TOI, “We will be ensuring thermal scanning before allowing entry to traders, loaders, and drivers. Along with touch-free sanitising machines, the sodium hypochlorite solution will sprayed in the market for the next few days. The traders with godowns have been asked to remove all the stock of vegetables and other goods for the sanitisation drive. Additionally, the 2,200 new mandi passes that were issued recently will be reduced to 1,500. Sanitising hands and wearing mask will be followed as a standard practice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/niranjpur-mandi-wears-deserted-look-after-vendor-tests-covid-19-ve/articleshow/75902582.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Trichy||DRDA to install hands-free wash basins at 14 block offices in Trichy||Trichy: The district rural development agency (DRDA) in Trichy will equip its offices with low-cost hands-free washbasins to eliminate the need to touch taps while washing hands due to the possibility of Covid-19 transmission. The prototype of the basin was positioned at the DRDA office near the district collectorate. “Water consumption is quite less than the conventional handwash. As it is effective, we will place such basins in all 14 block development offices,” R Shankar, project director of DRDA, Trichy told TOI. He said the facility will encourage panchayats in water-scarce blocks such as Thuraiyur, Manapparai and Uppiliyapuram to make use of the equipment to wash hands with minimal water. The pedal-operated basin was jointly developed by Trichy-based R Kannapiran of ONS electrical enterprises and M Subburaman of Society for Community Organisation and People’s Education (Scope). The cost of a 100 litre capacity equipment is priced at Rs 10,000 while the 500 litre capacity costs Rs 15,000.Unlike normal handwash where the user has to touch the taps, the pedal-operated washbasin facilitates hands-free approach. The lever mechanism actuated by a pedal after being pressed with legs will discharge minimal liquid soap and water separately. It is estimated that up to one litre of water is consumed while washing hands for 20 seconds in normal taps but this one discharges only 200ml water. “After actuating the water discharge, the levers will automatically return to their original position once we remove the legs form the pedals,” Kannapiran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/drda-to-install-hands-free-wash-basins-at-14-block-offices-in-trichy/articleshow/75905450.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 23, 2020||Bareilly||Two killed in a road accident in Bareilly||Bareilly: Two youths, who were riding a bike to the market to buy betel leaf, were killed after a speeding mini-van hit their bike from behind in Hafizganj of Bareilly district on Friday morning. Neither victim was wearing helmet, and died from head injuries. Police have sent the bodies for autopsy and registered an FIR against the unknown mini-van driver, who fled the spot after the accident. Police is searching for him.The victims were identified as Mohammed Hasan (18) and his friend Aman (19), both residents of Bareilly’s Nawabganj. Hasan’s father Mohammed Ahmed supplies betel leaves to small shops in the rural area, and had sent his son to buy betel leaves in bulk from Bareilly.Hafizganj SHO Mahendra Singh said, “The accident was reported near Sudiava village. Both victims were rushed to the hospital by police, but Hasan died before reaching hospital, while Aman succumbed to his injuries during treatment. We have registered an FIR under IPC sections 304A (death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving). The kin of both victims are upset after receiving the tragic news.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-killed-in-a-road-accident-in-bareilly/articleshow/75904349.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Lucknow||HC seeks report from Centre, UP||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court directed the Centre and UP government to file a status report through an affidavit within two weeks, detailing facilities provided to stranded migrant labourers keen to return to their native districts in UP and also those who managed to enter the state. A division bench of Justice Anil Kumar and Justice Saurabh Lavania passed the order on a Public Interest Litigation petition moved by local lawyer, Dileep Kumar Pandey. The petitioner sought direction from the court to the Centre and state government to safeguard rights of migrant workers and provide them with food, drinking water and medical aid and ensure those trekking home did not starve. Also, these migrants should be provided free transportation to their homes, the petition stated. In course of the hearing, the counsel for the Centre placed a copy of an order passed by Supreme Court and also furnished a revised Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) on movement of migrant workers. Later, the state and Centre assured the bench that Supreme Court’s directive and the revised SOP would be followed in letter and spirit. The bench directed them to furnish an action taken report within two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-seeks-report-from-centre-up/articleshow/75906405.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||With migrants return, 2 Covid test centres in Steel City test over 1,500 samples||Jamshedpur: With close to 5,000 migrants returning to their homes in the three districts of Kolhan division, the two Covid-19 testing centres in Steel City — Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) and Tata Main Hospital (TMH) — have seen a surge in the number of swab samples being tested daily. Earlier, MGMMCH would test 250 samples every day but ever since the migrants have returned, the state-run hospital now tests 500 samples each day. TMH, the only private hospital here approved for testing coronavirus samples, is now testing 130 samples a day when till the first week of May, it was testing 70 samples every day. West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal said, “Over half of the 3,000 samples collected from the district so far are from the returning migrants.” He added, “With thousands expected to arrive in Kolhan in the next few days, the priority is to get them tested first before moving on to random testing.” MGMMCH principal Prashant Kumar Barla said, “Currently, there are two RT-PCR diagnostic testing machines at the virology department but we will need another machine to speed up the testing as scores of migrants are expected to return to Kolhan. He added that he has taken up the requirement for more testing machines with the state government through dedicated forums. MGMMCH is currently testing samples from East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Khunti and Simdega. “More and more tests is key in order to be certain about the exact number of Covid-19 cases in our surroundings. Thus, we need to increase number of the tests and for that, high-end machinery is required,” said IMA Jamshedpur functionary Mrityunjay Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-migrants-return-2-covid-test-centres-in-steel-city-test-over-1500-samples/articleshow/75902556.cms||B Sridhar
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||Tata Steel running with 50% capacity, efficiency sees improvement, says CEO Narendran||Jamshedpur: Tata Steel CEO and managing director T V Narendran on Wednesday evening interacted with the company’s vendors and the owners of ancillary units in Steel City and in Adityapur, as part of a confidence building measure, where he said that the steel giant is running with reduced capacity at the moment but it is yielding better results with limited resources. Narendran, while speaking through video conference, said, “The ongoing lockdown has necessitated the company to run the plant with 50% capacity but this has brought about an improvement in our efficiency.” He added that demand from the domestic market is mostly coming from the healthcare, furniture, oil and gas sectors. “The demand from automobile and construction sectors, which form the bulk of our demand, is currently very low. Emphasising that Covid-19 is here to stay, Narendran urged everyone to change one’s lifestyle to cope with the disease. He said, “Even if a vaccine is prepared now, it will take a long time to be administered to the entire population.” Noting that the country has limited resources to tackle the virus, Narendran said, “India is currently testing around one lakh people per day when it needs to test 20 lakh people in a day to cover the entire population.” He added that the current crisis has made the company officials look through its archives to check how Tata Steel handled a similar situation when it witnessed the Spanish flu in 1919. “At that time, one could easily spot a patient infected with the Spanish flu, but today a Covid-19 infected person looks normal,” he said. Responding to a vendor’s query, Narendran said that employing the migrants, who have recently returned to their native states, is a challenge but the recent policy announcement by the Union government on agriculture looks optimistic. “Industrialisation in the state needs to be increased to deal with unemployment among the migrants,” he added. He also advised the MSME units to rely more on technology to cope with the tough times ahead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-steel-running-with-50-capacity-efficiency-sees-improvement-says-ceo-narendran/articleshow/75902521.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||Eid market deserted as Ramzan nears end||Ranchi: The state capital practically gets lit up in the holy month of Ramzan. But, not this time. The coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown imposed by the government to contain the spread of the disease has taken the usual glitter off the city. It is a Ramzan like no other the city has seen and the merrymaking spirit is conspicuous by its absence. In the last dahaa — the last 10 days of the holy month — the city would come alive with people from all walks of life converging at markets, but for the first time in living memory, traffic did not come to a standstill on Main Road in Ranchi on the occasion of Alvida Jumma – the last Friday of Ramzan. The grand shiny shops that used to be decked up in festive decorations have their shutters down, and the handful of people on the streets don't quite match the definition of the festive crowd of the Eid market people are used to all these years. For the three-and-a half year old Mashira, it is difficult to understand what really killed the season of for her family. "My uncle told me that we need to stay indoors to keep others safe. We have not done any shopping either," she told TOI over the phone, the displeasure in her voice almost palpable. Mashira had come to her grandparent's house in Ranchi in early March with her mother and have been living here since the lockdown came in force. The importance of this endless lockdown is not entirely comprehensible to the little girl, who remembers her last Eid as an eventful one. Lakhs of people like little Mashira are staying locked up inside this Ramzaan, spending it in a simpler way thanks to the COVID 19 pandemic. Lalpur resident Aftab Khan, who works in the tourism sector, told TOI how the early days of Ramzan were even tougher. “The relaxations given under Lockdown 4.0 have made it easier for us to buy some good food — like fresh fruits and meat — for iftar. But when Ramzan started last month under a complete lockdown, we had to make do with soaked chana, home-cooked sweets and the simpler things.” He added, “Instead of spending money to buy things at higher rates, my family decided to spend the money on people who need it the most. We are helping out the poor helping in whatever way we can. Buying from the local vendors is a practice I have adopted as even they need money in the festive season. The pandemic and the lockdown have made things extremely hard for everyone.” The Alvida Jumma namaaz, a tradition in Ranchi which normally attracts crowds of several thousands, was also a quiet day this year. The namaaz call sounded as usual, but the streets remained hauntingly empty as the final Friday of the holy month ended on a sombre note. A haven for shoppers, the brightly-lit market in the City, particularly, would stand out as it would be ‘pedestrianised’ till Eid. With the Muslim-dominated Hindpiri area, into which the main Eid Market extends, has been declared a containment zone for several weeks, the festive spirit is missing from the trademark hustle and bustle of the locality’s by-lanes. Also missing are the innumerable gastronomical delights of the Daily Market on Main Road. The piles of sewai and bakarkhani (local fresh sweet bread) — the two staples of the iftar platter — are available only in small quantities at a few places across the city. Kantatoli resident Mukhtaar Khan, who runs a shop, said: “There will be no Eid shopping this year for my family. It has been difficult to explain and convince the kids, but it is for the sake of our future. We hope Ramzan next year will give us a chance to celebrate together with our loved ones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/eid-market-deserted-as-ramzan-nears-end/articleshow/75903215.cms||Debjani Chakraborty
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||Trade unions protest ‘anti-worker’ measures||Ranchi: State wings of central trade unions on Friday staged demonstrations at several places against the alleged bid by some states to freeze labour laws, increase working hours from eight to 12 and the Centre’s proposal for commercial mining in the coal sector among others. Several union leaders gathered at Gandhi Sthal in Morhabadi Maidan here around 8am and raised slogans against the policies of the Centre and some of the state governments for about one-and-half hours. Speaking on the issue, All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) general secretary Subhendu Sen said, “The central government is burdening the workers on the pretext of the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. Increasing working hours in some states amounts to repeating the history of workers’ exploitation.” State general secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu) Prakash Viplav said apart from opposing the policies, the trade unions are demanding free transportation of workers while returning home, payment of Rs 7,500 per month each for three months on their return and insurance for hygiene workers. He said all workers must be provided foodgrains at PDS rates. Viplav said workers from coal, iron and steel, transport, construction, heavy engineering and pharmaceutical sectors took part in the protests in different parts of the state. Besides, employees of banks, railways and insurance wore black badges and raised slogans during lunch hours, he added. Other leaders, including P K Ganguly of All India Trade Union Congress and Rakeshwar Pandey of Indian National Trade Union Congress also took part in the protest at Morhabadi ground. Similar protests were organised at the headquarters of Central Coalfields Limited and the Indian Institute of Coal Management here. The Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha also held demonstrations at Rahe in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trade-unions-protest-anti-worker-measures/articleshow/75902906.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||4 CISF jawans among 5 new patients in Bokaro||Bokaro: Of the five ppersons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Bokaro around midnight on Thursday, four are Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawans who arrived in the city arrived from Bhubaneswar in the Delhi-bound Rajdhani Special Express on May 13 after attending a training programme in the Odisaha capital. The industrial city, home to Bokaro Steel Limited, reported new cases after more than a month after it diagnosed its last patient on April 20. The district now has a total of 15 cases, of which five are active while nine have recovered and one patient died, becoming the first Covid casualty in the state on April 8. Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar said all the five patients — including one who recently returned from Maharashtra on a truck — are asymptomatic. Lodged in separate quarantine centres since their return, the CISF jawans have now been shifted to a Covid-19 ward at Bokaro General Hospital. Kumar added, “All of them are between 20 and 35 years of age. A drive is on to identify and screen the persons they came in contact with.” CISF sources said the constables attended a training programme in Cuttack in Odisha in February this year for promotion training to the ranks of head constables. Stranded in Cuttack since March, they boarded three different coaches of the Bhubaneshwar-New Delhi Rajdhani on May 13. The source added, “It is difficult to say how they got infected. From the training center, they were taken to the Bhubaneswar railway station in CISF vehicles. After reaching Bokaro, a vehicle picked them up from the station and took them to a quarantine centre.” Another CISF officer said, “We have informed the training centre at Cuttack and the CISF headquarters so that suitable measures can be taken. Meanwhile, all the details about their stay at the training centre and coach numbers of the train have been provided to the district administration. They had followed quarantine norms strictly and had not come in contact of anyone.” District epidemiologist officer Pawan Kumar Srivastava, however, said he believes the CISF personnel got infected during the 12-hour train journey. “The incubation period (the time it takes for the a patient to develop symptoms agter getting infected) for the novel coronavirus ranges from one to 12.5 days, but it can be as long as 14 days in some cases for patients to show symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-cisf-jawans-among-5-new-patients-in-bokaro/articleshow/75902934.cms||Divy Khare
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||MNREGA will be migrants’ panacea: Soren tells Sonia||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday informed Congress president Sonia Gandhi that Jharkhand has a high recovery rate of coronavirus cases and the death rate is extremely low. Taking part in a video-conference attended by chief ministers of UPA and mahagathbandhan parties, Soren said the recovery rate in the state is over 90%. He also said, “We have also apprised the Centre about the poor socio-economic condition of the state, but now UPA should collectively make a representation to the Union government as the main opposition.” Rahul Gandhi said the lockdown was a big failure for the country. “On one hand, lakhs of people are getting infected and on the other, the economy has gone for a toss,” he said during the conference. He also demanded that the Centre gives at least Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 each in the accounts of poor people to help them survive the crisis. Soren underlined the fact that MGNREGA, introduced by earlier UPA government at the Centre, is going to be the panacea for lakhs labourers returning to their homes and rendered jobless. “The states should demand more autonomy in taking decisions about MGNREGA wages, selection of schemes and employing senior citizens or those with special abilities,” he said. The chief minister also asked the Congress president to talk to the Centre about empowering the state governments to generate its revenues. “We have been facing the consequence since GST was introduced and unless there is some provision for states to make their own resources, they would be solely dependant on the Centre,” Soren said. He also talked about Jharkhand’s effort to strengthen its health infrastructure and lauded the state machinery for effectively managing the crisis during the ongoing pandemic. A press release issued by JMM after the video-conference said the UPA partners have expressed their concern about the big economic challenges faced by the states where lakhs of migrant labourers have returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mnrega-will-be-migrants-panacea-soren-tells-sonia/articleshow/75903608.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||1 in every 100 returning migrants from Mumbai tested positive: Health secy||Ranchi: Returning migrants from Maharashtra and Gujarat are contributing most to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said on Friday. Speaking to journalists in a joint briefing of departments of health, medical education and family welfare, disaster management and transport and aviation on the coronavirus scenario, Kulkarni said one in every 100 returning migrant from Mumbai has tested positive so far. He said, “So far, 21 of the 24 districts are in the orange zone. Khunti, Pakur and Sahebganj are in the green zone as they have not reported a single positive case.” Kulkarni said of the total 19,600 samples collected from migrants tested statewide, 9,378 were Mumbai returnees. “Positivity rate in returning migrants from Surat and Ahmedabad in Gujarat is 0.86%. Overall, the state’s positivity rate is 0.73%,” he added. Kulkarni said Jharkhand’s doubling rate is around 11.6 days, higher than the national average of 13.18 days. Mortality rate in Jharkhand is 0.97% while the state’s recovery rate is 44.2%. Till Friday evening, Jharkhand had 308 positive cases of which 169 are active. So far, with the limited number of testing centres, over 40,000 individuals have been tested and 10 new Trunat machines have been installed in 10 districts to increase the testing capacity, he said. The Trunat machines are installed in Palamu, Bokaro, Latehar, Godda, Pakur, Deoghar, Chatra, Koderma, West Singbhum and Hazaribag. These machines will test 40 samples each day, he added. Additional chief secretary Amarendra Pratap Singh, who is the nodal officer for overseeing the return of migrants, said, “Chief secretaries of all states have been asked to identify walking migrants returning to Jharkhand and arrange for their transport. We will reimburse the expenses, if needed.” Singh also said 18 residents of Jharkhand, who returned from overseas, are in quarantine in various parts of the country. “As many as 13 of them, who landed at Gaya International Airport on May 17, have been brought to Jharkhand and put in paid quarantine,” he added. Transport secretary K Ravikumar said the government is still in talks with the Centre for bringing stranded labourers via flights from Ladakh and Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Ravikumar said 83 more Shramik special trains will arrive in the state in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-in-every-100-returning-migrants-from-mumbai-tested-positive-health-secy/articleshow/75903027.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||Cured patients remember health workers in prayers||Ranchi: This year, during the ‘alvida jumma’ prayer, which is conducted on the last Friday of the holy month of Ramzan, many former Covid-19 patients prayed for the well-being of the health workers, for it was because of the untiring efforts of the doctors and nurses that they could defeat the deadly virus. Abdul Khan (60), who was admitted to Rims with Covid-19, said over phone from Jajpur, Odisha: “I was discharged on May 20 from Rims, after spending 18 days there. The care and affection showered by the health workers cannot be forgotten. It was because of their dedication that I could return to Odisha. Today as I offer prayers to Allah, I request him to provide them strength and good health so that they can continue their work.” Shah Faisal, a resident of Main Road who along with his two kids aged 8 and 11 was admitted to Rims Covid centre after he tested positive for novel coronavirus, said: “I want to thank all health as well as sanitation workers who tirelessly worked at the Covid centres without thinking about their own well-being. On Friday, I have prayed to the almighty to cure each and every Covid patient.” Faisal also spoke highly of Dr Devesh Kumar, an associate professor of preventive and social medicine at Rims, and Ramrekha, the head nurse of Rims’s isolation ward, and added: “My kids were also admitted at the Covid centre and Ramrekha used to bring snacks for them every evening, and Dr Kumar was available round the clock for any kind of assistance.” For Lavlesh, the journey from testing positive for Covid-19 to getting discharged from hospital was no less than a movie script. The IT professional from Giridih was detected Covid-positive when he was en route home in a taxi from Mumbai. The 30-year-old man, who was travelling with his room-mate from Mumbai, was scared not only because he tested positive but also because he thought he might have become the reason for others getting infected. “I had left Mumbai on May 6, and after a few hours I received a mail that said I was Covid-positive. I immediately informed my friend who was travelling with me and took all precautions so that others don’t get infected. After reaching Ranchi, I called up the helpline numbers and was shifted to Rims,” Lavlesh said. Lavlesh added: “The care that I received from health workers in Rims proved that my decision to return to my home town was a correct one. I do not have words to thank Dr Devesh Kumar and his team for their selfless service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cured-patients-remember-health-workers-in-prayers/articleshow/75903013.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||Namazis attack police van at Bokaro mosque||Bokaro: Several men attacked a patrolling vehicle when a police team reached a mosque at Narayanpur village in Bokaro district on receiving information that around hundred people had gathered there to offer namaz on the last Friday of the holy month of Ramzan. Religious gatherings are prohibited during the lockdown imposed to contain spreading of Covid-19. Several men pelted stones on the police team led by Pindrajoda police station in-charge Vimal Lakra. While the cops did not sustain any injuries, their vehicle was damaged in the incident. Backup forces soon reached the spot with senior police and administrative officials and camped there for several hours until the situation was brought under control, block development officer Sanjay Sandaliye, said. He said, “The team asked the men not to violate the lockdown norms. A few policemen stepped on stairs of the mosque, which infuriated them and they started pelting stones on them.” In a peace committee meeting convened later in the day, the men have asked police for forgiveness, he said Bokaro SP Chandan Kumar Jha said an FIR will be lodged against those who pelted stones on the vehicle and efforts are on to identify them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/namazis-attack-police-van-at-bokaro-mosque/articleshow/75903185.cms||Divy Khare
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||E Singhbhum administration, social outfits come forward to help migrants passing through Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: Taking note of the problems being faced by the migrants who often pass through the Jamshedpur stretch of National Highway-33 on foot to return to their native states, the East Singhbhum district administration has arranged vehicles to ferry them to their homes in Jharkhand and in Bihar. Administrative sources said that officials have arranged buses and other vehicles for the migrants once they reach Baliguma near Pardih on NH-33 which is taking them to their homes. Most of these migrant labourers are coming from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha and Tamil Nadu, sources said. Mango circle officer Kamini Kausal Lakra said, “Buses and other vehicles are being arranged for the migrants walking on the highway.” Meanwhile, some social outfits are distributing food to the migrants who are passing through Steel City. Naman has set up a community kitchen near Sakchi area to feed the migrants. The outfit’s functionary, Amarpirt Singh Kale, said they have been running the kitchen since day one of the lockdown to feed more than 2,000 migrants in a day. Robin Hood Army, another social outfit, has been distributing food and water to the migrants twice in a day — from 5am to 12pm and from 4pm to 7pm. Led by the outfit’s functionary, Vikas Singh, a team of 10 volunteers stops the vehicles ferrying the migrants to give them food and water.ss||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-singhbhum-admin-social-outfits-come-forward-to-help-migrants-passing-through-jamshedpur/articleshow/75902985.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 23, 2020||Jamshedpur||15 test coronavirus positive in Jharkhand, 14 are migrants returning home||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded 15 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Friday as migrants returning home in various districts of the state continued test positive for Covid-19. In a concern for the health department, the state has recorded the last 100 cases in just five days. Of the 15 new patients, 14 are migrants from four different districts — Hazaribag recorded seven cases, West Singhbhum and Ramgarh three each and East Singhbhum and Ranchi one case each. The state tally of positive cases now stands at 323, of which 184 are active, 137 have died and two have recovered. Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Prasad Singh said, “Seven migrants tested positive on Friday, taking the tally in our district to 40. Three are from Choparan, two from Sadar, and one each from Ichak and Padma blocks. All seven were at institutional quarantine since their arrival. Padma and Ichak are new blocks which have been affected by the virus.” Of the three who tested positive in Ramgarh, two are from Mandu and one is from Gola block. “All three testing are migrants who have returned from Mumbai. The patients are a 12-year-old girl, her 38-year-old father and another 35-year-old male,” said Ramgarh DC Sandeep Singh. Kolhan region also detected four cases on Friday. “Three migrants tested positive in West Singhbhum district and a women from Jugsalai area who returned from Kolkata on May 16 also tested positive,” said a senior district administration official. Ranchi too detected a positive case on Friday. The patient is a resident of Hazaribag area who was getting treated at a hospital. ( Inputs taken from Hazaribag, Ramgarh and Jamshedpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/15-test-positive-in-state-14-are-migrants-returning-home/articleshow/75917275.cms||Abhijit Sen
May 23, 2020||Ranchi||15 test coronavirus positive in Jharkhand, 14 are migrants returning home||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded 15 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Friday as migrants returning home in various districts of the state continued test positive for Covid-19. In a concern for the health department, the state has recorded the last 100 cases in just five days. Of the 15 new patients, 14 are migrants from four different districts — Hazaribag recorded seven cases, West Singhbhum and Ramgarh three each and East Singhbhum and Ranchi one case each. The state tally of positive cases now stands at 323, of which 184 are active, 137 have died and two have recovered. Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Prasad Singh said, “Seven migrants tested positive on Friday, taking the tally in our district to 40. Three are from Choparan, two from Sadar, and one each from Ichak and Padma blocks. All seven were at institutional quarantine since their arrival. Padma and Ichak are new blocks which have been affected by the virus.” Of the three who tested positive in Ramgarh, two are from Mandu and one is from Gola block. “All three testing are migrants who have returned from Mumbai. The patients are a 12-year-old girl, her 38-year-old father and another 35-year-old male,” said Ramgarh DC Sandeep Singh. Kolhan region also detected four cases on Friday. “Three migrants tested positive in West Singhbhum district and a women from Jugsalai area who returned from Kolkata on May 16 also tested positive,” said a senior district administration official. Ranchi too detected a positive case on Friday. The patient is a resident of Hazaribag area who was getting treated at a hospital. ( Inputs taken from Hazaribag, Ramgarh and Jamshedpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/15-test-positive-in-state-14-are-migrants-returning-home/articleshow/75903458.cms||Abhijit Sen
May 23, 2020||India||Fight against Covid-19 will be a ‘long haul’, early reporting of cases key: Dr Paul||NEW DELHI: Warning that the fight against Covid-19 was going to be a “long haul”, the government stressed on the need for early reporting of cases for better clinical management and to reduce deaths from the infectious disease. “The fight against Covid-19 is going to be a long haul and its progress in India will depend not just on the behaviour of the virus but also containment measures at the government, community and individual level,” Niti Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said. “The actual disease trajectory will not depend on the virus, it is on us to decide the trajectory depending on how much we resist it by following good health practices,” he added. “The real trajectory is dependent not only on the maths of the virus’s progression but also in the behaviour of the community and society and the people at large. This cannot be put into an equation,” he said. Dr Paul also stressed that early detection of cases, effective contact tracing and testing would be key to keep Covid-19 cases and deaths under control in the coming days as the lockdown is now being relaxed. “We have been able to keep cases and mortalities to reasonable rates so far — so the key is to sustain the momentum we have gained as the lockdown measures are gradually eased,” he said. “But we have to understand that the lockdown cannot continue forever,” he added. On Friday, the number of confirmed cases reached 118, 447, with a rise of 6,088 cases in 24 hours. A total of 3,583 patients have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fight-against-covid-19-will-be-a-long-haul-early-reporting-of-cases-key-dr-paul/articleshow/75908000.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 23, 2020||India||7 states/UTs to remain shut if WHO advisory is followed||NEW DELHI: At least seven states and Union Territories — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Telangana, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar — would remain under lockdown with an increase in confirmed coronavirus cases in the last two weeks if a WHO advisory that says restrictions should not be lifted if the positive rate is more than 5% is followed. A similar study by Johns Hopkins University found only 50% of US states qualifying for lifting of lockdown. In India, 21% of the 34 affected states and UTs fall in this category as they have over 5% positive cases per 100 tests since May 7. Maharashtra (18%), Gujarat (9%), Delhi (7%), Telangana (7%), Chandigarh (6%), Tamil Nadu (5%) and Bihar (5%) continue to have high positivity rates. The WHO advisory, however, needs to be seen in context of contamination zones as entire states may not be affected by the pandemic with the virus limited to hotspots and largely urban areas. But despite a zoning approach to easing restrictions, the WHO bar provides an indicator of which states need to do more to reduce rates of infection. “If positivity rate is too high, that may indicate that the state is only testing the sickest patients and is not casting a wide enough net to know how much of the virus is spreading within its communities,” the Johns Hopkins study said. A low positivity rate may be suggestive of sufficient testing capacity and a strategy that is using the tests effectively by checking an adequate section of its population, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-states/uts-to-remain-shut-if-who-advisory-is-followed/articleshow/75908017.cms||Pradeep Thakur
May 23, 2020||Thane||70-year-old coronavirus patien dies waiting outside Thane Covid hospital||THANE: A 70-year-old coronavirus patient died outside a dedicated Covid hospital late on Thursday allegedly without getting medical attention. The incident came a day after another elderly Covid patient from the same area died outside his home. Experts say the incidents expose inadequacies in the infrastructure set up to combat Covid. When Thursday's victim was taken to the hospital, the authorities there started discussing whether to put him in ICU or admit him in the general ward; while a delay ensued in taking a decision, the elderly patient was lying on a stretcher outside the hospital building, gasping for breath, said corporator Narayan Pawar, who was assisting the family. Pawar said the patient got his infection confirmed on Thursday morning, following which his panicked family called the Thane civic helpline, seeking an ambulance to shift him to a hospital in Panchpakhadi. But they got no response. Pawar claimed he intervened and obtained a general ward bed by evening, but at the hospital, after the discussion among the authorities, the family was ultimately told the man was critical and needed ICU. Then they were told that all beds in the hospital were occupied. Also, the authorities were allegedly clueless about any nearby Covid treatment facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/70-year-old-coronavirus-patien-dies-waiting-outside-thane-covid-hospital/articleshow/75908019.cms||Manoj Badgeri
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Fire engulfs Bhandewadi yard, smoke covers nearby areas||Nagpur: For the second time in less than a month, the Bhandewadi dumping yard was up in flames on Friday. The earlier fire at the dumping yard on April 14 had raged on for almost two days before firemen could douse the flames completely. On Friday, a thick layer of smoke prevented residents from over five localities near the yard from using air coolers even as the city recorded 45.6 degree Celsius, the highest maximum temperature of this season. The fire started at around 11am after a spark from a nearby high tension power line came in contact of plastic carry bags being blown away by air. The city’s generates over 1,100 metric tonne waste daily which is dumped at the 75-acre landfill. Starting from north side of the landfill, the fire spread across four acres engulfing portion of the garbage treatment plant on the premises. “Personnel from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) solid waste management department tried to control the fire with a 24X7 fire tanker deployed there, but to no avail,” a staffer told TOI. On getting information, NMC fire and emergency services department pressed eight fire tenders and deployed at least two dozen firemen to bring the flames under control. Deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradip Dasarwar and NMC veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle soon summoned six excavators to dig channels in between heaps of the dumped garbage, while fire station officer Mohan Gudadhe sprayed water in the channels to stop the fire from spreading. They succeeded in stopping the fire from spreading, but the smoke soon covered the surrounding areas. “At least 5,000 residents from nearby areas like Suraj Nagar, Sangharsh Nagar, Pavanshakti Nagar, Antoji Nagar and Chandmari could not use their air coolers or air conditioners due to the smoke,” said Gaurav Gupta, a local resident. The thick smoke also prevented residents of adjoining Wathoda area from using air coolers. Residents said they have been facing health issues due to the constant fires and the resultant smog. “Most of us have cough and sneezing issues. Children at times complain of breathlessness. But we have no option but to stay here as we cannot afford another house,” said Gupta accusing the administration of not addressing the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fire-engulfs-bhandewadi-yard-smoke-covers-nearby-areas/articleshow/75903762.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Nine new areas declared red zones in Delhi, total goes up to 86||NEW DELHI: The total number of containment zones in the city reached 86 on Friday after nine new areas were declared as containment zones. All three phases of Bapa Nagar were converted into containment zones after more than three Covid-positive cases were detected from the areas under the central district. In South West district, six new areas were declared containment zones. Deep Enclave Part- II, DG3 Block and F Block in Vikaspuri were declared three separate containment zones. Village Kanganheri under Dwarka sub division, Puran Nagar and Sadh Nagar in Palam Colony were also converted. After the containment orders were issued, the areas were sealed and police personnel deployed at the entry and exit points to ensure that no person comes out of the sealed area even for essential purposes. The authorities will facilitate doorstep delivery of ration and other essential items in the zones.  Delhi government has till now de-contained 33 zones which have completed the mandatory 28 days of solitary period from the date of the last patient was tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nine-new-areas-declared-red-zones-in-delhi-total-goes-up-to-86/articleshow/75908025.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 test of police, med staff not needed: NMC to HC||Nagpur: Even as the collector and commissioner of police are ready to conduct RT-PCR tests on medical and police personnel on duty in Mominpura and Satranjipura containment zones, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has opposed the move citing burden on its finances and stretched manpower due to Covid-19 pandemic. In an affidavit filed in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court by NMC’s additional health officer Dr Pravin Gantawar through counsel Sudhir Puranik on Friday, the civic body asserted there was no need for front-line warriors to be tested as enough protection was already provided to them. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar then directed the state government to file an additional affidavit on compliance with earlier orders, where HC had asked to conduct RT-PCR tests on medical and police personnel on pilot basis. On Thursday, the police commissioner and collector filed a joint affidavit stating they would be testing medical and police personnel from Mominpura and Satranjipura. NMC’s affidavit came in response to a PIL by Citizen Forum for Equality through counsel Tushar Mandlekar praying for conducting Covid-19 testing on all front-line workers, including police, pharmacists and para-medical staff. Dr Gantawar said the civic body has changed the strategy of finding persons affected by Covid-19, by resorting to use of ‘pulse-oxy-meter’ technique. If there is less than 90% saturated oxygen in the person’s blood then s/he is immediately sent for RT-PCR test. The NMC has placed requisition for purchase of 440 such meters to the government, of which 165 have been received. “If front-line workers are using PPE kits or other protective gear, such as hand gloves, masks or coats, then there is no requirement for testing them, as there are very less chances would be infected. NMC has already instructed all its health care workers, doctors and paramedics to discharge duties by wearing protective kits and even private doctors were informed in this regard,” the affidavit mentioned. It added that NMC is strictly following guidelines of ICMR and it’s not necessary to conduct RT-PCR test on each front-line worker, as they’re following due precautions and don’t fall under the ambit of “high-risk contacts”. “If these workers are being tested, NMC will be required to deploy manpower, which is already stretched due in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. NMC is conscious of the well being of all front-line warriors, including medical personnel,” the affidavit stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-test-of-police-med-staff-not-needed-nmc-to-hc/articleshow/75903779.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 23, 2020||India||Now, book special AC trains a month in advance||NEW DELHI: The railways on Friday revised norms for booking of tickets in 15 pairs of special AC trains, allowing passengers to book tickets for one month in advance. It also said that passengers with RAC tickets will be allowed to board these trains. The changes will come to effect for tickets booked from May 24 (Sunday) and for journeys scheduled from May 31. Currently, the advance reservation period for these special trains being run to connect Delhi with 15 big cities is only seven days. “RAC waiting list tickets will be issued in these trains as per existing instructions applicable. However, wait-listed passengers will not be allowed to board these trains,” said a statement from the railway ministry. It also clarified that there shall be no Tatkal booking for these trains. The ministry said the first chart will be prepared at least four hours before scheduled departure and second chart will be prepared at least two hours before the scheduled departure. “Current booking shall be permitted in between first and second charts,” the ministry said. Booking of tickets can be done from computerised PRS counters including post offices, Yatri Ticket Suvidha Kendra licencees and through on-line booking including authorised agents of IRCTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-book-special-ac-trains-a-month-in-advance/articleshow/75908027.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Court rejects Saibaba’s plea for parole||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Friday rejected parole application of Naxalite ideologue prof GN Saibaba. The wheelchair-bound Delhi University professor had moved an application for parole through his brother to visit his ailing mother, who’s suffering from cancer. But special public prosecutor (SPP) Prashant Sathianathan informed the HC that the area in which Saibaba’s mother is staying in Hyderabad is under a containment zone in view of the Covid pandemic. He also submitted a report in this regard. “The report shows petitioner’s mother is an outdoor patient and his brother along with his wife is taking her care. We sought confirmation from the SPP as to whether the area where the petitioner shall be staying is included in containment zone,” said the division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Amit Borkar. While observing that Saibaba’s earlier pleas for suspension of sentence and grant of bail are already rejected, the bench granted him liberty to apply afresh after the lockdown is over and the area where he intends to visit is excluded from containment zone. Saibaba, who was convicted by a Gadchiroli court for anti-national activities on March 7, 2017, and subsequently awarded life term, had applied for the parole through his brother on April 2. The appellate authority — divisional commissioner — had rejected his prayer for parole on April 24, after which he had moved the HC. SPP Sathianathan contended that the petitioner’s brother can take care of his mother. “We don’t find that the petitioner is entitled to such a release at present,” the judges said before dismissing the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/court-rejects-saibabas-plea-for-parole/articleshow/75903795.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 23, 2020||Mumbai||75% of Dharavi's Covid patients in healthcare, other essential services||MUMBAI: A study conducted by the BMC of 1,360 Covid-19 patients in Dharavi has found that more than 75% are essential service and healthcare workers. The study found that many of them went on to infect their family members. Earlier, the BMC had found that 35% of Dharavi's Covid-19 cases were within families. On Friday, 53 cases and one death were reported in Dharavi, taking the cumulative to 1,478 cases, including 56 deaths. Out of the 1,360 cases that were analysed by the BMC to study trends, the recovery rate was found to be 39% - significantly higher than the city and state averages. But the case fatality rate, at 4%, too is higher than the city and state averages. One of the earliest patients traced in Dharavi, in the first week of April, was a BMC sweeper. In the second week, a 50-year-old woman resident of Dharavi's Muslim Nagar, who worked as a help in a civic-run hospital in Parel, was found with Covid. BMC officials said that a significant number of those living in Dharavi are Class IV employees in various essential services. "As they need to step out for work, their chances of getting infected are higher," said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North ward, under which Dharavi falls. Some of the workers are with the fire brigade. Recently, a firefighter with the Dharavi fire station tested positive, requiring his family to be placed in quarantine. Operations at the fire station continued, though the building, equipment and premises were sanitized. Friday's death was of an 85-year-old resident of Matunga Labour Camp, which continues to be a hotspot, with over 100 cases. Dr Baliga Nagar, from where the first Covid case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, registered a new case on Friday, that of a 62-year-old man. Meanwhile, in the other areas of G-North ward (which contains Dharavi), 23 new cases were reported in Mahim, taking its total to 286, while Dadar reported 13 new cases, taking its total to 205. -Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/75-of-dharavis-covid-patients-in-healthcare-other-essential-services/articleshow/75908029.cms||Richa Pinto
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||HC refuses to extend Gawli’s parole||Nagpur: After extending gangster Arun Gawli’s parole twice earlier, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday refused to extend it for a third time. A division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Amit Borkar directed the underworld don to surrender before authorities by Sunday, when his extended parole would end. He’s likely to surrender at Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai after a suggestion was made by assistant public prosecutor (APP) Amit Balpande in this regard. In the last hearing, on May 8, same suggestion was made by APP Amit Madiwale. “We’re assured by APP that the petitioner shall be granted relaxation for his movement from the place of his residence in Mumbai to Taloja Jail, where he can surrender,” the judges said. Gawli is serving life imprisonment in Central Jail at Nagpur for murder of Shiv Sena corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar in 2007. Earlier also, he was out on parole and furlough for many times to be with his family. This year, he was granted parole on February 26 to be with his ailing wife Asha. As his 45-day leave came to an end last month amid the lockdown, he had moved an application in the HC, through counsel Mir Nagman Ali, for extension of parole citing travel restrictions. His plea was allowed on April 23 through which his parole was extended till May 10. As the lockdown was extended, Gawli again moved an application for parole extension for second time. While allowing his application, Justice Swapna Joshi had granted him parole till May 24. On Friday, his counsel moved an application for extension of parole for the third time contending that the Mumbai’s Dagdi Chawl resident hasn’t violated any of the conditions while on parole and furlough previously. “Merely because the petitioner has not violated any of the conditions imposed on him wouldn’t entitle him for grant of extension of parole leave. It’s for the jail authorities to look into the aspect of congestion and sitting here in courtroom we cannot judge it,” the bench said. Earlier, Ali contended that Gawli had surrendered on scheduled dates whenever he was released on such leave. He argued that Gawli was unable to return to Nagpur because of travel restrictions. However, while rejecting his application, the judges made it clear that the petitioner had used all available opportunities and now parole can’t be extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-refuses-to-extend-gawlis-parole/articleshow/75903817.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC’s budget for 2020-21 fiscal pegged at Rs 4,171 crore||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has pegged its budget at Rs 4,171 crore (including an opening balance of Rs 149 crore) for the financial year 2020-21. This represents an increase of Rs 337 crore compared to the budget for 2019-20. According to projections, the municipal corporation has itself set a goal of expending about Rs 4,044 crore on both revenue and capital projects with no tax hikes. The GVMC will have a closing balance of Rs 126 crore in 2020-2021. According to the budget copy available with TOI, the major receipts of the GVMC include projects (Rs 290 crore), town planning (Rs 443 crore), urban community developing wing (Rs 517 crore), externally-aided projects (Rs 320 crore), general administration (Rs 871 crore) and water supply (Rs 469 crore). The civic body will also receive funding from various Union government schemes such as JNNURM, Rajiv Awas Yojana, AMRUT and those under the Finance Commission. Under expenditure, engineering works will receive a boost (Rs 1,046 crore). Other major heads include projects (Rs 309 crore), public health (Rs 503 crore), water supply (Rs 362 crore), parks (Rs 127 crore), urban community development (Rs 531 crore), lighting (Rs 120 crore) and water supply (Rs 362 crore). GVMC officials said they drafted a realistic budget drawing on experience gathered over the last three years. The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have affected the revenue streams of the GVMC for the last three months. For example, the civic body set a target of Rs 350 crore property tax for the 2019-20 financial year but due to poor collections in March, it could realise only Rs 235 crore. Several projects have also been stalled for the last two months, including works of the town planning wing. The civic body started functioning with 100% staff strength from May 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmcs-budget-for-2020-21-fiscal-pegged-at-rs-4171-crore/articleshow/75903876.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 23, 2020||India||Even those on non-Covid duty now eligible for HCQ||NEW DELHI: In an important decision, the health ministry on Friday revised its advisory on use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as a prophylactic for Covid-19 infection, expanding the drug’s use for asymptomatic healthcare and frontline workers deployed in Covid and non-Covid areas. As per the fresh advisory, issued after ICMR conducted tests on the use of the medicine, all asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in containment, such as Asha workers, municipal employees and police, those treating Covid-19 patients and asymptomatic healthcare workers working in non-Covid hospitals or non-Covid areas of such hospitals or blocks, are now eligible for prophylactic use of HCQ. The advisory said caution must be exercised in case of people with cardio rhythm disorders and hypersensitivity to the drug. The decision came after the National Task Force for Covid-19 constituted by the ICMR reviewed the use of HCQ for prophylaxis of SARS-CoV-2 infection for “high-risk population” based on the emerging evidence on its safety and efficacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/even-those-on-non-covid-duty-now-eligible-for-hcq/articleshow/75908030.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 23, 2020||India||Interest-free loans for K’taka farmers||BENGALURU: A farmer taking a new crop loan of up to Rs 3 lakh from any cooperative bank in the state won’t be charged interest. However, the government is yet to decide whether to extend the benefit to all farmers or only small and marginal ones. The decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, which was attended by cooperation department officials. The government will come out with the guidelines sometime next week. “About 24.5 lakh farmers will benefit from the extended scheme,” said a senior department official. According to the senior official, the decision was taken to encourage pandemic-hit farmers to take up agricultural activities in the upcoming Kharif season. The interest-free loan package is estimated to be Rs 15,000 crore. “We are still debating whether interest-free loans should be extended to all farmers, including those who pay IT returns, or only to small and marginal ones,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/interest-free-loans-for-ktaka-farmers/articleshow/75908057.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Children, elderly coming in from abroad allowed home quarantine||VIJAYAWADA: The state health department has decided to exempt pregnant women, children below the age of 10 and people above the age of 65 arriving from abroad on Vande Bharat mission flights from institutional quarantine. Such people will be able to avail home quarantine after swabs are collected from them for testing. Others exempted from institutional quarantine are people coming to India for a health emergency, for a death in the family and those returning to the country after receiving treatment at health facilities abroad. However, if the swab test comes out positive, those people will be hospitalised and their contacts will be put in quarantine. Generally, people arriving from abroad are sent to a quarantine centre, either paid or a government-run centre. These exemptions will be applicable only to people coming in on special Vande Bharat mission flights. For inter-state movement, all those coming by buses with proper permission from the Andhra Pradesh government will be allowed to go to the district reception centre (DRC) with police assistance. For those with permission only from the location of origin, their details will be first uploaded on the Spandana mobile application upon arrival, after which they will be allowed to go to the DRC. All of these people will be tested for Covid-19 as per existing protocols. Similarly, people arriving on special trains and Shramik special trains will also be sent to the district reception centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/children-elderly-coming-in-from-abroad-allowed-home-quarantine/articleshow/75903969.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Screening, distancing at airport when flights begin||Nagpur: With domestic flights slated to resume from May 25, Nagpur airport has geared up to restart operations. Sources said airlines have approached the Directorate General of Civil Aviation with proposals to resume flights from Nagpur to Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Pune and Ahmedabad. These are the stations where airlines operating from Nagpur have been getting maximum load. Although a final plan has not been put up, as it will depend on the approval by DGCA, said a source Mihan India Limited (MIL), the agency operating Nagpur airport, has drawn up a protocol for operations during Covid-19 outbreak. During normal times, the airport handled 36 departures, which came down to 15 after the Covid spread, before stopping completely. With permission to operate one-third of the flights of the present summer schedule, not more than 12 flights may operate from Nagpur airport. “This is part of the general guidelines for all airports,” airport director Abid Ruhi told TOI. The last flights operated on March 24. Since then, the airport here has been handling only cargo and non-scheduled flights, most of which were halts for refuelling. Ruhi said proper arrangements have been made to operate in the current scenario. He said airlines officials have said they would be intimating their schedules in a day or two. The airlines have been talking to the DGCA to get slots for Nagpur. It depends on a number of factors, he said. A representative of a private airline operating from Nagpur said they hope to come up with a schedule by Friday. The two-month lockdown has reduced the income of Nagpur airport to a few thousand, which came from flights landing for refuelling. The exact losses will be calculated once the operations begin. Under the new protocol, departure passengers will now have to stand in queue in the emergency lane. Foot marking stickers have been stuck on the ground at a distance of 1 to 1.5 metres. Even the passenger seating arrangement has been made in such a manner that distancing is maintained, said a press release from MIL. Passengers will be scanned for body temperature. A limited number of food and beverages outlets have been allowed to operate. The washrooms have been fitted with sensor based water taps, said the release. A dedicated isolation room has also been set up. Fresh tender for Ngp airport privatization The tender for privatization of Nagpur airport, which was bagged by GMR Airports Limited, has been cancelled. Mihan India Limited (MIL) will now be inviting fresh bids for the deal. GMR had emerged the highest bidder for taking over Nagpur airport in 2018. The company was supposed to bid on the basis of revenue share to be offered to MIL — the existing operator. Initially GMR had offered to pay 5.73% of the revenue generated from airport operations and was the highest bidder. In March 2019, the offer was hiked to 14.49% after which the MIL board approved the bid. However, by that time Nagpur airport had started generating profits, and earned more than what GMR would have offered. Last year’s profit stands at Rs49 crore from revenue of over Rs110 crore. Under the changed circumstances, it was decided to recall the tender. TOI had highlighted the issue in its reports that what GMR offered to share was less than the existing profits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/screening-distancing-at-airport-when-flights-begin/articleshow/75904063.cms||Shishir Arya
May 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Vande Bharat mission: 149 people return from Kuwait||Tirupati: As part of the Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indian nationals stranded in various countries, 149 people arrived at Tirupati airport from Kuwait in an Air India flight in the early hours of Friday. Chittoor district joint collector Veera Brahmam told reporters that the Air India flight from Kuwait had 150 passengers on board, of which one passenger disembarked at RGI airport in Hyderabad on Thursday evening. The flight reached Tirupati at 1.50 am on Friday after immigration formalities of all passengers were completed. Officials who carried out the fever survey of 149 passengers also helped them download the Arogya Setu mobile app. While seven passengers from Chittoor, one from Tamil Nadu, two from Anantapur and one from Kurnool were sent in a special bus to a quarantine facility near Tirupati, 116 passengers from Kadapa district were sent to quarantine facilities in Kadapa in special buses. Twenty-two passengers, including six from East Godavari, five from West Godavari, one from Krishna, six from Nellore and four from Visakhapatnam were also sent to quarantine facilities in their respective districts in special buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vande-bharat-mission-149-people-return-from-kuwait/articleshow/75904022.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University to issue CET notification next week||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University (AU), which remained shut for the last two months due to the lockdown, has decided to release its Andhra University Common Entrance Test (AUCET) notification in the next week. Admissions into various postgraduate courses of the varsity are done based on the AUCET scores. The entrance test is generally conducted in May every year. But the Covid outbreak and the subsequent closure of academic institutions forced the varsity to wait for the right time to release the notification. On the other hand, the varsity is planning to conduct first-year postgraduate examinations from July 1 to 15, while the exams for the second year students are likely to be held in the second half of July. The regular degree examinations are scheduled for the first week of July. Likewise, the varsity will declare the engineering final year results on May 25, whereas the exams for the remaining years will be held in a staggered manner. While the second and third year engineering examinations will be held in July, the third-year students will appear their examinations in August. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said that classes for the second year PG students will begin from August 1. “The first year PG classes will start on September 1 by concluding the AUCET and the admission process before that time. Only the students, who are appearing the examinations at that particular time, will be allowed to stay in hostels. This is meant for maintaining social distancing and other Covid-19 related protocols. A preliminary examination schedule is being prepared and the dates will be changed based on the situation. The students are requested to check the Andhra University website for complete information,” said Prof Reddy. Despite its order to vacate all the hostels in the second half of March due to the Covid outbreak, Andhra University held back its nearly 500 international students on the campus. The decision was taken in view of the spread of the pandemic across the world and the then travel restrictions. AU officials said that it may also become difficult for the students to gain entry into India once the students go back to their countries for these one to two months due to the volatile conditions in other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-to-issue-cet-notification-next-week/articleshow/75904070.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Murder mastermind lost robbery loot in gambling||Nagpur: Sagar Bawari, the mastermind in the murder and robbery at a petrol pump on Outer Ring Road in the early hours of Thursday, lost almost all the Rs1 lakh stolen in the crime at a gambling den at Hingna later the same day. Bawari, a suspect in the murder of a principal of a Chandrapur college near VNIT gate in 2017, is still not in police custody, but the rest of his accomplices, including three minors, have been rounded up. The investigation squad of MIDC police cracked the murder of 62-year-old Pandhari Bhandarkar at the petrol pump at Wanadongri within 24 hours by rounding up five, including three minors, in the wee hours of Friday. They had decamped with cash Rs1 lakh from the petrol pump after murdering Bhandarkar and injuring his colleague Leeladhar Gohote, who is still in hospital. Driven by the need for cash, the three minors and their two adult accomplices, Akshay Jadhav and Anil Pal, followed mastermind Bawari’s plan to earn some fast money through crime. After the crime, Bawari not only ditched his accomplices, who were expecting some cash from him, but also lost most of it at a gambling den. It also proved to be his nemesis as a police informer at the den relayed news of Bawari’s gambling to the cops. MIDC police team comprising Assistant PI Ramesh Hattigote and PSI Nitin Madankar, ASIs Arvind Mohod, Vijay Nemade and others under senior inspector Hemant Kharabe came to know that Bawari was hiding at Wanwadi on the outskirts of the city. Alerted by dogs barking as the cops entered the village, the seasoned goon Bawari fled from the residence of Jadhav, where he was sleeping. However, his accomplices were arrested. The investigation was done under the supervision of Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/murder-mastermind-lost-robbery-loot-in-gambling/articleshow/75904102.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 23, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD launches new portal for darshan tickets||Tirupati: The TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Friday launched a more user-friendly web portal for devotees to book ‘arjitha seva’ and darshan tickets as well as accommodation. The new portal— https://tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in will be fully functional from Saturday. Speaking to TOI, TTD IT chief Sesha Reddy said that both the web portals— https://ttdsevaonline.com as well as https://tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in will be functional and devotees from around the world will be able to book tickets through these portals. Sesha Reddy further said that the temple body has initiated action against the fake websites that are cheating unsuspecting devotees by selling fake darshan tickets. In a bid to ensure that devotees of Lord Venkateswara do not fall prey to fake websites, the new web portal has been launched under the government of Andhra Pradesh domain.  “‘Tirupati’ and ‘Balaji’ are the two words that devotees key-in when they want to make a booking. Moreover, the letters ‘gov.in’ will help devotees differentiate between the original website and fake websites,” Sesha Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-launches-new-portal-for-darshan-tickets/articleshow/75904103.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 may end in Punjab by July: Study||CHANDIGARH: Punjab's worst phase of coronavirus pandemic is expected to be over soon and it may even end by the first week of July, predicts a study by Central University of Punjab, Bathinda and Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla. By using classical susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR) model, the study, “Covid-19 Epidemic Forecast in Different States of India using SIR Model” indicates that the high growth phase of infection in Punjab will be over by second week of June, the curve will start flattening thereafter and the pandemic is expected to peter out by the first week of July with an estimated number of 3,300 people getting infected. Data till May 12 was used to make the prediction and these estimations may become invalid if large fluctuation of data occurs in coming days. As on May 21, 2,028 people across the state were virus-positive. The study states that Punjab has relatively good control over the epidemic, largely due to the strict prevention measures taken since March 22. Punjab was the first state in the country to impose curfew. As far as other states are concerned, the epidemic in Kerala is in its final phase and is expected to end by first week of June. Over by July, says study Study predicts upper and lower bounds of spreadRajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir are predicted to get rid of Covid-19 by second week of August. Delhi might have to wait till mid-October for it to end while the outbreak might end in West Bengal, Odisha by last week of November and first week of December, respectively. The same group has also done another study --mathematical model based Covid-19 prediction in India and its different states – to predict the lower and upper bounds of spread till June 10. The number of cases in Punjab till May 1 was 585, while the tally mounted to 1,700 within one week due to the influx of a large number of pilgrims returning from Nanded, Maharashtra. As per the prediction based on data till May 12, on the lower side 2,548 people will get infected by June 10 and there may be 60 deaths, while on higher side 48,048 people could get the virus and 165 deaths may occur. The study conducted by Mukesh Jakhar, Jaspreet Singh, Ashok Kumar, all from department of physics, school of basic and applied sciences, Central University of Punjab and PK Ahluwalia, department of physics, Himachal Pradesh University, recommended that the prevention measures need to be followed strictly, which will help in controlling the spread of the pandemic, failing the number of patients and deaths may rise exponentially. "Our study provides an insight into the possible number of expected patients and deaths in coming months. “This can help the governments to take appropriate preventive measures to manage the spread of deadly virus and go down the flattening curve," said Dr Ashok Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-may-end-in-pb-by-july-study/articleshow/75908023.cms||Vinod Kumar
May 23, 2020||Nagpur||Cattle sheds turning their backs on sick animals due to Covid fear, say activists||Nagpur: Fearing spread of coronavirus, the gaurakshans (cattle sheds) in the city are refusing to take in injured and sick cattle, animal activists have alleged. They who believe that domestic animals do not carry the virus. Due to this, many sick cows and buffaloes are being left untreated. One such case happened three days ago when a sick bull died in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) hydraulic ambulance. According to activists, the NMC staffers took the animal to different gaurakshans for eight hours but none of them accepted it in. Following this, animal activist Karishma Galani filed a police complaint against one such gaurakshan. “The police officials also issued a notice to the gaurakshan authorities. Despite this, they refused to accept the cattle,” said Galani. TOI learnt that NMC veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle also wrote to the departments concerned, raising the issue. “I have been receiving many complaints from NMC that when the ambulance takes injured cattle to the shelter, they refuse to treat them,” said Galani. When Galani filed a complaint with deputy commissioner of animal husbandry Manjusha Pundlik, the latter replied stating that gaurakshans are run on funds and they are trying their best to take care of cattle. “They also have certain limitations and we can’t pressurize them to take in animals,” she stated. Pundlik further recommended to take sick and injured animals to the cattle shed in Deolapar. Calling her reply unsatisfactory, Galani stated, “Deolapar is too far from the city. If a cow or buffalo gets sick or injured inside city limits, it will die by the time we take it to Deolapar. It is the duty of other gaurakshans to provide them care and treatment.” On Thursday, Galani again wrote a letter to district collector, complaining that rescue operations of cattle in the city are getting hampered due to negligent behaviour of gaurakshans. “Whenever the ambulance takes an animal to the shelter, they should get proper treatment. If any shelter is refusing to do so, strict action must be taken against it,” she wrote. The activist, who is also a member of Nagpur’s Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals, stated that domestic animals do not spread coronavirus. “Till date, only wild animals have been found to carry the virus. There are no cases of presence of virus in cattle,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cattle-sheds-turning-their-backs-on-sick-animals-due-to-covid-fear-say-activists/articleshow/75904133.cms||Manka Behl
May 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Employee at TTD temple in Chennai tests +ve for Covid||Tirupati: A paricharika (assistant/helper) working at Sri Venkateswara temple and information centre—administered by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams in the T Nagar locality in Chennai, Tamil Nadu—has tested positive for coronavirus. This is the first time a TTD outsourced staffer has tested positive for Covid-19, even though the 50-odd TTD temples across the country—including the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala—have remained closed for pilgrim worship since March 20. In a communique sent by T Muralidhar, assistant executive officer at TTD’s Chennai temple to TTD’s deputy executive officer (general) at Tirupati, the official said that a paricharika—an outsourced employee—who was on duty from May4-7, went for a medical check-up after he fell sick on May 18. The paricharika tested for Covid-19, the results of which came back positive on May 20. As the paricharika has a wife and elederly parents living with him, both of whom are bedridden, he is undergoing home quarantine in consultation with the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai. After the temple officials informed TTD’s Chennai local advisory committee (LAC) president J Sekhar Reddy of the development, arrangements were made to sanitise and disinfect the TTD temple and information centre premises at Chennai. Staff working at the temple and information centre were also instructed to undergo medical checkup for Covid-19 with the help of the Chennai LAC. President of the Chennai LAC underlined that the paricharika was not on duty when he fell sick or tested positive for Covid-19. “As a precautionary measure, all staff working here have been advised to undergo COVID-19 screening immediately,” J Sekhar Reddy said. A temple official said that a paricharika—an outsourced employee—who was on duty from May4-7, went for a medical check-up after he fell sick on May 18||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/employee-at-ttd-temple-in-chennai-tests-ve-for-covid/articleshow/75904126.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab likely to see 20% mechanised paddy sowing||CHANDIGARH: The ongoing labour shortage is prompting increasing number of farmers in Punjab to adopt mechanised direct seeding of rice (DSR) and this has made the state government's target of covering 20% (4 lakh hectares) area under paddy cultivation by the DSR system an easily achievable one. Athough direct sowing of paddy was to officially begin from June 1, many farmers have already hit the fields in their anxiety to try out the mechanised system. "If mechanised sowing of paddy pays off, more farmers will go for it next year and more machines will be made available by then. Farmers seek 8-hour uninterrupted powerThe area covered by this technology is likely to go up in the next season,” Punjab agriculture secretary KS Pannu said. Abjinder Singh Sangha, a progressive farmer from Sangrur, said his family and friends had recently placed an order for a dozen direct paddy sowing machines and are hoping for a good yield. “The results have been very encouraging so far and the entire area around Amargarh and Barnala will witness the use of these machines this time,” he said. “Farmers of Punjab are trying their hand at direct seeding of rice. It is the duty of the government to reach out to the farmers engaged in direct seeding and provide all possible assistance,” he added. The direct sowing machine that was priced at Rs 35,000 a few years back is now available for Rs 85,000 with modifications. The paddy farmers are demanding that since most of them have already begun sowing paddy, the state should ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity for eight hours to help mechanised sowing. “Presently, the supply is only for about two hours, which is fine for traditional paddy sowing but not for the mechanised exercise,” said Harnam Singh, a farmer from Ropar. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said the farmers have been generally satisfied with the use of mechanised direct sowing and had more machines been made available in time, the targeted area could have gone up. “Given the fact that migrant labour is not available in the state, direct sowing is the only viable option available and more machines should have been made available,” he said. ‘Don’t sow PUSA-44’Most farmers, including some progressive ones, are continuing to opt to sow water guzzling paddy variety PUSA-44. They feel it is the best option available, especially in case of contract farming as its yield is high. PUSA-44 is a 130-day crop that is sown early and consumes more ground water. It also matures late, leaving a short window for sowing wheat, resulting in burning of paddy straw at a large scale. An advisory issued by the Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) has asked the farmers not to go for PUSA-44 as it takes a longer period to yield. It has recommended PR-126 variety should be sown from June 5. “Apart from consuming more water, the insects that Pusa-44 attracts affect the next crop as well,” said Pannu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-likely-to-see-20-mechanised-paddy-sowing/articleshow/75908124.cms||Vibhor Mohan
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Lockdown takes the shine off Anakapalle jaggery market||VISAKHAPATNAM: The jaggery producing season has come to an end in Andhra Pradesh. The lockdown had disrupted supply of jaggery lumps at Anakapalle, the second biggest jaggery market in the country. The jaggery market was shut down from March 22 to April 14. Later, the market opened twice a week but there was shortfall in the supply of jaggery lumps compared to the previous season. KV Sharath Kumar, a third-generation trader in Anakapalle, said the lockdown hit the trade. He said they initially struggled to supply jaggery lumps to Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and a few other states due to restriction on transportation. Various varieties of jaggery command attractive prices during the season—low-quality jaggery (of Rs 290-Rs 320/ 10 kg lump) and better varieties (Rs 360-Rs 430 per 10 kg lump), said B Ravi Kumar, secretary, Anakapalle Jaggery Market Yard. Between April 15 and May 20, the market received over 2.18 lakh jaggery lumps (3,271 tonnes) with a turnover of over Rs 10.9 crore, he added. The Anakapalle market received 48,060 tonnes of jaggery worth Rs 146 crore in 2016-2017 while it was 35,498 tonnes (Rs 99 crore) in 2017-18 and 33,509 tonnes (Rs 91 crore) in 2018-19. In 2019-2020, the Anakapalle market received 25,402 tonnes of jaggery worth Rs 78 crore. Due to the lockdown, the market failed to receive over 6,000 to 7,000 tonnes of jaggery as the delay in making jaggery due to lockdown affected production due to evaporation of juice content in sugarcane. “We are hopeful that the demand for jaggery from other states may increase in the festive season. If the demand for Anakapalle jaggery comes down, we will incur huge losses,” said traders at the Anakapalle market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-takes-the-shine-off-anakapalle-jaggery-market/articleshow/75904198.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Old couple threatened with land grab||VISAKHAPATNAM: Some unidentified persons on Friday allegedly threatened an elderly couple. They trespassed into the couple’s property and demolished a boundary wall to encroach into around 10 cents of land, at Appannapalem village under Pendurthi police station limits in Vizag city. The victim—Karaka Bangarayya—in his complaint, mentioned that he has a small chunk of land under Survey Number 27/2. However, Yerra Narayana has been trying to grab the land. Bangarayya filed a petition in Bheemili court, which gave a permanent injunction order in favour of Bangarayya. On Friday, Yerra Narayana and some persons came to their property and demolished the boundary walls. Bangarayya approached the Pendurthi police station to seek action. Bangarayya’s son Karaka Srinu tweeted about the incident and requested the police to intervene. Based on the complaint, the Pendurthi police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/old-couple-threatened-with-land-grab/articleshow/75904210.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's tax revenue doubles in one month due to liquor sale, VAT on fuel||NEW DELHI: A partial opening of the economy and levy of special corona fee on liquor has had a positive impact in Delhi with tax revenue going up by almost double in the first three weeks of May compared with last month. While the city government had collected Rs 323 crore as tax till April 23, the revenue in May has crossed Rs 600 crore so far. However, this is about 20% of what was earned in May 2019. Earlier this month, the government had levied 70% special corona fee on the MRP of liquor bottles. The value added tax (VAT) on diesel and petrol was also revised to 30%. Earlier, VAT on diesel was 16.75% and 27% on petrol. This helped shore up some revenue. Rs 100cr from spl liquor fee in just 15 daysSources said the excise department earned nearly Rs 100 crore as special corona fee within just 15 days. With the Centre allowing some relaxations in Lockdown 4.0, the department was able to open about 150-odd liquor vends in the city from May 4. The new tax was levied a day later. With more liquor vends likely to open from Saturday, officials said the tax collection is expected to improve further. “Apart from the corona fee on liquor and enhanced VAT on fuel, a small amount was also earned through registration and stamp duty on the sale of properties,” said an official. Delhi government had opened sub-registrar offices on May 4. With the opening of markets, commercial establishments and more, officials said the city’s economic condition was slowly improving. “We had projected a total tax collection of Rs 44,100 crore in 2020-21. But the actual collection will be far less,” said an official. Watch Tax revenue doubles in one month due to liquor sale in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-tax-revenue-doubles-in-one-month-due-to-liquor-sale-vat-on-fuel/articleshow/75908128.cms||Atul Mathur
May 23, 2020||World||Lancet study: HCQ may harm patients||US President Trump on Friday continued to roil the country with his controversial behaviour, including canvassing for the antimalarial drug hydroxichloroquinine and disdainfully abjuring masks. Medical journal Lancet published a study that backed earlier reports that seriously ill Covid patients treated with hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine were more likely to die or develop dangerous heart arrhythmias. But Trump claimed that he had finished taking a course of the medication and he was fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-and-world/lancet-study-hcq-may-harm-patients/articleshow/75908139.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
May 23, 2020||Delhi||660 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, fourth peak in four days; deaths top 200||NEW DELHI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi touched another new peak on Friday, the fourth in as many days, with 660 infections added to the city’s virus count, which crossed the 12,000 mark. With this, 2,263 infections have been recorded in the past four days, more than a third of the 6,214 active cases in the city, indicating a surge in infections. The city’s death toll crossed 200, with 14 fatalities reported in Friday, taking the total to 208. Epidemiologists predict there may be a further rise in cases over the next few days, as the epidemic curve of Covid-19 in Delhi is still rising. Delhi has so far recorded 12,319 Covid-19 cases, the fourth highest in the country after Maharashtra (44,582), Tamil Nadu (14,753) and Gujarat (13,273). On the brighter side, 5,897 patients (48%) have recovered from the disease. Need to scale up health infra to avoid crisis: DocsA doctor at a private hospital designated for Covid-19 treatment said the city urgently requires more isolation beds for the rush of new cases. “In India, the fatality rate is much lower compared to other countries affected by the pandemic. But we cannot be complacent. The health infrastructure dedicated for the care of persons developing complications on contracting Covid-19 has to be scaled up further to prevent a crisis situation. We need to arrange for more isolation beds, oxygen support system and ventilators,” the doctor said. He added that already they were facing a shortage of beds due to which many suspected as well as positive patients cannot be admitted. Delhi has 14 hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment. Of these, Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty are state-run, Lady Hardinge Medical College, Ram Manohar Lohia (RML), Safdarjung and AIIMS (Delhi and Jhajjar) are run by the Centre. Eight others are private hospitals. Among these are Max Smart, Apollo, Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet and Sir Ganga Ram City, Maa Durga Charitable Trust, Batra, Fortis Shalimar Bagh and Cygnus hospital. As per government’s data, Delhi has 6,214 active cases of Covid-19 at present. Of these, 1,835 (30%) are admitted in hospitals – 1,348 in government hospitals and 487 in private ones. A total of 196 patients have severe symptoms and complications associated with Covid-19 due to which they either require ICU support or ventilators. “If the number of cases continues to go up, more hospitals will have to be designated for Covid-19 treatment. Also, like in Mumbai, some standardisation of money charged for treatment in private facilities is needed,” a doctor said. Maharashtra, which is worst affected by the Covid-19 epidemic with over 44,000 cases and 1517 deaths, on Thursday issued a revised notification to cap treatment charges for Covid-19 and nearly 200 non-Covid procedures in private hospitals. As per the order, the capped rates will apply to 80% of hospital beds, while the management can charge their own prices for the remaining 20%. The price capping will stay in effect till August 31. Under the ceiling, no hospital can charge a Covid-19 patient more than Rs 9,000 per day for an ICU bed with ventilator, Rs 7,500 for an ICU bed without ventilator and Rs 4,000 for isolation in a routine ward. “Nearly 20% of Covid-19 patients have severe symptoms which require medical monitoring. For this, a majority of patients require admission, especially those with preexisting illnesses and complications like breathing difficulty,” a doctor said. Watch Delhi witnesses biggest spike in Covid-19 cases as 660 patients test positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/660-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-fourth-peak-in-four-days-deaths-top-200/articleshow/75908146.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||‘Severe damage’ calls for united response: PM Modi on Cyclone Amphan||KOLKATA: The central and state governments, which have taken divergent stands on almost every issue of importance in the recent past, presented a united front against Cyclone Amphan on Friday, with PM Narendra Modi announcing a Rs 1,000-crore “advance assistance” for Bengal and appreciating the state government’s response to the crisis. Modi, accompanied by Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, went on an aerial survey of some of the areas ravaged by Amphan and headed an hour-long administrative meeting in North 24 Parganas’ Basirhat, following which he acknowleged the “severe damage” Bengal had suffered. Amphan’s toll was revised to 86 after more bodies were discovered from areas that government agencies were finally able to access on Friday. “There has been severe damage in Bengal. The state government has been fighting challenges from opposite ends: corona and cyclone. The former requires people to stay at home, the latter needs people to shift out of homes to rescue centres,” the PM said. “The CM has given a primary estimate of damage in agriculture, power, telecom, infrastructure and housing sectors. We will do everything for restoration, rehabilitation and reconstruction,” he added, appreciating the work done by the state government under Banerjee’s leadership. “We will work hand-in-hand with the state government,” he promised. Banerjee later said she had urged the PM to “release quickly whatever money” the Centre wanted to. “I did not ask for anything (from the PM). I only urged him to release the money fast, whatever the Centre wants. Else, we will have to start work on our own. Repair of embankments and restoration of power lines cannot wait. The state has already put aside Rs 1,000 crore on its own for restoration work. We also want the Centre to release the Rs 53,000 crore it owes (by way of devolution of funds, food subsidy and other social schemes),” the Bengal chief minister said. Modi announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for every life lost and Rs 50,000 for each of the injured. Banerjee on Thursday had announced Rs 2.5 lakh compensation for the kin of each of the dead. Preliminary estimates done by the state government peg the extent of Amphan damage at “at least Rs 1 lakh crore”. “Vast areas have gone under water following the damage in embankments. Power lines got snapped, crops went under water. There has been immense damage to houses, livestock and fisheries,” Banerjee said. Modi’s flight touched down at the Kolkata airport at 10.45am and his 45-minute chopper ride with Banerjee took him over stretches of Minakha, Hingalganj, Bashirhat and Rajarhat in North 24 Parganas and Bhangar, Patharpratima, Namkhana and Gos-aba in South 24 Parganas. BJP Union ministers of state Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri took the cue from Modi, refraining from politics during this hour of crisis. Supriyo described the Basirhat meeting between Modi and Banerjee as a discussion between two “able administrators”. “The CM thanked the PM several times; the PM did the same to the CM,” he said. “This is not the time for politics,” Chaudhuri agreed. The rancour between Bengal BJP leaders and the Trinamool government reached its peak last month over the centre’s Covid surveillance in Bengal. Also accompanying the entourage on the aerial survey was governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The only different note was struck by Bengal BJP president and MP Dilip Ghosh: “I want the PM to transfer the compensation for the next of kin of the dead directly to these families’ PM Jan Dhan accounts; else, the sum may not reach them.” The Left Front and the Congress criticised the centre for doing “too little” for the state. LF chairman Biman Bose demanded the centre declare Amphan a “national disaster” and bear the entire expenses of the reconstruction work. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury wanted the PM to release funds from the National Disaster Fund. Lok Sabha Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury found Modi’s assistance “meagre” compared to the extent of damages. “For Odisha it is assistance but for Bengal it is solidarity,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/severe-damage-calls-for-united-response-pm/articleshow/75906567.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘For more than 2 hours he lay in the water; no one dared to bring him out’||KOLKATA: Nine-year-old Arpita Gayen says she can never forget the night she saw her father, visibly dead, floating in the water near their home, but no one from her family — mother and uncles standing at a distance, holding her hand tightly and crying for help — stepping forward to pull him out. “I don’t know if I will ever be able to make my daughter understand why none of us could go near her father’s body,” said Aparna Gayen, the widow of Pintu Gayen of Becharam Chatterjee Road in Behala, who was electrocuted while wading through a waterlogged road near his home on Wednesday evening. “We will all have to live with the haunting memory for the rest of our lives.” Pintu was among the 19 casualties caused by Cyclone Amphan in Kolkata, 11 of whom were electrocuted, and whose bodies were found floating on the city’s waterlogged streets. Pintu (37) last spoke to Aparna at 9pm on Wednesday, when he left his office at Behala’s Jayrampur with three of his colleagues. He was leading the group, walking through the waterlogged road, when he fell down in the water and began screaming for help. But no one dared to pull him out. “He was lying there till midnight. Many of us had gathered nearby, but no one was allowed to pull him out. Representatives of the CESC came after repeated complaints. After disconnecting the live wires from three fallen electric poles, we finally brought him out. He was long dead,” Aparna said, clutching a family photograph of from happier times. Fifteen kilometres away, in north Kolkata’s Maniktala, Rahul Adhikari’s family didn’t even have any clue of his death until cops knocked on their door on Thursday with a photograph of his body, taken as it was lying on a footpath on a waterlogged Raja Dinendra street. “We thought he got stuck at his workplace because of the storm,” said Rahul Adhikari’s mother Saraswati Adhikari, standing outside their Khasmahal Street home on Friday. “That’s what he had told us on Wednesday night before phone lines got disconnected. We thought he would be back home for lunch after work, but instead the cops came and informed us that he was dead.” Adhikari (27), a driver at a private firm, is survived by his wife, two children, an elder brother and an ailing mother. Two days after the cyclone blew over, the city cops are still struggling to identify some of the floating bodies that they stumbled upon in Kolkata’s waterlogged streets between Wednesday evening and Thursday morning. TOI had carried the photograph of one such body floating in a ditch near Calcutta Club on Friday. His identity has not been ascertained yet. “We only found some flowers and Rs 20 in his pocket but no identification. We have passed on the information to the missing persons squad, but there have been no developments,” said a senior officer of Bhowanipore police station. Of the 19 deaths in the city, five were under Parnasree police station. The body of Balbant Kumar Singh, a local transporter, was found floating on a road near a pond. Ranjan Sarkar, a security guard at a private firm; Aloke Niranjan Singh, a CISF official; and Parneet Singh Sethi, a businessman who had gone out to buy medicines for his ailing mother were also found floating, electrocuted, in nearby areas. Parnasree, home of former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, was still inundated on Friday evening, triggering a number of roadblocks. An elderly woman travelling on a cycle rickshaw at Tikiapara, Howrah, was rescued dramatically on Friday after her rickshaw-puller died of electrocution while negotiating waist-deep water. The woman sat tight in the passenger seat for one-and-a-half hours till help arrived. “While some of us continuously kept talking to her, warning her about the importance of sitting still and keeping her morale high, the rest of us desperately tried to contact CESC workers to disconnect the line. This continued for about 90 minutes. After the line was disconnected, one of us got into the water and brought her to safety,” said a senior officer of Bantra police station. — with inputs from Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey in Howrah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-more-than-2-hours-he-lay-in-the-water-no-one-dared-to-bring-him-out/articleshow/75906584.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 23, 2020||Kolkata||Cylone Amphan leaves a trail of ruined houses and lives in Basirhat||BASIRHAT: Livelihoods wrecked and houses destroyed, Basirhat subdivision in North 24 Parganas is a picture of misery two days after super cyclone Amphan rampaged its way through West Bengal. At Taragunia, a humble embroidery workshop that used to earn bread for eight families in the village lies in tatters. Its owner, 32-year-old Iliyas Khan, is now left with huge loans, five mouths to feed and seven other families desperately looking up to him for resumption of their livelihood. Like many of his friends, Iliyas too had started working in the brick kilns dotted along the Ichchamati river. But a dream to set up his embroidery workshop saw Iliyas quit, take loans and start his own unit. He was managing orders from Metiaburuz, procuring raw material and supplying the finished product. Things were good until Amphan ripped his dream to pieces. “Each month I paid Rs 5,000 towards loan repayment. There were arrears since (Covid pandemic) lockdown was imposed but we thought it would pass. But cyclone has ruined everything,” said Ilyas. “On Wednesday night, the roof blew off, thatched walls caved in, machines were smashed and the raw material was soiled,” Ilyas recalled as he tried to pack the few clothes he could save. To start afresh, Iliyas would have to take another loan but he has no clue how to pay it off. “There is no work in Metiaburuz now. People are not buying unless necessary. We won’t have orders any time soon,” he said. In North 24 Parganas’ worst-hit Basirhat, thousands like Iliyas are now struggling to survive Amphan’s aftermath. Rarely can a house be seen that is not damaged. Uprooted trees and electric poles litter the subdivision. With brick kilns closed since the lockdown, many are left doing odd jobs in the fields. “Brick kilns have a season until onset of monsoon, and we earn Rs 500 per week there. We have spent all our savings during lockdown and have nothing left to even repair our houses. We are worse than beggars now,” said 63-year-old Noor Ali Mollah as tears streaked his cheeks. His asbestos-thatched house was destroyed after a tree fell on it on Wednesday. “We went looking for plastic sheets this morning. But the municipal office does not have any left,” he said. A few hundred meters from Mollah’s house, at Ballabhpur, Hasanulla Khan was trying to tie a plastic sheet on to the thatched house he had built recently. His family survived a close shave when the house crumpled in the face of the cyclone’s fury. “Ekhan asmaner niche thakte hobe. Eid tao eibhabei kete jabe (Now we will have to spend our days under the sky. Eid too will pass in this way),” Hasanulla said. Basirhat subdivisional officer Vivek Bhasme put a figure on the number of those affected. “Nearly 1 lakh people in Basirhat subdivision have lost their homes and are now staying at relief camps in places such as Hingalgunj, Hasnabad, Deganga, Sandeshkhali and Haroa,” he said. At least 30 embankments of the Ichhamati, Raymangal, Bidyadhari and Kalindi having been breached, over 700 villages are under water now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-leaves-a-trail-of-ruined-houses-and-lives-in-basirhat/articleshow/75906582.cms||Rohit Khanna
May 23, 2020||India||Ivanka Trump praises Indian girl who pedaled 1,200 km from||NEW DELHI: Ivanka Trump, the daughter of US President Donald Trump and also the senior White House adviser, on Friday praised the heroic tale of a 15-year-old Indian girl, who had pedaled 1,200km in seven days from Haryana's Gurgaon to her native village in Bihar, carrying her ailing father on the rear seat of her bicycle during the national lockdown. Highlighting the story of the pandemic-struck Indian family, Ivanka tweeted: "15-yr-old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200 km over 7 days. This beautiful feat of endurance & love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation!Flag of India." Mesmerised with Jyoti's exceptional display of strength and endurance, Cycling Federation of India Chairman Onkar Singh recently said that if Kumari, a Class VIII student, passed a bicycle trial, she will be selected as a trainee at National Cycling Academy at the IGI Stadium complex. "We spoke to the girl and we have told her that she will be called to Delhi next month as soon as the lockdown is lifted. All the expenses of her travel, lodging and other will be borne by us," Singh had recently told a news agency. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Jyoti took the challenging task when her father, Mohna Paswan, an autorickshaw driver in Gurgaon, got injured in an incident and the lockdown left him without any money. With no cash in hand, Paswan had to even return the autorickshaw to the owner. With no income to continue in Gurgaon, Jyoti and her father then started for their native village in Bihar on May 10 on a bicycle, that they bought after arranging some cash. Carrying her injured father on the rear seat, she pedaled and pedaled for days and reached her village in Bihar on May 16. Her heroic tale later went viral. Besides the Indian family, Ivanka, who actively tweets on politics and labour policies, also highlighted the story of another pandemic-hit family in the US. She commented about the emotional reunion of an elderly American couple, who spent months apart due to the pandemic. Tweeting a video of 89-year-old Jean and 91-year-old Walter Willard, who have been married for 70 years, kissing after getting reunited at their nursing home in Troy, New York, she commented: Beautiful! God bless you both!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ivanka-praises-indian-girl-who-pedaled-1200-km-from/articleshow/75908209.cms||Surendra Singh
May 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Living like the dead: Missed father’s funeral, couldn’t hug son||CHANDIGARH: Dark thoughts are preying on the minds of a group of people confined indoors for more than a month. Restlessness is growing, fears are mounting, discomfort is rising and hopes for a return to normal fading. Sector 30 B — one of the six containment zones in the city — is a place one would not like to be in these times. Shehnaz too wishes just that. On May 19, she woke up to the news of the death of her father in Malerkotla in Punjab. She could not bid him a final goodbye. “I am the eldest among all siblings, and I am feeling very bad about not seeing his face for the last time,” she said. Aslam Khan, her husband, said he applied for a pass and approached officials deployed in the sector, but they did not allow them to attend the funeral. Now, Shehnaz’s mother is ill. “We are worried about her health,” he said. Just a few blocks away a trader is devastated by his losses. “Eggs worth Rs 1 lakh were stored in my shop in Panchkula. I have not able to open my shop since the lockdown was enforced,” said Ashok Kumar. Tarun, a confectionery shop owner, too has faced similar difficulties. He said his shop has been closed and he had been quarantined too. “Families residing here are finding it very difficult to manage. They had even written to the Prime Minister’s office but nothing has changed,” he said. Harpreet Singh Duggal, chairman, Sector 30 B resident welfare association, said 3,000 to 4,000 people live in 600 houses in the area. Most of them work as contractual employees and drive autos and cabs, earning between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000 per month. “All of them have been locked up in their homes since March 23 and are running out of cash,” he said. Duggal claimed private employees residing in the colony have got notices from their offices to join duties. Deepak Verma is one such employee. His office has started operating but he cannot step out. “A fear of losing my job plagues my mind,” he said. Like him, Ravinder Kaur is also scared, but for a different reason. “I keep worrying how my husband and son are managing on their own,” said Ravinder, who has been stuck in Sector 30 B ever since she came to visit her mother before the area was sealed. Recently, her husband and her son had come to hand over some household items. “As the area is a containment zone, I could not hug my son standing just a few metres away. If that was not enough, officials did not allow me to give him a chocolate,” she said. While the administration has been providing people essential items, getting them is not easy. “In this scorching heat, people have to wait for two to three hours for their turn to buy ration and vegetables from the administration’s buses. You tell me is this fair?” asked Duggal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/living-like-the-dead-missed-fathers-funeral-couldnt-hug-son/articleshow/75908140.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: First Air India flight from New York with 100 on board arrives||MOHALI: An Air India flight carrying 100 passengers from New York, USA, landed at the Chandigarh international airport on Friday under the Vande Bharat mission of the government to rescue Indian nationals stuck abroad during the outbreak of Covid-19. People came from New Jersey, Vancouver, California, Kuala Lumpur, Buffalo, Pennsylvania, and Texas to New York to board the flight. They belonged to Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, "The first evacuation flight from the US stopped at the Delhi airport and arrived here at 1.30pm. Passports of all passengers were taken and will be handed back after they undergo 14-day institutional quarantine." Of the 100 passengers, 60 belonged to Punjab - 11 from Patiala, 10 from Amritsar, seven from Ludhiana, six from Hoshiarpur, five each from Jalandhar and Mohali, four from Kapurthala, three from Ferozepur, two each from Gurdaspur and Bathinda, one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Sangrur, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Muktsar Sahib. Sixteen passengers were from Himachal Pradesh, 12 from Haryana,10 from Chandigarh and two from Uttarakhand. All the passengers were handed over to the teams of various districts and neighbouring states, said Dayalan. He said the next flight under the Vande Bharat mission would land at the airport from Ukraine on May 30. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, who led the medical team, said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough and cold. The team examined the passengers with a non-contact infrared thermometer. Dr Manjit Singh said there is no active case in Mohali, stressing the need to wear masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-first-air-india-flight-from-new-york-with-100-on-board-arrives/articleshow/75908253.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 23, 2020||Mumbai||Covid cases surge in 24 hours in Maharashtra (2,940) & Mumbai (1,750)||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported 2,940 Covid-19 cases on Friday, its highest addition in a day so far and the highest jump for any state, taking the total in the state to 44,582.  This is the sixth day in a row the state has added over 2,000 cases. Maharashtra also reported 63 deaths, taking the Covid-19 toll so far to 1,517. Health minister Rajesh Tope admitted that cases were increasing and said the focus was on reducing deaths. "We have issued orders to make available 80% of beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients and have capped treatment rates. We have invoked five Acts under which action can be taken if this order is not followed. I urge private hospitals to follow the norms issued by the state government," Tope said. The city's toll breached the 900 mark even as cases continued to rise by over a thousand for the sixth consecutive day. On Friday, 1,751 cases - the highest single-day rise - were registered. The only silver lining was that it recorded 27 deaths as against 41 on the two preceding days, taking the toll to 909.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-cases-surge-in-24-hours-in-maharashtra-2940-mumbai-1750/articleshow/75908348.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Institutional quarantine only for returnees from 6 states||BENGALURU: People returning to Karnataka by air, rail or road from Maharashtra, Gujarat, TN, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and are asymptomatic will have to undergo institutional quarantine for seven days followed by seven days of home quarantine if their test results come negative.  Returnees from all other states will be exempted from institutional quarantine and will be asked to home-quarantine for 14 days. The revised guidelines were released by the state government on Friday night. Registration on the Seva Sindhu app is mandatory for entry to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-institutional-quarantine-only-for-returnees-from-6-states/articleshow/75908357.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Business||After 41 years, RBI sees GDP shrinking||NEW DELHI: The Indian economy is expected to contract for the first time in nearly 41 years, while the outlook for inflation remains uncertain, Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) assessment of the economic situation showed on Friday. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said, “It is in the growth outlook that the MPC (monetary policy committee) judged the risks to be gravest. The combined impact of demand compression and supply disruption will depress economic activity in the first half of the year. Assuming economic activity gets restored in a phased manner, especially in second half of this year, and taking into consideration favourable base effects, it is expected that the combination of fiscal, monetary and administrative measures being currently undertaken would create conditions for a gradual revival in activity in second half of 2020-21.” “Nonetheless, downside risks to this assessment are significant and contingent upon the containment of the pandemic and quick phasing out of social distancing/lockdowns. Given all these uncertainties, GDP growth in 2020-21is estimated to remain in negative territory, with some pick-up in growth impulses from H2: 2020-21onward,” said Das. If the contraction as forecast by the RBI and also by other economists is realised, it will be the first contraction for Asia’s third-largest economy since 1979-80, when GDP growth shrank 5.2%. Several investment banks, brokerages and economists have predicted the economic growth to remain flat or contract in the range of 1.5% to 6.8%. IMF’s April estimate, however, showed that India and China will be the only countries to display growth, while the rest will contract. Das said domestic economic activity has been impacted severely by the lockdown. The top six industrialised states, that account for about 60% of the industrial output, are largely in red or orange zones. High frequency indicators point to a collapse in demand beginning in March 2020 across both urban and rural segments, he said, adding that the robust farm sector and predictions of healthy monsoon rains augured well for the rural economy. The RBI governor also highlighted the precarious condition of the global economy, saying that by all counts, the macroeconomic and financial conditions are austere. The global economy is inexorably headed into recession, he said. Das said MPC assessed that the inflation outlook is highly uncertain. “The supply shock to food prices in April may show persistence over the next few months, depending upon the state of lockdown and the time taken to restore supply chains after relaxation.” “Much will depend on shape of the recovery after Covid. Accordingly, MPC is of the view that headline inflation may remain firm in first half of 2020-21, but should ease in the second half, aided also by favourable base effects. By Q3 and Q4 of FY20-21, it is expected to fall below target. Thus, the MPC’s forward guidance on inflation is directional rather than in terms of levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-41-yrs-rbi-sees-gdp-shrinking/articleshow/75908358.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Chandigarh||From May 19, 500 entering Chandigarh daily||CHANDIGARH: As many as 500 to 600 residents who were stranded in different states are returning to the city daily since the easing of the limits in the fourth leg of the lockdown from May 19, according to the civic body records. Teams from different departments of the municipal corporation (MC) are visiting these people, verifying their credentials, finding out from where they have come from and then placing them under home quarantine for two weeks by putting up posters outside their houses. “Chandigarh Police inform us about the entry of people from outside the city. We act on the information and start the process to put them under home quarantine. We are not putting the entire family under home quarantine but only those who have come from outside the city,” said an MC official. Earlier, the MC teams were only putting the contacts of the Covid-19 patients under home quarantine. Their numbers rarely crossed 100 in a day. Some of the employees said the task is affecting their routine work. “Checking up on 500 people daily is time-consuming,” said an MC official. As many as 6,800 people have been home quarantined from the last week of March till Thursday (12 noon), according to the records of the UT administration. Out of them, more than 5,000 people have completed their quarantine period of 14 days but have been advised to remain under isolation for 14 days more as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/from-may-19-500-entering-chandigarh-daily/articleshow/75908352.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court lambastes Civil hospital Ahmedabad for Covid-19 mess||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday gave a dressing down to the state government over the condition of the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad and said that the poor who come to the hospital are human beings and they must not be treated like animals. During the hearing of the suo motu PIL on the issue of Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, advocate Anand Yagnik raised the issue of the Civil hospital by terming it "a graveyard" and cited a letter written to the high court by Congress MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh requesting to direct the government to improve condition at the hospital. On hearing this, Justice J B Pardiwala of the division bench said, "The poorest of the poor are admitted in the Civil hospital in Ahmedabad. The poor people have a right to be treated well. They are human beings so treat them as human beings and do not give them a feeling that they are treated as animals." When the lawyer cited TOI report about high fatalities in the Civil hospital, the judge said that they have been hearing about the Civil hospital, about people dying, patients' families not informed about death, junior doctors' plight, strike of the staff, patients not getting admitted and tests not being conducted. Justice Pardiwala added, "You have so many senior IAS officers deputed for Ahmedabad and only for the Civil hospital and yet your house is not in order." To this, the advocate general was quick, as usual, to give an assurance to the court that things would be in order within a week's time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-high-court-lambastes-civil-hospital-ahmedabad-for-covid-19-mess/articleshow/75908411.cms||---
May 23, 2020||Business||Pay $716 million to 3 Chinese companies: UK court to Anil Ambani||LONDON: Business tycoon and former billionaire Anil Ambani was on Friday ordered by a UK court to pay three Chinese banks $716 million (Rs 5,439 crore). The commercial court of the high court in London gave a summary judgment against Ambani, chairman of Reliance ADA Group, after his defence was struck down because he failed to make a conditional payment of $100 million (Rs 759 crore) to the court by March 20 this year. A spokesperson for Ambani said, “The matter pertains to an alleged personal guarantee for a corporate loan availed by Reliance Communications (RCom) in 2012 for global refinancing. It is emphasised that it is not a personal loan of Mr Ambani.” ICBC (Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) made their claim based on an alleged guarantee that was never signed by Ambani and he has consistently denied having authorised anyone to execute any guarantee on his behalf, the spokesperson said. The amount ordered to be paid based on the alleged guarantee will, in any case, reduce substantially upon the imminent resolution of RCom’s debt in accordance with the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016, the spokesperson said, adding that as far as the judgment of the UK court is concerned, the question of any enforcement in India does not arise in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pay-716m-to-3-chinese-cos-uk-court-to-anil-ambani/articleshow/75908410.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka schools may reopen in August with online-TV module||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government may allow schools to reopen in August, but is yet to decide whether teaching should be online or in classrooms or a mix of both. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar, who is meeting experts to prepare a strategy, said he may announce the schedule next week. “We’re considering a mix of three models.... The best option is to have alternate-day schooling or in batches the same day along with Doordarshan and online teaching,” Kumar said. He is under pressure from parents of LKG, UKG and Class 1 students to scrap the 2020-21 academic year. Kumar: Online teaching not a viable optionThe education department is considering three options: A combination of in-person and distance learning with public health mitigation strategies; on a given day, one batch attends classes and the other participates in distance learning from home; schools won’t reopen and classes are held only through distance learning this academic year. The government is awaiting HRD ministry guidelines on the issue. Some experts and legislators from teachers’ constituencies suggested online classes as the best method. “Since it’s difficult to ensure social distancing among schoolchildren, the government must postpone the academic year till a vaccine is found. The government should ensure only online classes are conducted,’’ said Basavaraj Horrati, former education minister and seven-time MLC from teachers’ constituency. Kumar said online teaching is not a viable option. “Of 85 lakh student students, 40-50 lakh are in rural, government schools without internet access. We must have a combination of techbased and classroom teaching,” he said. Watch Karnataka schools likely to reopen in August||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-schools-may-reopen-in-august-with-online-tv-module/articleshow/75908369.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
