May 24, 2020||Chennai||Will faceprint masks be the new fashion trend?||Anto, who runs a photo studio in Pallavaram, was feeling disheartened that footfalls in his studio began dwindling when his store re-opened to the public, last week. “Even a few regulars who came to click their photos were in masks and could not be recognised. They could also not recognise us. This is when I thought why not make a mask that looked real and interesting at the same time,” he adds. Anto then made a prototype by making a mask out of banyan material stitched with cotton material, by superimposing the picture of a person wearing it, from the nose down. “I made a few sample masks for my staff, according to the government norms for homemade masks. I encouraged my staff to wear these masks, even though they thought it was comical. And around a week back, I made a video and circulated it among photographer communities to boost their morale. Most of them were feeling down as they were out of work,” he says. The video soon became viral, and inquiries for the mask — priced between `250 and `150 — began piling in, the photographer says. “Photographers from across cities have now started imbibing this model. I realised that this was a nice way to encourage people to come and get their photos clicked too, following precaution,” he says. Face-printed masks apart, Anto also customises motifs of cartoon and pop-culture icons on masks, on demand. “A customer recently asked for a mask with the print of Avengers for his 10-year-old son. The idea is to make safety and social distancing interesting, while encouraging the work of photographers,” Anto explains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-faceprint-masks-be-the-new-fashion-trend/articleshow/75926411.cms||Sruthi Raman
May 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru limps back to normalcy with new norms||Bengaluru is returning to normalcy with new normsThe coronavirus pandemic has turned as we knew it on its head and ushered in lifestyle changes that many would argue, should have been the norm aeons ago. Personal hygiene has become the focus, we’ve learnt to cough/sneeze into our elbows or disposable tissues and stopped spitting anywhere and everywhere, among others. The more radical changes, though, were, for most of us, scenes out of sci-fi or heist movies until not long ago. A masked face that was hitherto either about a scientific disaster, space trip or robbery, is now our new normal. Who would have thought you could ever wear a mask to a bank? We’ve stopped pushing and shoving in public places, learnt to maintain queues with adequate distancing and also realised that we don’t have to run to the hospital OPD for the slightest discomfort. The list goes on. Lessons and learnings are aplenty from the pandemic, but the fact remains that we are all now embracing our new normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-limps-back-to-normalcy-with-new-norms/articleshow/75924112.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 24, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Ancient idol of Lord Vishnu recovered in Kaushambi village||PRAYAGRAJ: An ancient idol of Lord Vishnu has been recovered at the village of Rasoolpur Badagav under the limits of Manjhanpur tehsil in Kaushambi district here on Saturday. The idol was recovered during the digging work of Khumbhi pond under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Gurantee Act (MNREGA) work. District magistrate (Kaushambi) Manish Kumar Verma told TOI, “We have apprised the authorities of ASI (Archaeological Survey of India) about the recovery of the ancient idol of Lord Vishnu, who assume that the idol might be from 12th century. The authorities of Allahabad Museum have also been apprised of the discovery who would also be sending a team of experts to study the recovered idol." The idol is currently in possession of treasury department and teams of ASI and Allahabad Museum would be examining it on Sunday. SDM (Manjhanpur) Rajesh Chandra, meanwhile, said that the ancient old idol was recovered when around 150 labourers were digging Khumbhi pond in Rasoolpur Badagav development block under MANREGA scheme and when a labourer named as Sukhraj suspected the presence of idol. As soon as the labourers spotted the idol, they informed the village head and block development officer about the recovery. Upon being alerted, district authorities immediately rushed to the spot and took the ancient idol in their possession. Officials said they had already consulted the ASI authorities to know more about the status of recovered idol. According to villagers, this idol has four arms of Lord Vishnu carrying a conch, gada and chakra. The district authorities said they would speak about more about the idol after consulting with archaeologists. Leaders and workers of Hindu frontal organisation also assembled to get a glimpse of the recovered idol and demanded district authorities to install it at a temple for prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-ancient-idol-of-lord-vishnu-recovered-in-kaushambi-village/articleshow/75926801.cms||Kapil Dixit
May 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Sonipat liquor scam: Another policeman arrested from Rohtak||CHANDIGARH: In a significant development in the liquor theft scam of Sonipat, the special investigation team (SIT) on Saturday arrested an assistant sub inspector (ASI), who had been the close confidant of sacked inspector Jasbir Singh. Jaipal, who is in his early 40s, was arrested from a residential colony in Rohtak. The Sonipat court has ordered his police remand. Meanwhile, the SIT sleuths have started conducting raids across the state and New Delhi to track down Jasbir, co-mastermind of the scam. "We are hopeful of getting important clues from Jaipal. He had been a close aide of Jasbir Singh and had been the investigating officer in cases against Bhupinder Singh, kingpin of the entire racket. He and Jasbir had even threatened the officials of the Sonipat police, who wanted to give evidence in the case. Jaipal is being interrogated,'' said Sonipat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa. Interestingly, the interrogation of Bhupinder SIngh and his associate Satish Kumar has spilled the beans and their relations with politicians in Punjab and Haryana. During interrogation, Bhupinder has confessed to his the relationship with influential politicians of both states. "During lockddown, he managed to forge permits of essential supplies, allegedly bearing the stamp of executive magistrate, Derabassi. During verification, the permits were found to be fake. He then confessed to have picked stock of liquor from Rajpura and Derabassi for supply in Haryana and other dry states. We have been able to establish his link with with a bootlegger in Gujarat,'' said Randhawa. The SP, however, maintained that as of now, no proof of Bhupinder's direct or indirect link with any politician from Punjab had come on records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sonipat-liquor-scam-another-policeman-arrested-from-rohtak/articleshow/75926956.cms||Manvir Saini
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Eminent pulmonologist and AIIMS' ex-head of medicine Dr J N Pande dies||NEW DELHI: Dr Jitendra Nath Pande, an eminent pulmonologist and former head of the Department of Medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week, died at his residence on Saturday. He was 79. Dr Pande and his wife tested positive for the infection on Tuesday with mild symptoms and they decided to remain in home isolation, said AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria. But his wife was shifted to the AIIMS hospital on Saturday. "We were following him up regularly and he said he was improving. Yesterday, he had his dinner and went off to sleep and then passed away in sleep possibly because of an acute cardiac event," Dr Guleria said. Dr Pande had co-morbid conditions. "Knowledge and humility can coexist and Dr Pande was an epitome of that. He was an excellent human being and it is a great loss to the medical fraternity. AIIMS family will miss him the most because he joined AIIMS as an MBBS student and retired as the head of the Department of Medicine," Dr Guleria said. "I have closely worked with him and knew him since my childhood as he was the student of my father," he added. After his retirement in 2003, Dr Pande joined the Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research and worked there as a senior consultant in the Respiratory Medicine department. "He was a legendary physician who had taught many practicing doctors at AIIMS and continued to mentor physicians even after joining this hospital. What was remarkable was that most difficult cases would come to him," said the institute's Director Abhishek Bhartia. "I even spoke him yesterday. He was under home care and seemed to be recovering." Sangita Reddy, Joint Managing Director of Apollo Hospitals Group and President of industry chamber FICCI said in a tweet, "Deeply saddened to hear that today. @covid19 claimed its most illustrious victim Dr. J.N Pande Director & Prof of Pulmonology @aiims_newdelhi. "A stalwart of the medical world his work in pulmonology will continue to ensure better health for many. My Condolences to his family."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eminent-pulmonologist-and-aiims-ex-head-of-medicine-dr-j-n-pande-dies/articleshow/75927008.cms||---
May 24, 2020||World||US Navy successfully tests a laser weapon that can destroy aircraft mid-flight||WASHINGTON: A US Navy warship has successfully tested a new high-energy laser weapon that can destroy aircraft mid-flight, the Navy's Pacific Fleet has announced. Images and videos provided by the Navy show the amphibious transport dock ship USS Portland executing "the first system-level implementation of a high-energy class solid-state laser" to disable an aerial drone aircraft, the Navy said in a statement on Friday. It did not give a specific location of the laser weapons system demonstrator (LWSD) test, saying only that it occurred in the Pacific on May 16. Navy ships face an increasing number of threats in conducting their missions, including Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, armed small boats, and adversary intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems. The US Navy has been developing directed-energy weapons (DEWs), to include lasers, since the 1960s. DEWs are defined as electromagnetic systems capable of converting chemical or electrical energy to radiated energy and focusing it on a target, resulting in physical damage that degrades, neutralises, defeats, or destroys an adversarial capability, the statement said. The Navy's development of DEWs like the LWSD, provide immediate warfighter benefits and provide the commander increased decision space and response options. "By conducting advanced at sea tests against UAVs and small crafts, we will gain valuable information on the capabilities of the Solid State Laser Weapons System Demonstrator against potential threats," Captain Karrey Sanders, commanding officer of Portland, said in the statement. "With this new advanced capability, we are redefining war at sea for the Navy." The Navy says lasers, which it calls directed energy weapons (DEW), can be effective defences against drones or armed small boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-navy-successfully-tests-a-laser-weapon-that-can-destroy-aircraft-mid-flight/articleshow/75919255.cms||---
May 24, 2020||India||4 crore migrant workers in India; 75 lakh return home so far: MHA||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Saturday said around four crore migrant labourers are engaged in various works in different parts of the country and so far 75 lakh of them have returned home in trains and buses since the nationwide lockdown was imposed.  Joint Secretary in the Union Home Ministry, Punya Salila Srivastava, said the railways have engaged over 2,600 'Shramik' special trains since May 1 for transportation of the migrant workers from different parts of the country to their destinations.  "According to the last census report, there are four crore migrant workers in the country," she said at a press conference here.  Elaborating on the steps taken by the central government for the convenience of migrant workers since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown began, Srivastava said 35 lakh migrant workers have reached their destinations using 'Shramik' special trains, while 40 lakh have travelled in buses to reach their destinations.  The joint secretary said that on March 27, the Home Ministry had sent an advisory to all states and Union Territories (UTs) that the issue of migrant workers should be handled with sensitivity and ensure that they don't move during the lockdown.  The states and UTs were also told to provide them food and shelter, she said.  On March 28, the Home Ministry issued an order empowering the states and UTs to use funds under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for providing food and shelter to the migrant workers.  By April 3, a total of Rs 11,092 crore have been released by the central government to the states and UTs under the NDRF, Srivastava said.  She said the Home Ministry has also set up a 24x7 control room to monitor migrant workers' issues across the country under the supervision of the joint secretary level officers. States and UTs were also told to set up similar control room, she said.  The joint secretary said the Home Ministry again sent an advisory on March 29 asking the states to provide food and shelter to the migrant workers.  The states were also told to make wide publicity so that the migrant workers know the facilities available for them.  Subsequently, another advisory was sent banning transportation of migrant workers by trucks and made the SPs responsible for any violation.  Srivastava said the Home Ministry on April 19 allowed movement of workers within a state and on May 1, inter-state movement through trains.  A nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-crore-migrant-workers-in-india-75-lakh-return-home-so-far-mha/articleshow/75927222.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Business||No one can predict where oil prices will stabilise: Dharmendra Pradhan||Petroleum and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan has spent the lockdown period trying to ensure that oil companies can take advantage of the low crude oil prices, while making cooking gas and subsidy available to Ujjwala scheme beneficiaries. In an interview, Pradhan tells Sanjay Dutta & Sidhartha that Indian steel producers have ramped up exports during the period. Excerpts:Q: How has the lockdown affected petroleum and steel sectors?A: Lockdown is a global issue. It was needed to break the chain and there was consensus on it. Globally, the demand for oil products came down significantly. In April, nearly 70% of the demand went away. By May, 60-65% of the demand has been regained. With trains and civil aviation traffic returning, demand will improve. By June, we expect demand to be back at pre-lockdown levels. Also, before the lockdown, three large oil producers were trying to capture the oil market, which resulted in a glut. Coupled with low demand, prices crashed, which no one anticipated. While prices have started rising due to improved demand, no one can predict where prices will stabilize. The uncertainty in the oil market will remain for some time. In steel too, industrial and construction activity had come to a stop. India has managed to use its natural advantage of manpower and raw material and step up exports during this period. Q: Despite a fall in global crude prices, retail prices remain high as the government has raised taxes…A: Pump prices correspond to crude price at $65 a barrel and does not put the burden (of hike in Central taxes) on consumers. Consumer prices have remained unchanged. There is an abnormal situation in the oil market when WTI (US benchmark crude) crashed below zero. In these times, it is pointless to revise prices, especially when demand is gone. What do you do when things are bad? You tighten the purse strings, focus on bare essentials. This is what all of us have seen our mothers do. This (tax hike) is the same. India has consciously adopted this fiscal model. We need resources for the poor, healthcare, to provide stimulus and build infrastructure. That is what the money will be used for. Q: Due to movement of migrants, do you see labour problem in executing projects?A: Historically, eastern India has lagged in development. Since the Modi government came to power, it has been trying to correct this imbalance by pushing for a second Green Revolution with focus on the East, announced several large projects and major schemes also focused on benefiting people from this part of the country. Migration is not just an economic issue but a socio-psychological issue. It’s (currently) a reverse migration due to a health issue. Some people will return, others will look for new avenues. The projects announced in the East will create employment opportunities. Q: The package that has been announced for MSME, how many units in the steel sector will benefit? How will it spur demand?A: It’s not just about MSMEs but a comprehensive package that addresses major issues in agriculture. There is special emphasis on housing which will benefit cement, steel, logistics, local industry and provide jobs. Every country has adopted different strategies, we have chosen this path. We are ahead of many countries on direct benefit transfer, which we have successfully used for transfering funds to the poor, including Ujjwala beneficiaries. It wasn’t a stimulus but a genuine money transfer. Q: An important statement from the government is to enhance the role of the private sector. There are several oil and steel PSUs, what will be the strategy?A: It is a much-delayed and much-awaited decision which is consistent with our philosophy. It does not mean the closure of PSUs. There is unanimity on getting more capital and technology. This should have been done within two years of Independence. People want more job opportunities. The government should be a facilitator in getting investment. It should get more revenue which should be used for social welfare. The idea of the policies is to encourage value addition. We have opened the petroleum sector since 1990s, in steel private players are producing more steel than the public sector. Q: What about BPCL disinvestment?A: An in-principle decision has been taken. It depends on the market. Q: With oil prices falling, does the economics for electric vehicles change?A: There is no fundamental change. Electric vehicles were expected to contribute to the incremental requirement and not replace internal combustion engines. Naturally, people will use what is available. Price will be a factor and BS-6 fuel and vehicles are now available. The impact will be more in the three- and two-wheelers segments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-one-can-predict-where-oil-prices-will-stabilise-dharmendra-pradhan/articleshow/75927162.cms||Sanjay Dutta
May 24, 2020||Business||Pradhan sees fuel demand reaching pre-Corona level next month as India gets back to work||NEW DELHI: India has regained 65% of its appetite for fuel and demand will reach nearly pre-pandemic levels next month as economic activities pick up pace after the government’s announcement of a stimulus package and staggered easing of Corona restrictions, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan told TOI on Saturday. “The world has seen an unprecedented erosion in fuel demand. Many countries saw refineries being shut down, plans being rescheduled. India has fared better in comparison. After the lockdown began (from March 25), fuel demand had dropped to 30-35% of the level seen in April 2019. Yet, major production capacities remained operational. Demand is back at 65% of the May 2019 level and will reach pre-Corona level in June,” Pradhan said. This compares well with fuel consumption in China, the world’s second-largest oil consumer and the pandemic's epicentre, reaching 90% of the pre-Corona level after losing 40% of the demand in February, as per an IHS Markit report. A rebound in fuel demand indicates India is getting back to work and the world’s third-largest energy market is poised to regain its position as the global demand centre. “The pattern (the pace of consumption growth) may change. Two-wheelers will be back as an affordable option to maintain social distance and safety while commuting. Same with small cars. This will give impetus to petrol. Rising highway traffic, resumption of train service and farm sector activities fill push diesel sales. Aviation fuel will get a boost once flights resume from May 25,” he said. Latest industry data show petrol sales rising 7.5% and diesel sales jumping 72% in May following the government’s move to ease lockdown curbs to allow from April 20. Jet fuel sales grew 6-7% and LPG 4% during this period as only select cargo and repatriation flights took to the skies and domestic cooking fuel demand tapered off after the initial panic-buying triggered by the lockdown and commercial consumption was yet to return. Asked about current pump prices corresponding to $100 oil price and consumers not getting the benefit of historically low oil prices because of the government raising fuel taxes by Rs 13 and Rs 16 a litre of petrol and diesel, respectively, Pradhan said it did not put the burden on consumers and will raise resources for welfare schemes, stimulus package and infrastructure. “Pump prices have remained steady since they were last changed reduced when was $65/barrel. So it is wrong to say pump prices reflect oil at $100. It is pointless at such times to revise prices, especially when demand is gone. What do you do when things are bad. You tighten the purse strings. Focus on bare essentials. This is what all of us have seen our mother do. This (tax hike) is the same. Where will the money come from? We have to look after the poor, stimulate the economy. Build infrastructure. That is what the money will be used for.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pradhan-sees-fuel-demand-reaching-pre-corona-level-next-month-as-india-gets-back-to-work/articleshow/75927527.cms||Sanjay Dutta
May 24, 2020||India||Wholesale veggie prices crash during lockdown||In the two months since the country went into lockdown, vegetable prices have crashed in wholesale markets across states. The only exception is the potato, which at just under Rs 20 a kg on average, is almost double what it sold for in May last year.  TOI looked at wholesale prices of the 15 most common veggies across 19 states and found that prices of all of them, barring potatoes and lemons, had fallen in almost all the states. To discount for seasonal variations, TOI also compared prices with last May, and found the fall to be even sharper (even lemons were way more expensive in May 2019). With state borders sealed, and supply chains hampered, what possibly led to the crashing prices was distress sale of perishable veggies and a sharp drop in demand. "Disruption of supply chain during the lockdown is among the major reason of this collapse in prices," said Ashok Gulati, chair professor for agriculture at ICRIER, a policy think-tank. "If we take onions, the lockdown coincided with the rabi harvest season. That crop could not be transported at that time and is now reaching the market. This has led to the crash in prices," he added. Raj Kumar Bhatia, general secretary of the Chamber of Azadpur Fruit & Vegetable Traders (Delhi's biggest mandi), said, "Our supplies were largely intact but some northern states like Punjab and Himachal Pradesh enforced a strict lockdown. Azadpur mandi is their biggest supplier. And our vehicles could not cross over. So, there were incidents of distress sale." Bhatia added that the situation could have been better had there been clearer guidelines for local vendors who procure from Azadpur Mandi and supply to Delhi's local markets. Officials from APMCs (Agriculture Produce Market Committees) in the southern states, however, said their supply chains were not disrupted and the crash was probably because of a sudden drop in demand from bulk buyers like restaurants and hotels. Also, the fact that several events like wedding feasts were put off led to a lower demand. The steep fall in wholesale prices, however, hasn't translated into a proportional fall in retail prices, which vary significantly across markets and outlets. So, farmers' income has fallen while consumers haven't benefited fully. It's the middlemen who have raised their margin. The average wholesale price of bhindi, or ladies' finger, (calculated by the government's Agmarknet portal that tracks agricultural marketing) was Rs 3.9 per kg in Chhattisgarh, down 84.6% from March 2020 and 57.3% lower than last May. While Chhattisgarh saw the sharpest drop, prices fell the least in Kerala and Karnataka. Prices of karela (bitter gourd), too, fell in all states, the sharpest - 60% - in Punjab and Haryana. It was the same story for bottle gourd, whose prices crashed everywhere except Kerala and Karnataka. The pricey capsicum was also humbled, selling at Rs 4.4 a kg in Punjab, down over 77%. Garlic prices have also fallen in all states; so have green chillies, which went into a free fall in most states. Onion prices have fallen in all states while tomato is also being sold at lower prices in most of the major states. Prices of brinjal, cabbage, ginger, cucumber and cauliflower showed mixed trends - falling in some states while rising in others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wholesale-veggie-prices-crash-during-lockdown/articleshow/75927840.cms||Atul Thakur
May 24, 2020||India||‘Roti-beti’ ties, intact for centuries, shouldn’t be hit: Families on Indo-Nepal border at Lipulekh||NAINITAL: The strain in Indo-Nepal ties has sparked concerns among people on both sides of the porous border who have enjoyed free movement for years, resulting in a tight-knit community where cultural experiences are shared and marriages and trade across the border are common. Families on Uttarakhand-Nepal border that TOI spoke to said they were worried that escalating tensions could affect their “roti-beti” (trade-marriage) contracts that had remained intact for centuries. Ties between the two countries soured after Nepal released a political map showing Kalapani -- a trijunction of India, Nepal and China -- and Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand as part of its territory. “For years, we have looked at those across the border as our own. We share the same culture, values, even our struggles are similar. Cross-border marriages are common. At least 60 families out of 250 in our village are related to those living in villages on the other side by marriage,” said Harish Chandra Haisiyat, a resident of Sailani Goth village in Champawat district. Radha Devi from Nepal's Baitadi district who married an Indian and moved to a village in Uttarakhand's Champawat district in 1954Haisiyat’s mother Radha Devi is from Nepal. “She married my father and moved here in 1954. We visit her paternal house every month. Through the years, three of her sisters have married into families in Vadodara, Bareilly and Pithoragarh.” Three districts of Uttarakhand — Champawat, Pithoragarh and US Nagar — share a border with Nepal. Haisiyat added, “There is now this fear that if tensions continue, free movement might be curbed. Right now we don’t need a passport to see our families in Nepal, many of us don’t even have one.” In Pithoragarh’s Majirkanda village, two dozen families share marital ties with those in Nepal. Ganesh Chandra Bhatt, a resident who has in-laws in Nepal, said one only needs a valid government-issued identity card to cross the border. Across, Lal Bahadur Chand from Nepal's Mahendranagar told TOI, “My younger sister lives in Lucknow and we visit each other once every few months. But there is growing tension between the countries and it may have a long-lasting impact.” Historians said the two countries have shared ties deeper than their neighbours in the region. “India and Nepal have an intertwined history. The warrior Gurkhas from Nepal ruled Kumaon division of Uttarakhand from 1790 to 1815. Some royal descendants of the Shah Kings are today settled in Bhimtal,” said historian Ajay Singh Rawat, whose father D S Rawat acted as local guardian for four-time Nepal Prime Minister Lokendra Bahadur Chand when he was studying in Nainital. Defence experts like Maroof Raza said that given the deep bonding and relationships among border villages on both sides in the region, chances of restrictions being imposed along the border were slim. “For hundreds of years Nepal has been a natural partner for India, but growing Chinese influence in Nepal has the potential to hurt the latter’s ties with India.” (Inputs by Prem Punetha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/roti-beti-ties-intact-for-centuries-shouldnt-be-hit-families-on-indo-nepal-border-at-lipulekh/articleshow/75924964.cms||Prashant Jha
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune’s international students spend their Eid in reflection and charity||Prayers, family time, food, Eidis and new clothes; Eid is all about love, caring and sharing. Although this year’s Ramadan and Eid is a lowkey affair due to the pandemic, the spirit of Eid is kept alive across the world. Muslims are uniting in faith and charity to help one other and people in need. We caught up with international students living in Pune and get to know how they are celebrating Eid, away from their family…  Iraqi student in Pune - Mohammed Ibrahim was enthusiastic to visit his hometown - Baghdad for Eid, however, the pandemic has changed all that. “On Eid, I will connect with my family and relatives via video call. My family tradition during Eid is to pray and eat together and also get Eidis from elders. This year, my plan is a bit different. I learnt how to make Sheer Khurma and I will teach my cousin to make one via call. They have never tried the dish,” says Ibrahim. Milad Ghiasi PhD researcher in Health Psychology from SPPU, Milad Ghiasi, who is from Iran, says, “Being a Psychology researcher, lockdown period has been a great opportunity for me to write a research paper at home for a journal, and also I am in touch with my guide on telephone calls for answering my questions regarding my thesis. Covid_19 gave me enough time for learning new things and also working on the things that were not my priority in the past. For example, cooking. In addition, I have had enough time to video call my family and friends as well. I believe at this period, not only me but also many people get to think about themselves, their own behaviours and people around them more than before. Overall, maintaining or changing a habit takes 21 days according to Psychology perspective, so I am trying to change my eating habits and sleeping hours to normal life since lockdown is getting over soon.” Nasib Shokuri Afghan student Nasib Shokuri in Pune says, “Every Eid, we get up early and take spiritual bath and wear new clothes. Then in the morning by 7-8, we have to offer Eid prayer in the mosque with all the foreign nationals and then, we greet them, take pictures, and most of them wear their traditional clothes. Post this, we visit our friends and prepare food parties. However, this year, all this cannot be a possibility because of the pandemic, but I am planning to meet them via video call.”  This year, Fahim Qadir from Afghanistan who is celebrating Eid in Pune with his fellow countrymen is keeping it a lowkey one. With no shopping and splurging, whatever little Fahim has saved, will be donated to the needy. “My friends and I have organised a virtual Eidi charity video call on Eid. The call is to collect money for the people in need. We are planning to donate the collected Eidi to people in India and Afghanistan. Eid is all about sharing, and this Eid is to share even more. We have not done any shopping for this Eid so that we can save even more,” shares Fahim. Note: Lead picture is BCCL file photo, clicked before the pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-international-students-spend-their-eid-in-reflection-and-charity/articleshow/75928676.cms||Rishabh Deb
May 24, 2020||Business||Govt pushes PSU banks to provide cheaper loans to small businesses||NEW DELHI: The government is pushing public sector banks to provide additional working capital to small businesses at 7.5% interest under the loan guarantee scheme that proposes to provide up to Rs 3 lakh crore, while also asking them to ensure that senior citizens earn higher returns on their fixed deposits. While paring deposit rates-to ensure that all borrowers benefit from the lower rate regime-bankers have been asked to ensure widespread implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana, which has been extended by three years up to March 2023. Under the scheme, senior citizens will be paid 7.4% interest during the current financial year with the rate to be reset next year. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates With the Reserve Bank of India repeatedly reducing rates, the State Bank of India has reduced its peak fixed deposit rate to 5.7% for funds parked for 5-10 years. In case of senior citizens, the bank is paying 6.5% a year. The message was conveyed to the bank chiefs during a meeting convened by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday with implementation of the Covid package being the key focus to ensure that cash-strapped small businesses can access funds, and at lower cost. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageCurrently, small businesses are borrowing at 11-12% from state-run lenders. Last week, the government had cleared an emergency facility for business enterprises with a turnover of up to Rs 100 crore and outstanding loans of up to Rs 25 crore. Such businesses will get additional 20% working capital through a government guarantee with interest rate capped at 9.25%. Sitharaman has asked bankers to go all out to ensure that all eligible borrowers benefit from it. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Banking sources told TOI that lenders were told that they should also slash lending rates to ensure that the benefits of a reduction in the RBI's key policy rates are passed on to borrowers. On Friday, the RBI had reduced repo rate - or the overnight rate at which it lends to banks - by another 40 basis points. This will mean that state-run lenders will be lowering rates on all loans in the coming months as they adjust their deposit rates. "Basically, the government wants public sector banks to lend at 7.5% although it may not be possible for all of them. But they will try and work out the rates in a way that they can lend around the indicative rate," a banking source said. The finance ministry is also asking RBI to assign zero risk weight to additional working capital to small businesses as the loans will be guaranteed by government-owned National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company. "Since 75% of the claims raised by banks in case a loan turns NPA will be settled by the company, the credit risk is very low and the benefit of lower cost can be passed on to borrowers," a government official said. A retired banker said it is in the interest of banks to ensure funding to these businesses so that they can stay afloat. Watch Govt pushes PSU banks to provide cheaper loans to small businesses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-pushes-psu-banks-to-provide-cheaper-loans-to-small-businesses/articleshow/75929018.cms||Sidhartha
May 24, 2020||India||Nepal restarts work on border road after 12 yrs||PITHORAGARH: Amid the escalating India-Nepal border tension, the Nepalese government has restarted work on the 130-km-long Darchula-Tinkar road project in Darchula district.  According to sources, the road project was sanctioned in 2008 to facilitate Nepal-China border trade through Tinkar Pass. Around 50 km of the road for this project runs parallel with the Indian border along Uttarakhand. The sources confirmed the project has now been taken up again and the Nepal government has decided its Army would complete the remaining portion of the road. It was presumed that the road project will promote not just trade but also pilgrim and tourist traffic in the area. However, almost 12 years on, only 43-km of the road has been laid due to the tough terrain and harsh weather conditions. With continuous monetary losses, the contractor had also left the job, said the source. The restarting of the project assumes significance in the wake of protests after Union defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km road connecting Lipulekh Pass to Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8 . However, protests errupted in Nepal just days after as the country claimed that the Pass is apart of its territory. Meanwhile, a source told TOI that the official reason behind restarting the road project is to enable movement of people of Tinkar and Chhangru which are migratory villages. In order to finish the remaining 87-km track, the source said, the Army is in the process of setting up a base camp at Ghatiabaghar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-restarts-work-on-border-road-after-12-yrs/articleshow/75929257.cms||---
May 24, 2020||India||2,600 trains to get 36L more migrants home||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways has prepared a schedule to operate 2,600 more Shramik Special trains in the next 10 days to ferry nearly 36 lakh migrants — similar to the number of such trains and passengers the national transporter has moved in the past 23 days. It is also likely to introduce more special mail/ express trains on routes, particularly east-bound ones in which bookings have touched between 90% and 100%. Railway Board chairman VK Yadav said they have worked out the number of more Shramik Specials, their origin and destination based on requirements from states. Trains can also be run within states and around 10-12 lakh people can travel in these intra-state operations, he added. According to the Railways, 35 lakh stranded migrants have travelled in interstate Shramik Specials and intra-state trains. The home ministry has estimated that nearly 40 lakh others have travelled in buses. Highlighting that coordination with states is key in successful running of Shramik Specials, Yadav said the Railways can’t allow deboarding of passengers at any station as there is a need to have specific facilities to comply with health protocols. He also said uninterrupted freight operations have ensured delivery of 9.7 million tonnes of foodgrain during the lockdown, nearly double that transported during the same period last year. Watch Indian Railways to operate 2,600 Shramik special trains in the next 10 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2600-trains-to-get-36l-more-migrants-home/articleshow/75929571.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 24, 2020||Business||Puri: Hope to resume international flights before Aug||NEW DELHI: India will try to restart scheduled international flights before August, depending on the pandemic situation here and in different countries, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday. And the minimal contact way of flying means the international travel experience will change, with e-boarding cards soon to be allowed and immigration looking at e-options instead of physically stamping passports. "I am fully hopeful that before August or September, we will try to start a good percentage of international civil aviation if not complete international operations," Puri said during a Facebook Live session on Saturday.  Lufthansa and Swiss have put Mumbai on their list of long-haul destinations from Frankfurt and Zurich, respectively, in June - subject to regulatory approvals from India.  Puri had told TOI on Friday that the ministry was considering allowing e-boarding for international flights very soon. Immigration is also looking at adopting e-practices. "The future (for Indian airlines) is in wide-body operations. The pandemic will lead to a marked preference among people for direct flights between India and Europe, North America, Australia and other places, instead of transiting through some hub as that will mean going through the entire process of alighting, security checks and boarding again," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/puri-hope-to-resume-international-flights-before-aug/articleshow/75929827.cms||Saurabh Sinha
May 24, 2020||Varanasi||Rise in Covid-19 cases in east UP dists, 28 test positive in Jaunpur||Varanasi: The east UP districts including Jaunpur, Ghazipur and Ballia witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 positive cases on Friday. While Jaunpur district reported 28 positive cases, Ballia district had 14 cases and Ghazipur district recorded 11 cases At the same time, in a major relief to the city, no fresh case was reported in Varanasi on Friday. According to Ballia CMO Dr PK Mishra, a total of 1,338 samples were collected till Thursday night. While 893 samples tested negative, 14 samples were found positive and the reports of 432 samples are still awaited. Jaunpur witnessed the highest number of new positive cases on Friday. With the detection of 28 new cases, the number of infected persons rose to 76 in the district. So far 11 persons have recovered from illness, while there are 63 active cases in Jaunpur, and two persons were confirmed positive after death. According to the divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, earlier on Thursday 16 new positive cases were reported from Jaunpur of which 15 had returned from Mumbai and one from Surat. Similarly, with the detection of 11 new infected persons, the total number of positive cases rose to 71 in Ghazipur district. Among the new infected persons, eight belong to Saidpur, two belong to Manihari and one belongs to Mohammadabad. They have returned from various states including Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. Presently, there are 65 active cases in the district after recovery of six patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-east-up-dists-28-test-positive-in-jaunpur/articleshow/75905511.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Surat||Families of 22 victims to hold prayer meet today||Surat: Sunday will mark the first anniversary of the macabre Takshashila Arcade fire which had snuffed out lives of 22, majority of them students of the coaching class there.The scenes of teens jumping down from the building to escape the blaze and dying on May 24, 2019 still send shiver up the spine of those who witnessed the tragedy. On Saturday, posters with photos of the victims along with stinging questions about ‘shoddy’ investigation were put up by parents of the deceased children. Parents and relatives will hold a prayer meeting at the spot on Sunday. They will light lamps in the night at their homes to pay homage to the deceased.The fire that started due to electricity overload and spark in an outer unit of air conditioner and spread up to top floor of the building through a plastic hoarding. Entry area of architecture training institute Smart Design studio where the students were studying first caught fire. That did not leave any space for those inside to escape. Panicked students then started jumping on ground one by one from the illegally constructed fourth floor, while many died due to fire and smoke inside.Police investigation revealed that the entire floor was illegally constructed by developers and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials had conveniently turned a blind eye to the dangerous structure."We are not satisfied with the investigation and we strongly believe that it has been done shoddily under government pressure. Action was taken against junior officers only while their seniors have been protected," said an angry parent.So far, police have arrested 14 persons. Among those arrested are Jignesh alias Jignal Paghdar, the building administrator, Savji Paghdar, Harsukh Vekariya, Dinesh Vekariya and Ravindra Kahar, all three owners of building, coaching class owner Bhargav Butani, SMC executive engineers Parag Munshi and Jayesh Solanki, who had cleared the the project's file, deputy engineers - Vinu Parmar and Himanshu Gajjar, junior engineer Atul Gorsawala, deputy chief fire officer Sanjay Acharya and fire officer Kirti Modh. Dipak Naik, deputy engineer of Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Limited (GDVCL), was also arrested for negligence.The offence was registered under various sections of IPC for causing death due to negligence and others. Later, police added sections for forging papers against the accused after getting evidences.Of the accused Acharya, Modh, Naik and Jignal got regular bail while the court refused relief to other accused. Another accused, Gajjar is also out on temporary bail for treatment. Acharya was arrested by ACB for the case of disproportionate assets registered against him. Acharya later got bail in ACB case as well. Acharya and Modh, who were suspended then have been taken back on job by SMC due to crisis owing to coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/families-of-22-victims-to-hold-prayer-meet-today/articleshow/75923869.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Quarantine only for migrants from 11 cities||PATNA: The state government has tweaked the quarantine protocol for migrants to specify that only those coming from 11 high-risk cities — Surat, Ahmadebad, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurugram, Noida, Kolkata and Bengaluru — will be kept at the block quarantine centres. For others, the district magistrate concerned will take the call. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar told TOI on Saturday that these 11 cities have been kept in ‘A’ category and all migrant workers coming from there will have to be put in mandatory institutional quarantine. “For those coming from other cities, the DMs will decide whether to put them in institutional quarantine or allow them home quarantine. It will also depend on availability of space at the facilities,” the chief secretary said. He added, “Taking into account large number of positive cases from ‘A’ category cities, it has been instructed that to maintain social distancing at the quarantine centres, not more than two persons in a room or four persons in a hall be allowed.” Kumar clarified that those coming on flights, or their own vehicles or on purchased rail tickets will be allowed home quarantine. A letter in this regard was also issued by the disaster management department principal secretary, Pratyaya Amrit, to all DMs, SSP’s and SP’s on Friday. The letter states that only migrants coming from ‘A’ category cities be put in 14-day quarantine at the block-level centres. Only after the block level facilities get filled, they will be kept to panchayat quarantines. And after completing the mandatory quarantine period, they will be allowed to go home if they are not symptomatic and remain under home quarantine for another seven days. The letter also directed that migrant workers from ‘B’ category cities be allowed to go under home quarantine if they are asymptomatic. Such migrants will also have to submit a self-attested affidavit promising they will follow the quarantine norms at home. Earlier, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi with maximum positive cases of migrants were put in ‘A’ category and those coming from these places had to be put in block level quarantine centres. West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu were in ‘B’ category and migrants coming from these places could be kept at block or panchayat-level quarantine centres. Those coming from the rest of the states were in ‘C’ category and could be allowed to stay in village quarantine. A district magistrate said those who are already in quarantine centres even with travel history from ‘B’ category cites will continue to stay there and the new norm will be applied only on those who enter Bihar now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quarantine-only-for-migrants-from-11-cities/articleshow/75924582.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 24, 2020||Patna||15 BMP personnel show signs of recovery||PATNA: The Patna district administration and health department officials are hopeful that at least 15 of the 48 Bihar Military Police (BMP) personnel, who were tested positive for coronavirus, would be discharged within a day or two as they have shown signs of recovery. Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary said the 15 BMP personnel have been under treatment since the last 10 days. “Their fresh samples were collected for test on Friday night. If tested negative, they will be discharged,” Dr Chaudhary said, adding the discharged BMP personnel would have to remain in quarantine for specified time period. He said these 15 BMP personnel are undergoing treatment along with their 20 more colleagues at BAMETI, Phulwarisharif. “One BMP jawan is undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna and the rest at Covid care centre at Hotel Patliputra Ashok,” he added. Dr Chaudhary said all the BMP personnel were asymptomatic from the very beginning. “A Covid-19 positive patient is discharged if s/he is tested negative after ten days of treatment,” he said. Once these BMP personnel are discharged, it would be a huge sigh of relief for the state police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/15-bmp-personnel-show-signs-of-recovery/articleshow/75925063.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 24, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘Shun fear as air travel is quite safe’||PATNA: Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi talks about resumption of domestic flight operations from May 25 and preventive measures being taken to ensure safety of flyers. Excerpts: Will there be takers for air travel under the present circumstances?It is too early to comment on passengers’ response. The number of flights has already been reduced to one-third of what the Patna airport used to handle before the lockdown. Altogether 19 flights will operate from Patna airport from May 25, as per the provisional schedule released by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. Are preventive steps being taken for the safety of flyers?We will follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Airports Authority of India as well as our internal SOP. There is also the guideline of the ministry of home affairs that we will follow. We will try to ensure minimum touch and exposure between passengers and airport personnel. All the staff of the airport, airlines, CISF and housekeeping will wear protective gears. The housekeeping staff will work round-the-clock to sanitise all touch points. Will there be an isolation facility at the airport with deployment of Covid-dedicated medical staff?We have created a separate room at the terminal building for symptomatic passengers. If any person shows symptoms of Covid-19, s/he will be isolated in this room by the medical staff. The doctors will then take the person to the dedicated Covid-19 health facility in the city. Since the present terminal building is quite small, will it be possible to ensure social distancing?It will be a challenge for us. We have already conducted a meeting with all the stakeholders to ensure zero contact with passengers, hygiene and sanitisation. Yellow markings have been made to ensure that passengers maintain social distancing. What is the work plan for AAI and airlines staff?The duty of all the stakeholders is defined. As per the SOP, the airlines need to ensure that sufficient staff is deployed near check-in counters and pre-security area to guide passengers. Airport operators must make appropriate arrangements for sanitisation of passengers’ baggage before entry into terminal building. Employees showing symptoms will not be allowed to work. What about modes of transportation, like taxis and autorickshaws, for flyers to go to their respective destinations from the airport?Three-wheelers can enter the airport premises. Taxis, autorickshaws and e-rickshaws will be allowed to carry only two passengers. What is your message for flyers?Air travel is the safest mode of transportation. We have taken all preventive measures for the safety of the flyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shun-fear-as-air-travel-is-quite-safe/articleshow/75925048.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Muzaffarpur lover couple commits suicide||PATNA: Police recovered the bodies of a couple, who allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves from a tree in a litchi orchard at Chhegan Neura village under the Minapur police station area in Muzaffarpur district, on Saturday morning. “The locals, who had spotted the bodies hanging from the tree, informed us about the incident around 6.30am. Denial of permission for marriage by the family members of the couple, who belonged to the same village, is suspected to be the reason behind the suicide,” station house officer (SHO) of Minapur police station, Raj Kumar, said and added that the bodies were sent to the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital for autopsy. Preliminary investigation suggested that the girl’s wedding was to be solemnized with someone else in April, but was deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and rescheduled in June. Meanwhile, the youth, whose body was found on Saturday, used to work in Bengaluru and had returned home during the lockdown. He reportedly pressurised her for marriage, which she denied, but they remained in constant touch with each other over the phone. A senior police officer monitoring the investigation told this newspaper, “Some locals made an attempt to relate the incident with honour killing, but there is no evidence to prove it.” Earlier, police quizzed the youth’s father to ascertain the truth behind the incident. He told the interrogators that his son had returned home during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muzaffarpur-lover-couple-commits-suicide/articleshow/75924615.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||Accord special category status to Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday reiterated his demand for according special category status to Bihar, saying the Covid-19 crisis would further deepen the agony of poor and low-income group people in Bihar and special status was the need of the hour for the state under the present circumstances. RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav also took to Twitter and lashed out at the state government over its “failure” on several counts. “Being third most populous state & lowest on all SDG indices of NITI Aayog (due to 15 years of NDA govt) & now this crisis, Bihar legitimately needs special status, an inclusive financial & medical package. I hope this double engine Bihar govt will persuade the Centre to get it (sic),” Tejashwi tweeted. Lalu, on the other hand, attacked Nitish and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, asking them to count their achievements of past 15 years. “Migration, unemployment, poor education, law and order, Muzaffarpur shelter home scandal, Srijan and 55 other scams, AES, flood and waterlogging are some of the achievements of this government,” Lalu, who is serving jail terms in connection with multi-crore fodder scam, tweeted. Tej Pratap criticised state disaster management department minister Lakshmeshwar Roy for remaining absent amid Covid-19 crisis. However, JD (U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad hit back at RJD’s first family and said the NDA government was doing everything required for welfare of people in the state in these challenging times. “As far as special status for Bihar is concerned, it is an old demand of the JD(U),” he added. Tej feeds migrant workers: RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap distributed food and water to migrant workers near Zero Mile in Patna on Saturday, wearing medical gown, mask and gloves. Tej had started ‘Lalu ki Rasoi’ to mark the birthday of his father on April 16. The move was aimed at serve free food to the poor. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said similar kitchens have been set up in all blocks to help migrants and needy people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/accord-special-category-status-to-bihar-tejashwi/articleshow/75924660.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Internal tourism to get priority post lockdown, says principal secy Sanjay Kumar||PATNA: Principal secretary of tourism department Sanjay Kumar on Saturday said attracting people from within the state to visit different tourist sites in Bihar would be given priority once the coronavirus-induced lockdown is lifted. “The focus will gradually shift to foreign and domestic tourists,” Sanjay, who was at the forefront of the government’s fight against coronavirus till May 20 before being shifted to the tourism department, said. He said the tourism sector in Bihar would also prove to be a boon for lakhs of migrant workers who have returned home from different parts of the country. “On an average, around 8% of the world’s employment is in the tourism sector and we want to leverage the same in Bihar too. There’s no doubt that tourism sector is extremely important for the economy of the state,” he said. Sanjay said though Bihar has many archaeological and historical sites, the number of people from the state visiting these sites is not up to the expectation. “For instance, Pawapuri doesn’t receive the kind of attention it deserves. Hence, my focus will be on attracting and encouraging people from the state to visit the historical and religious sites,” he said. Even as certain relaxations have been given to several sectors, the tourism and hospitality sector is still under strict restrictions. Tourism in the state, which has been totally shut ever since the lockdown was imposed on May 24, was already hit by the outbreak of Covid-19 in China in December last year. The major tourist places in Bihar, including Rajgir, Bodh Gaya and Nalanda, where Buddhist pilgrims and tourists from China, Vietnam, Thailand and Hong Kong visit in large numbers, were witnessing a drop in footfall since January. “Even though the tourism sector has been badly hit by the Covid-19 crisis, we need to revive it once the lockdown is lifted,” Sanjay said. Meanwhile, experts in hospitality sector said lockdown has left disastrous effects on the tourism sector in the state, rendering tens of thousands of people jobless. Bhola Singh, manager at a luxurious hotel in Bodh Gaya, said the revenue went down from Rs 30 lakh- Rs 35 lakh per month to zero in the last two months. Rakesh Ranjan, general manager of a resort in Rajgir, said, “As Rajgir is a Buddhist site, tourists and pilgrims from at least 16-17 countries used to visit the place. We actually saw the crisis coming in February, but never expected such a situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/internal-tourism-to-get-priority-post-lockdown/articleshow/75924899.cms||Archi Rani
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||616 sent back to native states||Rajkot: Gir-Somnath district administration has sent a total of 616 migrant labourers back to their native places. According to a release issued by the district administration, 357 labourers stuck in the district were sent to Junagadh railway station and from there, they were sent to Uttar Pradesh in a Shramik Special train. That apart, 48 labourers were sent to Chhattisgarh, 39 labourers to Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu, 125 labourers to Jharkhand and 47 labourers to Nepal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/616-sent-back-to-native-states/articleshow/75923903.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||Reservation counters to open from May 25||Rajkot: Reservation counters at Bhavnagar Terminus and the railway stations of Porbandar, Junagadh and Veraval have started functioning since Friday and will remain open from 8 am to 6 pm. Apart from these stations, reservation counters will also open from 8am to 3 pm at the railway stations of Amreli, Botad, Gondal, Navagadh, Keshod and Mahuva, said a release issued by the Bhavnagar division of the Western Railway (WR). The WR will start refunding against cancellation of reservations booked between March 22 and June 30 from Monday. Those seeking refunds or reservations have been instructed to download Aarogya Setu app and wear mask and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/reservation-counters-to-open-from-may-25/articleshow/75923934.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara airport gets ready for take-off||Vadodara: After a gap of two months, Vadodara airport is ready for a fresh take-off. As the airport will witness eight flight movements towards Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru from Monday, the airport authorities are giving finishing touches to new travel protocols in Covid-19 era where social distancing and contactless screening have become buzzwords. Based on standard operational protocol (SOP) issued by Airports Authority of India (AAI), a mock drill to resume flight movements with new set of rules was held on Friday evening. Before the nationwide lockdown, the airport used to witness 26 flight movements which have come down to eight. It had last witnessed a commercial flight movement on March 22. “We have to ensure contact-free operations and also that social distancing is maintained for safety of passengers as well as staffers,” said Vadodara airport director Charan Singh. To begin with, there will be three counters which flyers will have to pass by before entering the terminal building. Luggage carried by each person will be sprayed with a disinfectant while flyers will have to apply sanitizer on their hands. At the second counter, airlines will issue a mask and a 100ml sanitizer bottle while the staff will check whether the passengers have downloaded Aarogya Setu App. If not, they will have to submit an undertaking. “After passengers undergo temperature screening, CISF personnel will carry out contact-free identification through a machine which will scan passengers and match ID cards. The passengers will walk on shoe sanitizer mats before entering the terminal building,” he said. “Passengers will have to stand in a queue maintaining at least 2 metre distance from each other before reaching kiosks that will dispense boarding passes. The boarding passes which were being stamped earlier by CISF officers have been removed,” he said. CISF personnel have been provided gloves, masks and PPE kits while a two-foot long connecting rod has been attached to their hand-held metal detectors so that they can frisk passengers from a distance of 2 metres. In the arrival area too, luggage will be sanitized before it is brought to the baggage belt and temperature of passengers will be measured before they leave the airport premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-airport-gets-ready-for-take-off/articleshow/75925709.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 24, 2020||Surat||Three women succumb to Covid-19||Surat: On Saturday, three women succumbed to Covid-19 in Surat city. The deceased were identified as Sushila (62) and Ansuya (75), both residents of Limbayat and Leela (75) from Athwa zone. All the three women had co-morbid conditions. According to officials, 29 more Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, the highest being from Katargam (10) followed by eight from Limbayat. Meanwhile, 22 more patients were discharged on Saturday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-women-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/75923746.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar police issues dedicated WhatsApp number to receive complaints||PATNA: Bihar police has released a dedicated WhatsApp number on which complaints can be made against unscrupulous police personnel as well as any kind of criminal activity across the state. The WhatsApp number (9431602301) issued on the directions of DGP Gupteshwar Pandey is aimed at crime control as well as weeding out of the ‘black sheep’ in uniform. The DGP has assured that the identity of the complainant will not be revealed. A pilot for the initiative has started in Sitamarhi district where people can send in their complaints via WhatsApp between 10am to 5pm till May 31. However, DGP Pandey has also urged people to post information on police personnel who are doing a good job on the field to boost their morale. “People sometimes are unable to complain to police officer about anyone, including police personnel, due to various reasons. Often they don’t know whom to approach. Hence this unified number has been launched by the headquarters,” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, adding, people would have to provide evidence in support of their complaint via the WhatsApp number. “Once a complaint is taken up for inquiry, the complainant may be contacted for more evidence if necessary,” he added. Kumar further said that the step is aimed towards making the state police more people friendly as well as to weed out ‘black sheep’ in police so that the department could get rid of them. “A dedicated DG Cell is working on the entire process. Complaints would be monitored by a high ranking officer. Inquiry teams over a complaint would be formed as per its nature and extent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-police-issues-dedicated-whatsapp-number-to-receive-complaints/articleshow/75924786.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||Mulling ‘health ambassador’ tag for Darbhanga girl: Union minister||PATNA/DARBHANGA: Saturday turned out to be a day of ‘gifts’ for 15-year-old Jyoti Kumari, whose feat of bringing her injured father on a bicycle from Delhi, has caught international attention. First, she got to know that US President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka has tweeted about her courageous journey; then she got the news that she has been given admission in Class IX at a government school. And, finally, her day ended with an announcement by Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey that he is mulling to make Jyoti ‘health ambassador’. 15 yr old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200… https://t.co/pLMM1Zsi94— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) 1590155265000“The courage and determination shown by Jyoti in adverse conditions is exemplary. The union health and family welfare ministry will consider making Jyoti its brand ambassador,” Union minister and Buxar MP Choubey said. When asked about Ivanka’s tweet praising her, Jyoti said, “A neighbour showed me Ivanka didi’s tweet on his smart phone first thing in the morning. I am so very happy and would definitely like to meet her someday.” But she appeared happier over the news of her admission in school. A day after TOI reported that Jyoti’s name was removed from her school register eight months ago after she could not attend due to family compulsions. The Darbhanga district administration said she has been admitted in Class IX in a school at Pindaruchh under Singhwara block. Jyoti was also given books, schooldress, shoes and a bicycle under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan by the district education officer. “This was our small gesture to welcome her to our fold, to admit her to the our school,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, project director, Bihar Education Project Council. “I want to resume my studies and get everything settled in the family as my father is now here and we will have to sort out livelihood means for the entire family. I was told that I will get a call from Cycling Federation of India next month and I will tell them that I need a couple of months to be mentally and physically ready for the trial,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mulling-health-ambassador-tag-for-darbhanga-girl-union-minister/articleshow/75925034.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 24, 2020||Patna||600 stuck abroad to reach Gaya in 3 days||GAYA: Nearly 600 natives of Bihar and Jharkhand, who are stuck abroad due to the Covid-19 lockdown and the cancellation of international flights, will reach Gaya in the next three days. The evacuation exercise is being undertaken by Air India as part of the Vande Bharat Mission. However, the airlines has not released the final passengers’ list yet and the figures are based on informed estimates. Since the first special flight from the United Kingdom had landed at the Gaya airport with only 41 passengers on May 18, AAI sources have not ruled out a lower turnout this time. A Muscat-Delhi-Gaya flight (AI-0974) is scheduled to arrive at Gaya at 6.20am on Sunday. Two other flights — AI-0972 from Doha and AI-0952 from Kazakhstan — will reach here on May 25 and 26, respectively. Gaya district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh said all the arrangements had been made to welcome the foreign returnees and send them to quarantine centres for 14 days. “Gayaites do not need to worry because we are taking all precautionary measures. Any foreign returnee with Covid-19 symptoms will immediately be segregated and isolated. Besides, sufficient number of rooms are available in hotels and guesthouses to quarantine those who come back,” the DM told this newspaper on Saturday. According to official documents, 51 Bodh Gaya-based hotels with 2,166 rooms have been notified as quarantine centres for foreign returnees. There are also 54 guesthouses with 971 rooms, 834 of which have no air conditioners. The quarantine period of the first batch of returnees, who landed at Gaya on May 18, will end on June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/600-stuck-abroad-to-reach-gaya-in-3-days/articleshow/75924643.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 24, 2020||Patna||Open bank account of migrants in Bihar: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Continuing inspection of quarantine centres through videoconferencing for the second consecutive day on Saturday, CM Nitish Kumar said his government has resolved to provide work to all returnee migrant workers. He asked the officials conduct to conduct a complete survey of all the migrant workers put up at the quarantine centres. “The survey’s questionnaire must include queries like where from the migrant worker has returned, what type of job he was doing and what type of work he would like to do in Bihar,” the CM said. Nitish asked the district officials to ensure opening of bank account of all the quarantined migrant workers in the state. The CM said it was the duty of the state government to provide employment opportunity to the migrants. “The government will also provide all possible assistance to the returnee migrants willing to start their own business in the state,” he said. The CM called upon the migrant workers to stay in Bihar and become a partner in the progress of their home state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-open-bank-a/c-of-migrants-in-state/articleshow/75924595.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||Shops demand more operational time||Rajkot: Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged the state government to let the shops remain open for a longer time. At present, these are allowed to operate between 7 am and 7 pm. “Shops selling puja materials for religious rituals should be allowed to operate from 6 am to 8 am during which they should be allowed to make home delivery too,” says a release issued by the chamber. The chamber has also demanded that restaurants and hotels should be allowed to make home delivery from 8 am to 10 pm. “From 8 am to 4 pm, only 10% of home delivery is possible. Hence we request the government to grant more time to restaurants and hotels,” the release stated. That apart, the chamber has demanded that industrial units in Rajkot be granted the permission to operate for 24 hours. “At present the industrial units are allowed to operate from 8 am to 6 pm, during which they are unable to complete their production work and are thus incurring heavy losses. We request the government to allow them to function for 24 hours,” the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shops-demand-more-operational-time/articleshow/75923802.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||Two hit by lockdown blues commit suicide in Rajkot||Rajkot: Frustrated with the ongoing lockdown period, two persons including a 70-year-old man committed suicide in Rajkot in the past 24 hours. On Saturday morning, Bechar Solanki (70) hanged himself to death from the ceiling fan of his house in Lakshmivadi Quarters in Rajkot. “According to his family members, Solanki had been suffering from depression ever since he was unable to go for a morning walk as it was a punishable offence under the lockdown. This drove him to take the drastic step,” said Narendra Bhadrecha, assistant sub-inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. Earlier on Friday night, Nilesh Sanchala (35) ended his life by consuming pesticide at his residence in New Sagar Society on Kotharia Road. Police said Sanchala used to work as a tailor. Sanchala had taken a shop on rent for tailoring work on Kotharia Road. His work was suspended due to the lockdown, and post lockdown after he was allowed to open his shop, he did not get any work. “Sanchala was extremely worried on paying rent for his shop. This drove him to take the extreme step,” added Bhadrecha. Sanchala is survived by his parents and brother. Sanchala was bachelor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-hit-by-lockdown-blues-commit-suicide-in-rajkot/articleshow/75923917.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||Locusts spark panic in Bhavnagar||Rajkot: Swarms of locusts triggered panic among farmers on the outskirts of Bhavnagar city on Saturday. District administration sources said that the locusts got diverted towards Bhavnagar because of change of wind direction caused by Cyclone Amphan. According to sources, the locust from Sidsar village entered the outskirt ares like Fulsar, Kumbharvada, Hadanagar and Lal Tanki . Officials said locusts were also seen in villages of Sihore, Umrala and Vallabhipur talukas. District collector Gaurang Makwana said, “We have alerted people and started spraying chemicals during the night in the affected villages. We believe that the swarms have come from Surendrangar because of change in wind direction due to the cyclone.” Thousands of locusts were spotted on the the trees of residential societies and roads in Bhavnagar too. In an advisory, the agriculture department of district panchayat said that the locusts seen in the urban areas are just passing from the city and there was no need for people to panic. The administration is using fire fighters of municipality and knapsack sprayer to spray chemicals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/locusts-spark-panic-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75923885.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Surat||Women SHGs suffer as industrial units shift to mask making||Surat: Jagruti Patel and 16 other women at the Self Help Group (SHG) in Navsari’s Samapore village were happy with the steady flow of income generated by stitching cotton and khadi masks for a non-government organisations (NGOs) and the retail selling in the village and Navsari town. However, the humming of their sewing machines has stopped as they have not got any supply order in last 20 days. This is because many of the industrial units in Surat have started stitching masks and are selling it as half the price. “Each woman in our group would stitch 100 masks, earning Rs 250 per day. But, we have stopped manufacturing masks due to stiff competition from the industrial units in Surat,” said Jagruti, coordinator of the Smart Sakhi Mandal, which has manufactured over 6 lakh masks since April 1. “Our wholesale rate is Rs 10 per piece, while the other industrial units manufacturing masks on large scale are offering for Rs 5 per piece,” says Jagruti. She and other women of her self-help group are not the only ones who have stopped manufacturing masks. There are many SHG group facing similar problems with host of small and big industrial units in south Gujarat getting into the masks manufacturing business on a large scale. Sambhu Sakhi Mandal, an SHG in Chalthan village in Surat’s Palsana taluka, is run by about 45 women. From the very next day of lockdown, the SHG women started stitching masks and in the last one month they have manufactured about 8 lakh masks using cotton and non-woven fabrics and supplied them to the sugar mills and to the NGOs. Pushpa Mistry, coordinator of the Sambhu Sakhi Mandal told TOI, “About 32,000 masks are lying with us since last fortnight. Buyers want masks for Rs 5 per piece, which is not possible. Our input cost is higher because we sourced cotton and non-woven fabric in limited quantities, while the industrial units purchase it in bulk.” A Surat-based NGO, Shakti Foundation, working with about 300 women in various SHG groups in Surat and Navsari districts has stopped giving orders for the masks due to stiff competition in the market. Sonal Rochani, co-founder of Shakti Foundation told TOI, “After the lockdown, our first order of 60,000 masks was from the ONGC. For the SHG women, mask making had become a source of livelihood. Now, these women have stopped stitching masks as the industrial units have started making masks in bulk and are offering it at cheaper rates than the SHG groups.” Rochani added, “The SHG women bought raw material at much higher rate during lockdown and stitched the masks. Now, markets are open and raw material is available at wholesale price. We have urged the state government to help to such SHG groups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/women-shgs-suffer-as-industrial-units-shift-to-mask-making/articleshow/75923762.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||1,300 people return to Saurashtra from Mumbai||Rajkot: More than 1,300 people from from Amreli, Junagadh, Botad and Gir Somnath districts who were stuck in Mumbai have been brought back to Saurashtra. The Amreli district administration arranged for a special train to run between Savarkundala and Mumbai to bring these stranded workers and businessmen. “There were more than 1,300 people from Saurashtra who had gone to Mumbai for jobs and businesses and got stuck in the maximum city ever since the lockdown was imposed. We decided to bring them back to Savarkundala in a special train,” said R R Gohil, regional officer of Savarkundala, adding that the seating arrangements were done in a manner so as to maintain social distancing norms. “Once the train reached Savarkundala station, cops were deployed at all the coaches to ensure that social distancing was maintained by passengers even when de-boarding the train. The luggage of the passengers were sanitized before they were sent to their respective villages in different buses,” Gohil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/1300-people-return-to-saurashtra-from-mumbai/articleshow/75923966.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Surat||Two more Covid-19 cases in Tapi district||Surat: Two Covid-19 positive cases were detected in Tapi district on Saturday. This has taken total number of coronavirus cases in the district to six. Dr. Harshad Patel, chief district health officer, Tapi, said, Rushi Bagde, 37, a resident of Songadh, who had come from Limbayat area of Surat on May 20, has tested positive for the virus."Kahar Ranjna, 24, a resident of Uchhal, who came from Ahmedabad on May 18, also tested positive for coronavirus. She had fever and cough. Her samples were taken on Friday,” he said. Meanwhile, no Covid-19 cases were reported from the districts of Bharuch, Navsari, Dang, Surat and Valsad on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-covid-19-cases-in-tapi-district/articleshow/75923774.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||Security stepped up as people go Eid shopping||PATNA: Popular city markets in Sabzibagh and Patna City bustled with shoppers on Saturday in the run-up to Eid-ul-Fitr, which will be celebrated on Monday. Muslims were seen buying ‘seviyan’, groceries, dry fruits, skull caps, ‘tasbih’ (prayer beads), milk, ‘naan’ and ‘bakarkhani’. The owner of a dry fruit shop near the Bankipore post office, Mohd Raju, claimed that the sale of his products had dipped this year due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “I expect that the sales will be higher tomorrow,” he told this newspaper. Mohd Riza-ul, who runs a bakery in Sabzibagh, said, “The demand for ‘naan’ and ‘bakarkhani’ is high, but we do not have many workers to bake the breads. ‘Naan’ is available in the range of Rs 40 to Rs 150 whereas ‘bakarkhani’ is priced between Rs 25 and Rs 200.” Amid heavy rush, many shopkeepers restricted the entry of shoppers into their stores. Even city residents pointed out that Eid celebrations would not be elaborate this time. Alamganj resident, Mohd Shafi, said, “I only bought essential items, groceries and ‘seviyan’ because it is going to be a low-key affair.” The few cloth shops, which had opened in Sabzibagh locality, were closed later. Pirbahore police station SHO Rizwan Khan claimed that cops made the owners shut their shops immediately. 51 magistrates deputed in Bhagalpur: Altogether 51 magistrates have been deputed in Bhagalpur, Kahalgaon and Naugachia sub-divisions to ensure that Eid is celebrated peacefully amid the Covid-19 lockdown. A large number of security personnel and cops in mufti have also been stationed in different localities of Bhagalpur district. SSP Ashish Bharti told this newspaper, “We have directed the police officials and SHOs to ensure peaceful Eid celebrations.” Meanwhile, religious heads have urged people to pray at home on Eid. Syed Zeejah Hussain, secretary of the Bhagalpur District Shia Waqf Committee, said, “We should strictly follow social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/security-stepped-up-as-people-go-eid-shopping/articleshow/75924688.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 24, 2020||Patna||Birthday surprise for quarantined kid in Rohtas||PATNA: For five-year-old Ankur Kumar, it was a birthday with a difference on Friday. Those present on the occasion were not his dear ones, but migrant workers staying at a quarantine centre at Patluka under Tilauthu block in Rohtas district. The birthday cake was gifted to the boy by Dehri SDO Lal Jyotinath Shahdev. Ankur with his father Ajit Sharma (33), mother Poonam Devi (30) and younger sister Pallavi (3), is staying at the quarantine centre ever since the family reached from Indore in Madhya Pradesh on May 12. Ankur’s father Sharma said, “We had not expected such an overwhelming response. The birthday cake was presented by a senior administrative officer while the inmates of the quarantine centre blessed Ankur. The cake was distributed with social distancing norms. DM Pankaj Dixit also sent his message, congratulating Ankur on his fifth birthday.” Incharge of the quarantine centre Anil Kumar Singh said Ankur looked upset as he was away from home on his birthday. “His father shared his concern with me and I discussed the matter with the inmates of the centre, who readily agreed,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/birthday-surprise-for-quarantined-kid-in-rohtas/articleshow/75924879.cms||Ramashankar
May 24, 2020||Patna||Chhatra JD(U) gears up for assembly polls||PATNA: Chhatra JD(U), the student wing of state’s ruling JD(U), on Saturday began preparations for the assembly election in the state by announcing the names of its regional incharges and deciding to set up war room in each district. Assembly polls in the state are due in October-November this year. “In view of the forthcoming assembly polls in the state, the Chhatra JDU) ) has decided to run war room from the residences of its district presidents. Equipped with television set, computer, fax machine and telephones, the war rooms will become functional in June,” Chhatra JD(U) state president Shyam Patel said. He said the Chhatra JD(U) has also decided to field its two workers at each polling booth across the state in support of the NDA candidate. The JD(U), the BJP and the LJP are constituents of the NDA in Bihar. Senior JD(U) leader and party’s incharge for Chhtra JD(U) Ranbir Nandan said the state has around 7.06 crore electors. Of them, 1.13 crore or around 16% of the total electors are in the age group of 18-25 years. “Chhatra JDU) has decided to focus on the 16% electors who are mainly students in any college or university,” Nandan said. The organisation has also released the names of its regional incharges. Hansika Dayal and Ankit Tiwari have been made regional incharges of Patna Mahnagar and Patna rural area, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhatra-jdu-gears-up-for-assembly-polls/articleshow/75924724.cms||Madan Kumar
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Decomposed body found on plywood factory premises||Kochi: A badly decomposed body was found on the premises of a plywood factory in Pattimattom near Perumbavoor on Saturday morning. The body was found in a pit filled with ash and it was decomposed beyond recognition, police said. Kunnathunadu police said a group of migrant labourers saw a hand sticking out of the pit when they were cleaning the factory premises. An investigation is on to identify the deceased though the state of decomposition was such that the police couldn’t even identify the gender of the deceased during inquest proceedings. “As of now, we are not sure how much time has passed after the death. It could be weeks or even about a month since the death. An autopsy would be held, after which the experts would be able to ascertain the gender and other details,” said a senior officer. “With the naked eye no injuries were visible on the body, however, forensic surgeons maybe able to tell us more. We are in the process of collecting CCTV footage from the area as well as forensic evidence,” he said. Police did not rule out the possibility of murder. “Our initial assumption is that it could be a murder. However, it is too early to say anything conclusive,” the officer added. Police said that they are looking up man-missing cases from the area to identify the deceased. “If the deceased is someone like a guest labourer who keeps moving from place to place, then identification would become difficult,” said the officer. The police have registered a case of unnatural death relating to the incident. Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick visited the spot. “A special team led by Perumbavoor DSP will probe the case, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/decomposed-body-found-on-plywood-factory-premises/articleshow/75925594.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Madurai||Make or break for private coaching centres||Madurai: Trainers of private coaching centres, which have been shut because of the lockdown, have said that once they reopen, it would be a gamble as things may or may not work in their favour. These centres provide training for various competitive exams like the UPSC, TNPSC and banks. “Many have taken to online learning which indicates that in future, online classes are the way forward. This could impact us as there are various strong players there,” said K Selvam, trainer at a private coaching centre in Simmakkal. “People are still not very used to online learning, especially in a city like Madurai. Further, for competitive exams, classrooms always work as there is a need for students to actively interact with the trainer and their peers. Our USP of providing hands-on coaching will always define us,” added Selvam. Trainers from centres specialising in civil services examinations said their business will also depend on public preference towards private jobs or government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/make-or-break-for-private-coaching-centres/articleshow/75928497.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 24, 2020||Patna||More shops set to open in Patna from Monday||PATNA: Shops of different categories in the city, especially those located in commercial complexes, are all set to reopen their establishments on Monday following permission from the district administration. The district administration had on Friday allowed shops located in shopping and market complexes to operate on odd-even formula from Monday. “For instance, shops dealing with electrical, electronics and automobiles will be opened on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and those dealing with utensils, sports and textile on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays,” DM Kumar Ravi said. Shops and commercial establishments dealing with essential commodities will remain open on all days. “We have also issued staggered timings and days for shopping establishments,” he said. With the announcement of relaxations, those running shops at markets and complexes in the city were seen doing cleanliness work in their establishments on Saturday. Kamal Lunia, owner of a shop at Lalji Market, said he has sanitized and painted his shop. Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo said odd-even numbers have been allotted to all shops. “There are nearly 400 shops in Maurya Lok and all of them are being sanitized in order to resume operations from Monday. Since the campus is quite big, social distancing will not be a problem. We have also made it mandatory for every customer to register their contact details,” he added. Meanwhile, shopkeepers dealing with essential commodities, including groceries, dairy, raw meat and fish as well as automobile service centres are quite elated as they have been allowed to do business on all days. Shashank Saurabh, manager of an automobile service centre, said, “The district administration has taken a right step by allowing us to operate on all days as managing crowds was very difficult with the previous timings.” Some in the city, however, are not happy with announcement of additional relaxations. “It is true that shopkeepers have to earn a living, but nothing is more important than human life. The relaxations might increase Covid-19 cases in the coming days,” said Hansika, a resident of Kadamkuan. Nala Road resident Deepa Shree said people have become so relaxed these days that they have forgotten the dangers posed by the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/more-shops-set-to-open-in-patna-tomorrow/articleshow/75924970.cms||Archi Rani
May 24, 2020||Surat||Traders demand partial opening of textile markets in red zone||Surat: The textile traders of Surat have approached the Gujarat government demanding partial reopening of the markets falling under the red zone. Earlier, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had denied permission for reopening of the textile markets falling in the red zones.The Vyapar Pragati Sangh (VPS) and many other textile market associations have urged chief minister Vijay Rupani to allow the markets to open for few hours to facilitate the traders to complete the pending works related to banks, GST and income tax.Barring about 15 textile markets at Sahara Darwaja and Saroli, about 160 textile markets falling in the red zone of Limbayat and central zone have not been granted permission by the SMC to reopen. The Covid-19 positive cases from these two municipal zones are increasing day-by-day, compounding the worries of the textile traders.President of VPS, Sanjay Jaganani told TOI, “Since last two months, the markets are shut. The traders should be allowed to partially open the shops for carrying out important works related to accounts, banking, income tax, GST return filing etc.”Jaganani added, “Majority of the textile markets are located in Limbayat zone, where the Covid-19 cases are on the rise. In this case, we won’t be able to reopen the market for few more months.”Jay Lal, director of the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) told TOI, “Without textile markets, the MMF (man-made fibre) sector can’t reopen. We will have to learn to live with the virus and can’t sit home without doing business. The government must revise the guidelines for reopening shops in the red zone.”Devkishan Manghani, chairman of textile committee of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) said, “Less than 5% textile shops in the 15 textile markets in Saroli and Sahara Darwaja have reopened. It is because, the textile markets on Ring Road are still closed. The administration need to allow the business activity to resume.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/traders-demand-partial-opening-of-textile-markets-in-red-zone/articleshow/75923639.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||1.7L migrants reach state by 120 trains||PATNA: Altogether 120 Shramik Special trains, carrying nearly 1.7 lakh migrant workers and other stranded people from 11 states, including Delhi, reached different places in Bihar on Saturday. East Central Railway (ECR) has so far received 798 Shramik Special trains by which 10 lakh stranded people, mostly migrant workers, have returned home from different parts of the country. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said 32 special trains from Gujarat, 17 from Maharashtra, 12 from Uttar Pradesh, 12 from Delhi and six from Punjab reached Siwan, Kishanganj, Buxar, Gaya, Saharsa and Muzaffarpur on Saturday. Two special trains from Bengaluru and one each from Hubli and Kalaburagi in Karnataka, carrying nearly 5,600 passengers, reached Darbhanga, Barauni, Gaya and Saharsa. Similarly, five special trains from Namakkal, Kathpadi, Coimbatore, Chennai and Ramanathapuram in Tamil Naidu reached Samastipur, Araria, Biharshraif, Supaul and Gaya. Three special trains from Panipat, Ambala and Bhiwani in Haryana reached Muzaffarpur and Katihar. Besides, three special trains each from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana also reached Bihar with migrant workers. Two special trains from Jaipur and Jodhpur in Rajasthan, carrying about 2,800 people, arrived at Danapur. “Altogether 18 special trains were pressed into service to carry stranded migrant workers to their respective native places in different districts from Danapur, Buxar, Gaya, Bettiah, Barauni, Siwan, Madhubani and Supaul,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-7l-migrants-reach-state-by-120-trains/articleshow/75924632.cms||Kumod Verma
May 24, 2020||Varanasi||Two of a family die in road accident in Mirzapur||Varanasi: Two members of a family were killed and two others were injured in a road accident near Lahuriyadah Valay hill under Halia police station of Mirzapur district on Saturday. The injured persons were admitted to the hospital for treatment. According to reports, Ram Singh (50), resident of Pratapgarh, along with wife Vibha Singh (45), son Amresh Singh (22) and daughter Anshika (12) were going to Ghazipur from Shahdol (MP) in a car. Ram, who was himself driving the car, lost control over it while crossing the hill and the car slid backwards and hit a cluster of rocks. Vibha and Amresh died on the spot, while Ram was severely injured and Anshika sustained minor injuries. On being informed, police reached the spot and rushed the injured persons to Dramadganj primary health centre. Ram Singh was referred to the district hospital after first aid. Lalganj inspector Amit Singh said that the bodies of Vibha and Amresh were sent for postmortem and their relatives were informed. Woman dies: A 55-year-old woman Ramni Devi was run over by a tractor at Dangarkeri village in Lalganj area of Mirzapur district on Saturday. She died on the spot. The tractor was seized and the body was sent for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-of-a-family-die-in-road-accident-in-mirzapur/articleshow/75924636.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Titanic tragedy, all must come to the rescue’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has likened the present Covid-19 situation with the ill-fated Titanic and exhorted everyone come to the rescue of those in distress around us, especially migrant workers. The HC said, “We all should become the Carpathia, the ship that had answered the Titanic’s distress call and rushed 94km to save 705 passengers in 1912. The court described how two other ships ‘The Sampson’ and ‘SS Californian” did not go to help, as the former was involved in illegal activity and the latter was stuck itself. “The Sampson represents egocentric people… The SS Californian is a metaphor for those individuals who say ‘I can’t do anything’,” it said, and called upon people to be like the Carpathia and save others by forgetting difficulties and limitations. The HC said, “The tragic saga of the Titanic teaches us that our fate is uncertain, governed by the powerful forces of nature. The crashing of the Titanic was inevitable, but was evitable was the loss of the human lives. We face a similar tragedy today, in the form of a global pandemic caused by a contagious virus we barely have any power over. What we do have is power over is ourselves. We all should become ‘Carpathia’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/titanic-tragedy-all-must-come-to-the-rescue/articleshow/75927820.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Quarantine not must for all 'outsiders', says Navsari MP||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked all industrial units not to call workers, who have come to the city from outside, until they complete 14 days mandatory self quarantine period here. "We have got a case where a labourer who came from Haryana in Limbayat on May 21. He started working in an industrial unit immediately, but tested positive for Covid-19. So, I request all industrial unit owners not to allow workers to come before completing 14 days mandatory self quarantined period,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, said. "Also, slum areas are hardest hit in the city and therefore I appeal to people to take care of their drivers, security guards and other helps coming from these areas and give them masks and sanitizers, so that we can prevent the spread of the virus,'' Pani urged. Navsari MP CR Paatil, however, said that only those having symptoms of Covid-19 should be home quarantined and not everyone coming from outside Surat. BJP councillor Vijay Chomal posted a message on his official Facebook page saying that he had a video conference with Paatil and Limbayat MLA Sangita Patil to discuss if people who had gone to Rajasthan from Surat during the lockdown will require to stay in quarantined on their return. Paatil informed him to call everyone from Rajasthan and tell them there was no need to for quarantine. Paatil even cited example of a local BJP leader, Dinesh Rajpurohit, who had returned from Rajasthan few days ago, but is moving around freely in the city. When contacted, Paatil said, “The Shramik special trains have transported more than eight lakh people from Surat and they are going to return in a month or two. Is it possible to quarantine such a huge population of migrants returning back to Surat?.” Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “It is mandatory for those coming from other states to stay under 14 days home quarantine. We have cases where people came from other states and tested positive after resuming work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/quarantine-must-for-all-outsiders-no-says-mp/articleshow/75923702.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||Patna: Work comes first for this technician||PATNA: Braving coronavirus threat, technician Rakesh Chaudhary has been laying pipelines and doing other civil work as part of GAIL’s city gas distribution project after the district administration allowed resumption of a range of economic activities. Chaudhary, who has been executing the project at Punaichak said, “As visiting houses to install piped natural gas (PNG) connection is not allowed, we are finishing the work of laying pipes. The demand of PNG in the city has increased in the last two years,” he said. The 30-year-old added that stretch where he works has been barricaded in order to avoid any kind of interaction with pedestrians. “I wear mask and gloves and wash my hands every hour throughout the day. Besides, I also ensure that the other workers follow these safety protocols. I change my clothes at the site before heading home,” he said. Chaudhary’s family members, who live in Madhubani, are concerned about his safety. “Like every other parents, my parents are also worried about my well-being. However, I can’t leave my work midway,” he said. With so many migrants returning to the state, Chaudhary thinks that competition will increase in the days to come. “I just hope that all of us get work here so that we don’t have to move to other states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-comes-first-for-this-technician/articleshow/75925024.cms||Archi Rani
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Three teenagers drown in Banas river near Deesa||PALANPUR: Three teenagers drowned in Banas river near Ranpur village of Deesa taluka in Banaskantha district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Tushar Barot (15), Nikul Rawal (19) and Rahul Vashay (18), all residents of Ranpur village.According to police, six friends had decided to take a dip in Banas river to beat the summer heat. After having lunch, the six of them went to the river bank and jumped into the water. However, soon they began to drown and cried for help. Some villagers near the river rushed to the rescue and saved three boys. However, three other drowned and their bodies were later fished out from the river. M J Chaudhary PSI, Deesa rural police station said that there was heavy undercurrent in the river because of release of water from the Dantiwada dam on account of repair work scheduled there. “The boys who went into deep waters could not swim back and drowned,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-teenagers-drown-in-banas-river-near-deesa/articleshow/75924049.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Rajkot||‘Restart trains, flights from Rajkot’||RAJKOT: Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged the central and state government to resume train and flight services from Rajkot. In a release issued by the chamber, it said, "Ahmedabad is a Covid-19 hotspot in Gujarat. Hence, travelling to Ahmedabad is risky for the people of Rajkot to avail train and flight services. Thus, we request the government to resume train and air services from Rajkot." "In order to resume businesses with Mumbai and Delhi, restarting the flight services from Rajkot to Mumbai and Delhi have become necessary," the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/restart-trains-flights-from-rajkot/articleshow/75924003.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Surat||Surat’s MMF textile industry facing restart issues||SURAT: Even as the state government relaxed lockdown guidelines for industrial units to improve economic activity across the state, Surat’s Rs 50,000 crore man-made fabric (MMF) industry is still grappling to resume operations. Surat is India’s largest MMF hub catering to 45% of the country’s MMF demand. Faced with the mass exodus of migrant labourers and subdued demand of fabrics, the industry has started with 30,000 powerloom machines, which is 20% of the installed capacity of 6.50 lakh machines. Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara weavers association said, “At present less than 10 lakh meters of fabric is weaved every day as against the installed capacity of 4 crore metres. The production will continue till the time the weavers have yarn stock with them.” Industry sources said the powerloom units have resumed operation to safeguard their yarn stock, which was gathering dust in the units for the last 60 days. The MMF textile chain is finding it difficult to resume operation with about 95% of the textile markets shut. About 155 textile markets housing over 55,000 textile shops are located in the red zone and the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has not given permission to the traders to resume operation. “There are a host of challenges faced by the MMF sector. The textile markets are yet to resume, weavers are drained of working capital and they don’t have liquidity to purchase fresh raw material. On the other hand, the demand of MMF fabric is yet to come from the domestic markets,” said Bharat Gandhi, chairman, Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI). Over 200 powerloom units, out of the total 2,300 units, have restarted in Sachin GIDC and the majority of them are manufacturing viscose fabric for suiting and shirting. Mahendra Ramoliya, chairman of Sachin GIDC notified area told TOI, “Viscose yarn was lying in the godowns for almost two months and the stock has to be utilised before monsoon season before fungus growth. However, the viscose units have started operation, while majority of the powerloom units are yet to start.” Jitendra Vakharia, president, South Gujarat Textile Processors Association (SGTPA) said, “About 40 textile mills will be operational after May 25. The retail stores and wholesale cloth mandis in majority of the states have started operations and we believe the demand may come in the next fortnight, if there is no further lockdown announced by the government.” Textile processors propose safer practicesThe South Gujarat Textile Processors Association (SGTPA) has called for abolition of the age-old practice of supplying grey cloth or unfinished fabric from powerloom units to textile markets to stop the spread of coronavirus. Instead, the textile traders are urged to make arrangements for direct delivery of the unfinished fabrics to the textile mills. About 95% of textile markets in red zone yet to restartThe smooth operation of the MMF textile chain has been disturbed with about 95% of the textile markets in the red zone yet to restart operation. Textile traders are the key players in the chain and without them the sector can’t think of resuming normal operation. Only 15 textile markets located in the non-containment zones of Saroli and Bombay Market have been made operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-mmf-textile-industry-facing-restart-issues/articleshow/75923602.cms||Melvyn Thomas
May 24, 2020||Surat||Ayurveds step up efforts to fight Covid-19 better||Surat: Alongside allopathy branch of medicine, doctors practising Ayurveda are putting their best efforts to treat Covid-19 positive patients. One of the oldest Ayurved college in the state, O H Nazar Ayurved College (OHNAC) in the city is leading the efforts in not only treating positive patients but also in trying to improve immunity of people from the containment zones. Since the spread of the pandemic, the college, which is part of Swami Atmanand Sarawati Ayurved Hospital, started preparing and distributing special decoction. Till now the college has distributed 1,381 litres of decoction through Surat Municipal Corporation in the containment zones. The institute has also provided 600 litres decoction and tablets to the police staff that are performing their duties continuously. “A seven-day course of the decoction along with tablets help improve immunity and we have started this since March 16, much before the spread of the virus in the city. Since there is no proven treatment available for Covid-19, the preventive therapy of Ayurved is helping patients fight better with the disease,” said Dr Sachin Khedikar, principal of OHNAC. A team of eight doctors and four interns from the college is involved in the treatment of Covid-19 patients who have consented for Ayurvedic treatment. “Till now, 155 positive patients have been provided treatment with Ayurvedic medicines and the results are encouraging in most of them,” said Dr Khedikar. A senior doctor from the college, Dr Manoj Upadhyay, has proposed a formula to the Ayush ministry for further research that can help fight the disease better. “Government had invited research proposal, and thus, I developed the medicine formula and proposed it for research. Ayurved doctors are creating awareness on various platforms about prevention of diseases,” he added. Photo Quote Dr Manoj Upadhyay, senior doctor at OHNAC "3,000 years ago prevention was suggested as the best way for good health in Ayurveda. It takes time to improve immunity but it is the best way to fight against diseases like Covid-19." Dr Sachin Khedikar, principal OHNAC "In present situation strong immunity is the best way to fight the disease. Ayurved has specific medicines that helps improve immunity to fight viral infections and we are focusing on those areas."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ayurveds-step-up-efforts-to-fight-covid-19-better/articleshow/75923791.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||West Bengal gets Odisha's muscle in cyclone restoration work||BHUBANESWAR: A day after chief minister Naveen Patnaik spoke to his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee and offered help in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, a joint team of Odisha Fire Service (OFS) and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) left for the neighbouring state on Saturday to assist in the restoration work. While fire service personnel were earlier engaged in other states to carry out post-disaster rescue and restoration work, ODRAF is being pressed into service outside Odisha for the first time. ODRAF is a dedicated wing of the Odisha Police to carry out rescue and restoration work in the aftermath of natural disasters. #CycloneAmphan is one of the worst disasters to hit #WestBengal. The people of #Odisha stand by #WestBengal during… https://t.co/kO9welK9Ea— Naveen Patnaik (@Naveen_Odisha) 1590233998000“Cyclone Amphan is one of the worst disasters to hit West Bengal. The people of Odisha stand by West Bengal during this unprecedented crisis. Odisha has sent a team of 500 members, including 300 fire personnel & 10 ODRAF teams to assist in relief & rescue operations,” Naveen tweeted on Saturday. The joint rescue teams left for West Bengal by road in around 50 vehicles from Cuttack late in the evening. They are likely to reach Kolkata in the early hours of Sunday. “We are carrying adequate number of power saws, tree cutting tools and inflatable tower lights to carry out rescue and restoration work that will mostly involve tree cutting, removal of debris and road clearance. We will start work from Sunday morning itself,” said a fire service officer. OFS has earned praise from other states for its efforts in relief and restoration work. Its personnel carried out rescue operation in Andhra Pradesh during Cyclone Hudhud in October 2014 and in the Kerala flash flood of August 2018. It was also involved in the rescue of trapped miners from a coal mine in Meghalaya in December 2018. Though other states have firefighters, OFS said its personnel are specially trained not just to douse flame, but to also carry out search and rescue operations in the aftermath of calamities, in flooded rivers and rough sea. “I have visited several states and closely observed the functioning of fire service departments. I realised that the OFS personnel are the best as they are more organised and specially trained in life support, advance life support, flood and cyclone disaster response, emergency response to rail transport accidents, collapsed structure search and rescue operations and underwater rescue operations,” a senior fire service officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bengal-gets-state-muscle-in-cyclone-restoration-work/articleshow/75926876.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 24, 2020||Madurai||Min distributes zinc, vitamin tablets||Madurai: Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju distributed vitamin and zinc tablets along with kabasura kudineer powder packet to residents in Bethaniyapuram at an event held on Saturday. The minister said that the tablets and kabasura kudineer was distributed to 32, 324 people from 8127 families in Bethaniyapuram. The Madurai corporation has distributed the tablets to 1.5 lakh poor households free of cost. The corporation has urged residents’ welfare associations to procure the tablets and distribute it to the residents of their association. Sellur K Raju said that people should consume the tablets along with kabasura kudineer without fail to help the state government fight the battle against Covid-19.  He also listed out various welfare measures taken by the state government including arranging special trains for migrant labourers to go home and Rs 2000 aid for barbers, that was announced recently. Corporation commisioner S Visakan was present at the venue of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-distributes-zinc-vitamin-tablets/articleshow/75928531.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Madurai||With mask on, residents fret and fume as Madurai sizzles at 40C||Madurai: As the temeperature hits 40 degree Celsius in Madurai on Saturday, people, who have to compulsorily wear masks constantly to avoid Covid-19, were facing inconvenience due to the heat. “I bought a thick mask, thinking it would provide better protection but felt like I would faint in the afternoon when I went out for work,” said T Saravanan of Anna Nagar. With the temperature soaring, wearing masks is becoming a difficult task for people. “Wearing masks is going to be a big challenge for people in cities like Madurai where it is extremely hot for over eight months in a year. But, they should not be avoided at any cost,” said Dr S Selvarani. Tender coconut sellers like Ramanathan in Chokkikulam said that he had good sales in the last two days, when he sold more than 50 tender coconuts in a day, compared to April, when he did not even sell 15 tender coconuts. The roads which were comparatively clean for nearly two months, turned dusty with the increase in number of vehicles and afternoon temperature. Scorching temperatures in summer is not new to Madurai, it is the Covid-19 crisis which has made it challenging, said a few people. “Having a drink to quench your thirst in a public place which is a must or taking shelter in a common place, when it becomes tiring, is a big risk now,” said Kavitha S, a working woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-mask-on-residents-fret-and-fume-as-madurai-sizzles-at-40c/articleshow/75927652.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Explore feasibility of reviving old VS, other such hospitals’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to explore the feasibility of reviving the old 700-bed VS Hospital at the earliest. The court also directed the government to use the second building of the UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology for Covid treatment. The high court order states, “It has also been brought to our notice that the old VS Hospital, Ahmedabad, has approximately seven hundred beds. The AMC may explore the feasibility of reviving these seven hundred beds at the earliest.” The court noted that the U.N. Mehta Institute of Cardiology could also be utilized. “It has been brought to our notice that the UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology is fully functional with good medical equipment and adequate manpower. The institute has given one building for Covid-19. It has been brought to our notice that the second building has not been utilized so far. Adequate steps should be taken to utilize the second building also for Covid care. The institute is a huge hospital with very good infrastructure and ample staff. It is lying idle. This hospital can house 20% of beds for Covid-19 related emergency work,” the court noted. The court noted that ESIC Hospital in Bapunagar, Nagari Eye Hospital and the Eye Hospital on the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus can also be used to treat Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/explore-feasibility-of-reviving-old-vs-other-such-hospitals/articleshow/75927819.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Varanasi||Couple try to end life together||VARANASI: A couple tried to commit suicide by cutting each other’s throat with sharp-edged weapons on the bank of Belan river in Halia police station area of Mirzapur district on Saturday. They were spotted by local residents and rushed to hospital in serious condition. According to reports, a 25-year-old woman, who is mother of a kid, and a 35-year-old man, who is father of three children, of the same village developed extramarital relationship. Local residents noticed them in a precarious condition with deep wounds on their necks on river bank in the morning. They informed their family members and rushed to the primary health centre. According to PHC medical officer Dr Abhishek Jaiswal, the woman was referred to the district women hospital after first aide, while the family members of the man took him to some other hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/couple-try-to-end-life-together/articleshow/75924645.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS opts for facial recognitionsystem to rein in truant staff||HUBBALLI: After the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, outpatient departments at all almost private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes were halted. Although some of them have reopened recently, the number of patients walking in to the OPD at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) has not reduced, say hospital sources. Treating non-Covid patients during this crisis has become a priority for KIMS, hence hospital authorities have asked all its staff including doctors to be present at the OPD and their respective departments from 9am to 4pm every day. However, the authorities have found that several staff members including doctors were not present during duty hours. The fact the KIMS authorities discontinued biometric attendance system after the outbreak of Covid-19, did not help matters. Authorities say some doctors and other staff enter the hospital just before lunch and leave in the afternoon. This issue was discussed during a recent meeting of head of the departments at KIMS. To streamline attendance and ensure the staff remain in the hospital during their duty hours, the chief administrative officer has asked all employees to register with a facial recognition-based system which was installed at the IT room of the hospital. The process of registering for the new system of attendance began on May 18 ( A copy of the circular is available with TOI) KIMS director Dr Ramlingappa Antartani and medical superintendent Dr Arunkumar C were unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-opts-for-facial-recognitionsystem-to-rein-in-truant-staff/articleshow/75925611.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 24, 2020||Goa||Mini India park: Coastal zone authority assures action||Panaji: Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) conducted yet another inspection at the site of mini India park project in Quelossim. The villagers used this opportunity to question the officials about the lack of action despite several assurances. The coastal body’s notice stated that the inspection on Friday pertained to a letter dated May 25, 2019 from local MLA, Alina Saldanha regarding copies of some documents relevant to the project. But at the site, the issue sought to be taken up was permission sought by the project proponent to repair bunds and sluice gates. The MLA, sarpanch Maria D’Souza, deputy sarpanch Sebastiao Serrao and biodiversity management committee chairman Lopinho Xavier questioned the officials about the lack of action despite several inspections.  Others pointed out that a report of a site inspection on July 21, 2019 had recommended action against various illegalities in khazan land, which is a no-development zone.  GCZMA officials said they would conduct a survey of khazan land and compare with the old plans and initiate action for restoration of reclaimed land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mini-india-park-coastal-zone-authority-assures-action/articleshow/75928578.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Goa||Routine closure of Opa plant briefly affects water supply||Ponda: Water consumers in Tiswadi, Ponda and Dharbandora talukas were inconvenienced as the Opa water treatment plant (WTP) in Ponda taluka was shut for pre-monsoon electrical maintenance work. Though the water division had announced a shutdown for two days — Friday and Saturday — work was completed on Friday itself and low-lying areas received water by midnight. Supply was restored to other areas by Saturday, PWD executive engineer Nivruti Parsekar, said. The WTP had to be shut down as major work was to be taken up at the 33kV electrical substation that powers the plants at the Opa Water Works complex. “Work that was taken up on Friday included overhauling of 33kV sub-station instruments, cleaning electrical insulators, checking and rectifying cable panel equipment and other allied tasks such as greasing, checking and tightening of cable connections,” Parsekar said. Opa Water Works treats 160MLD of water that is supplied to almost 95% of the Ponda and Tiswadi talukas and parts of Dharbandora. The state capital of Panaji, defence establishments, and the Goa Medical College and hospital also fall under its ambit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/routine-closure-of-opa-plant-briefly-affects-water-supply/articleshow/75928604.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 doctors to look into problems alleged||The Gujarat High court directed three medical officers, Dr Ami Parikh, HOD general medicine, SVP; Dr Advait Thakore, HOD emergency medicine, SVP; and Dr Bipin Amin, professor of medicine at Civil Hospital; to look into the 21 issues raised in a report tabled in the court. The court noted that the report’s authenticity was not verified. However, the court took notice of the fact that the report contains very import elements and directed the three officers to look into the various aspects of the report. The report claimed a lack of leadership, shortages of medication such as like insulin, lanetalol, noradrenaline, anti-hypertensives, urobags, catheter ryle’s tubes, lack of institute-specific treatment protocol, lack of accountability for deaths and discharges, mishandling of blood samples, lack of management in ICU among other problems at the Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-doctors-to-look-into-problems-alleged/articleshow/75927699.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Varanasi||One injured in shootout over old enmity||VARANASI: One person was injured in a shootout over some old enmity at Sarawan village in Machhalishahr area of Jaunpur district on Friday night. The police arrested four persons, while the main accused is absconding. According to reports, there was an enmity between Jainarayan Yadav and Vipin Yadav over some old issue. On Friday night Vipin along with his four friends went to Jainarayan’s house and allegedly opened fire in which his own friend Suraj Pathak sustained bullet injury on his hand. Vipin fled from the scene after firing. The police reached immediately after getting information and caught the four persons. Inspector Vijay Kumar Chaurasia said that on complaint of Jainarayan an FIR was lodged against Vipin, Pravesh, Suraj, Pawan and Sunil Yadav. Suraj was taken to the community health centre for medical treatment. The arrested persons were sent to jail, while a manhunt has been launched to nab Vipin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-injured-in-shootout-over-old-enmity/articleshow/75924656.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Beauty parlours to open on Sunday sans AC||MADURAI: While the beauty parlours are set to reopen on Sunday, after being closed for nearly 50 days, they would have to function without using air conditioner (AC) as directed by the government guidelines. This has left the parlour owners in a spot as they would now have to renovate the premises for better air flow. President of the professional women beauticians’ welfare association, Kalaiselvi Jaikumar said that the government allowed them open shops from Sunday. “We have informed our members that safety and hygiene would be of utmost importance and they would have to use single-use towels for facials and other services in parlours,” she said. Kalaiselvi said that about 50% out of their 1,500 odd members in the southern districts including Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar, have centralized air conditioning in their parlours and they would have to renovate the premises for better airflow as air conditions are strictly not allowed to be used. “Many of them would find it very difficult and the banks should come forward to offer loans without collateral or security. The Madurai district collector T G Vinay has assured us that we can avail the loans easily,” she said. There are many customers like Lakshmi Priya, who really wants to visit a parlour. “But, I will wait for some time before I go for services that need a longer stay in the parlour as one thing is for sure that there is going to be no more relaxing in parlours, because without air conditioning, it would be difficult,” she said. Meanwhile, the association has been training their members on better practices. “Facials would be a challenge. We would have to wear a protecting shield, and gloves are a must for all services,” said R Vijayarani a beautician.The government has said that the parlours must keep sanitizing the premises five times a day, wear masks and ensure the health and hygiene of the workers. They would have to ensure that the parlours are clean and neat and clutter-free for additional safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/beauty-parlours-to-open-today-sans-ac/articleshow/75928570.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Civic body resumes work on Bhubaneswar’s sanitation project||BHUBANESWAR: With the movement of labourers allowed in the fourth phase of lockdown, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday resumed work on the city’s ambitious sanitation project — a micro composting centre (MCC). The work was stalled for four months owing to the restrictions on the movement of the labourers. The MCC project will ensure that municipal waste generated from the household are processed and converted into compost. Just before the lockdown, the BMC had decided to engage one swachh sathi per 600 households for conducting a door-to-door campaign and educating people on sanitation and segregation of household waste. BMC deputy commissioner (sanitation) Subhendu Sahu said they had planned to resume the work in the third phase of the lockdown, but failed as only the labourers available at that site could have worked (according to the guidelines set by the government). “We did not get labourers as the people working there had left for their villages and they couldn’t be brought back owing to the restrictions. As the fourth phase lockdown was enforced, which allowed the movement of labourers from one place to another, we resumed the MCC work,” Sahu said. The work on the MCC at the temporary transit station (TTS) near Sainik School —the point of transportation of the solid waste to the designated site at Daruthenga — has been completed. However, the work on the remaining 42 centres is underway. In the first week of January, the BMC had decided not to dump the bulk of waste at the dump yard at Daruthenga, a village on the outskirts of the city. Instead, it has decided to take the waste to the MCCs. “Had the work on the MCCs been completed, we could have taken a final call on whether to continue to dump waste at Daruthenga,” a BMC official said. The municipal solid waste will be converted into compost at the proposed 43 MCCs. Since the BMC will take the waste to the MCCs, they need to be segregated at the source. There is no facility for the bulk segregation of waste at the MCCs. “The MCCs are suitable alternatives for the waste disposal and conversion of bulk waste into compost. The BMC will also save money as they won’t need hundreds of transporting vehicles, which lift waste from different locations and take the load to Daruthenga,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/civic-body-resumes-work-on-citys-sanitation-project/articleshow/75926900.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Petal showers, free rides as 19,000 candidates answer Class X exam||PANAJI: As students entered the school premises at Dr KB Hedgewar High School on Saturday morning to answer their Class X public exams, they were showered with petals of marigold flowers. In schools across Goa, over 19,000 students appeared for the exam of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, under the unique circumstances on Saturday. Despite the huge number of students answering the exam, teachers and Goa Board officials ensured smooth conduct of the test on the first day. In most schools, students were allowed to enter the exam halls an hour before the scheduled exam time. This ensured social distancing was maintained and sanitising students’ hands and thermal screening of their temperature could take place without crowding. Students were allowed in many places to continue their revision after entering the exam halls. “The situation had turned tense everywhere so we decided to shower some marigold petals on the students to motivate them and make the atmosphere happy. Our teachers also gave the students ear-support guards so they do not experience discomfort from the prolonged mask use that can cause chafing of the skin behind the ears. The ear-support guard was an innovation at our school’s Atal Tinkering Lab,” said headmaster of Dr KB Hedgewar High School Vilas Satarkar. Schools in rural areas helped transport students to the exam centres in school buses. Police personnel were also posted in many areas to ensure that parents maintain social distancing outside exam halls. At some exam centres though, it was the parents who were seen crowding together as they waited to pick up their children after the exam. Parents were kept 200m away from exam halls everywhere. Parents and teachers from primary section of schools were engaged as volunteers at many centres to ensure that students leave and enter the exam halls without crowding. “It helped that two minor papers of Class X and the remaining papers of Class XII were held first as there were fewer students appearing for those papers. This served as a sort of rehearsal for the main paper for which thousands are appearing,” said a teacher. The next Class X paper, the mathematics exam will be held after a gap of two days, on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/petal-showers-free-rides-as-19000-candidates-answer-class-x-exam/articleshow/75928643.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Chellanam staring at another erosion?||Kochi: With southwest monsoon expected to hit the state by first week of June, more than 300 families in the coastal hamlet of Chellanam are under the threat of yet another sea erosion as the geotube seawall work, started in 2017, is yet to be completed. Though the contract was renewed by the state irrigation department and the project was re-inaugurated two weeks back, the work has not begun. Even though V S Sunil Kumar, minister in-charge of Ernakulam, assured that the work would start by May 20, during his visit to Chellanam, nothing except the filling of geobags has started. Residents said the sea will soon turn rough as monsoon is round the corner and they will have to bear the brunt as most of the seawall along the coast has been washed away in the strong waves over the last three years. The geobags, which are installed on top of the seawall as a temporary solution, could not protect the coast from strong waves and the futility of the bags was proven during the last two monsoons when seawater washed them away and flooded the houses. The Chellanam Janakiyavedi, which has been protesting for the last 200 days, said the authorities should resume the works at the earliest. “It is the fourth inauguration of Chellanam geotube project since its inception in 2017. Now, the project has been given to a new contractor and they promised to complete the tube installation at two out of the five sites — Velankanni and Chellanam Bazaar — before the monsoon. It won’t take long for the rains to begin, but no work has begun so far. We are worried that this time too the work will be stopped abruptly like the previous ones. If the sea turns rough our houses will be flooded and we will be having sleepless nights again,” said Joseph Arackal, convener of Janakiyavedi. The worst-affected areas are Companypady and Maruvakkad, where the seawall has crumbled completely. Geobags are currently being installed in these areas but residents are skeptical about its effectiveness. “Geobags are a waste of money and sand as they won’t survive monsoons. The government should complete the geotube works at the earliest. If flooding starts, we won’t be able to move to camps amid the Covid-19 pandemic situation,” Arackal added. Meanwhile, district collector S Suhas visited Chellanam as part of a food-kit distribution programme. While talking to residents, he assured that work would begin on Friday and completed before the monsoon begins. But if the sea turns rough, which is most likely in the coming weeks, the work cannot be pursued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chellanam-staring-at-another-erosion/articleshow/75925694.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of uniform policy on odd-even rule puts Hyderabad vendors in a spot||HYDERABAD: With no uniform policy applying to them, the odd-even rule has left street vendors in the lurch. With the civic body yet to provide numbers to all vendors, they are either being forced to remain shut or unable to adhere to social distancing norm as there is a complete chaos at these shops. Pomar Raju, a vendor who sells chunnis at KPHB, says the civic body has asked them to mark their own shops or carts. “The GHMC must give us numbers so that we can work legally. Leaving people to mark shops themselves will lead to problems.” Already facing the consequences, Srinivas K in Sultan Bazaar, Koti, said, “Without numbers being allotted, the more powerful hawkers, who have leased out spaces or carts, are ruling the roost. They are able to open every day, making it impossible for people like us to survive in an already tough situation.” Akshay Kumar, an activist, who lives in Ghansi Bazaar in Old City says that chaos has returned to the area. “Hawkers and shops in this area are not following the odd-even rule. There is absolutely no social distancing.” While insisting that it is the GHMC that must enforce the rule, S Venkatmohan, president of Telangana Street and Hawkers Union, highlighted the other side of the story. He said, “State government has declared that everyone can reopen their shops, but civic body officials are not allowing street vendors to reopen. I have already reported this to GHMC commissioner on Twitter as well as through mails.” Explaining the situation, he said there are 300 hawkers in KPHB service road, 250 members in Dilsukhnagar and approximately 350 members in Sultan Bazaar. “If the permission is not given to the street vendors for their vending they are going to lose their livelihood,” he said. Vennala Suresh, from Dilsukhanagar, said,“I had a take away amount of Rs 600 a day but have been getting nothing since two months.” When contacted, V Prashanti, deputy commissioner, Kukatpally, GHMC, said, “We are concerned about the well-being of street vendors. We are awaiting specific instructions about them. In the meantime, I am planning to visit some congested areas in my jurisdiction to see the best way forward.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-uniform-policy-on-odd-even-rule-puts-city-vendors-in-a-spot/articleshow/75927802.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Fearing for students’ safety, councillor halts mining trucks||QUEPEM: Alleging that mining companies had not kept their promise of stopping movement of iron ore trucks during the SSC exams and stating that students’ safety was at stake, councillor of Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) Manuel Colaco stopped the ore-laden trucks at Quepem on Saturday. The five-time chairperson stopped the loaded trucks near the cemetery along the Quepem-Cavrem road. QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik and councillor Raul Pereira joined him later. Two SSC examination sub-centres are located at Quepem town., and one at Tilamoll. The trucks were headed to Curchorem, which has four examination sub-centres. “Due to continuous movement of trucks we face a risky and difficult situation in taking our children to the centre at Curchorem,” a parent from Molcornem, Marcus Sequeira said.The Holy Cross Institute, the main centre in Quepem town, is located 40m from the main road and the noise of speeding trucks disturbs the students. Many parents from Ambaulim and far off places told TOI that the route to the examination centres is unsafe for their children due to the heavy truck movement. “There is also no public transport,” one parent said. Soon after blocking the trucks at Quepem , Colaco rang deputy collector Rohit Kadam and asked him to issue a written order to the mine owners to stop ore transportation from morning till 2pm, during the SSC exams. Kadam said that he will direct the mines’ representatives to stop the transportation during exams as they agreed by them during the meeting chaired by him on May 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fearing-for-students-safety-councillor-halts-mining-trucks/articleshow/75928701.cms||Johnny M
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: 1,500 seafarers to return on charters, ships||PANAJI: Around 1,500 stranded seafarers are expected to arrive directly in the state via five flights and two ships next week. “Five flights chartered by Costa Cruises, MSC Cruises and P&O cruises are expected to bring 1,000 seafarers from Italy, Portugal and UK to the Goa International Airport. We are coordinating with the companies and will receive more details in a few days,” nodal officer for stranded persons and ports secretary P S Reddy told TOI. The state government is also in talks with cruise vessels, convincing them to disembark the Goa-bound crew directly at MPT. “We are expecting at least two ships carrying 500 seafarers next week. We don’t want the seafarers to disembark in Mumbai,” he added. The 45 seamen and 12 scientists from the National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research (NCPOR) have arrived from South Africa and have been sent into paid quarantine at a hotel in Patto. They arrived in Mumbai on a special flight on Friday morning and were directly picked up at the airport by KTC buses and brought to Goa by road. The scientists were stranded in a hotel in Cape Town for more than a month. They were due to return to India after completing an expedition in Antarctica. While one group took the air route from Antarctica to South Africa and then proceeded home earlier this year after completing the expedition , this second group took the sea route from Antarctica to South Africa when the pandemic hit. The 12 NCPOR scientists are among 28 others from various organisations who left for the Antarctic mission in November last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1500-seafarers-to-return-on-charters-ships/articleshow/75928668.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 24, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi reports 3 new Covid cases, Jaunpur district crosses 100 mark||VARANASI: After scoring zero on Friday, the Covid-19 meter restarted in Varanasi on Saturday when three new positive cases came to light while the number of corona patients crossed the mark of 100 in Jaunpur district. In adjoining districts, five in Mirzapur and two new cases were also reported in Ghazipur districts. Regarding the new Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “BHU lab gave reports of 225 samples on Saturday in which three had been found positive. With it total number of positive cases reached to 129. Of them 80 had been discharged after getting cured while four had died. Now, active cases in the district are 45.” As per the reports, 17-year-old daughter of an infected woman of Umrah Barai hotspot area had been tested positive. She had returned from Mumbai in a car with her mother. A 51-year-old man of Mokalpur village in Chaubeypur area, who had returned home from Mumbai in a truck on May 18, was also tested positive. This positive case is a 22-year-old youth of Mahgaonpura village of Cholapur area and he also had returned home from Mumbai in a truck on May 18. As many as eight Covid-19 patients including three of Varanasi, four of Jaunpur and one of Ghazipur, who were admitted at BHU and DDU district hospitals, were discharged on Saturday after getting cured. Two new areas including Mahgaonpura and Mokalpur were declared new hotspots. After it total number of hotspots in Varanasi reached to 60 of which 37 are in category of active hotspots. Jaunpur district, which had recorded detection of 43 Covid-19 positive cases in a single day on Friday, again witnessed 21 new cases on Saturday. District magistrate Jaunpur Dinesh Kumar Singh confirmed that with the arrival of test report,s 21 more persons had been tested positive in the district and they all had been admitted to isolation ward. The high number of positive cases in two days took the tally of Jaunpur to 112, he said adding, two patients had died while 11 had returned home after getting cured. Now 99 active cases are in the district. Most of the persons found positive on Saturday are either migrants or infected by them. In Ghazipur, two youth of Kasimabad area, who had returned from Delhi and Mumbai recently, had been found positive, confirmed DM Ghazipur Omprakash Arya. With it total tally of Ghazipur reached to 75 of which six had become cured. Now active cases in district are 69. Mirzapur also found five new cases, confirmed CMO Mirzapur Dr OP Tiwari, mentioning the newly detected patients have been infected by Mumbai returned persons, who already had been tested positive. Now, total Covid-19 positive cases in district has reached to 31 of which three had become cured. Active cases are 28, he added.One person in Majhgai village in Naugarh area of Chandauli district, who had returned from Mumbai, was also tested positive, said DM Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal, now total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has reached 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-reports-3-new-covid-casesjaunpur-dist-crosses-100-mark/articleshow/75924680.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 24, 2020||Varanasi||Trucker with cardiacailment dies on train||VARANASI: A man who went to Mumbai for treatment of his heart ailment and was stranded there in the lockdown, died in a Shramik special train before the train reached Varanasi junction on Saturday. GRP officials at Varanasi junction said Jokhan Yadav (45), who was returning home from Mumbai in a Shramik Special train with his son, died on the way. GRP sent his body for post-mortem examination. Yadav’s son Anand revealed that they are natives of Sarava area in Machhlishahar of Jaunpur district. Jokhan had his own truck and he used to drive it himself. He had a heart ailment and had gone to Mumbai for treatment on January 10, but he was stranded there due to lockdown. On May 20, Jokhan boarded a Shramik Special train from Lokmanya Tilak terminal for Varanasi with his son but died on the way. Meanwhile, migrant labourers travelling in a Bihar-bound Shramik Special staged protest and put concrete sleepers on tracks at Vyas Nagar railway station after the engine failed and there was no arrangement of food or drinking water. The passengers of Vishakhapatnam-Patna Shramik Special went on a rampage in the wee hours on Saturday and blocked railway tracks near Vyasnagar railway station by putting concrete sleepers on them. The train was running very late and its engine developed a technical snag on Friday late night. The migrant workers alleged they kept waiting for several hours but no railway official turned up to make any arrangements. On getting information about the ruckus, officials of district administration and police from Varanasi and Chandauli reached there and arranged food packets and water for them. Later, railway officials arranged another engine after which train moved ahead on Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/trucker-with-cardiacailment-dies-on-train/articleshow/75924665.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only 10-20% of applications for tests get the nod: AHNA to government||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (AHNA) on Saturday wrote to Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) to urgently review the policy on Covid-19 testing in Gujarat. The letter stated that the state government notification has severely restricted Covid-19 testing even for symptomatic patients, high-risk areas such as hospital admissions and before surgical procedures. The association members alleged that the approvals are taking minimum three days and only 10-20% of tests are approved. ‘We would like to know whose direction it is to restrict testing? The same authority will be responsible for its disastrous consequences. Has an expert medical opinion been taken before implementing these policies? We would like to know the reasons for restricting the tests,’ asked the members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-10-20-of-applications-for-tests-get-the-nod-ahna-to-government/articleshow/75927813.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Everyone must be allowed the test: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Saturday, while giving a judgement on the current Covid-19 scenario, observed that everyone must be permitted to have a Covid-19 test done. The state is in the eye of the storm for capping the per day tests and introducing the clause for private labs requiring permission of the state authorities before conducting any test. The court stated that all laboratories able to fulfil the prescribed criteria and infrastructure must be granted the permission and must be permitted to conduct RT-PCR tests. The court also suggested that the rates for testing in private labs must have a ceiling cap – currently it is Rs 4,500. “Everyone must be permitted to have a Covid-19 test done. However, there must be a specific mention of the following categories of persons for whom the Covid-19 test must be mandatory – those who have been hospitalized for Covid-19 and who want to have a test done post discharge from the hospital, family members of those persons who have been tested Covid-19 positive or who have been hospitalized or who have returned after hospitalization or who have died on account of Covid-19, those persons who have a written prescription issued by a doctor,” reads the order. The bench said that the argument that ‘more number of tests which lead to 70% of the population testing positive for Covid-19, thereby leading to fear psychosis’ should not be a ground to refuse or restrict the testing. “Wide publicity must be given by the state in the way of newspaper advertisements ...,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/everyone-must-be-allowed-the-test-hc/articleshow/75927835.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Buildings to be identified to relocate people||Kochi: Village officials, tahasildars and secretaries of all local bodies in the district have been asked to identify buildings where people can be rehabilitated in case of heavy rain during the monsoon while following social distancing norms in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. The decision in this regard was taken at a review meeting held in colletcorate on Thursday. Officials have to locate four buildings situated in the same compound under each local body limit. One building would be for accommodating people, the second one for vulnerable people, including elderly and children, third for lodging people undergoing home quarantine and the fourth for people with symptoms. Besides, a committee comprising village officer, ward members and representatives of both male and female from public should be constituted. The committee should convene a meeting with the public on availability of food, prevalence of symptoms, medical care, if needed, and it should be intimated to the village officer and secretaries of local bodies. Village officer would be the in-charge of the camp. A meeting will be convened on May 26 to discuss further about in this regard. Collector S Suhas said the disaster management plan has been prepared in a decentralized method. A coordination centre will be set up at Kaloor to coordinate the functions related to Covid and monsoon relief activities. Steps have been taken to run rehabilitation camps following all the social distancing norms. Meanwhile, a geologist has been selected for preparing a plan regarding sand mining in Muvattupuzha river. Agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar said quarantine facility will be arranged in local level in view of more people reaching the district after restrictions were relaxed. Vacant houses, identified in panchayats and municipalities will be arranged to lodge people coming from other states. Vigilant committees formed in panchayat level should make the arrangements. Those who do not have facilities to undergo home quarantine will be lodged in these houses in their area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/buildings-to-be-identified-to-relocate-people/articleshow/75925776.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||3 days on, voice-data woes continue; WFH execs in a fix||Kolkata: Three days have passed since cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc in the city and its adjacent districts, almost 70% of the cellphone users and data subscribers of both wired and on-the-air services are running around their houses to receive signals on their devices. The Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI) director-general, Rajan S Mathews, told TOI on Saturday that approximately 30% to 35% of the base transceiver stations (BTS) or mobile towers covering the city have been impacted. The telecom firms’ umbrella body has also said that all the cellular operators have activated intra-circle roaming (ICR) services but that too proves ineffective, when most of the operators, in the absence of signals, lose coverage in a circle. Explaining the long absence of signals in Kolkata, the COAI DG said: “Despite repairing numerous fiber cuts, matters exacerbated as cleaning crews, while removing fallen trees and debris, caused more damage to the optical fibres. Also, movement of emergency response teams have been hampered because of fallen electric lines and fears of electrocution.” Work from home (WFH) executives in the metropolis, who had been struggling to adjust to the new normal amid the Covid-lockdown, are now failing to tide over the connectivity crisis. On Friday, many WFH professionals, whose job solely depends on telecom data and voice services, had urged their bosses to allow them to work in office for a couple of days till the Net connection gets restored. Pradip Chanda, the CEO of Elogix Software at Salt Lake Sector V, told TOI that he received several such calls from his colleagues, but he could not permit the same, breaching the lockdown protocol. Arijit Gupta is at a loss trying to comprehend how to inform his bosses in the UK about his plight. Gupta, who had come to India from Leicester before the lockdown, is looking for ways to send across this month’s sales report, after having already missed his May 21 deadline. “The intermittent signals on my phone just wouldn’t support a five-minute call,” Gupta, a resident of Garia, said. Shalini Roy, a travel portal employee, wanted to get in touch with her company HQ at Hong Kong since May 21, but she could't even send a mail across.“With the prevailing business condition, I don't even know I still have the job or not,” she said. Forget international calls, most Kolkatans till Saturday could not even wade through the communication logjam within the city. Telecom companies, which have wasted no time in selling data and calling packages amid the lockdown, are now finding it difficult to serve subscribers across the city. "This is quite frustrating that my expenditure on extra data is going down the drain, which neither my office, nor the cellular firms are going to compensate," said Santanu Mitra, a software engineer at a Japanese multinational company. Cellular firms, however, have claimed that 95% of services would be restored by Sunday. In a statement, Vodafone Idea said the company is organising fuel supply to our sites using mobile DGs as power outages are disrupting services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-days-on-voice-data-woes-continue-wfh-execs-in-a-fix/articleshow/75926911.cms||Sovon Manna
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||City’s testing figure now 9,500 per million||Ahmedabad: The city’s tests per million figure is close to 9,500 as of May 23, a 77% increase from May 5, when the new team took over. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who has been put in charge of controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, said that on May 5 the city had done 5,344 tests per million people. Gupta said that as a part of their active surveillance strategy in Ahmedabad city, the number of samples taken per week has significantly increased in the last two weeks. In the period from April 10 to May 7, around 7,500 tests were carried out every week, which was stepped up to 9,410 between May 8 and May 14. The city conducted 11,320 tests from May 15 to 21, the highest weekly number so far. Gupta said that since the Government of India has announced the resumption of domestic flights from May 25, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Airport will be operational from Monday. It was decided to give a partial relaxation to radio cabs for dropping and picking up passengers from the airport. He said no auto-rickshaws will be allowed. Officials said the number of weekly tests was 3,024 between April 3 and 9, and then an increase to 7,697 between April 24 and 30. From May 1 to 7, there was a drop to 7,446.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-testing-figure-now-9500-per-million/articleshow/75927807.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Two more test positive in Khambhat||Vadodara/ Anand: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Anand reached 93 on Friday with two more testing positive in Khambhat. A 59-year-old man and another 32-year-old man, both residents of Zanda chowk area of Khambhat tested positive. Of the 1,622 samples that have been tested in the district so far, 1,529 have tested negative while 93 have tested positive. Of the 93, 76 patients have been discharged after recovery while nine patients have died during treatment. Of the seven patients who are under treatment, four are admitted at cardiac care centre, Khambhat while three are admitted at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Most of the patients are critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-more-test-positive-in-khambhat/articleshow/75925745.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Kukke temple retains no. 1 spot with Rs 98.9cr annual revenue||MANGALURU: The richest Muzrai temple in Karnataka — Kukke Subrahmanya temple — on Friday posted a whopping annual income of Rs 98.9 crore for 2019-20, up by Rs 6 crore over the previous year. The revenue boost comes despite floods in Karnataka during last year’s monsoon season and reduced footfalls in March due to the Covid-19 restrictions. With Rs 42.5 crore, earnings from sevas, including ‘sarpasamskara’ and ‘sarpadosha’, topped the income list for the temple situated in Dakshina Kannada district and 280km from Bengaluru. The balance sheet shows Rs 22 crore as interest earned from banks and Rs 18.2 crore as hundi (donation box) collection. Compared with the previous fiscal, hundi collections went up by Rs 80 lakh and income from sevas jumped by Rs 2 crore. The temple, which sees several high-profile visitors every year, earned Rs 2.2 crore from rents and contracts, Rs 4.7 crore from mass feeding contributions and Rs 4.8 crore as rent from temple halls. “The number of devotees visiting the temple decreased after heavy rains and floods in North Karnataka in 2019. As the situation improved, lockdown was announced. Both had effect on temples in Dakshina Kannada,” said Ravindra MH, Kukke temple executive officer. He said the temple’s revenue dropped to Rs 92 crore in 2018-19 as against Rs 95.9 crore in 2017-18. “The negative growth was due to floods. Roads connecting the district were damaged and closed for months forcing devotees to avoid Kukke temple visit. We expected the same results this year also. But things improved after monsoon,” he added. Authorities said the temple spent Rs 64.6 crore in 2019-20. Nearly Rs 18 crore was spent for construction and renovation works and the rest includes salary, funds for organizing festivals, expenditure on sevas, education and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kukke-temple-retains-no-1-spot-with-rs-98-9cr-annual-revenue/articleshow/75925779.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 24, 2020||Allahabad||DFC to employ migrant workers||Prayagraj: At a time when highways and borders are dotted with innumerable heads of migrant labours rendered jobless trekking to their native villages, worried about how to make two ends meet, the ongoing construction of projects of Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) can bring smiles back to their faces. Senior officials of DFCCIL, a public sector undertaking under ministry of railways, and contracting agencies have written to district magistrates of their respective areas, requesting them to provide available migrant labourers willingly to work in ongoing construction of dedicated freight corridors. The migrant workers rendered jobless during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown could hence get jobs near their home towns after some basic training. “Although a large number of workers are already working as various sections o f freight corridors across the country are still under construction, there is no dearth of jobs for labourers. The agency, given contract in each section, would ensure fast-paced training and then hire the labourers for different works as per need,” said DFCCIL Managing Director, A K Sachan, while talking to TOI on Tuesday. Officials and contractors of both Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors have already started the process in this regard at Prayagraj and Mirzapur in UP, Sonnagar (Bihar), Ludhiana (Punjab), parts of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana and other states where construction is going on, he added. “The work at different sites was stopped during first phase of lockdown but was restarted when government announced relaxations in second and subsequent phases. However, going with the mammoth size of work in hand, the agencies that have been allotted work have huge demand for workers and could employ these migrant labourers,” Sachan added. All the labourers already working in the ongoing projects were retained by contractors and were paid their wages too. The work has been going on during lockdown while following all the protocols and norms laid down to control Covid-19 pandemic, be it social distancing, wearing masks etc, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/dfc-to-employ-migrant-workers/articleshow/75924780.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||3-4 days for restoration of cable connectivity, say operators||Cable TV services that had collapsed after cyclone Amphan struck the city on Wednesday started limping back to normalcy on Saturday. While nearly 80% of cable homes had been left with blank screens after the storm, services have been restored in about one-fourth of them, according to cable operators who have been working round-the-clock. It might take three or four days to restore the connections of all subscribers, they said. “It’s a humongous task since cables are still tangled with trees that are yet to be removed or cut. Lampposts, which bear the cables, have been razed or damaged, leaving them unusable in large parts of the city. Besides, we have to arrange new cables in a large volume,” said Tapash Das of Ideal Cable TV Operators’ Association. The latter has started restoring cables across Bhawanipore and Harish Mukherjee Road. Kolkata’s largest MSO SitiCable said it was confident that the work will be completed in another couple of days. “Our feed has not been affected. Operators are restoring the cables and it should be done soon. We are happy with the progress so far,” said SitiCable director Suresh Sethia. Subscribers in extensive parts of south and north Kolkata, however, alleged on Saturday that their screens remained blank. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-4-days-for-restoration-of-cable-connectivity-say-operators/articleshow/75926930.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath performs Rudrabhishek,prays for well-being of people||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath performed ‘Rudrabhishek’ at Gorakhnath temple on Saturday morning and prayed to Lord Shiva to save mankind from global pandemic and for the welfare, safety and prosperity of people of the state. On Saturday early morning, CM Yogi, who is also the Peethadheesh of Gorakhnath temple, offered prayers to Guru Gorakshnath and performed Akhand Jyoti Poojan. He also took blessings of his Guru Avaidyanath at his Samadhi.The CM then spent half an hour at the Gaushala (cow shelter) in th e temple premises and directed staff to take special care of the cows. Then he performed Rudrabhishek of Lord Shiva in Shakti mandir on the first floor along with Pradhan Pujari, Acharya Ramanuj Tripathi for around two hours and offered 25 litre ‘mahadravya’ amidst chanting of mantras of the Rudra Ashtadhyayi.Earlier, CM Yogi had performed Rudrabhishek at Gorakhnath temple during his visit on Hol On Friday evening, CM Yogi held meetings with officials and reviewed the preparations of health department. He also discussed situation of corona infection, lockdown and quarantine facilities in the district. Concluding his two-day visit, CM Yogi left for Lucknow, confirmed Gorakhnath temple staff, Vinay Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-performs-rudrabhishekprays-for-well-being-of-people/articleshow/75924703.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Allahabad||Hospitals to host online events for spreading word||PRAYAGRAJ: Posting videos spreading awareness about schizophrenia and the need to break the taboo associated with the disease will be among the several activities city hospitals have planned for World Schizophrenia Day, which will observed on Sunday. The mental health cell of Motilal Nehru Divisional Hospital also will also organise events online on the day. “Usually several events are organised on this day every year with the purpose of spreading awareness about schizophrenia, however, the ongoing lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic necessitate a different approach. Hence, we would be making people aware about the disease in a different way,” said Dr Ishanya Raj, a clinical psychologist at MLN Divisional Hospital. “The theme for this year’s events is ‘Stay Connected’. The pandemic has taught us that it is important to stay connected and reach out for support if you are schizophrenic. We would be wearing purple clothes, clicking group photos with our family members wearing purple clothes or with a purple background. We would then share these photos on social media to raise awareness,” she said. “Those who are diagnosed with schizophrenia must get full support from their family, friends and the society. Schizophrenia can be a remitting relapse illness, but an early diagnosis improves chances of success of treatment and medication.” “Apart from sharing information on social media about the of nature symptoms, causes and treatment of schizophrenia, we would also shoot a a video on theme ‘I too can break the stigma’ and would be sharing it on social media,” said Dr Jayanath BP, consultant psychiatrist at Kaushambi district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hospitals-to-host-online-events-for-spreading-word/articleshow/75924822.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||AIIMS lab tests 439 patients in a day, over 15k so far||Bhopal: Over 15,000 Covid-19 samples have been tested so far at AIIMS Bhopal, as of Saturday. The premier institute’s Covid-19 testing laboratory has a positive rate of 3.52%. In other words, the total number of Covid-19 positive are 538. The laboratory tested 439 samples in the last 24-hours. The testing is for cases within Bhopal and outside districts. On a weekly basis, the AIIMS laboratory has been tested 2,550 samples, according to the institute’s public relations officer and additional medical superintendent, Dr Laxmi Prasad. Covid-19 testing has been an issue for the state government. About 1,000 samples per day have been sent outside the state in the last few weeks, with increase in demand for testing. The state has a testing capacity of about 3,800 tests per day. So far, 1.32 lakh samples have been tested. It includes tests in AIIMS Bhopal which accounts for 11% of the tests conducted in MP. Government officials claimed that turnaround time for tests has been reduced to under one day in some cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/aiims-lab-tests-439-patients-in-a-day-over-15k-so-far/articleshow/75926927.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Eid prayers in mosques without public attendance||Kolkata: Eid prayers across the mosques in the city on May 25 will be held without public attendance this year, managements of the shrines said on Saturday. The Calcutta Khilafat Committee which organises the Eid prayers on Red Road every year has also urged people to pray at home this year and called on the Muslims in the city to adhere to safety guidelines to avoid the spread of the novel coronavirus.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also appealed to Muslims to pray from home during Eid. “The Centre has notified under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 that religious gatherings shall not be allowed. I recall the Eid gatherings at Red Road where I used to participate. But this year I couldn’t offer Puja at Kalighat and won’t be able to take part in Eid celebrations. I would urge you all to stay at home during this Eid. The Bohra community had their Eid today. They also prayed from home,” the CM said. Nobody could recall the last time Eid prayers were held in mosques without the attendance of the devotees but this year the gates of the shrines have been shut since the lockdown was announced in March. Eid-ul-Fitr which marks the end of the holy month of Ramazan may fall on Sunday or Monday this year. Muslims across the globe will celebrate their biggest festival under the shadow of the novel coronavirus with millions confined to their homes and reeling with massive monetary losses. “People will pray at home this year on Eid due to the pandemic. There will be no congregation at Red Road on Eid this year,” read a statement released by Qari Fazlur Rahman who leads the Eid prayers on Red Road every year. “You people have been praying at home the entire month of Ramazan this year due to the lockdown. Similarly, on the day of Eid too you will have to pray in your homes following all the guidelines by the administration on social distancing.”The administration of Nakhoda Mosque where more than 50,000 people assemble to offer prayers on Eid has issued a statement stating entry into the mosque for the prayers on Eid is prohibited according to the directive of the administration. “Both the state and the central government have notified that all religious places are going to remain shut due to lockdown,” said Nasser Ebrahim, the trustee of the mosque. On Saturday, several shops resumed business after lockdown restrictions were eased but the usual bustle and business associated with the run-up to the festival was missing. Cyclone Amphan along with the lockdown has dealt a huge financial blow to people bringing down the spending before the festival. “I will not say that people are not buying this year, but it is nowhere even close to previous years. People do not have surplus money because people have been without work for over two months now. Our sales are down by 80%,” said Nadim Siddique, who owns a shop of traditional wear on Rabindra Sarani. At Esplanade, too, most shops wore a deserted look on Saturday evening in contrast to the packed interiors during previous years before Eid. Shops selling sewain, spices, dry fruits and sweets witnessed brisk business on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eid-prayers-in-mosques-without-public-attendance/articleshow/75926941.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two more cops test positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Three days after a constable succumbed to Covid-19 and a detective inspector tested positive on Thursday, two more cops from the Bowenpally and Chilkalguda police stations have contracted the deadly virus on Saturday. A constable from Bowenpally police station, who was on duty at Gandhi Hospital between May 2 and 10, suffered from high fever recently and tested positive for the virus. “While the constable was shifted to Gandhi Hospital, his family was asked to go under quarantine for 14 days,” a police source said. The Chilkalguda cop, who was shifted to the hospital, is reportedly a sub-inspector. However, officials refused to reveal the identity. The DI of Rachakonda, who tested positive earlier, was performing duties at the containment areas in Balapur tested positive. Meanwhile, Hyderabad police commissioner, Anjani Kumar visited the Kulsumpura police station on Saturday afternoon to condole the death of constable Dayakar Reddy. He died on Wednesday due to Covid-19. The officials observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect to the deceased. “The death of Dayakar Reddy, police constable officer at such a young age has hurt me so much. May his soul rest in peace. He was a hardworking officer. The department extends its support to his family,” said Anjani Kumar. A job will be provided to his wife and an NGO would take care of the children’s education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-more-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75927844.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||38 fresh cases in city, Jatkhedi fast turning ‘new epicentre’||Bhopal: Areas like Jatkhedi and those along Misrod have started to become the new epicentre of Covid-19 in the state capital. As many as 38 cases were reported in the state capital on Saturday. More than two dozen cases were reported in Jatkhedi. With this, the deadly virus has taken 23 new locations in its grip. These 23 locations have been tagged as containment zones by the administration. So far, Bhopal has reported 1,191 cases and as many as 740 people have recovered in the state capital. Most of the cases are in the Bagh Sewania and Jatkhedi. Their potential contact spread is said to be limited. Some of the contact history is linked to local stores. The district administration has been proactive in the area, said sources. Five cases were also reported in Bagh Mughalia. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Greater Bhopal chapter, organised a health camp for migrant labourers who are travelling from Maharastra, Gujarat to UP and Bihar. Thousands of them are passing by the Vidisha bypass; Sukhi Sewania Bhopal by bus and other means, said IMA representative, Dr Sudeep Pathak. He claimed that health checks were carried out on about 500 passengers. Many of the passengers suffered from dehydration, heat stroke, fever, diarrhoea and superficial wounds in legs. One patient had delivered a baby in a bus on 21 May. She was given obstetric help too, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/38-fresh-cases-in-city-jatkhedi-fast-turning-new-epicentre/articleshow/75926943.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||46 wildfires recorded in state till date, 51.43 hectare forest cover gutted||Dehradun: With rising mercury levels, Uttarakhand's forest fire season has now reached its peak. The state, so far, has reported 46 wildfire incidences. In these wildfires, around 51.34 hectares of forest cover has gutted. The forest department has incurred a loss of Rs 1.32 lakh due to these forest fire instances this year. The maximum of 21 wildfires have been reported from Kumaon region. The Garhwal region and the reserve forest areas in the state have witnessed 16 and nine wildfires instances respectively. Till now, two persons have died and one has sustained injuries while trying to escape wildfires. Last year, the state had recorded 1,170 cases till May but this year, factors like intermittent rains and high moisture content in forests have limited the number of such instances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/46-wildfires-recorded-in-state-till-date-51-43-hectare-forest-cover-gutted/articleshow/75925853.cms||Shivani Azad
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Cusat customizes ‘secure’ web conferencing system||Kochi: At a time when safety of data is a cause of concern and use of apps like zoom for teleconferencing has been discouraged by ministry of home affairs, Cochin university of science and technology (Cusat) has customized a web conferencing system using a free and open source software (FOSS) for conducting syndicate meetings and open defense of PhD thesis. “Data safety is always a concern. To ensure data privacy and security, Cusat has installed open-source Jitsi-based online meeting facilities at its data centre. Formal meetings, including syndicate meetings, PhD open defenses, meeting of the board of studies are done through this platform,” said Santhosh Kumar G, professor and director, Centre for Information Management, which coordinates all online activities at Cusat. He said it is a simple and easy-to-use web conferencing system and ensures the security and privacy of the participants by providing end-to-end encryption and built-in authentication mechanism. The meeting interface is also available as a mobile application. Jitsi is a set of open-source projects that allows one to easily build and deploy secure video conferencing solutions. Up to 75 participants (up to 35 for the best experience) can meet virtually. A user can blur the background (currently in beta). It also integrates with Slack, Google Calendar, and Office 365. Generally, to get started with meeting apps, one should give his/her phone number or email ID and the apps needed to be downloaded. In the case of the Cusat web conference system, the invitation is a URL link, something like a website. “We send the link and the password is given through SMS or directly only to university authorities. All these activities are done through our server and not available for access from anywhere else,” Santhosh Kumar said. As for online classes, Cusat has been actively encouraging its students to join new courses in international universities too. More than 600 students have been daily participating in around 100 courses and taking lessons from Moodle (an open source platform for hosting online learning modules). Officials said Cusat is also an early adopter of Coursera, a private e-learning platform, which has been making available its courses free for students of universities hit by Covid-19. Cusat students have enrolled in around 3,100 courses, and 222 students have already completed courses successfully and obtained certificates from various universities and institutions. Santhosh Kumar said teachers have been providing lectures in a video format.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-customizes-secure-web-conferencing-system/articleshow/75925837.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 24, 2020||Business||Not closing door on policy choices, says Sitharaman||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said future policy actions to aid growth would depend on how the Covid-19 pandemic plays out in the months ahead, asserting that the government is not "closing the door" on policy choices.  "I am not closing the door at all. I want to keep getting the inputs from the industry, from various sections of our society, implement what I have announced well and complete that and depending on how things pan out, we have to respond accordingly. We are only two months' old in this year (2020-21 fiscal year), we have ten months to go," she said in an interaction with BJP functionary Nalin Kohli. She also said every assumption in the 2020-21 Budget would need a fresh look as they are at a stage that they won't hold good unless reviewed. The FM said the government had helped states with funds and all the dues except the GST compensation cess have been paid. Sitharaman also made it clear that the measures announced by the government to provide funds to the MSME sector could be availed by anyone and banks have been categorically told that anyone who wants to get assistance to restart their businesses should be helped. "What has now become an MSME package, it includes MSME and also aims at touching others. It includes any enterprise with a certain exposure to bank, or with certain invested capital or with a certain turnover, if they need additional term loan, additional working capital in order to buy their raw material to restart in order to be able to pay some fixed costs ....," she said. "We are not giving it to the MSMEs at the exclusion of others. Anyone who wants to get some assistance from the bank is very welcome to go and I have made this very clear to the banks also. From June 1, I expect liquidity to flow, credit to flow to be enhanced, term loans to be given additionally without any new collateral. So the sectors that you are referring to can also benefit form this, can also approach banks and this has been made very plain to the banks. And therefore we have not aimed at any one sector in particular nor have we excluded anybody from this," she said. Sitharaman also defended the package unveiled by the Centre which amounts to Rs 20.97 lakh crore or 10% of GDP and said it was in line with what other nations had done by including central bank's liquidity actions in their measures. "Every country has brought in a basket of measures, some fiscal , some monetary, some guarantee, some central bank liquidity... they have also gone into liquidity being infused, both through the central banks also their guarantee and other things. We are not different from them," Sitharaman said rejecting criticism that the package was more modest than it appears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/not-closing-door-on-policy-choices-says-sitharaman/articleshow/75930276.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra tests new surveillance method against coronavirus||PUNE: The increasing numbers of Covid-19 cases and casualties have prompted public health experts in Maharashtra to adopt a monitoring tactic called “syndromic surveillance” to contain the spread of infection. The new public health tool will proactively survey communities for a group of symptoms — mainly in the elderly and those with pre-existing illnesses — and medically manage them like “positive cases”. This is in addition to current measures such as physical distancing, contact tracing, testing and aggressive treatment. Experts at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have called the surveillance pivot a “critical step in risk mitigation” which may prove crucial in “reducing the number of deaths” from Covid-19. Public health expert Subhash Salunke, the technical advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 containment, said: “I have advised the state government to start syndromic surveillance not only in affected areas but also in areas that have remained relatively naive to the infection. It’s really time to go beyond existing containment measures.” For over two months, the focus of the whole containment exercise in Maharashtra has been limited to keeping daily records of positive cases, deaths, tracing of close contacts, testing, treatment and ensuring physical distancing is in place.  Earlier community interviews — carried out during the early days of the outbreak — were also largely limited to questions on travel history and contact. But the new measure actively looks for symptoms. “We need to go beyond and start conducting syndromic surveillance in the community by gathering information on patients with group of influenza-like symptoms - cough, fever, sore throat and shortness of breath — especially among elderly — and those with the pre-existing medical conditions such as diabetes and hypertension during the early phases of illness,” Salunke explained. These individuals, officials said, will then be taken to specialised centres where their symptoms will be managed at early stages. If there's need, they will be treated as any other Covid-positive patient. “More than just testing, this technique will pick up cases of ILI at early stages and treat them like any other positive patient of Covid-19,” Salunke said. The ICMR’s senior epidemiologist, Raman Ganagakhedkar, backed the efficacy of the surveillance technique. “Syndromic surveillance is a critical step in risk mitigation. Its implementation in the state will reduce mortality associated with Covid-19 and to an extent, its spread,” Gangakhedkar told TOI. Unlike swine flu, which causes serious complications in young healthy adults, the novel coronavirus mainly affects the elderly. “Syndromic surveillance, particularly among vulnerable groups, is cost-effective and will reduce deaths. Telling people on how to report early symptoms, in case of influenza-like illnesses, can immensely reduce Covid-19-linked mortality,” said senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. Although the surveillance model was developed to detect quickly the large-scale release or dispersal of a biological agent, researchers over the years have noted that it can be extended to detect novel diseases. According to research by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “current surveillance goals reach beyond terrorism preparedness”. “Medical-provider reporting remains critical for identifying unusual disease clusters or sentinel cases,” the agency has noted. “Syndromic surveillance might help determine the true size, spread, and tempo of an outbreak after it is detected, or provide reassurance that a large-scale outbreak is not actively occurring, particularly in times of enhanced surveillance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-tests-new-surveillance-method-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75927849.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 24, 2020||Allahabad||Social distancing goes for a toss amid migrants’ rush||PRAYAGRAJ: Social distancing took a backseat as hundreds of migrants who arrived in Prayagraj from other cities via special trains on Saturday rushed to reach home by boarding state-run buses. Most migrants who arrived at Prayagraj Junction were seen flouting social distancing norms while queuing up for medical check-ups, collecting eatables and boarding buses for their native districts. Each Shramik Special train arriving at Prayagraj Junction brings around 1,600 passengers every day. While alighting from the train to reaching the shed on the city side of the station, many passengers ignore the need to practise social distancing. “I am helpless as even drivers like me are not been given any personal protection (PPE) kits, gloves and masks. I keep shouting at passengers to stay away from each other, but no one listens. As there is no one to manage them, they pose a real threat to not only themselves but everyone else too,” said Resham Pal Singh, who was one of the drivers driving a UPSRTC bus deployed to ferry migrants arriving at Prayagraj station. The apathy of authorities only aggravates the problem. Passengers can be seen standing to close to each other, often brushing shoulders while buying eatables from roadside vendors or entering the buses. Even those selling eatables like fruits, cucumbers and other items do not care enough about getting infected to practise social distancing. Another example of how grossly neglected social distancing is when passengers get down to buy eatables without wearing masks or practising social distancing whenever a Shramik Special train halts at an railway underbridge like the one in South Malaka. On Saturday noon, as one of the Shramik Special trains stopped near Prayagraj Junction, hundreds of migrant labourers got down and came down on the roads to buy cucumber and pan masala being sold by the roadside vendors. Public relations officer of North Central Railways’ Prayagraj division SK Gupta said, “Our role is to ensure that passengers reach the station safely and they are handed over to the district administration. There onwards, it is the responsibility of the district administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-amid-migrants-rush/articleshow/75924871.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Quarantine no barrier for this couple, say ‘I do’ with masks on||BHOPAL: Rekha and Manish Sahu’s wedding that took place at a quarantine centre, a first of sorts, created quite a stir, although barely 25 people could attend it. The ceremony began at the Beersheba English Medium School in Piparia, Hoshangabad, on Friday. Maintaining social distancing, the bride, groom and the pandit sat under the mandap, wearing face masks as the ceremony began. The other guests sat five feet apart and only witnessed the wedding from a distance. "It was mandatory to follow protocol, else the whole purpose of the quarantine would have been defeated. The girl had come back from Indore earlier this month and was sent to quarantine centre as a precautionary measure. The wedding decorators were told to set the chairs further apart and guests were asked to wear masks at all times," said Tehsildar Rajesh Borasi, who coordinated and supervised the quarantine wedding. The other 60 people quarantined inside the school were asked to stay indoors and not come out to attend the wedding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/quarantine-no-barrier-for-this-couple-say-i-do-with-masks-on/articleshow/75926949.cms||Shuchita Jha
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Parents relieved as many schools drop fee-hike plans||Kochi: Parents, who were worried about school fee hike amid the economic slowdown due to the lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, heaved a sigh of relief after many city schools decided not to revise the previous term’s fee structure. Schools said there won't be a fee hike this year as it may overburden parents who could be struggling with their jobs. Schools are planning to compensate it by cutting operational cost. Schools that have decided against increasing the fees include, schools under Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Kochi Kendra, Global Public School, Thiruvaniyur, Gregorian Public School, Maradu, Al Ameen International Public School, Edathala, among others. Some schools that had already revised the fee structure before the pandemic was reported in the country, have re-revised the fee structure. Mostly, there would be a hike of up to 10% from the previous year’s fee when new academic year begins. "The Bhavan has decided not to increase the fees for 2020-21 and the fees of 2019-20 will continue for the academic year 2020-2021. The school management committee had approved the decision to increase tuition fee by 9% for 2020-21 to meet the increase in salaries and other expenses. However, considering the prevailing situation, the management has decided to roll back the decision. We are sure, the step not to increase the fees will be of some relief to parents in this extraordinary situation," said a letter sent to the parents by BVB Kochi Kendra director. Similar intimations to parents were made by other schools too. TPM Ibrahim Khan, president of Kerala CBSE schools management association, said the decision will cause a revenue dip for schools considering the rising expenditure and teachers’ salary increment. "However, the situation is not ideal for increasing the fees as many parents might have been facing salary cuts and job losses. The decision is at the discretion of each school management, but it is good to know that many schools have taken the decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/parents-relieved-as-many-schools-drop-fee-hike-plans/articleshow/75925852.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Allahabad||In post-pandemic plan for schools, smart classrooms to be set up for students in UP||PRAYAGRAJ: Although the student fraternity nowadays is relying more on the online mode of studies because of the Covid-19 pandemic but when things become normal, the students of eight selected intermediate colleges and primary/upper primary schools of the Sangam city would be taught in smart-classrooms. These classrooms are part of the smart city project of Prayagraj wherein a total of 82 smart classrooms would be distributed among these eight institutions on priority. In fact, the authorities of the firm leading the transformation of Prayagraj into a smart city, has already invited tenders in this regard from interested firms, the last date of which would be ending on May 25. Giving details about the ambitious project, divisional commissioner and chief executive officer of Prayagraj smart city, Ravi Ranjan informed that as part of the project, a set number of classrooms, would be turned into ‘smart classrooms’ in the selected eight intermediate colleges and primary/upper primary schools of the city. “In the first phase, these classrooms would be equipped with the infrastructure needed for teaching under the ‘smart classroom’ which includes items like desktop computers, servers, projectors, white boards, Wi-Fi routers, UPS etc besides a sturdy and reliable broadband net connection”, the divisional commissioner said. . “The teachers of these schools and colleges would also receive special training from experts to enable them to teach students using the tools available in these smart classrooms,” he added. As part of the project, 11 such smart classrooms would be set up at Government Girls Inter College, Civil Lines, nine at Government Girls Inter College, Katra, 32 at Government Boys Inter College, North Malaka, 18 at Bharat Scout and Guide Inter College, Mumfordganj and three smart classrooms each at primary /upper primary schools of Rajapur, Lukerganj, Allenganj and Harwara. The authorities are of the opinion that the first impact of the initiative in these eight institutions would be accessed and if it is found to be significant on the students, more such classrooms could be set up in other schools and colleges of the district as well, explained the CEO. As per the plan, the firm entrusted with the task of setting up the classrooms will not only maintain them and ensure their smooth functioning for the next five years but also provide training to the teachers of these institutions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/in-post-pandemic-plan-for-schools-smart-classrooms-to-be-set-up-for-students-in-up/articleshow/75924893.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: 2,000 ICU beds of private hospitals to boost critical care in district||PUNE: The district is set to be better equipped to cure critical Covid-19 patients with at least 2,000 more ICU beds and 500 additional ventilator beds from private hospitals till August-end. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram on Saturday assured that more intensive care facilities would be available in the district following the state government’s notification reserving 80% beds in private hospitals for coronavirus infected patients with cap on treatment charges. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Saturday conducted a review meeting with the representatives of 60 private hospitals in the district to ensure that they followed the state government’s directive. These facilities have 100 beds each. “It is imperative for the private hospitals to come forward and reserve beds as per the government order. If there are any violations, they will face action under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Act and the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act,” he said. At least 5,000 more beds in private hospitals are now expected to be available for Covid-19 patients in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad. Mhaisekar said a Covid-care software giving details of total number of patients, those under treatment, hospital arrangements, ambulance services and containment zones would be developed. Pune municipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad said, “We would have been short of three ventilator beds in mid-June, and by August, we would have been short of more than 260 ICU beds and 107 ventilator beds. Following the additional procurement from private hospitals, we are looking at equipping ourselves with nearly 500 ICU beds and 200 ventilator beds for the city,” he told TOI. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said there was no requirement to reserve Covid-19-specific beds in any hospitals for now in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits. As of now, the PCMC has 1,800 reserved beds. A lion’s share of them are in government facilities and has an active patient count of just about 100. Rekha Dubey, the CEO of Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad, said the facility had registered 350 beds with the government for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2000-icu-beds-of-pvt-hospitals-to-boost-critical-care-in-district/articleshow/75927860.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 24, 2020||Kanpur||With no food & water, migrants resort to violence at Unnao station||KANPUR: Alleging absence of provisions for food and water, scores of migrant workers, headed towards Bihar from Bengaluru in a Sharmik Special train, protested and resorted to property damage and stone pelting at Unnao railway station on Saturday. The passengers also alleged that the train was unduly stopped at various places during the journey. According to Unnao railway staff, the agitated migrant workers got down at Unnao railway station and damaged window panes of the office of the station master, benches and water taps. They also indulged in stone pelting. The GRP and RPF officials were nowhere to be seen. The railway staff ran for cover to save themselves. Unnao SP Vikrant Veer said, “Hunger and thirst led to the passengers’ frustration and they got violent. They were finally pacified, and after a while, the train left for the onward journey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/with-no-food-water-migrants-resort-to-violence-at-unnao-stn/articleshow/75927535.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Allahabad||Conclave to decode migrant crisis||PRAYAGRAJ: As the issue of struggles being faced by migrants in the wake of the lockdown hits headlines, Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute (GBPSSI) will organise an online summer school on ‘migrant realities’ May 24 onwards. GBPSSI director Badri Narayan said, “The objective behind organising the summer school was to know more about migrant realities in our country through a deep analysis of data. Scholars of migration studies along with public intellectuals have been invited as speakers. Some government officials will also throw light on the initiatives and policies launched by the state to tackle the crisis.” “This summer school is open for public, students, social activists, administrators, journalists and other social communities,” said the director. The list of speakers includes RB Bhagat from International Institute of Population Studies, Manish Jha and Pushpendra Kumar from Tata Institute of Social Sciences, journalist Sudeep Thakur, social activist Yogendra Yadav, and media advisor to UP government Mrityunjay Kumar. The online event would end on June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/conclave-to-decode-migrant-crisis/articleshow/75924912.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||Gym owners threaten protest if centres not opened||Dehradun: Gym owners in Dehradun on Saturday stood outside their establishments, holding banners and placards, demanding that after salons and related service providers, gyms should also be opened. The Health and Fitness Welfare Association of Uttarakhand plans to hold a bigger protest to get the state government to allow gyms to open. Gym owners said that after paying rent, staffers and franchise owners, their savings were running out fast, as there had been no income in the past two months. Aman Vohra, owner of a gym in Dehradun said, “Our association has over 300 gym owners only in Dehradun, who support nearly 5000 families of trainers, maintenance staff and equipment dealers. In the past two months, we have come to know that several gym owners have closed their centres or sold their equipment in order to survive. We urge the state government to find a way (to open the gyms) so we can also earn our livelihoods as well as pay those dependent on us.” The gym owners have drafted a letter for representation at the Chief Minister’s Office, detailing what measures the gyms would follow to prevent the spread of coronavirus once they were allowed to open. “We will allow limited members in several batches and sanitize the entire space after use. We will also keep thermal scanners and sanitizers handy and make wearing masks a standard practice. We will also ensure that the use of air conditioners is strictly prohibited,” said Rajeev Khatri, a gym owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gym-owners-threaten-protest-if-centres-not-opened/articleshow/75925872.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Scores will die if we chase natural immunity: Experts||PUNE: India’s Covid-positive count hit 1.25 lakh on Saturday amid surges of infection in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. At this juncture, medical experts said, the concept of natural herd immunity has been rendered practically irrelevant for India. For an infection as severe as Covid-19, a substantial percentage of the population has to first fall sick before natural immunity can kick in. “For India, herd immunity through natural infection is practically irrelevant. It will be dangerous if we even wait for this to happen without a vaccine in hand. There will be a high number of deaths,” said Subhash Salunkhe, the technical advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19. “What we need now is an effective vaccine, not herd immunity,” he added. Studies show one out of five people in New York City and one in 10 in Wuhan have developed antibodies against Covid-19. But those numbers, experts said, are still not enough to declare “natural immunity” against a pathogen this infectious. Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist with the Public Health Foundation of India told TOI that most of the serosurveillance studies show immunity in only a small portion of the population, with disproportionate deaths. “It would be much more devastating if a larger population is infected,” Babu said. The health expert said it would be unethical to even propose that majority of Indians should be infected with the disease to achieve herd immunity. He said that millions of elderly and people with comorbidities will be dangerously impacted. An important failure of the natural herd immunity idea is Sweden. It had decided to do away with a lockdown in hopes of broad population immunity. But as of late April, only 7.3% had developed antibodies. Public health expert R Jotkar added that the wait for herd immunity will strain the healthcare system. “The positivity rate has increased from 3% to 13% in the state, which basically implies that it is very risky to solely rely on herd immunity. The health system has to improve,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scores-will-die-if-we-chase-natural-immunity-experts/articleshow/75927855.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||PIL filed against UP MLA for travelling to Kedarnath, Badrinath in violation of lockdown||Nainital: A Dehradun local, on Friday, filed a PIL in Uttarakhand high court against Aman Mani Tripathi, an independent MLA from Uttar Pradesh, and his aides for travelling to Badrinath and Kedarnath in violation of lockdown Petitioner Alok Ghildiyal has demanded a CBI investigation. He alleges that senior officials of the state issued permission to Tripathi in violation of the lockdown and therefore, the case should be handled by the CBI so that there is not interference from the state. The state government, however, argued that police in both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have already registered a complaint against Tripathi and his aides and thus, the case does not merit an investigation by the CBI. The case was heard by a division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe. The bench has given the petitioner a weeks’ time to make Tripathi and all those who travelled to state as respondent in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pil-filed-against-up-mla-for-travelling-to-kedarnath-badrinath-in-violation-of-lockdown/articleshow/75925889.cms||Prashant Jha
May 24, 2020||Pune||Seven more patients dead, 269 test positive in Pune||PUNE: The single-day coronavirus case tally came down to 269 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday after hitting a high of 358 the previous day. The 24-hour patient count, however, hit a high in PCMC limits, with 46 cases. Besides, seven patients, all aged over 50 years, succumbed to the contagion at various hospitals in the PMR, taking the death tally to 264. Following the fresh cases, the total patient count in PMR has risen to 5,436, including 4,673 cases from Pune municipal limits, which added 202 new cases on Saturday. PMC health officials said about 92 patients were declared cured and were discharged in the last 24 hours. A total of 170 patients were still in critical condition, of which 42 were on ventilator support, they said, adding that 1,723 swabs were collected on Saturday. A total of 1,892 patients are still undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the PMC limits, of which 1,224 are admitted in PMC-run Naidu hospital and at Covid centres. About 156 patients are admitted in Sassoon hospital and 512 in private hospitals. Among the seven deaths, four were recorded at Sassoon hospital, one at Naidu hospital and two at private hospitals. A senior PCMC official urged people to avoid unnecessary travel and must use mask. Apparently, 26 of the PCMC fresh cases are from Anandnagar slum, which was already sealed before PCMC decided to open up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-more-patients-dead-269-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75927868.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 24, 2020||Kochi||City police consider an IQ upgrade for HQ violators||Kochi: The city police are mulling over shifting more from Home Quarantine (HQ) to Institutional Quarantine (IQ) in the wake of violations observed during surveillance. City police commissioner Vijay Sakhare has insisted that those in home quarantine should strictly follow social distancing. “If people in home quarantine do not stay at home it will cause disastrous consequences to the entire community. We have implemented a multi-layered surveillance system and anyone found in violation would be moved to IQ, which is a government facility,” said Sakhare, adding that the IQ will have necessary facilities. He said the police will guard the IQs round-the-clock. According to the officials, call data records, internet protocol detail records, CCTV footage and the Covid safety app will be used to conduct surveillance. “Policemen on bikes are visiting houses where people in home quarantine are staying. However, there is a limit for them to enforce the restriction as those in quarantine can leave the house when the policemen are gone. This is why we are using other monitoring mechanisms to ensure strict adherence to the quarantine. The Covid Safety App, which was a success at Kasaragod would give us info if the person moves beyond 50 metres from his home,” said an official. The rural police, meanwhile, launched a campaign to generate awareness among those in home quarantine. Rural SP K Karthick interacted with such persons on Saturday. Besides regular patrolling, the rural police are also monitoring those in HQ using their Happy at Home app. So far they have booked 15 cases for violating quarantine. “We all know that the number of positive cases is going up quickly and most of these positive cases are those who came from other countries and states. So, if quarantine is not maintained things would get ugly. No matter what, we would ensure that returnees are in quarantine,” said SP K Karthick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-police-consider-an-iq-upgrade-for-hq-violators/articleshow/75925894.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Church offers a helping hand to the needy||Kochi: Lack of jobs due to lockdown has plunged several families, especially of daily wagers, into financial crisis. At this juncture, the church has come out with schemes intended to financially assist those parishioners who are struggling to make ends meet. According to church sources, various parishes in Ernakulam are taking up the initiative to identify and assist those who are in need of financial assistance. Fr Mathew Kilukkan, spokesperson of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese, said that many churches in the archdiocese have taken up such initiatives. Fr Thomas Nangelimalil, vicar of Lourde Matha Church, Perumanoor, said in his parish the assistance was provide in three phases. “At first we provided safety equipment like sanitizers and masks to around 300 families. In the second phase, we identified 50 families who are in need of assistance. Around Rs 3,000 was given as cash to them, as food packets were being distributed by other agencies. Now, in the third phase we are planning to provide another Rs 1,000 as assistance,” said Fr Nangelimalil. He said that they focused mainly on daily wage earners who became jobless during the lockdown. Parishes belonging to the Archdiocese of Verapoly also are taking up similar efforts. Fr Joji Kuthukat, vicar of St Joseph Church and St Jude Church shrine, Thevara, said that they managed to conduct some relief activity even though the income of the parish drastically fell due to lockdown. “We managed to provide assistance with the help of well-wishers. There are 217 families in the parish and all of them were given Rs 500 each apart from providing rice and dal bags. Also, our family units had collected a significant amount for their annual day celebrations. So we decided to identify the needy and provide them with financial aid of Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000. Apart from parishioners, those from other religions who are living amidst us were also provided with assistance,” he said. The priest said that the parish managed to do charity work of about Rs 8 lakh during the lockdown. Fr Sojan Maliekkal, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Verapoly, said that individual parishes as well as archdiocese as a whole were conducting relief works.“The archdiocese had earlier provided financial assistance to those who were working at churches and were rendered jobless due to the closure of churches. Organizations and parishes in the archdiocese were also busy during the lockdown period doing relief works as per the direction of archbishop Joseph Kalathiparambil,” said Fr Maliekkal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/church-offers-a-helping-hand-to-the-needy/articleshow/75925880.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kanpur||Three new cases take Kanpur tally to 326||KANPUR:THE number of coronavirus patients continued to surge in Kanpur with three more persons testing positive for the infection, taking total cases to 326 in the district, on Saturday. Among fresh cases, one person hails from Shujatganj area, while other from Govindnagar and third person who had contracted the deadly disease is a resident of Billhaur. With regard to three patients, the health authorities of Kanpur are trying to ascertain the number of people they came in contact with and ensure preventive steps to combat with deadly virus.  In Kanpur district, a total of 326 cases reported so far. Around 23 are active cases. A total of 294 persons have been cured while nine others died. All 23 active cases have been under hospital isolation and they were stable. “Close contacts of these cases have also been put under quarantine and surveillance. The authorities are in the process of sealing Shujatganj, Govindnagar and Billhaur areas, where these positive patients lives,” said chief medical officer Kanpur nagar Dr Ashok Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-new-cases-take-kanpur-tally-to-326/articleshow/75927549.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Land sharks claiming OU land: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress and Joint Action Committee of the OU Students and Unemployed on Saturday demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao take action against people encroaching on land belonging to Osmania University. Congress demanded a CBI probe into the encroachment of OU land. “Nearly two acres of prime land, worth crores of rupees and belonging to OU, is being encroached upon. Another piece of OU land has been encroached upon allegedly by husband of a ruling TRS corporator,” AICC secretary C Vamshichand Reddy alleged. AICC secretaries V Hanumanth Rao and Vamshichand Reddy said land sharks started construction activity as university was closed due to lockdown. JAC leader Koturi Manavata Roy alleged that top BJP leaders were supporting encroachers. Manavata Roy said the JAC had not allowed TRS government to develop a 2bhk housing colony on OU land earlier. “We will not allow land sharks to usurp university land. We are ready to lay down our lives to protect the land. TRS government should take action immediately before the situation goes out of control,” Roy added. Meanwhile, OU registrar Ch Gopal Reddy on Saturday met Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan after people tried to encroaching OU land. Reddy asked Rammohan to ensure that permissions are not issued for construction on the site as encroachers had made fake documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-sharks-claiming-ou-land-cong/articleshow/75927866.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Police and health workers among 34 Covid positive||Vadodara: In a major spike in Covid-19 cases, 34 people tested positive since Friday night, taking total number of cases in the city to 825. The positive cases include those of a policeman, a vegetable vendor and two persons having worked at Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH). The vegetable vendor was found ill during screening by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and his sample came positive for Covid-19. The policeman had been on duty in an area close to hotspots in the city. A man and a woman working at BAGH also tested positive even as sources said that an elderly lady who had tested positive had also been treated there. The hospital has been shut for a week and those who worked there are being tested. The positive tests reported on Saturday were from results of 167 tests conducted since Friday evening. The 825 positive cases include 32 from rural areas of the district, five people from outside the district and 788 from VMC limits. The worst affected zone of VMC is north zone where 370 cases have been reported followed by 261 in the east zone. While most cases were from or around areas that have witnessed cases earlier, areas like Amitnagar on VIP Road and Waghodiya-Dabhoi Ring Road saw their first cases. Details of discharged patients reveal that in all 15 patients were discharged on Saturday including three from SSG Hospital, eight from a Covid care centre and four from home isolation. The total number of discharged patients now stands at 492.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/police-and-health-workers-among-34-covid-positive/articleshow/75925792.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ambegaon farmer hands over six row houses for quarantine facility||PUNE: Madhukar Ganpat Hagawane, a resident of Ramwadi village in Ambegaon, on Friday gave his newly constructed row houses to the local tehsil administration to set up a quarantine facility. The six row houses have been built for Hagawane and five of his siblings, who are yet to move into their new homes. The gesture is in stark contrast to instances where people have been opposing quarantine facilities set up near their housing societies in Pune. The 55-year-old, who is currently living in his old house, told TOI, “The administration is putting people in quarantine at the village school, which isn’t in a good condition. I asked the talathi to use our six houses to quarantine people so that they can feel like living at home.” Each row house has a living room, two bedrooms, a toilet and bathroom. The family is yet to hold a housewarming ceremony of the houses but they have chosen to forgo tradition in a time of crisis. “Ensuring people are healthy is more important. All six of us unanimously took the decision and handed over our houses to the tehsil administration for as long as they want to use them,” Hagawane said. The village talathi Deepak Kadjure said, “About 400 families have returned to the village from Pune and Mumbai over the last two weeks. We don’t have adequate facilities to quarantine them in the village. Currently, we have kept 18 villagers, including six children, in two row houses. The remaining houses will be used as and when needed in the future.” The village sarpanch Santosh Saaid added that the Hagawane family is also providing food to the quarantined people. “This is a big help for us and sets an example for others,” shared Saaid. According to the tehsil administration, about 10, 000 people have returned to over 110 villages in the last two weeks. So far, two positive cases have been reported in the tehsil. “In one week, 6,000 people have been quarantined across Ambegaon tehsil. Like the Hagawane family, others have also handed over their homes to us to be used as a quarantine facility,” said Ruma Joshi, tehsildar of Ambegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ambegaon-farmer-hands-over-six-row-houses-for-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75927871.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Flying not certain, but groundwork begins||CHENNAI: Amid confusion over passenger flight operations to Chennai, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) began preparations on its part at the Chennai airport from Monday. Sources said the activity began after the Tamil Nadu government greenlighted departures but not arrivals. A decision will be taken on Sunday. But only departures will mean planes will have to return empty, which may make the airlines reconsider operating flights from Chennai. Alternately, if the state government’s departure-only policy is rejected by the civil aviation ministry, the state will have to arrange quarantine facilities for all domestic passengers — around 6,000 — expected to arrive daily. On Monday, planes were being spruced up, markings on taxiways and parking bays were repainted to get the airport ready to receive flights. A senior official said, "We are going ahead with preparations to perfect entry and check-in procedures, most of which need to be done by passengers themselves. This may pose a mild delay but airline staff will be posted near check-in counters and security check areas so that passengers can be assisted." An airline official said, "Planes are being readied as per the safety notification from DGCA to resume operations." On Saturday, aircraft engineers were seen checking planes and engines. Staff have been told to report for work. There may be trials on Sunday so that there is no confusion when passengers start arriving. AAI is trying to urge the state government to arrange vehicles for passengers to reach the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flying-not-certain-but-groundwork-begins/articleshow/75926971.cms||V Ayyappan
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||One death, 52 fresh Covid-19 cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 52 fresh positive cases for coronavirus and one death on Saturday. With this the state has had 1,813 cases. The death toll stands at 49, just one shy of 50.  Among the fresh cases, 33 have been reported in Greater Hyderabad and 19 were migrants and foreign evacuees. For the past few days, Greater Hyderabad has seen most of the fresh cases. This has left officials worried given that the lockdown has been eased and a large number of businesses and offices have opened up. On Friday, 42 cases were reported in Greater Hyderabad alone. The state government issued a statement on Saturday saying that 15 migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra and four Telangana residents who came back from Kuwait were among the fresh cases. While 696 people are being treated for the Covid-19, 1,068 were cured and have been discharged till now. This includes the 25 who were discharged on Saturday. Officials said that a large number of migrants are entering the state from various other states. “The evacuees from other countries who are arriving at the Hyderabad are being screened, especially those who are showing symptoms of Covid-19. All migrants who are reaching the state by road, are being screened and quarantined at home or at government facilities. Symptomatic migrants are isolated and tested for infection,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-death-52-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-t/articleshow/75926996.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||12-year-old climate activist launches clean air campaign||NAGPUR: To ensure that the air remains clean forever like how it is during lockdown now, 12-year-old climate activist from Dehradun Ridhima Pandey is launching a nationwide digital campaign. She was one of the 16 children to petition the United Nations in September last year on governments' inaction towards combating climate change. The nationwide lockdown has led to drastic improvement in the air quality. On May 21, TOI had reported the findings of UK-head quartered Nature Climate Change which said that carbon levels had dropped to 2006 levels. It has also brought a steady dip in the Air Quality Index (AQI) with average levels hovering around 60. At its worst, it goes beyond 500. As part of the campaign, a new video titled #SaalBhar60 was released on Saturday by Jhatkaa.org. The video calls on citizens to participate in a nationwide digital movement on June 5, World Environment Day, by sharing photos from their city demanding ‘Clean Air for All’. A corresponding petition on the platform is asking for the initiation of a Clean Air Boss who will solely be in-charge of reducing air pollution levels. According to the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), the country has 122 non-attainment cities which do not meet the national ambient air quality standards. Maharashtra tops this list with 18 non-attainment cities in the state. The initiative invites citizens from these cities to participate in the digital movement demanding ‘Saal Bhar 60’. “Citizens will be asking the government to put in place concrete measures to ensure air quality in India remains within permissible, healthy standards even after the lockdown ends,” a press release stated. “In the past two months, it has felt like all the things my generation has been fighting were gifted to us — blue skies, low emissions, clean air. This only means that an AQI of ‘Saal Bhar 60’ is possible. Our government needs to treat it like the emergency it is, and have strict timelines for bringing down pollution levels. Breathing clean air is a basic right,” says Ridhima Pandey. Stating that Covid-19 pandemic has shown us two things, lung surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in New Delhi says, “First, that we too can have clean air. Second, how bad air can affect our health, increasing our vulnerability to diseases. Studies from Harvard and Italy have shown a significantly higher number of Covid-19 cases and mortality in areas with high Air Pollution. High levels of air pollution across Indian cities pose a major threat to the well-being of our children.” Several environment groups across India including Let Me Breathe, Fridays For Future, Let India Breathe, Greenpeace India, Waatavaran Foundation, Help Delhi Breathe, My Right To Breathe, Kolkata Clean Air forum, Mumbai's Aarey Conservation Group and Awaaz Foundation are supporting this initiative. Campaigns manager at Jhatkaa.org Shikha Kumar says, “We have made strides towards acknowledging the severity of the problem as evidenced by initiatives like NCAP. But we need concrete state-wise planning and implementation for Saal Bhar 60 to be a reality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-year-old-climate-activist-launches-clean-air-campaign/articleshow/75927886.cms||Manka Behl
May 24, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Transport company owner, manager held for using fake e-pass||THENI: The Theni district police have arrested the proprietor and manager of a private transport company as they used fake e-pass to ply two buses to bring Tamils from Maharashtra to Theni. Andipatti deputy superintendent of police S Seenivasan said that police teams posted at Andipatti Pass stopped the vehicles and conducted a check. When the QR code on the e-pass was scanned, the pass was found to be fake. Investigation revealed that the vehicle operators used another pass issued by Madurai district administration by making changes like vehicle number and date. Police said that the buses have been seized. Proprietor of the buses Shanmuganathan and manager Senthil Kumaran were arrested and remanded in prison under judicial custody. “Inquiries also revealed that the same bus operator had used the vehicle to shift people from Maharashtra to Theni earlier also using the same fake pass. They had dropped passengers in Batlagundu and did not enter Theni district. Passengers, who walked into the district, had undergone testing,” Seenivasan said. Meanwhile, a detailed inquiry was underway to find whether drivers Ramaiah and Pichaimani were complicit to the crime. They also have been asked to go into self-isolation since they moved closely with the passengers. They will be arrested if they knew that the passes were fake, a police officer said. He added that passengers had paid thousands of rupees to return to Theni. Although, exact amount they paid will come to light during detailed inquiry, it is clear that the bus operator had fleeced as much money as possible depending on the passenger and seat availability. There were 30 passengers in each vehicle, who were tested for Covid-19 as soon as they arrived in Andipatti in Theni district on Friday night. A police officer said that those, who had tested positive, were shifted to the government hospital for treatment, while those who tested negative were sent home. They were asked to self-isolate as per instruction from health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/transport-company-owner-manager-held-for-using-fake-e-pass/articleshow/75927872.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkatans live up to the spirit of ‘love thy neighbour’||KOLKATA: Amid the sufferings of thousands of people with no power at homes and zero mobile connectivity following the Amphan disaster, the city is witnessing another face of humanity with neighbours helping one another. While residents of several homes that have electricity have gone the extra mile to provide electrical connections from their homes to neighbours known and unknown, many others have posted their cellphone numbers and addresses on social media asking people to call them or come over to their place to charge their phones or fill in drinking water. Many have even offered their facilities to others for a proper bath. For two nights straight, Thakurpukur resident Atreyee Roy Chowdhury struggled with her four-year-old daughter without any power and water at her apartment. That was before her neighbour from the next building, which ran on a different phase and still had power, came to her rescue. “The young boy living in the next apartment himself came to our home by himself with a pedestal fan, an LED bulb and a heap of wires. He said his family was pained to see my daughter suffer in the heat and connected the light and the fan from their house all by themselves. Prior to Friday, we hardly used to interact but he came in as our guardian angel in this time of emergency,” said Roy Chowdhury, a homemaker. She added that seeing the youth helping them, many other neighbours came in support of other residents. At Garia Mahamayatala, a local stationary shop owner whose shop had power emptied the store refrigerators and asked locals to keep their food in his refrigerator to ensure that they did not get spoiled. “This is the least I could do for them. I also asked them to charge their cellphones and emergency lamps at my store,” said Swapan Jana, the store owner. Jadavpur resident Subhasree Basu posted on Facebook that electricity was back at their home after two days and they were ready to help anyone who needed to charge their cellphone or get fresh filtered water. “This is the time when we need to help one another. We should not lose patience,” said Basu, who runs a boutique at her home. With internet and mobile networks kaput, many outside Kolkata were unable to contact their kin in the city after the storm. Many of them sought help over social media when good Samaritans came to their aid. “I was unable to contact my parents since the day of the cyclone and was very worried about them. But seeing my post, one of my Facebook friends immediately rode to my home, more than 11km from his house, on his bike and connected me to my mother on his cellphone. Several others had also volunteered. I can’t thank them enough,” said Roshni Chatterjee from Baghajatin, who works in Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatans-live-up-to-the-spirit-of-love-thy-neighbour/articleshow/75926986.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Some neighbourhoods of Kolkata get back power but dark zones remain||KOLKATA: A CESC Ltd senior official on Saturday admitted that the utility had grossly under-estimated the destructive power of cyclone Amphan as the city had never in recent memory faced anything like it. “We did not foresee destruction on such a massive scale. I have never seen so many faults occur at once. The cyclone decimated the power lines in nearly half the licensed areas,” CESC vice-president Avijit Ghosh said. The repair and restoration work is faceing multiple challenges. Workmen fear the anger brewing in localities that are without power for 72 hours now may soon result in assault. The team members are weary after working 16 hours a day for three days in succession and desperately need a break. But the Covid crisis and lockdown have further complicated matters as half the workforce could not report to duty. Of the 140 repair teams that CESC engages daily, it now has only 60 at hand as the rest returned to their homes before the lockdown.Sources in CESC said around three lakh consumers or 12 lakh people are without power. The blackout localities include Bansdroni, Netajinagar, Garia, Patuli, New Garia, Survey Park, Mukundapur, Gangulibagan, Ramgarh, Sapuipara, Sahitnagar, Kasba, Lake Gardens, Dum Dum and adjoining areas in north Kolkata as well as Howrah. All these localities have overhead power lines unlike the rest south, central and north Kolkata where the network is underground. Apologizing to consumers who were still without power, Ghosh said that while he empathized with their pain and suffering, there was no quick-fix solution to the vexed problem. “There is anger on the ground and that is completely justified. Living without electricity and water (due to to the power cuts) in summer is extreme hardship. We wish we could repair and restore the supplies quicker. But there is no technological solution. It has to be done manually. The nature and scale of disruption is such that it will take time. We are not in a position to say how long. We may in a better position by Tuesday to say how much longer it will take,” the executive said. “Normally, if there is a fault in one area, we have redundancy in the network. But the cyclone was so severe that it took down the spare cables as well. Cables have been damaged in multiple places and several hundred poles have been damaged,” Ghosh explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-neighbourhoods-get-back-power-but-dark-zones-remain/articleshow/75926990.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 5 lakh migrant workers return, more than 200 test Covid-19 positive||BHOPAL: More than 5 lakh migrant workers of Madhya Pradesh have been brought back to the state by the government so far and more than 200 of them have tested positive till now.  Unlike other states, where all the migrant workers who are returning home, are being sent to institutional quarantine, in Madhya Pradesh only those who are screened with symptoms or have come from high-risk zones are sent for institutional quarantine. Others are sent to home quarantine. As per official sources, till May 22, a little more than 5 lakh workers have been brought to MP from different states of the country. While more than 2 lakh have been brought back from Gujarat, more than 1 lakh have been brought back from Rajasthan, more than 1 lakh have been brought back from Maharashtra. Apart from these, labourers have been brought back from Goa, Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. Around 1.5 lakh have been brought back using buses, while around 3.5 lakh have been brought back through Sharmik Express trains, said sources. Sources from the health department said that between 200 and 300 of the total patients who have been tested positive so far are migrant labourers. In districts like Seoni, Mandla,Satna,Shahdol, Umaria, Singrauli, Sidhi, Rewa, Tikamgarh, Panna and Sagar, where there are less number of positive cases, but a majority of the positive cases are of migrant workers. In Gwalior too, a majority of migrant workers have tested positive. When contacted over the issue, additional chief secretary, health, Mohammed Suleman, said, “People who are brought from other states are first screened at their district borders and if there are any symptoms or if they have come from high-risk zones, they are sent to institutional quarantine, the remaining are sent to home quarantine. Monitoring is being done by health department staffers and those in home quarantine are being monitored by village panchayats and local health workers”. Sources said that there are more than 5 lakh people and keeping such a big population in institutional quarantine is a herculean task for the administration. However, efforts are being taken to effectively monitor these patients. A majority of those who have tested positive were found during the screening done at the district borders, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5-lakh-migrant-workers-return-more-than-200-test-covid-ve/articleshow/75926994.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Madurai||Restrictions eased, but grocery prices burn a hole in pockets||Madurai: Even after the supply of essential commodities has become smooth after the restrictions on vehicle movements were lifted, prices of essential items are yet to come back to normal. Prices of essentials had increased by 20 to 30% with the implementation of the restrictions. While the price difference has come down to 10% in semi-retail shops in East Masi Street, a hub for groceries, price has barely come down in smaller retail stores in various parts of the city and the peripheral areas. V Saravanan, a resident of Karuppayurani, said that prices have come down in his locality as he recently purchased one litre of palm oil for Rs 110, which used to be Rs 80-90 before the lockdown. Similarly, the price of rava, which was Rs 50 before lockdown, is still selling at Rs 60 to Rs 80. “At a time when people have lost their livelihood and they are yet to start earning, prices of essentials continue to burn a hole in the pockets of people,” he said. Residents say that the same situation prevails in many pockets in Madurai city and its outskirts. These shops do not provide any bills for purchases and that makes it difficult for them to raise an issue with the authorities. A grocery store owner from Karuppayurani said that he had procured groceries in bulk when the price was high, and he cannot bring down the price until the stocks are sold, he said. G Paulraj, president of Madurai Grocery Retail Traders Association, said although materials supply from north India is yet to fully resume, required products are very much available in Madurai. Earlier, there was a restriction on vehicles to access East Masi Street, but now it has been eased out, and people can directly go there. Price will automatically come down, if grocery store owners in rural areas find no takers, he said. He further said that only a few branded products in flour variety, noodles, atta and tea power are yet to available freely in market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/restrictions-eased-but-grocery-prices-burn-a-hole-in-pockets/articleshow/75927877.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: In search of 3G, schoolkids in hills trek long, trudge through dense forests||DEHRADUN: The switch from classrooms to screens has come at a heavy cost for students in remote hills where lagging internet is obstructing learning. In Uttarakhand, which has 10 districts in the hills and only three in plains, students told TOI they were trekking several kilometres every day in search of better internet connectivity, sometimes even through dense forests. In Almora, Ghanshyam Singh Taragi, father of three school-going children, told TOI his kids have to move around the forest teeming with wild animals to catch signals on the phone for online classes. “Sometimes, I accompany them, but we have only one smartphone so all of them have to use it during different times of the day.” In Pithoragrah’s Jhulaghat, students have resorted to taking notes from others whose houses have broadband connection. Some have purchased Nepalese sims — which have better network in the region — but the residents said data charges were much higher compared with network providers in India and not everyone could afford them. “For instance, 1GB of data costs Rs 45 and has a day’s validity,” said Surendra Kumar, a resident. In villages of Dundu, Talla Charma and Malan in Pithoragarh, at least 35 students said it was difficult to find signals to attend online classes and often they ended up missing large chunks of conversation during lessons. While the problem of network connectivity is worse in the hilly regions, students even in villages in the outskirts of the state capital Dehradun are grappling with similar issues. Jayshree Uraon, a class 12 student in Burans Khanda village, told TOI, “With the network connectivity I have at home, we can barely make conversations, forget using internet or downloading videos. On days that I’m lucky, I get good connectivity after walking for a few metres, on other days I have to be on foot for an hour.” In some parts, students now go out in groups. “This helps them ward off wild animals instead of each person walking around, looking for a signal,” said Kamleshwar Bhatt, a schoolteacher in Dehradun. Other schoolteachers were also aware of the problems being faced by the students, but said they had no option than to continue online classes. Sonika Ramola, a teacher in Almora, said her students had also complained about having to walk for kilometres for digital connectivity. “They are struggling but having online classes is at least better than not having them at all.” A top official in the education department said that school authorities have been told to provide printed notes to students who are struggling with online connectivity. Beena Verma, principal of the Government Girls Inter College in Daulaghat (Almora), said they had started home delivery of printed notes to students who don’t have mobile phones or are finding it hard to access internet. Explaining why network connectivity remains an issue in the hills, Arun Verma, deputy director general of the department of telecommunications (Uttarakhand), told TOI, there is a strict limit to the number of mobile towers that can be installed in a region which is why some areas face connectivity issues. “In the hills, the number of 3G and 4G towers is much less anyway because the population is scattered and it is not commercially viable for operators to install multiple towers. Sometimes, high peaks also obstruct signals,” he said. Verma added that since majority of the state’s population was living in plain districts, the state had good mobile network coverage population-wise. (Inputs by Prem Punetha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-search-of-3g-schoolkids-in-hills-forced-to-trek-several-kms-sometimes-trudge-through-dense-forests/articleshow/75925916.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 24, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Migrant worker dies after falling off from bike in sleep||KANPUR: A migrant worker riding pillion on a two-wheeler and headed to his village in Bihar from Gurugram (Haryana) dozed off and fell to death on Yashodanagar highway on Saturday. As per reports, Ratiram (36) and his nephew Satish, residents of Supaul district of Bihar, used to work in a factory in Gurugram, Harayana. Deprived of job amid the Covid-19 lockdown, they decided to return to their hometown. Unable to get any other means of transport, the two left for Supaul on a motorcycle. According to police, around 5 am, Ratiram, who was riding pillion, dozed off and fell off from the bike, following which Satish lost control over the vehicle and he too fell on the road. With severe head injuries, Ratiram lay unconscious, while Satish too was critically injured. Passersby immediately alerted the police who rushed to the spot and took the duo to a nearby hospital. Ratiram was declared brought dead while his nephew is undergoing treatment. “Their family members have been apprised and they are on their way to Kanpur,” said Naubasta inspector Ashish Shukla. The body has been shifted to the mortuary. Ratiram’s autopsy will be conducted only after his family members arrive from Bihar,” added the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-worker-dies-after-falling-off-from-bike-in-sleep/articleshow/75927570.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||In highest spike in Uttarakhand, 91 test Covid-19 positive in a day||DEHRADUN: With an unprecedented 91 cases in one day, the highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases so far in the state, Uttarakhand’s tally reached 244 on Saturday. The new cases were reported from “green zone districts” Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag as well, which means all districts in the state have now reported Covid-19 cases. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant told TOI that among the 91 cases, 57 are from Nainital, who had travelled from Maharashtra. “As many as nine positive cases were found in Dehradun, seven in Champawat, three in Almora, US Nagar and Uttarkahsi each and two in Haridwar, Pauri and Pithoragarh each,” said Pant. On Saturday, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh also reported the second death of a Covid-19 patient in Uttarakhand, taking the state’s toll to two. Hospital officials said that the patient was a resident of Bijnor, and had been suffering from cancer. She had tested Covid-19-positive on Thursday night and died the next night. However, the administration of AIIMS Rishikesh maintained that the cause of death was “type 2 respiratory failure” and denied that it the fatality had been caused by the coronavirus. “She had undergone a surgery recently and had been admitted at the hospital on May 19. She was found positive on May 21,” said Harish Thapliyal, PRO, AIIMS. Also, a seven-month pregnant woman whose sample had been sent for testing on Friday died on Saturday at Doon Hospital before her Covid-19 test report arrived. Her body however was treated like that of a Covid-19 patient. The woman who hails from Shamli had been suffering from cough and cold as per officials. The state has reported over 150 cases in last one week and 85 per cent of them are returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-highest-spike-in-ukhand-91-test-covid-ve-in-a-day/articleshow/75925914.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 24, 2020||Kanpur||Two hotspots to be shifted into green zone, 3 into orange zone||KANPUR: The joint committee of the district administration decided to shift five hotspot zones into green zone and convert three hotspots into orange zone .The committee at its meeting held here on Friday evening added two more areas in the list of hotspots as corona positive cases were found there. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, SSP/DIG Anant Deo and chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla decided to withdraw hotspot status of the medical college, Kotwali, Juhi Parampurwa, Jajmau police outpost and Beconganj and shifted them into green zones. According to the CMO, as not a single positive case was found these areas, hence it was decided to withdraw status of the hotspot. He said as these areas have been shifted into a green zone, the administration has therefore allowed opening of shops, offices and markets. The committee decided to shift Karbi village of Maharajpur, Shivkatra of Chakeri and Meerpur into orange zone. The city at present has 15 hotspots. Barra and Govind Nagar areas have been included hot pots due to detection of corona positive cases. A man, living with his wife, son, daughter-n-law and two grandsons in Barra-2 area of Nai Basti, was found infected on Friday. He is employed in a brush factory in Babupurwa , but after lockdown, he went to his village Takia Fatan in Unnao district. He returned a couple of days ago and developed some problem. After testing, he was found corona positive. Police have sealed the area and quarantined his family and his neighbor, the CMO said. A doctor, working in South Hospital in Shastri Chowk and a resident of block VI in Govind Nagar, was found corona positive. He and three others live in the house as tenants. According o Anurag Mishra in charge Govind Nagar police station, the doctor, on getting suspicious, got his sample tested which was found positive on Friday. He has quarantined himself in the South Hospital, the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-hotspots-to-be-shifted-into-green-zone-3-into-orange-zone/articleshow/75927566.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Feel at home, rent can wait||CHENNAI: It has been almost two months since city musician Sashank M did a show. While he and his bandmates explore new business models for their work online, one thing less they have to worry about during this crunch is paying the house rent. Their house owner, architect Mohamed Rasheed, decided to go easy on the boys during the lockdown, and is among a small tribe of landlords who are going beyond the otherwise sacrosanct rental agreement to make some humanitarian exceptions in these difficult times. "The agreement is a piece of paper. But the gravity of the pandemic has impacted us all in one way or the other. My father always said owning a house didn’t make you a boss, it is what kind of a person you are during times of crisis that made the cut," says Rasheed, who also used this opportunity to pay the electricity bill for a bunch of student tenants staying on another of his other properties. In many cases, house owners looking to waive rent, also do so considering families solely surviving on revenue from businesses poorly hit on account of the Covid-19 lockdown. For instance, the lockdown has been tough on the food service industry, particularly small, hole-in-the-wall eateries that don’t find a place on online delivery platforms now either. Chennai octogenarian C Parthasarathy foresaw this in early March, before the lockdown was imposed, and rang up his tenant, a restaurant owner, to assure him he need not pay the rent until his business stabilised. "He has school-going children and is the sole earning member of his family. Even after lockdown is lifted, the future of these businesses is uncertain and at such times, a monthly rent is often a big expense and a cause of anxiety," says Parthasarathy. "People are particular about the kind of house owners they get, but good tenants too are rare, and mine has been one of the house’s best caretakers so far, and always paid on time." In April, 41-year-old Koduri Balalingam of Hyderabad volunteered to go without a total monthly earning of `3.2 lakh, which he usually receives as rent from three properties he owns in the city. They are mostly one BHK homes inhabited by small scale industry workers from Bihar, who had been left without work during the lockdown. "I own a manufacturing unit myself and I’ve been involved in social service for the past 12 years. I understand the plight of these vulnerable communities and assured them that amid the financial crunch they’re already facing, they needn’t worry about the rent. They have gradually begun to resume work just this month and a few volunteered to pay 50% rent, but I have left the choice to them. They can pay up when their other basic needs are taken care of," says Balalingam, who also distributed close to `3 lakh to poor families. For many young entrepreneurs living away from home during the pandemic, benevolent house owners have almost stepped in like family members to ease the strain. "These are times when a little help goes a long way. For some of us, our parents live in other cities and having a roof above our heads is a blessing in itself. The fact that our essential needs are taken care of, helps us focus on the road ahead, " says Sashank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/feel-at-home-rent-can-wait/articleshow/75927002.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
May 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Video chat introduced for pregnancy queries||Kozhikode: Expectant mothers anxious about their child’s health and with queries related to pregnancy can now breathe a sigh of relief as the Institute of Maternal and Child Health (IMCH) has introduced a video-conferencing facility exclusively for them. IMCH has commenced trial run of the facility covering pregnant women arrivals in the district who are self-isolating. A first-of-its-kind facility in north Kerala, the initiative was taken to reduce hospital visits of these women to eliminate the chances for hospital-level transmission of diseases. IMCH has an exclusive number for the video-call facility, which also provides counselling services. IMCH has formed a panel of experts of various departments at the hospital to address the health issues of expectant mothers. According to the district administration, the health department has placed 109 pregnant women arriving from overseas under home quarantine. Dr A M Nurul Ameen, deputy superintendent of IMCH, said that many pregnant women in mandatory quarantine have expressed anxiety about their health- and stress-related issues. “We also impart counselling to them. An expectant mother desirous of normal delivery needs to pay 10 to 12 visits to the hospital for routine consultations. The video conferencing facility will help to reduce hospital visits during the period of the pandemic. Only those who are in need of medical consultation will be asked to approach the hospitals,’’ he said. “In the coming days this facility will be expanded to cover the entire state,’’ he said. Dr C Sreekumar, superintendent of IMCH, said the facility will be officially launched next week after rectifying anomalies detected during the trial run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/video-chat-introduced-for-pregnancy-queries/articleshow/75925925.cms||Sreedevi Chitharanjan
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Case against MLA, cops as BJP MPP alleges assault||HYDERABAD: Yacharam police registered a case against TRS MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy, assistant commissioner of police, Ibrahimpatnam and station house officer, Ibrahimpatnam after BJP MPP Koppu Sukanya alleged they obstructed her from participating in a government event and attacked her. On Thursday, Ibrahimpatnam MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy along with TRS leaders visited Nandhiwanaparthi village in Yacharam for the groundbreaking ceremony of a road from Nandhiwanparthi village to Medipally village. The victim, MPP Sukanya, objected that the event was organised without following protocol, as she was not invited to the event being the local MPP. Heated arguments followed as Sukanya said she was roughed up by the MLA. “I objected and tried to stop the MLA from inaugurating the road by keeping my hand over the stone kept to break the coconut, but the MLA deliberately hit the coconut on my hand,” she said in the complaint. She further claimed to have sustained an injury on her left hand, while the MLA also allegedly humiliated her caste . She also alleged that the Ibrahimpatanam ACP and inspectors along with their staff pushed, dragged and abused her husband. A case was registered under section 323 of IPC and sections of the SC/ST Atrocities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-mla-cops-as-bjp-mpp-alleges-assault/articleshow/75927896.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||Call of duty: Coronavirus warriors on wheels lead from the front in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The 108 ambulance service, located at Habibganj, Kolar, Kajuri Kalan and Gandhi Nagar areas, have been pressed into service mostly for Covid-19 related ailments, according to estimates by the service operator. At present, in Bhopal, there are three Sanjeevani 108 ambulances providing services to Covid-19 patients. Habibganj, Kolar and Gandhi Nagar area ambulances are transporting corona-positive patients safely. Emergency medical technician Bhupendra Narayan and ambulance driver Pradeep Sen are serving in the Habibganj ambulance. We have attended to more than 250 corona-related cases, they said. In Kolar, the ambulance service is mostly transporting patients safely for quarantine. Emergency Medical Technician Sonu Sen and ambulance driver Pukhraj Yadav are serving in this ambulance. More than 120 corona-related cases have been served by this ambulance, they claimed. At Gandhi Nagar, the ambulance is transporting mostly Covid-19 patients linked to quarantine centres. Emergency Medical Technician Sunil Kumar and ambulance driver Rajendra Soni are serving in this ambulance. More than 150 corona-related cases have been served by this ambulance.  At Khajuri Kalan, emergency Medical Technician Manoj Verma and ambulance driver Naresh Mewada have served more than 30 corona-related cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/call-of-duty-corona-warriors-on-wheels-lead-from-the-front/articleshow/75927006.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Sree Chitra’s Covid-19 detection kit fails ICMR’s quality test||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Covid-19 gene detention kit developed by Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences & Technology (SCTIMST) failed to pass ICMR’s quality test. According to the test report prepared by ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Alappuzha, the kit couldn’t give information needed for a faultless diagnosis. The report, sources said, was sent from NIV to ICMR headquarters in the first week of May. Earlier, NIV was given specific directives to accord high priority for the evaluation of the test kit as it could be of great benefit in the fight against the pandemic if it worked effectively. It was claimed that the kit – GeneLAMP-N SARS-CoV – could identify Covid positive and negative cases in a matter of three hours by testing samples. After a few tests, the kits were taken back by the manufacturer for fine tuning its calibration and brought back to the institute. This happened in April. “RT-LAMP developed by SCTIMST was evaluated. The evaluation required 200 confirmed positive and 200 confirmed negative samples. Since an interim evaluation midway showed that the accuracy of the test was way below the anticipated level of 95% sensitivity and specificity, the evaluation was terminated," said the final report, a copy of which TOI accessed. While sensitivity in the research term refers to the capacity of the system to ascertain a positive case as positive, the term specificity is about its ability to identify a negative case as negative. "The analysis of data showed that the test has a low sensitivity of 55.6% and a specificity of 45.6% at the cut-off of 350 samples, as specified in the protocol. Although lowering the cut off to 300 increased the sensitivity to 81%, specificity dropped to 22.4%," the report said. The test outcome was a fluorescence reading obtained from an equipment specifically made for this purpose. "Because of the low indices of diagnostic accuracy and the low pre-test probability of Covid-19 among suspected cases, a positive test will have a low predictive value of 5.11% at a cut-off of 350 and 5.21% at a cut-off of 300. There is a wide batch-batch variation in the readings which indicates that, factors other than the presence of Covid-19 RNA in the sample influence the test values," the report said. "An ROC plot for cut-offs ranging from 250 to 800 was very close to the no-benefit line suggesting that the test, at no cut-off will give information beneficial for a diagnosis," the report concluded. ROC curve is a graphical plot that illustrates the diagnostic ability of a binary classifier system as its discrimination threshold is varied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sree-chitras-covid-detection-kit-fails-icmrs-quality-test/articleshow/75925937.cms||B S Anilkumar
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Exodus of migrant workers, govt policy hit fish production in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The exodus of migrant workers has hit fish production in Rajasthan with contractors staring at huge losses. For Bisalpur dam, which produces two tonnes of fish daily and fetches Rs 2 crore a month, the season will be a complete washout as most of the fishermen who hailed from UP and Bihar have gone to their states. “Around 500 people worked in the dam for fishing activities. Most of them belonged to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. But since they have left, fishing has been stopped completely. For us, the season ends on June 15, which means it’s a complete washout,” said Shamim Ahmad Khan, who holds the fishing licences for Bisalpur, Rana Pratap Sagar in Kota and Motipura dam in Bhilwara. Shamim now pins his hopes on the next season that starts from October, but there is no certainty that the workers will return in time. But unavailability of workers is just one of the problems the licence holders are battling with. Devendra Singh Shekhawat of Rajasthan Fish Cultivation Development Committee said that routine processes of renewal of licences and new auctions have been marred with indecisiveness of fisheries department. “About 50% of the fishing licence renewals have run into problem and the department is not considering the lockdown difficulties when all the shops and establishments in the country were closed making payments impossible. We wanted some relief not only in licence fees but also in the renewal charges that requires contractors to pay 12% more every year. But instead of relief, there is harassment,” Shekhawat said. Moreover, the department has failed to auction those dams or water bodies for fishing whose licence period of five years expired. TOI tried to speak to about four senior officials in fisheries department, but none of them picked the calls. The data available on fisheries department is nine years old. After the coronavirus outbreak, there was sharp fall in demand as people preferred not to eat non-veg. Some of the contractors said they have written to the chief minister about their plight, but they are still awaiting a response. Of the total fish production in Rajasthan, about 50% is sold in Delhi, and 25% goes to neighbouring states, while the rest 25% meets the demand in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/exodus-of-migrant-workers-govt-policy-hit-fish-production/articleshow/75927889.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 24, 2020||Patna||19 flights operations to resume from Patna tomorrow||PATNA: Altogether 19 domestic flights will resume at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport on Monday with several precautionary measures in place to contain the spread of coronavirus. According to the provisional schedule released by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday evening, IndiGo (7), SpiceJet (6), GoAir (5) and Air India (1) will start operating flights from Patna to Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Amritsar, Kolkata and Varanasi from Monday. City airport’s assistant general manager (air traffic management), Santosh Kumar, said the flights would operate for 14 hours every day. “The first one — IndiGo’s 6E-5373/5374 from Mumbai — will reach here at 7.35am and the last one — GoAir’s G8-198/150 — will leave for Delhi at 9.20pm,” he added. Passengers will now have to keep in mind the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to maintain social distancing norms while travelling. Meanwhile, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal reviewed the arrangements made at the city airport on Saturday for resumption of flights. Yellow markings have been drawn on the premises to ensure social distancing and hand-free sanitizer machines installed at strategic points. Agarwal told this newspaper that flyers would undergo thermal screening before proceeding for security check and their luggage would be sanitized. “A team of doctors will also screen flyers at the arrival gate. Domestic passengers, who are asymptomatic after reaching the Patna airport, will not be quarantined,” he said. Airlines get positive response: Different airlines, which have started booking tickets for May 25, have claimed to receive a positive response from customers. An Air India employee said, “Our Delhi-Patna flight is full and 75% of the seats in the outgoing flight have also been booked.” A GoAir executive claimed that “all the seats in our five flights are likely to be booked before May 25”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/19-flights-to-resume-operations-tomorrow/articleshow/75925062.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Gym owner booked for robbery||Vadodara: A gym owner was booked on Friday for trespassing into a senior citizen’s house in Manjalpur and escaping with his driver’s mobile phone. Accused Binix Hande was arrested by the crime branch in August last year too for threatening the senior citizen’s daughter of acid attack. On May 21 night, Hande entered the man’s bungalow and stole his driver’s mobile phone. He then climbed up to the balcony on the first floor and broke the CCTV camera and tried breaking the glass of a window. However, a few minutes later Hande fled from there with the mobile phone. Hande had threatened the elderly man’s daughter who is currently studying in the USA of acid attack as she had rejected his marriage proposal. The girl had returned to the city for a few days then. Police said Hande had been in contact with the girl for the past several years. He used to visit her home often before she left the country for studies. Hande later picked up a fight with the girl’s father and complaint was registered against him.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gym-owner-booked-for-robbery/articleshow/75925833.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Why digi classes spell doom for some kids||CHENNAI: When Anuradha Murali signed her daughter Meenu up for online classes, the eight-year-old was excited, in the beginning. But, in the past couple of weeks, Anuradha has noticed that her daughter turns moody and irritable soon after the class. "She is angry when I tell her it is time for class and often throws a tantrum soon after it for no particular reason," says Anuradha. It’s only when she discussed it with a psychologist friend that she realised that the video calls — with her teacher, friends and family — only remind her daughter of how much her life has changed. ‘Zoom fatigue’ as many choose to term it, is real for kids and adults alike, but children often are not able to verbalise their feelings, says experts. And the extended screen time — whether it is for education purposes, hobby classes, or virtual playdates — could be affecting children, especially, younger ones, emotionally. "Some schools have begun virtual classes. And children have told me that though they are attending classes, they miss the camaraderie of being in a classroom," says Dr Shiva Prakash, consultant child psychiatrist, Schizophrenia Research Foundation India. "Home is meant for play and summer vacation but all of a sudden that space has been intruded upon and it’s tough." That has to do with the way people organise things in the head, he adds. "In school, you are expected to be doing a certain thing at a certain time but that’s changed," says Dr Shiva Prakash. "Also, at home, you usually expect to be in an airconditioned room watching a cartoon but now you are facing a teacher on camera and studying. So when expectation doesn’t match reality, kids can feel frustrated. For older children, who couldn’t finish exams, the constant uncertainty can also be stressful." Psychologist Mini Rao says that social interaction is a must for children. "Constantly staying in the house, not meeting family and friends but meeting them virtually is a huge and sudden change for children," she says, adding that parents should refrain from signing up children for too many online classes. "It can have many psychological consequences — a sudden negative change like this, which restricts a child from leading a normal life like going to school and coming back, going out to play, or inviting their friends can make them irritable, moody, withdrawn, and feel helpless and frustrated about their situation," she says. Parents and teachers can help children in a number of ways. "Allow the child to choose which friend they would want to speak to. In virtual classrooms, the teacher can give a five-minute break so kids can greet each other and chat. It would create an artificially real experience of what would happen if the teacher steps out of the classroom," says Dr Shiva Prakash, adding that children are resilient and will adjust to the new reality. "Schedule weekly family calls and enhance that interaction by playing virtual games together. Create a routine as it gives children a sense of security and stability," says Mini. "Also encourage them to exercise. Don’t be too harsh on them by organising all kinds of online classes like singing, dancing, maths and science," she says. "They are children, give them space and time to adjust to their temporary virtual life. Don’t push your children to do anything they don’t want to. There is no need to hurry up their childhood, let them enjoy their time."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-digi-classes-spell-doom-for-some-kids/articleshow/75927009.cms||Priya Menon
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||Will MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan take action against BJP workers for violating lockdown: Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Saturday criticised chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and said BJP leaders did not observing social distancing norms during a political gathering in Bhopal. “Shivraj ji, during the Covid review meeting held on Friday, you warned people of the state to observe rules to contain the virus,” Nath tweeted. “For the common man, the number of persons permitted for weddings and funerals are fixed. People are strictly following rules and action is also being taken for violations,” Nath said. “At the same time, in your very presence, a crowded function was held at the state BJP headquarters in Bhopal today. No social distancing norms were followed. Such irresponsible incidents have also taken place before,” Nath said. The former chief minister said, “Does Prime Minister Narendra Modiji’s lockdown rules apply only for the poor and the common man? Does it not apply to the leaders of your party? Will action be taken for such blatant violation of the lockdown rules?” Nath also posted photographs of BJP leaders, including former ministers Rampal Singh and Prabhuram Choudhary, crowded on a dais at the meeting hall in the BJP state office. BJP reacted sharply. “The BJP is trying to maintain all social distancing and lockdown norms. If there has been any violation of social distancing norms, then in future the BJP will take necessary precautions not to repeat the same situation again. However, in the function today, sanitiser was provided and all who attended were wearing masks, some even gloves. In over-enthusiasm, the social distancing norms may not have been maintained, but the party will keep this in mind in the future.” said BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-takes-on-shivraj-for-flouting-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75927010.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held for jewellery thefts from Covid-19 corpses in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Shahibaug police arrested two persons from Nikol, Ashok Patel, 30, and Amit Sharma, 28, for stealing the belongings of a woman who had died from the novel coronavirus at the Covid-19 facility at Asarwa Civil Hospital. Bindu Rajput’s earrings, gold chain and mobile phone were stolen after she succumbed on May 11. Police sources said this was not the only theft they committed. They are suspected to have stolen jewellery from bodies on May 15 and May 16 as well. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 4, Neeraj Badgujar, said that while Patel is a contract worker with Civil Hospital deployed to handle bodies, Sharma is a former employee. “Both of them would steal jewellery off of dead bodies. Patel would wear a personal protective equipment (PPE) and enter the hospital so no one could recognize him and he wouldn’t be captured on CCTV cameras. We are questioning to know if they are involved in more such thefts,” added Bagdugar. On May 11, the Congress councillor of Amraiwadi, Jagdish Rathod, had shot off a letter to the superintendent of Civil Hospital, M M Prabhakar, alleging that Rajput’s belongings had been stolen after she died of the virus. Her husband, Shivpujan Rajput, went to Civil Hospital after he was informed of her death and he discovered that the belongings were missing. “We first checked the cameras but it was of no help as they were wearing PPE when they entered the ward and could not be recognized,” said inspector A K Patel of Shahibaug police station. Patel said they then checked the register and learned that Patel had not been on duty since May 8 but had been seen by other employees sanitizing the bodies of Covid-19 victims. “We suspected his involvement and he later confessed to the crime and named Amit Sharma as his accomplice,” added Patel. Badgujar said the process of recovering the stolen ornaments is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-held-for-jewellery-thefts-from-covid-corpses/articleshow/75927220.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Man who sought blessings of excise to make wine held||KOCHI: A 32-year-old man from Aluva, who put a post on Facebook, seeking the blessings of excise department for making wine landed in trouble. IT cell of the department took note of Shinomon Chacko’s post, resulting in a raid at his house on Friday. A case has been registered against the Kidangur resident under Abkari Act after they seized around five litres of wash the man made to brew wine in his kitchen. Chacko on Friday morning posted a picture of a plate full of sliced pineapple beside a Chinese pot and captioned it as ‘brought a load full of pineapple from the farm in wife’s house. Gonna make an awesome drink. I seek the blessings of all including excise officials.” Within hours the post went viral and the IT cell of excise department saw it and informed the excise commissioner. Deputy excise commissioner, Ernakulam, was directed to look into the issue. By evening, a team of excise officials led by Aluva excise circle inspector Sojan Sebastian identified Chacko’s house and conducted a raid. In the raid it was found that Chacko has kept five litres of wash in the Chinese pot to make wine. “The case was registered under section 55 (g) of Abkari Act and the offence in non-bailable. But considering the Covid-19 situation, the arrest of the accused is yet to be recorded. Through his post, the accused was mocking the excise department, and making wine at home is not permitted. His arrest will be recorded later,” said an excise officer. The case of illegal brewing in Ernakulam has increased during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-who-sought-blessings-of-excise-to-make-wine-held/articleshow/75925951.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Patna||228 new Covid-19 cases in Bihar take tally to 2,394||PATNA: Bihar saw another surge in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 228 people testing positive for the virus, taking the total number of cases to 2,394 in the state. Among the new cases, 10 are from Patna, including two from Alamganj in the city. Currently, there are 1,729 active cases in the state while 653 people have recovered so far. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 stands at 11 while one coronavirus positive person has committed suicide. As per information shared by principal secretary (health) Uday Singh Kumawat, the Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday are from across 23 districts, with the highest number of cases from Rohtas where 30 people had tested positive for the virus. Other districts with large number of cases are Vaishali where 23 people have tested positive, followed by Madhepura with 19 cases, Madhubani with 18 cases, Katihar and Aurangabad with 13 cases each and Khagaria with 12 cases. Of the 10 cases reported from Patna, three are from Dulhin Bazar, two from Alamganj and one each from Malsalami, Bakhtiyarpur, Masaurhi, Naubatpur and Bikram. State Health Society (SHS) further stated that 1,189 migrant labourers who arrived in Bihar May 3 onwards have tested positive for the coronavirus. Till Saturday morning, 61,220 samples have been tested and altogether 1,414 samples are under testing process. As per information shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Bihar ranks 10th among states in terms of the number of positive cases across the country. The virus has so far claimed 11 lives, including two each in Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria districts and one each in Rohtas, Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi and Begusarai districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/228-new-covid-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-2394/articleshow/75925765.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||72 test +ve in Yadgir, 40 in Raichur||Hubballi: Yadgir district has reported 72 cases of Covid-19 and Raichur district has reported 40 cases on Saturday. There is spike in Covid-19 cases in these two districts, which were earlier categorized as green zones. With this the total number of positive cases in Yadgir has gone up to 87, while it has gone up to 66 in Raichur. All the people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Yadgir on Saturday had travelled to Maharashtra. Except for one person, who came from Andhra Pradesh, the rest of the 39 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Raichur had come from Maharashtra. All the patients have been admitted to the designated Covid hospitals of the two districts. The surge in Covid-19 cases in both the districts has worried people in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/72-test-ve-in-yadgir-40-in-raichur/articleshow/75924631.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Amaravati||47 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally reaches 2,714||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh reported 47 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,714. The state also reported one death, increasing the toll to 56. Five of the 47 new cases are linked to Chennai’s Koyambedu market. Spurt in Covid-19 cases in Nellore and Chittoor districts have been linked to Koyambedu as many traders, who returned from Chennai, had tested positive. Of the 153 Covid-19 cases related to migrant workers, 26 recovered from the virus on Saturday. There are currently 727 active cases in Andhra Pradesh after the discharge of 1778 people and death of 56 Covid-19 patients. For the first time in Andhra Pradesh, three Covid-19 patients in East Godavari district availed home isolation facility. The three patients, including two software employees working in Chennai, visited Rajahmundry recently. As part of the Covid-19 protocol, there were subjected to Truenat testing, which came out as positive and the second test through RT-PCR also found the presence of the virus. As they were not displaying any classic Covid-19 symptoms, they were allowed to receive the treatment at home as they were not displaying any symptoms of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/47-new-cases-in-ap-tally-reaches-2714/articleshow/75932809.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||47 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally reaches 2,714||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh reported 47 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,714. The state also reported one death, increasing the toll to 56. Five of the 47 new cases are linked to Chennai’s Koyambedu market. Spurt in Covid-19 cases in Nellore and Chittoor districts have been linked to Koyambedu as many traders, who returned from Chennai, had tested positive. Of the 153 Covid-19 cases related to migrant workers, 26 recovered from the virus on Saturday. There are currently 727 active cases in Andhra Pradesh after the discharge of 1778 people and death of 56 Covid-19 patients. For the first time in Andhra Pradesh, three Covid-19 patients in East Godavari district availed home isolation facility. The three patients, including two software employees working in Chennai, visited Rajahmundry recently. As part of the Covid-19 protocol, there were subjected to Truenat testing, which came out as positive and the second test through RT-PCR also found the presence of the virus. As they were not displaying any classic Covid-19 symptoms, they were allowed to receive the treatment at home as they were not displaying any symptoms of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/47-new-cases-in-ap-tally-reaches-2714/articleshow/75927012.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Villagers kill Rohtas man for firing at barking dog||PATNA: A 55-year-old man was beaten to death by a mob after he fired at a pet dog of his neighbour for repeatedly barking at him in a village in Rohtas district late on Friday night. A 10-year-old girl also received bullet injuries in her hand, police said. “The incident took place at Beladhi village Darihat police station area in the district around 9.30 pm when the pet dog belonging to one Vinod Ram started barking at his neighbour Gopal Ram, who fired two shots at the animal which missed the target,” said SHO of Darigaon police station Umersh Kumar. He added, “The third bullet, however, hit Vinod’s daughter Bhumika Kumari who came rushing after hearing the gunshots. She was taken to Sasaram sadar hospital where she is undergoing treatment and is stated to be out of danger.” Enraged by the firing, villagers started thrashing Gopal with sticks leading to grievous head injuries. He was admitted to the hospital at Sasaram where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday morning. “Villagers attacked Gopal in a fit of rage, but their motive was not to kill him. Still the grievous injuries he received proved fatal for him,” the girl’s father Vinod said. The SHO said raids were on to arrest the people involved in the incident. “Two separate FIRs have been lodged in connection with incident. While the first FIR deals with firing by the deceased in which a girl was injured, the second FIR is related with murderous attack on Gopal,” he added. Sasaram SDPO Laxman Prasad said, “The identity of those involved in the attack on Gopal Ram is being ascertained. The culprits won’t be spared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/villagers-kill-rohtas-man-for-firing-at-barking-dog/articleshow/75925084.cms||Ramashankar
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Daati Maharaj booked for performing ceremony||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has booked self-styled spiritual leader Daati Maharaj for violating the lockdown norms after a video emerged showing him and a group of his followers allegedly performing a ceremony at Shanidham temple in Fatehpur Beri on Friday night. The ceremony was followed by a congregation that violated the rules of social distancing. A complaint was registered after photos of the ceremony went viral on social media. A police officer said that prima facie, it seems that the ceremony was organised as a private event by Maharaj and police were not informed about it. From the pictures and videos, it appears that over 100 people had attended the programme that took place around 7.30pm. In the photos, Daati Maharaj is seen conducting a puja wearing a black cloak while his followers are standing behind him, close to each other. District Magistrate (south) B M Mishra said that district authorities took suo moto cognisance of the issue and asked the area deputy commissioner of police to register a case. “We have registered an FIR under sections 188 IPC (violation of government order) and under section 54 B of DDMA Act and section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act against the organisers of the event. Arrests will be made after the enquiry is completed,” said Atul Thakur, DCP (south). Maharaj was arrested earlier for raping a student of a school that was being run by him on the temple premises. The probe was later taken over by CBI. Police are scanning through CCTV footage of the area to find out who all had attended the event and why no one had raised an alarm regarding the violation of the social distancing norms. The cops are also trying to locate the person who had clicked the photographs. A notice would be sent to Daati Maharaj, asking him to join the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daati-maharaj-booked-for-performing-ceremony/articleshow/75927905.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Covid Yoddhas join cops in fight against street wanderers||NAGPUR: A man coming from Timki, declared as containment area, was sent back by the Covid Yoddhas (warriors) from Kachipura Square, after he failed to offer any satisfactory explanation for coming there. They later reported about his presence to the concerned police station. Risking their lives, these warriors are seen at major squares working shoulder to shoulder with the police officials in regulating the traffic and also helping in maintaining law and order situation in the city. Wielding sticks, they check all vehicle riders and tell them to strictly maintain traffic rules and regulations. The warriors force many to go back home if they are not wearing masks, helmets or carrying licence. They also ensure that only two persons travel in a four-wheeler — passenger on the rear seat — to maintain Covid distancing. A group of about 15 young and old citizens has joined the Bajaj Nagar police station as Covid Yoddhas after a call was given by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to citizens to join the fight against deadly coronavirus. They can be seen at Rahate Colony, Kachipura, Chhatrapati, Deekshabhoomi, Shankar Nagar and other major squares in morning and evening hours. “They are of big help to our police force which can’t man all the major squares due to manpower shortage. Our personnel are with them always, which includes women officers,” Bajaj Nagar police inspector Kshirsagar, who has joined the warriors on many occasions, said. Shashank Chobe, a volunteer, said they are willingly helping police who are fighting this pandemic, away from their families. “We work from 8am to 10am and then from 4.30pm to 7.30pm. As per directives, we question everyone passing through the designated areas and check their documents,” he said. According to another volunteer, Prasad Kokje, they find many people, particularly youngsters, roaming unnecessarily and carrying fake or false medical prescription, as old as three years. “We request them to go back home to avoid getting infected by the deadly virus,” he said. No questions are asked to doctors and nurses if they are in uniform, said Uday Deshkar. “We also don’t stop food delivery boys. For all other passers-by, we insist on producing the documents or genuine reasons to venture out of home,” he said. Another volunteer Ashwin Patrange adds that they are also supported by nearby residents. “Many a time, they reach out to us with water bottles and fruits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-yoddhas-join-cops-in-fight-against-street-wanderers/articleshow/75927903.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD to raise Rs 100 crore, sell ‘unviable’ assets||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, the richest temple body in the country, plans to raise around Rs 100 crore by disposing of its ‘unviable’ properties across the country and allocating vacant cottages under the cottage donation scheme. The proposal to create a monetisation fund of Rs 100 crore was approved by the TTD trust board during its ‘budget’ meeting in Tirumala on February 29. A sub-committee was formed by the then temple board in 2015 during the erstwhile TDP regime to take a call on disposing of the temple’s unviable assets. The sub-committee proposed to dispose of around 50 properties that are situated at faraway places and difficult to maintain for the TTD. Such properties include house sites, buildings and agricultural lands. Subsequently, the TTD categorised its assets into four categories — the ones mired in legal tangles, rural properties, urban properties in other states including AP, and those to be auctioned by TTD directly. While three properties in Coimbatore, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore districts of Tamil Nadu were struck off the auction list due to legal problems, 17 rural properties in AP were proposed to be disposed of through public auction involving the respective district collectors. Nine urban area properties in Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha besides AP were proposed to be auctioned off through MSTC Ltd, Visakhapatnam, while the TTD estate officer was entrusted with the responsibility of disposing of 23 other properties spread across various states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-to-raise-rs-100-cr-sell-unviable-assets/articleshow/75927017.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Infant among seven die of Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Seven persons died while 248 others tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday taking the number of infections in the state to 6,742 and number of casualties to 160. The dead included two each from Jaipur, Kota and Nagaur while one person succumbed to the virus in Chittorgarh. A 60-year-old woman from Sajidehda in Kota, who was admitted to New Medical College and Hospital on May 14, died on Friday. She tested positive but was also suffering from diabetes. A 50-year-old woman from Bhatta Basti in Shastri Nagar, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on Friday, died on Saturday while undergoing treatment. Along with Covid-19 infection, she was suffering from pre-existing diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and cardio-vascular disorder. A 35-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar in Shastri Nagar, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on May 18, died on Saturday. He was suffering from hypertension and cardio-vascular problem. The deceased also include a one-month-old baby, resident of Bakhaliya of Ladnu in Nagaur district. He was admitted to SMS Hospital on May 22 and she died on Saturday. She was suffering from co-morbid condition of paralytic ileus. Besides, a 62-year-old man, resident of Baksiwala of Basni of Nagaur, who was admitted on May 18, died on Friday at PBM Hospital in Bikaner. He was suffering from hypertension. A 46-year-0ld woman from Chanderia of Chittorgarh, who was admitted to MB Hospital of Udaipur on May 19, died on Saturday. He had pre-existing diseases such as carcinoma overy and anemia. A 65-year-old woman from Chhawani of Kota, who tested positive on Saturday last, died on Friday. She was brought dead to MBS Hospital. After her death, doctors took her samples and sent for tests. She had no co-morbid condition. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (26), Pali (23), Nagaur (40), Rajsamand (19), Jalore (13), Udaipur (14), Dungarpur (12), Kota (14), Barmer (6), Jhunjhunu (8), Jaipur (22), Ajmer (6), Barmer (6), Alwar (5), Jhalawar (7), Churu (4), Sirohi (4), Tonk (3), Bikaner (3), Dholpur (2), Sikar (2), Banswara (1), Bharatpur (1), Bhilwara (12) and Chittorgarh (1). In Jaipur, 12 inmates were found infected in Central jail, three in Shastri Nagar, while one each in Bhrampuri, Hanuman Nagar, Rajni Vihar Heerapura, Nehru Bazaar, Sitapura and Rundal, Amer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/infant-among-seven-die-of-covid-19-in-state/articleshow/75927898.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||All UP-bound trains from Bhopal booked till June 23||BHOPAL: Within three days of opening the railway reservation, majority of the trains running or originating from Bhopal from June 1 and going townrds Uttar Pradesh and south are full and have no berths available till June 23. In contrast, seats are vacant in most of the trains going to New Delhi. Railways have decided to run 200 trains across the country from June 1. Under this, there are 14 pairs of trains starting from and passing through Bhopal. These include Bhopal Express, Habibganj-Jabalpur Janshatabdi, Pushpak, Kushinagar and other trains. Out of these trains confirmed seats are not available in trains going to Uttar Pradesh, most trains have long waiting in all categories till June 23.  At the same time, seats are vacant in all categories in all trains except one or two going towards Delhi. Tickets for these trains can be booked online and from the railway reservation counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/all-up-bound-trains-from-bhopal-booked-till-june-23/articleshow/75927014.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||Spike due to migrants: Minister||HASSAN: Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Saturday said Covid-19 cases are increasing in Karnataka because of migrants. After we allowed workers to return home, the number of cases started to go up. Speaking to reporters in Hassan, the minister said positive cases are likely to spike in the coming days but tthere is no need to panic Suresh said the government will not be able to provide institutional quarantine facility once trains and flights resume their services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/spike-due-to-migrants-minister/articleshow/75924655.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to give 10% rebate on advance property tax||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to give 10% rebate to property owners who wish to pay advance property tax for the year 2020-21. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt and mayor Bijal Patel said in a statement that the corporation has decided that property owners who have paid property taxes for the year 2019-20 and wish to pay advance taxes can do so between June 1 and June 30. And those paying taxes for the year 2020-21 will be eligible for the rebate. Bhatt said that the maximum rebate was 10% and the scheme was announced for the year 2019-20 as well and over 4 lakh had availed of it. This year, the corporation expects a similar response, officials said. A senior officer said that the rebate will benefit businesspersons in the city as they have to pay commercial property taxes which are on the higher side. He, however, also noted that business establishments have not been operating since March after the lockdown began. He said that with virtually no income, the corporation wanted money not only to run the anti Covid-19 operation but also to pay contractors who want to begin work again in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-give-10-rebate-on-advance-property-tax/articleshow/75927219.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese army to build unfinished road along border||PITHORAGARH: Amid the escalating India-Nepal border tension, the Nepalese government has restarted work on the 130-km-long Darchula-Tinkar road project in Darchula district of Nepal. According to sources, the road project was sanctioned in 2008 to facilitate Nepal-China border trade through the Tinkar Pass. Around 50-km of the road for this project runs parallel with the Indian border along Uttarakhand. It was presumed that the road project will promote not just trade but also pilgrim and tourist traffic in the area. However, almost 12 years on, only 43-km of the road has been laid. The reason behind the delay, according to sources in Nepal, is the tough and rocky terrain of the route and the shortage of explosive material to blow away hard rock to open the track for the road. With continuous monetary losses, the contractor had also left the job, as per the source. The sources confirmed that the project has now been taken up again and the Nepalese government has decided that their Army would complete the remaining portion of the road. The restarting of the project assumes significance in wake of the protests being registered by Nepal at an almost 80-km-long road inaugurated by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on May 8. The road will allow vehicular movement till near the Lipulekh Pass, which is regarded as the gateway to Tibet. Nepal has been claiming the Pass as part of its own territory. In the middle of last week, 25 armed personnel of Nepal Police had reached Chhangru by helicopter to set up an armed police outpost which is situated some distance away from the Pass. A few days ago, the Nepalese government had started preparations to open three more similar border outposts (BOPs) along the India-Nepal border in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, a source told TOI that the official reason behind restarting the road project is to enable movement of people of Tinkar and Chhangru which are migratory villages. “The villagers were either using the unfinished track or the Indian side of the roads to reach the lower valleys in winter. But this year, because of the Covid-19 lockdown, the roads were blocked and the villagers were constantly demanding that the government help them so that they can move to their villages,” said the source. In order to finish the remaining 87-km track, the source said, the Army is in the process of setting up a base camp at Ghatiabaghar. “Their first step would be to clear the mule track at Ghatiabaghar where a 400 meter stretch is currently blocked,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-army-to-build-unfinished-road-along-border/articleshow/75924668.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||55 passengers of Shramik Special from Mumbai test corona-positive in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: At least 55 people who returned to Uttarakhand from Mumbai in a Shramik Special train on Wednesday tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. It was earlier communicated by the health department that the passengers were in a bus bound for Kumaon but subsequently, officials said that the passengers had deboarded at Haridwar railway station and were sent to various districts in different buses. The passengers who tested positive were from the buses bound for Almora, Nainital and Bageshwar. “The people who were sent in multiple buses were all passengers of the same train. We are now trying to trace the contacts of all those who travelled in the train,” said Covid-19 control room in-charge Abhishek Tripathi. Speaking about the matter, Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar said, “The train arrived in Haridwar from Mumbai on Wednesday. We made separate batches of these passengers and sent them to their respective districts in buses after initial screening at the station.” Nainital chief medical officer Dr Bharti Rana said that the 55 cases were detected during random sampling at Haldwani checkpost. “We had done random sampling of these bus passengers at Haldwani checkpost and 55 of them tested positive for the virus.” At the time of filing this report, the health department could not provide the exact number of buses used to ferry these passengers. The CMO added, “We are yet to ascertain who was sitting in which bus and where the patient was going. We have already started contact tracing of these individuals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/55-passengers-of-shramik-spl-from-mumbai-test-corona-positive-in-ukhand/articleshow/75926004.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Party plaint to NHRC on use of ‘maid’||Hyderabad: The Socialist Party (India) Telangana unit has lodged a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission against the MAUD department for using the term ‘maids’ in its circulars. The party had sent a notice to the MAUD department on May 9, asking it to refrain from using the term and instead use the legal term of domestic workers. “MAUD has failed to respond to our notice. It issued another memo on May 18 using the same reference as maids instead of referring them as domestic workers,” said Lubna Sarwath, general secretary of Telangana unit of the party. In her complaint to NHRC, she demanded that MAUD reissue the memo referring to domestic workers and apologising for earlier references.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/party-plaint-to-nhrc-on-use-of-maid/articleshow/75927904.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli collector freezes bank a/cs of 19 gram sabhas||NAGPUR: Gadchiroli district collector Deepak Singla has freezed bank accounts of 19 gram sabhas owing to procedural violations. In a representation to Manisha Verma, principal secretary, tribal development department, Zaduram Janglu Halami, president of group of 80 gram sabhas called as Korchi Mahagramsabha, said, “The collector sealed these accounts on March 18, without any notice. Over 10,000 tendu workers have been deprived of wages towards plucking of tendu leaves.” “Contractors are unable to deposit the money in our bank accounts. The payment is towards receipts of tendu leaves collected from forest under community forest rights (CFRs),” Halami said. Of the 19 gram sabhas, 16 are from Korchi taluka while three are from Kurkheda. The accounts were sealed on March 18 after Singla noticed some irregularities. “The gram sabhas learnt about it only on April 18, when a cheque of Rs2 lakh handed over to a grocery trader bounced. This payment was towards material procured to help locals during lockdown,” says Halami. On the contrary, Singla says, “Over Rs65-80 lakh has been deposited in each of the 19 gram sabha bank accounts before I took charge as collector. Interestingly, this money was deposited by opening another account and not the regular account operated by these grams sabhas.” Singla told TOI, “The money was paid by the user agency towards compensation for diversion of CFR forest area. This money is meant for benefit of the communities and welfare of the villagers. So, how can some individuals open accounts to deposit this money. There is no government representative as joint account holder in the newly opened accounts like it is for other routine CFR account.” “I have ordered probe and if the committee headed by SDO gives a clean chit I have no problems. My intention is that there should be transparency while utilization of this huge money. The report will be submitted by June 10,” said Singla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gchiroli-collector-freezes-bank-a/cs-of-19-gram-sabhas/articleshow/75927942.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Kollur temple loses Rs 14 crore in revenue due to lockdown||Udupi: The Kollur Mookambika Temple has lost revenue worth Rs 14 crore due to the lockdown, as the temple was closed for devotees. The temple has been closed for about two months now. The temple management stated on Saturday: “As pilgrims were not allowed to visit the temple, no revenue was earned this year. March, April and May are the seasons when a large number of devotees visit here. On these months, every day, almost 30,000 people visit the temple, and most of the lodges here are full. Last year, during the month of March, April and May, the temple got Rs 13 crore, and this year we expected Rs 14 crore in revenue.” The temple authorities have appealed to devotees who want to donate, to deposit money for seva online. They can also send money to the temple’s savings account. Devotees must provide the correct postal address, so that receipt and seva prasadam can be sent by post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kollur-temple-loses-rs-14-crore-in-revenue-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75924672.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mercury goes past season’s high again||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its hottest day of the season so far for the third day in a row with the mercury touching 44.7 degrees Celsius — five notches above normal — at Safdarjung on Saturday. Other stations like Palam and Lodhi Road also recorded a maximum temperature five notches above normal, at 45.6 degrees Celsius and 44.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. Ayanagar saw the maximum temperatures of 46.2 degrees Celsius, six points above normal. “Heat wave or severe heat wave will continue over most of Delhi-NCR till Wednesday due to dry and northwestly winds. There will be some respite from Thursday night, when the next western disturbance will affect Northwest India,” a Met official said. The official added that duststorm or thunderstorm accompanied with strong gusty winds at the speed of 50-60 km per hour is likely to occur on Friday and Saturday over Delhi-NCR. Earlier, on Friday, Safdarjung clocked a record 43.8 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, on Friday while on Thursday, it recorded 42.7 degrees Celsius, both of which were the highest yet of the season. On Sunday, partly cloudy sky with strong surface winds at the speed 20-30 km per hour is expected during the day. “The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 45 and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively,” a Met bulletin said. In terms of air quality, it was a “moderate” day on Saturday with an AQI of 181, according to Central Pollution Control Board. “For Sunday and Monday, the AQI is likely to stay at the high end of moderate to poor category,” said a report System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research. SAFAR is a Union body under the ministry of earth sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-goes-past-seasons-high-again/articleshow/75927915.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TTD: 42 properties disposed since 2002||TIRUPATI: The TTD, between 2002 and 2020, has disposed of 42 properties spread across Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka, as per its own records. TTD officials say disposal of ‘unviable’ properties is within the right of the trust board and is as per endowment rules. “The TTD board is competent to sell, exchange or mortgage its immovable properties, if it is considered that the transaction is necessary or beneficial to the temple and is consistent with the objective of the TTD,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/42-properties-disposed-since-02/articleshow/75927019.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||Better facilities resulting in fast recoveries: Shivraj||Bhopal: Chairing the Covid-19 review meeting at the mantralaya on Saturday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the recovery rate of patients in the state has gone up to 51% due to better management and treatment facilities. People leaving or visiting Bhopal, Indore or Ujjain cities will have to obtain e-pass compulsorily, while the pass for movement from green zone to green zone has been abolished, said principal secretary Sanjay Dubey during the meeting . It was also informed during the meeting that e-pass will also be required for movement to other states and entering Madhya Pradesh. A large number of Fever Clinics have also started functioning in the state, Chouhan said. He directed all the district collectors to ensure lockdown rules are strictly followed and the exemptions should be given as per the guidelines in their respective districts. During the review, additional chief secretary health Mohammad Suleman informed that health checkup of 27,484 people have been conducted at 1,496 fever clinics of the state. Of these, 24,505 have been advised home isolation and samples of 6,415 persons have been taken of which 2,824 persons have been sent to Covid Care Centres/Hospitals. During the review of Ujjain district, it was informed that the health survey of 6.34 lakh people has already been conducted in Ujjain district. Nagda area of the district has become free of infection. In the next 2-3 days, the trauma centre will start functioning as Covid hospital. The Collector of Ujjain has been directed to make arrangement of 10 more ambulances. Suleman informed that according to the new discharge criteria, corona patients, who are in good health, do not have symptoms of corona and not been suffering from fever for the last three days, can now be discharged in 10 days. After this they will have to stay in home isolation for 7 days. The additional chief secretary ICP Keshari informed that so far a total of 5.14 lakh migrant labourers have already returned to Madhya Pradesh by 122 trains and thousands of buses. Out of these, 1.54 lakh by trains and 3.60 lakh labourers returned by buses. A total of 130 trains are expected to arrive in the state. About 3.70 lakh labourers of other states have been sent by buses to the borders of other states, he said. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, DGP Vivek Johri, principal secretary medical education Sanjay Shukla and other officers were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/better-facilities-resulting-in-fast-recoveries-shivraj/articleshow/75927047.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||At 211, Mandya has most active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||MANDYA: Covid-19 cases in Mandya are increasing rapidly, with 28 fresh cases being reported on Saturday. It has taken the total tally to 237 in the district. The number is likely to go up higher. According to deputy commissioner Venkatesh, out of a total 237 Covid-19 cases, 26 people have been cured and discharged from hospital. As of now 211 active cases remain, which is the highest in any district in Karnataka. Bengaluru has 124 active cases while in other district active cases are below 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/at-211-mandya-has-most-active-covid-19-cases-in-state/articleshow/75924700.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress to protest at pending irrigation project sites on June 2||HYDERABAD: Congress plans to stage protests at sites of all pending irrigation projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers on June 2, the state formation day. A team, comprising of senior leaders, was formed in this regard. “The June 2 protest at all pending irrigation project sites is to expose the TRS government’s failure to complete the task at hand. The protest will be held from 10 am to 5 pm,” Telangana Congress chief and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy told the media on Saturday. He further stated that District Congress Committee (DCC) representatives would meet farmers on June 2 and June 3. “Farmers will never accept KCR’s ‘Tughlak agriculture policy’. The party will go to court against officials directing companies not to sell seeds of crops that are not suggested by government,” Uttam added. The party has also constituted four committees to take on the TRS government for its failures on various fronts. Congress legislative party chief Bhatti Vikramarka would lead the financial affairs committee, TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar on Osmania University land encroachment and education, G Chinna Reddy and M Kodanda Reddy on the new agriculture policy and MLC Jeevan Reddy will head the committee to plan protests against the irrigation projects. Uttam also said that party members would complain against the economic policies of state to the Prime Minister and Union finance minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cong-to-protest-at-pending-irrigation-project-sites-on-june-2/articleshow/75927064.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Undertrial hangs self in central jail||Vadodara: An inmate of Vadodara Central Jail ended life in the jail premises on Friday afternoon due to unknown reasons. The deceased, Sanjay Vasava (19), was an undertrial prisoner accused of abduction and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act registered at Dabhoi police station. On Friday afternoon, he went to the bathroom behind barrack 4 of Sardar yard and hanged himself using a towel. Police officials said that a jail sepoy noticed Vasava hanging in the bathroom during a routine checking in the afternoon. “Vasava had returned from SSG Hospital after a routine medical check-up around noon and three hours later he ended his life,” said assistant commissioner of police Megha Tevar. A case of accidental death was registered at Raopura police station. A native of Dabhoi taluka and working as a diamond worker in Surat, Vasava had allegedly kidnapped a 15-year-old girl from his village by luring her with marriage promise. He was arrested in January and since then he had been in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/undertrial-hangs-self-in-central-jail/articleshow/75925857.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer admn on its toes after spurt in cases among returnees||Ajmer: With increasing cases of migrant labourers testing positive after their return from other states, the district administration is putting all efforts to control the spread in rural areas. In the last 10 days, over 40 positive cases have been reported from different villages of the district. The infected people had returned from Maharashtra, Gujarat and other South Indian states. The district administration has now started random sampling. On Saturday, samples of sub-divisional officer Devika Tomar were also taken as she was continuously working at quarantine centres and managing migrant labourers for the last 10 days. Kishangarh, Arai Bhawata, Nasirabad and Jaswantpura have also reported cases among returning migrants. “We have made quarantine centres at every block and panchayat-level. We are monitoring every person entering the villages,” said Gaurav Agwaral, ADA commissioner and district nodal officer for quarantine centres. In Bhawata, a labourer returned from Maharashtra and came in contact with his family. Later, his 9-year-old daughter was found positive. Official sources said in the next 10 days, thousands of labourers from different states are expected to return to their homes and therefore it is important to keep vigilance. In the last four days, three women from Rahaman Keda, Pisanghan, and Leswa village were found positive while four men from Pushkar, Jaswantpura, Pisanghan and Leswa tested positive. Meanwhile, a 45-year-old man died in JLN Hospital on Friday night. He was not tested for coronavirus and therefore his body is kept for autopsy. The man was admitted to JLN Hospital on May 18. The Covid-19 centre of Ajmer on Saturday issued a statement saying that there are 145 suspected patients admitted in the hospital and 43 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-admn-on-its-toes-after-spurt-in-cases-among-returnees/articleshow/75927921.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops honoured for their service to curb contagion||Udhagamandalam: The horticulture department honoured police personnel at a function that was organized at the government botanical garden in Ooty on Saturday as part of its ongoing drive of felicitating frontline workers who are fighting to curb the novel coronavirus spread in the Nilgiris.The botanical garden, which is in full bloom, was opened just for the function that was attended by district superintendent of police V Sasi Mohan and about 50 other police officials by maintaining social distancing norms. They were honoured with a rose. With 15,000 flowerpots on display, the garden offered them a spectacular view.Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department, said, “We are honouring the people who are working to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic. In the coming weeks, other frontline workers such as conservatory workers will be honoured. We are strictly following the standard operating procedures.”In the previous weeks, the horticulture department had honoured health sector, district administration and revenue officials.The botanical garden was closed for public in the last week of March, following Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-honoured-for-their-service-to-curb-contagion/articleshow/75927088.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur hottest in Maharashtra, 4th in country & 10th in world||NAGPUR: Nagpur was the hottest city in the state on Saturday when it recorded maximum temperature of 46.5 degree Celsius, which was the fourth highest in the country and 10th in the world. The maximum temperature was nearly four degrees above the normal mercury levels. The minimum temperature too saw a rise on Saturday, which was 28.2 degree Celsius. According to the met department, Pilani in east Rajasthan was the hottest place in the country with a maximum temperature of 46.67 degree Celsius. As per El Dorado Weather website, Nagpur was the 10th hottest city in the world on Saturday. The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, has forecasted further increase in the temperature in the coming days. It has also issued a heatwave warning for the next three days. Temperatures are expected to be more than 45-46 degree Celsius and citizens are advised to stay indoors. Nights are going to be hotter as minimum temperatures are expected to reach 29-30 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-hottest-in-state-4th-in-country-10th-in-world/articleshow/75927975.cms||Manka Behl
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Retired military personnel reach out to those in need||Secunderabad: Retired military personnel settled at a colony in Vapuri spread over 50 acres between Neredmet and A S Rao Nagar have been implementing preventive measures to fight the spread of Covid-19. “When, the pandemic broke out, Vayupuri undertook strict measures to ensure social distancing and sanitisation,” T J Reddy, president of Air Force Officers Cooperative Housing Society, Vayupuri, told TOI. “Our military community provided free ration kits to casual employees, employees in nurseries and security personnel, too. The Society, has also extended its support to Telangana Red Cross Society in distributing immunity enhancing medication to our Colony’s residents,” he added. Vayupuri is a co-operative housing society founded in 1960 to house Air Force officers and has a total of 210 individual plots comprising 28 buildings on commercial use and another 172 residential buildings with 224 independent households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retired-military-personnel-reach-out-to-those-in-need/articleshow/75928028.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur police’s 16-bedded isolation facility ready||NAGPUR: City police have geared up to face the Covid-19 onslaught on its force against the backdrop of four deaths and almost 100 personnel getting infected by the disease in the state. The police have readied a 16-bedded isolation facility at its hospital located on the headquarters premises in Takli. Moreover, four private hospitals have also been roped in at Teka Naka, Kamptee Road, Lakadganj and Ramdaspeth where police personnel could be treated. City police chief BK Upadhyay is also learnt to have sanctioned purchase of rapid test kits, which would be made available at Takli hospital, which is already equipped with digital X-ray machine. Infrared thermometers have also been provided to Zonal DCPs and pulse-cum-oxygen level readers to ACPs to conduct screening during their visits. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer at police hospital, said the CP has ordered the Control Room to broadcast special instructions and awareness messages from police doctors whenever required. “Special teams of doctors have been visiting police stations, checkpoints and other places where the cops have been deployed to disseminate information and create awareness about Covid-19,” he said. “ The Nagpur chapter of Indian medical association (IMA) has assured to extend help to the Nagpur police hospital and with their help we can arrange uptpo 10 ventilators within 30 minutes,” said Shinde Dr Shinde also said immunity booster doses, including homeopathic medicines, have been provided to the personnel. “We have not only distributed PPE kits, sanitizers, face-shields and gloves but also created awareness among the cops about its use,” he said. In a latest instruction, Dr Shinde has urged the personnel to report any sickness or uneasiness experienced by him or her while on duty and refrain from getting admitted on their own. “We have maintained medical records of more than 8,600 personnel at our hospital and the data can be made available for any check-ups or treatment at any point of time,” he said. Dr Shinde attributed the preparation to fight Covid within the force to CP Upadhyay, joint CP Ravindra Kadam and DCP, headquarters, Vikram Sali. “There is no stigma attached to this disease and we have made it clear to our personnel not to waste time or panic with simple cold and cough,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-polices-16-bedded-isolation-facility-ready/articleshow/75928008.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dara Shukoh’s cenotaph found? Official claims ‘101% certainty’||New Delhi: A South Delhi Municipal Corporation official claims to have identified Mughal prince Dara Shukoh’s cenotaph. He has done it independent of the expert committee set up by the central government for precisely this objective. Experts aren’t too sure about Sanjeev Kumar Singh’s “101% certainty” about the find, and all eyes are now on the expert panel. Singh, an assistant engineer with the municipal corporation, said he was intrigued by the mystery around the final resting place of Dara Shukoh, the eldest son of Emperor Shah Jahan. Historians have maintained that the mortal remains of the prince were interred in an unknown crypt at Humayun’s Tomb, and so his grave is unidentifiable and could be any among the many graves in the lower level of the mausoleum. Some of these graves have open-air cenotaphs on the first-floor terrace . But after two-and-a-half years of research, Singh thinks otherwise. “I compared the available evidence, but two specifics caught my attention,” he told TOI. “One, a reference in Alamgirnamah saying Prince Dara was buried next to the graves of Prince Daniyal and Prince Murad, Emperor Akbar’s sons, and the second, Emperor Aurangzeb ordering repairs to Dara’s grave, putting a chaddar over it, and appointing caretakers.” Singh studied the cenotaphs in the antechambers of the Humayun mausoleum. “In one antechamber, there are three cenotaphs belonging to men. One of the three is different. It has a flower motif on top of the mihrab, which the other two lack. Even the mihrab design differs slightly from the others and appears to belong to the Shah Jahan period,” Singh said. Dr Syed Jamal Hasan, retired Archaeological Survey of India director and member of the central government’s committee to identify Dara’s grave, told TOI that the design might be different but it was difficult to say for certain that the cenotaph belonged to the prince in the absence of any writing on the cenotaph indicating as such. “Because of the Covid lockdown, our committee is yet to visit the tomb crypt to analyse the graves there. Until we go and see it and match it with what the texts say, we cannot say anything,” Dr Hasan said. And what about the Alamgirnamah? TOI shared the reference cited from it with historians Supriya Gandhi of Yale University and Ali Nadeem Rezavi, former head of history department at Aligarh Muslim University and president of Aligarh Society of History and Archaeology. Both said the passage only said Dara “was buried in the tahkhana under the domed structure of the tomb, where Murad and Daniyal are also buried”. Gandhi, who recently wrote Dara Shukoh: The Emperor Who Never Was, relying on Persian sources, said, “Murad and Daniyal are certainly mentioned, but no exact location is identified. Moreover, the reference is to where he is interred, not where his tombstone is.” Prof Rezavi concurred. “The records only say he was buried in Humayun’s Tomb complex, not exactly where. For Aurangzeb to have a known grave for his brother would have been suicidal because Dara was a Sufi and public knowledge of his tomb would have turned it into a Sufi shrine,” he said. Singh also referred to Sir Jadunath Sarkar’s monumental work, A History of Aurangzib, to say Emperor Aurangzeb had, on September 5, 1669, ordered repairs to Dara’s tomb, placing of a chaddar over it and appointment of caretakers. Gandhi said, “News reports from Alamgir's court suggest that Dara's grave had a visible tombstone covered with a shroud. Even so, it is difficult to use the ornate, literary text of chronicles to identify the exact location of the grave. There is a history of misreading rhetorical statements in chronicles such as Amal-i Salih as literal descriptions of Dara Shukoh’s burial place.” While adding that 20th century local tradition held Dara's tombstone to be on the terrace of Humayun’s tomb, she asserted, “It’s not, however, the one with the cleft stone that is today popularly associated with the prince.” Rezavi said historical sources had to be read with caution. “It is for a reason that historians have maintained it’s not possible to identify the grave on the basis of literary evidence. This latest research is conjecture. That’s fine, but as a historian I am sceptical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dara-shukohs-cenotaph-found-official-claims-101-certainty/articleshow/75928015.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||SVP says ‘sorry’ for patient goof-up||Ahmedabad: The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (SVP) Hospital on Saturday issued an apology after a Covid-19 positive man was discharged from the hospital on the basis of a negative report that actually belonged to another person of the same name. The hospital management directed its medical teams to exercise special precaution while dealing with common names. The management of the AMC run SVP Hospital stated that the human error had been rectified soon, with the wrongly discharged person brought back and admitted to the facility within hours. “On Thursday, the hospital received reports of samples of two patients with the same name within five hours. The hospital received the first report at around 2 pm which was negative. Based on this, one of the two with the same name was discharged,” the hospital said in a statement. “However, the report of the sample of the second patient with the same name was received at around 7 pm and it was positive. Only after the second report was received was it realized that the patient, who was discharged in had tested positive,” said the hospital statement .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svp-says-sorry-for-patient-goof-up/articleshow/75927133.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: SHO commits suicide in Churu||JAIPUR: Vishnudutt Bishnoi, the SHO of Rajgarh in Churu district, hanged himself at his government residence early on Saturday. Police have recovered two suicide notes, but none of them specify the reason for suicide barring that he was under stress. Sources claim the reason apparently was office politics which he also shared with his colleagues, though seniors claimed they have not found anything in this regard. According to preliminary investigation, neighbours broke open Bishnoi’s door after he did not come out of his house till late on Saturday morning. Churu SP Tejaswini Gautam said, “The officer went home after work around 3am on Saturday and hung himself. We found two suicide notes. While one was addressed to his parents asking them to look after his wife and two children, the other one said he was under stress and no one is to be blamed for his death.” Bishnoi was liked by his seniors and colleagues. He was credited with improving the condition of several police stations, claimed officials. He stayed alone in Churu while his family resided in Suratgarh. As soon as the news of his death spread, people gathered to protest outside the police station demanding an inquiry into the matter. A WhatsApp message started doing the rounds following Bishnoi’s death in which he had apparently written to his friend claiming that he was stuck in ‘internal politics’ at his workplace. “Bishnoi was a very good officer and was stressed due to some issue at office which he had written to his friend about. The matter needs to be thoroughly investigated”, said a colleague on the condition of anonymity. DGP Bhupendra Singh has ordered CID-CB inquiry into the suicide and a team was sent to Churu to investigate the case. “Our team has already reached Churu and will investigate all aspects of the case including the reason that the deceased officer was stressed about,” B L Soni, ADG, CID-CB, told TOI. Meanwhile the deceased cop’s family refused to take his body and demanded a CBI enquiry into the death. CM Ashok Gehlot and deputy CM Sachin Pilot condoled Bishnoi’s death on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sho-commits-suicide-in-churu/articleshow/75928059.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mangaluru||5 discharged in DK, equal number test positive in DK, Udupi||Mangaluru/Udupi: Two families – one each in Kasba village in Bantwal and Boloor in MCC limits—heaved a big sigh of relief on Saturday, when five of their family members were discharged from Wenlock Hospital. While the duo from Boloor are relatives of P-536, the district’s fourth patient who succumbed to Covid-19, the trio from Kasba are relatives of P-390, the first person to succumb to Covid-19 in the district on April 19. The patients designated P-658 and P-675 are the son-in-law and daughter of P-536, respectively. Incidentally, P-579, the husband of P-536, and her grand-daughter (P-674) were discharged earlier this week. The family was infected by the novel coronavirus after they took care of an ailing P-536 who suffered from TB meningitis. The patient had undergone treatment at First Neuro Hospital in Padil, which was the epicentre of a cluster outbreak, and a declared a supervised isolation centre. The patients designated P-777, P-778 and P-779 from Kasba village were also discharged, and they are all primary or secondary contacts of P-390. Residing in the same neighbourhood as P-390, the trio are all contacts of P-578, who is related to P-390. In a relief to people from Kasba village, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh on Friday partially modified the containment zone, shrinking the area, after people there protested their total and forced isolation from ther rest of the world since April 19. Dakshina Kannada district recorded three positive Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including that of P-1783, who committed suicide at a quarantine centre at Moodbidri on Thursday. He tested positive for the disease after his suicide. Others to test positive are P-1810, a 41-year-old woman who was diagnosed with an influenza-like Illness. The other person who tested positive is a 30-year-old man (P-1811), who returned from Maharashtra. In neighbouring Udupi, while a 34-year woman (P-1931), who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19, the authorities have initiated contact tracing to find the source of infection of two other men – one aged 40 and another aged 49—who were designated P-1940 and P-1941, respectively, in the state bulletin. With this, while Dakshina Kannada district is left with 34 active cases, Udupi which was one a declared green zone, has 49 active cases. Quarantine facilities stretched to limits Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said lack of local testing facilities has stretched the district’s quarantine facilities to their limits, as Udupi has received around 8,010 people from various states, who have been placed under institutional quarantine. As per a government directive, swab samples must be taken twice in 14 days and tested, and only then can the returnees be sent home, if they test negative. However, non-availability of laboratories has prolonged their quarantine period, he said. To date, 3,600 swab samples have been sent to Yenepoya Medical College at Deralakatte, SIMS, Shivamogga and Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. Recently, KMC Manipal too has started to test samples. Within 15 days, equipment worth Rs 2 crore will be brought to the district hospital to set up a testing lab, he said. The district will not permit any fresh batch of people to return, till such time that the present lot in quarantine are sent home, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/5-discharged-in-dk-equal-number-test-positive-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/75924767.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Industrial activity picks up, labour shortage a hurdle||Nagpur: Industrial activity is gradually picking up in Vidarbha but many units are facing shortage of skilled labour due to the exodus of their workers. With the central government starting regular trains for migrant workers, more skilled staffers are going home. Madhusudan Rungta, president of MIDC Industries’ Association, Chandrapur, said that only 50% sponge iron units were running in the city because of shortage of skilled workers. “Most of the workers who operate the furnace and make steel billets are from outside the state. Many of them have gone home and are not in a mood to return. We are trying our best to persuade them. The government should give them incentives to return to work,” he told TOI. The industrialist further said that textile, construction and power sectors were also facing problems as 30% of their workforce had left. Suresh Rathi, president of Vidarbha Industries’ Association (VIA), said that between 50% and 60% industries had started functioning in the region. “All export-oriented units (EOU) are working. However, most of us are facing labour shortage. We have replaced unskilled migrant workers with local ones but it will take a long time to train locals in skilled work. We have urged the Nagpur collector to train locals in ITIs, polytechnic, etc to do skilled industrial work so that this problem does not arise in the future,” said Rathi. While the government was providing 20% additional working capital without hassles, many industrialists are in a dilemma whether to take loans because they may not get orders later and would have to pay back loans. “The state government should waive off fixed charges of MSEDCL for the lockdown period. We will have to pay three months’ charges at one go and this is a big worry for us,” added Rathi. Nitin Lonkar, president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA), said that most of the workers in Butibori were locals but those living in Wardha district were unable to join work due to ban on inter-district travel. “About 75% to 80% factories have started operations. We mostly supply to the power, mining and cement sectors and hence we are facing order problems,” he added. Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries’ Association, Hingna, said that most of the workers were from Nagpur district and hence labour shortage was not much of a problem. “Some employees are unable to get travel passes. Industries are working at 30% to 40% capacity as there are no fresh orders. We are completing the orders received before lockdown. The government should give us 50% of working capital as 20% is insufficient,” said Shegaonkar. Rajkumar Bilala, president of Akola Industries’ Association, said that as most of the industries were food processing ones, they were not shut down. “However, we are facing labour shortage as workers have gone back to Madhya Pradesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/industrial-activity-picks-up-labour-shortage-a-hurdle/articleshow/75927140.cms||Ashish Roy
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||Three found hanging in separate incidents in Pilibhit district||PILIBHIT: Three people were found hanging in two villages under Bilsanda police station and a village under Deuria Kotwali police station on Saturday morning. The bodies have been sent for the autopsy to ascertain the cause of their deaths. According to police, they have not received any complaint in any of the cases. Bilsanda police station SHO Naresh Kumar Kashya said the two victims were identified as Farookh (26), a resident of Bilsanda town, and Puran Lal (27) of Bhainpur village — both were found hanging from trees. According to locals, Puran was suffering from certain diseases for a long time and he was under acute mental pressure due to his illness and over lost sustenance during the lockdown, said police. Deuria kotwali SHO Sanjeev Upadhyay said a 44-year-old resident of Deokalia village was found hanging from a tree outside the village. The SHOs said that they were waiting for the autopsy reports to take further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-found-hanging-in-separate-incidents-in-pilibhit-district/articleshow/75924839.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chennai||No takers for train isolation wards, coaches being restored||CHENNAI: Looks like the railways’ converting several sleeper class coaches into isolation wards for suspected Covid-19 cases was a misplaced plan. With no takers for the train isolation wards, railways has started to turn them back into coaches. The move comes as there is a huge demand for running shramik special trains to move guest workers and Southern Railway is also considering to run trains within Tamil Nadu, excluding Chennai. Work has begun at railway yards. Railway Board has instructed the zone to remove all fancy taps, mosquito nets, dustbins, plastic curtains, fire extinguishers, buckets, mugs and stools added to bathrooms, said an official. Middle berths that were removed to make space in coupes for patients will be reinstalled. The coaches that will be restored will be used to run around 10 trains for guest workers. Southern Railway spent several lakhs of rupees and converted around 500 sleeper class coaches into isolation wards, which was the highest target given to a zone by the railway board. The work was completed during the lockdown in record time. Railway staff worked almost round the clock at yards and maintenance workshops for the project. Middle berths were removed, two toilets of a coach were converted into bathing rooms with expensive fixtures after sealing the Indian commode with floor panels, plastic curtains were installed in the bays, provision was made to install ventilators in each coupe. In Chennai division alone, 50 coaches were converted into isolation wards at an approximate cost of Rs 20 lakh. Though railways publicized the initiative and also requested the government to use them, the state government did not come forward to do so. Southern Railway too was hesitant to use the coaches to house passengers from Delhi, who arrived by Rajdhani Express on May 16, after the state government sent a letter to the ministry saying railways should quarantine the passengers till tests can be done. A senior railway official said, “Only coaches that are needed to run trains will be converted for trains. The ministry has now said there will be 2,600 special services for guest workers. Two to three trains depart almost every day from MGR Central as shramik specials.” The railway ministry has also said the coaches can be changed back to isolation coaches if there is a need in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-takers-for-train-isolation-wards-coaches-being-restored/articleshow/75927145.cms||V Ayyappan
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Pregnant woman tests positive in Ooty||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A pregnant woman, who had returned to Ooty from Vyasarpadi in Chennai two days ago, has tested positive for Covid-19. She is admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. According to Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, as the woman was in Chennai for the past nine months the case has been added to the Covid-19 tally of state’s capital city. Into seven months of her pregnancy, the woman had come to Ooty to be with her parents for the delivery. However, Fingerpost area in Ooty, where the woman stayed at her parents’ house for a day, has been sealed and declared a containment zone. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, said throat swabs and blood samples were being collected from the woman’s primary contacts. “We are also monitoring Fingerpost area.” Meanwhile, one of the two active Covid-19 patients from the Nilgiris was discharged from the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, where he was undergoing treatment, after he tested negative for the virus twice. Presently, the district has only one active case - a woman from Kozhikarai in Nanjanadu panchayat – and two containment zones. The woman was a primary contact of an earlier patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pregnant-woman-tests-ve-in-ooty/articleshow/75927151.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||World turtle day: Forest authorities begin turtle conservation in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: On wold turtle day, Pilibhit forest authorities have begun the conservation of various species of turtles in the district, which has a sizable population of turtle — the presence of important species and their biodiversity— in Uttar Pradesh after the Chambal region. The conservation plan envisages identification of turtle habitats, their documentation and enforcement of conservation strategies. According to studies and surveys conducted by notable institutes such as Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), out of the total 15 species of turtles found in UP, Pilibhit is home of as many as 13 species. According to Shailendra Singh, India program director at TSA, a US-based international organisation, the world is saturated with as many as 356 species of turtles, of which 29 are found in different parts of India.“Pilibhit has been given special precedence as 13 species are found here, of which seven species, including the Indian softshell turtle, Indian hill turtle, peacock softshell turtle and painted roofed turtle, have been enlisted in Schedule - I of the Indian Wildlife Act. Unfortunately, all these species have at present been categorised as endangered,” said Singh. Singh further said, “The conservation of turtles in India is an inevitable need as certain species like spotted pond turtle, three-striped roofed turtle and yellow tortoise, which had once remarkable presence in Indian with no immediate risk to their existence, has now been entered the ‘Red-list’ of France-based the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in just 10 years.”“On world turtle day, the TSA has evolved a concept called ‘keeping common species common’, encapsulating the inherent meaning of enforcing heedful conservation strategies far before the wild species reach the edge of endangered status.”Singh divulged that Pilibhit-Kheri region was among the five most sensitive regions that had been identified by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) the previous year from the viewpoint of turtle trading.Pilibhit Tiger Reserve field director H Rajamohan said that he had recently been provided with over 1,000 wetlands in Pilibhit by the Wetland Authority of UP. “In coordination with the district administration, we will soon begin the identification of turtle habitats in these wetlands. In the next phase, a comprehensive list of identified wetlands will be sent to the state forest department for inclusion in the official records.”“We will lay our focus primarily on Mala and Khannaut rivers, Sharda Sagar dam and Phulhar lake, which have identified wetlands with an abundance of important species of turtles,” he said. “We will coordinate with TSA for expert guidance, technical support and capacity building of official workforce as well as with local stakeholders as the need to comprehend the conservation of turtle species as a challenge was felt,” added Rajamohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/world-turtle-day-forest-authorities-begin-turtle-conservation-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75924810.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold stolen from TTD JEO’s home||Tirupati: Thieves broke into the residence of TTD’ joint executive officer P Basant Kumar on Saturday and decamped with valuables. With construction work underway at the residence, thieves managed to sneak into the premises of the bungalow through the compound wall, which was being repaired, said police. The burglars then entered the house through the windows and decamped with 18 tolas of gold and silver articles. Following the incident, SV University police along with TTD’s vigilance and security department sleuths inspected the JEO’s official residence and deployed a dog squad to gather clues. A case has been registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-stolen-from-ttd-jeos-home/articleshow/75927143.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government officer suspended over Sikkim gaffe||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Saturday suspended an officer of the Directorate of Civil Defence headquarters after an advertisement disrespecting the territorial integrity of the union of India triggered a controversy. The advertisement was issued for enrolment of volunteers for civil defence corps where one of the eligibility criteria was that the person should be a “citizen of India or a subject of Sikkim or of Bhutan or of Nepal and a resident of Delhi.” Over it, the chief secretary of Sikkim wrote a letter to the Delhi chief secretary stating that the advertisement is immensely hurtful to the people of Sikkim who take pride in being the citizens of our great country. In the letter written to Vijay Dev, S C Gupta demanded withdrawal of the advertisement and a suitable communique to assuage the feelings of the people of Sikkim. A senior officer of Directorate of Civil Defence (HQ) has been suspended with immediate effect for publishing an Ad… https://t.co/eveZ7r7SzA— LG Delhi (@LtGovDelhi) 1590243925000Delhi government has withdrawn the advertisement, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday evening. “Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and action taken against the officer concerned,” said the CM. Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and act… https://t.co/Jq6gKI1YKu— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1590244396000Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal took to Twitter to state: “A senior officer of Directorate of Civil Defence (HQ) has been suspended with immediate effect for publishing an advertisement which disrespects the territorial integrity of India by making incorrect reference to Sikkim on the same lines as some neighbouring countries.” The LG added in another tweet: “Zero tolerance for such gross misconduct! Direction has also been given immediately to withdraw the offensive advertisement.” The piece of advertisement was issued by the Directorate of Civil Defence of Delhi government. Hours after it appeared, several BJP and Congress functionaries objected to the controversial advertisement. Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said that Sikkim has been described as a separate country in the advertisement and asked if Delhi government does not remember that Sikkim is also an integral state of India. Tiwari added that “Sikkim is a state of India and the people of Sikkim are citizens of India.” A Delhi government functionary accepted that it was a human error. "The official concerned directly copied from the Civil Defence Regulations, 1968 (amended in 1971 and 1973) issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, which talks about the eligibility criteria for appointment to the Civil Defence Corps. We have suspended him," the government functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/officer-suspended-over-sikkim-gaffe/articleshow/75928078.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Malls may not be as cool when they reopen for business||CHENNAI: For 31-year-old Durgesh Haridas, summers has always been about beating Chennai’s heat in the air-conditioned malls. Once the lockdown ends, however, he may think twice before entering them as malls will be completely different in the post-Covid world and air-conditioning may not be their strongest attraction. Closed for around two months now, companies running malls have chalked out a detailed strategy for physical distancing, disinfection, use of air-conditioners. When malls in the city reopen after the government gives a green signal, you can’t enter them without a mask or if the thermal CCTV cameras sense an abnormally higher body temperature. Fewer people can use elevators, while one many have to queue up outside retail stores ensuring physical distancing. Mall owners realise that the centralised air-conditioning is a unique selling proposition bringing in visitors, not all shop. “This is why we have hired a HVAC (heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning) consultant to guide us. 70-80% of the air will be fresh,” said Pooja Patti, centre director of Phoenix Marketcity, which also owns the Palladium mall. The AC will be disinfected and air ducts sanitised once every two hours, she says. The centre head of VR Chennai also stressed that frequency of cleaning of ACs would be increased and an average temperature recommended for combating the spread of virus would be maintained. Suresh Singaravelu, executive director at Prestige group which owns the Forum mall, says patrons would have to download Arogya Setu app, which has a self-declaration for not having Covid-19, apart from thermal screening at entry points. “We plan to regulate entry based on footfalls,” he said. Tables at the food courts will be spaced out, which would in essence reduce capacity, Suresh said. Apparel stores would be encouraged to avoid use of trial rooms; in case they are used, the clothes would have to be steamed and used only two days later, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/malls-may-not-be-as-cool-when-they-reopen-for-biz/articleshow/75927152.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Airports in North Karnataka set to resume operation from Monday||HUBBALLI: The airports in Hubballi, Belagavi and Kalaburagi in the North Karnataka region will resume domestic passenger flight service from Monday. The service will be resumed in a calibrated manner as per the norms laid down by the ministry of civil aviation to contain the spread the Covid-19. Star Air, SpiceJet, IndiGo, and other operators have prepared the ground to operate their flights to various destinations after a gap of more than two months. Speaking to TOI, Belagavi airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya said, “We have taken care of seating, screening and other arrangements as per the norms to maintain social distancing at the airport premises. Health officials will conduct thermal screening and other routine checks as per standard operating procedure for passenger movement issued by the government.” A nodal officer from the district health screen the passengers arriving from Mumbai, Pune and other states. They will be placed under institutional quarantine as per the norms set by the government. IndiGo airline has finalised its schedule to operate its flight to Hyderabad from Belagavi on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday which arrives and departs at 9.20am and 9.50am respectively, while Alliance Air will operate flights to Pune which will arrive and depart at 1.15pm and 2pm on all the days except Sundays. SpiceJet will operate its flights to Hyderabad which will arrive and depart at 5.22pm and 5.55pm and also to Mumbai which will arrive and depart at 11.50am and 12.10 noon respectively. TruJet will also operate flights to Mysuru and Hyderabad. “I have accepted this schedule and now awaiting for the final approval from DGCA which is expected to give its nod soon”, the official added. Hubballi airport director Pramod Kumar Thakre said all necessary arrangements have been made as per SOP/guidelines issued by MOCA. “Star Air is willing to resume services for Hindan and Bengaluru from Hubballi and we may operate with DGCA approval. We are now awaiting for a final schedule approved by DGCA,” he said. Sources from Kalaburagi Airport confirmed that Star Air is all set to resume its service to Bengaluru from Monday with approval from DGCA. Belagavi DHO Dr Shashikanth Munnyal said, “A team of officers will be present at airport to conduct health screening. Passengers arriving from high-risk states will be sent for institutional quarantine for seven days and then for home quarantine if their tests turned negative. If any passenger gives a wrong information, he/she will be prosecuted as per the norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/airports-in-north-ktaka-set-to-resume-operation-from-monday/articleshow/75924844.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal may have three rack points for fertilizer transportation||YAVATMAL: Two more railway rack points at Nanded and Chandrapur besides the existing one at Dhamangaon in Amravati district will expedite transportation of fertilizers for farmers of the district, announced district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod after attending a review meeting on the kharif season via video conferencing. Tehsils of Umarkhed, Mahagaon, Pusad and Digras will get supply from Nanded while Wani, Maregaon and Zari jamni will have Chandrapur as the source. The remaining tehsils of Pandharkawda, Ralegaon, Darwha, Kalamb, Arni, Ner, Babhlulgaon, Ghatanji and Yavatmal will get fertilizers from Dhamangaon. The district needs 1,66,469MT fertilizers for kharif sowing. A month ago, Rathod had announced that a well-equipped virus diagnostic research laboratory (VDRL) would start functioning from May 10 in the local government medical college (GMC). He also claimed to have got Rs. 2.5crore sanctioned from three sources. Despite all the publicity, there seems to be no signs of the lab functioning. A four-member panel of experts had visited the GMC and other Covid-19 care centres two weeks ago. They, too, instructed the GMC authorities to acquire the necessary equipment and start the laboratory immediately. District collector M D Singh said that although funds have been transferred to the account of the Hauffkin Institute of Pune, the latter is delaying the delivery of the equipment by saying it is yet to arrive from Singapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-may-have-three-rack-points-for-fertilizer-transportation/articleshow/75928104.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||4-member gang attacks, robs inmates of lodge||Coimbatore: A four-member gang entered a lodge at Saravampatti around 4pm on Saturday and robbed two couples and as many youths of gold ornaments, mobile phones and cash at knifepoint. The gang also assaulted them and four staff members before escaping from the lodge. All the injured are admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Police said the lodge was located at Chinna Mettupalayam near Saravampatti. “Around 4pm, four people with masks on their faces entered the lodge, damaged CCTV cameras. They assaulted the couples and youths and decamped with their valuables. They also took away the digital video recorder.” When the lodge staff members Sivakumar, Daniel, Narasimmarajan and Tamilarasan tried to stop the gang, they were also assaulted. The staff alerted the Saravampatti police, who asked all the check posts to conduct vehicle checks. Police officials said the staff, couples and youths had given them contradictory statements. “We are investigating various angles. We are trying to establish whether the couples and youths are having any previous enmity with others,” an officer said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-member-gang-attacks-robs-inmates-of-lodge/articleshow/75927158.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Delhi||OBE answer to exam question, says Delhi University||NEW DELHI: At the April 13 video conference between Delhi University’s pro-vice-chancellor and deans to discuss online examinations, there were some disruptions due to internet glitches at the pro-VC’s end. A participating dean asked how, when such disruptions could take place in Delhi, students in villages and small towns could cope with online exams. Not surprisingly, 12 of the 16 deans voiced opposition to such an assessment system. A month later, Vinay Gupta, dean of examinations, issued circulars that DU would hold online open-book examinations (OBE). Not surprisingly, 12 of the 16 deans voiced opposition to such an assessment system. A month later, Vinay Gupta, dean of examinations, issued circulars that DU would hold online open-book examinations (OBE). The deans’ initial resistance to OBE has since grown into a bigger opposition. Recently, 15 heads of department expressed opposition, even as probably for the first time since the four-year undergraduate programme protests of 2013, DU’s teachers’ and students’ unions are on the same page in resisting OBE. The task force on examinations constituted by the university decided that 2.5 lakh final year undergraduate and postgraduate students of regular and distance learning institutions would have to sit for OBE. A dean who was at the April 13 meeting disclosed, “DU was to have waited for the UGC panel report on the matter, but a committee was formed with mostly representatives from the School of Open Learning. Then on May 13, a circular was issued on online exams, completely disregarding the administrative, technological and other practical problems as also the concerns of students.” The biggest worry is access to computers/laptops and reliable internet connectivity to be able to download question sheets and then scan and upload the answer scripts. Online access to reading materials is also a big problem. Online class attendance hasn’t been encouraging either. A St Stephen’s College teacher said, “Many of my students from the Northeast and parts of UP couldn’t attend online classes even once. They weren’t able to download reading materials due to connectivity problems.” As a solution, DU asked teachers to upload reading materials on its website. But as an HOD revealed, “On one occasion, when teachers tried to do just that, the website crashed. And everyone knows about the glitches in our portal during the annual admission process.” Rajesh Jha, member, Executive Council, asked, “How will you ensure the student is writing the exam? There is no invigilation for OBE.” However, alternatives such as calculating marks with 25% internal assessment or the average of the marks secured by the student in the previous semesters have been discarded. A taskforce committee member argued, “A student will be at a loss if exams were not held. Calculating averages will mean most students will have a similar range of marks.” As for Net accessibility, the panel member said DU was conferring with the Union electronics and information technology ministry. “At its district centres, the students will be provided with the facilities required to write the exams,” he said. But departmental heads — the people responsible for executing the exam process — have resolved the examinations will be held in offline mode in July. Their letter to the dean of examinations said, “In addition to students’ concerns, this imposed OBE has operational difficulties for HoDs, including preparing three sets of question papers for each subject, moderation of nearly a thousand question papers and uploading of question papers.” One of the HODs has also raised a legal question. “The exam process is part of the contract between the student and university and syllabus is the contract document. Syllabi undergo change through several processes in the statutory bodies before becoming a part of DU’s statute,” the head pointed out. “In that document, exam is defined as an offline three-hour, written test. Changes in this have to go through the same statutory process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/obe-answer-to-exam-question-says-du/articleshow/75927154.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Two Pinjra Tod activists arrested||NEW DELHI: Two women activists from Pinjra Tod have been arrested for their alleged involvement in the anti-CAA protests and subsequent violence that erupted in northeast Delhi in February. Natasha Narwal and Devangna Kalita along with their associates, including Jamia students Safoora Zargar and Meeran Haider, had allegedly led a group comprising scores of women to protest at the Jafrabad metro station. They had then blocked the Maujpur Road from February 21 onwards, said police. “As pressure mounted to vacate Shaheen Bagh, these accused and their associates planned to create a parallel gathering to coincide with the visit of the US president,” added police. Police sources told TOI that Narwal and Kalita were arrested from a south Delhi area by the northeast district police after their roles were established during the interrogation of other members of the group . Recently, RJD leader and Jamia student Meeran Haider and activists Safoora Zargar, Gulfisha, Asif Tanha and Safiur Rehman were arrested too which was opposed by many people. The activists of Pinjra Tod were under the scanner for a month after police found their role in the events preceding the riots. Police claim that the two accused women along with others had also incited a mob to launch an attack when the riots broke out. They were captured in a mobile footage . Narwal, who had pursued an MA in Philosophy from Delhi University, is now working full-time with the activist group. Police said that she had led the women’s march at Jafrabad in the morning of February 23, when the initial violence took place. She had then allegedly called several others to join the protest, they claimed. Kalita, also a former DU student, works with an NGO and joins the group during the protests. The two women and their associates are suspected to have mobilised at least 50-60 people who were later involved in the riots, said sources. Police have seized the mobile phone of both the activists and are scanning through their social media accounts to establish whether they were in touch with the miscreants who had later joined the arson. Police have identified a few more of their associates who will be soon questioned regarding their role in the riots. “Police did not give reasons to their family members for their arrest. Many students and activists have been arrested by Delhi Police in the last couple of months. We strongly condemn the witchhunt of activists and students being carried out by the state,” said a statement from Pinjra Tod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-two-pinjra-tod-activists-arrested/articleshow/75928094.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Bear attack leaves DFO hurt in Ajmer||AJMER: Deputy conservator of forests Sudeep Kaur was injured in a bear attack in a village of Jawaja block of Ajmer on Saturday evening. A team from Jaipur had reached Ajmer to catch the bear. Scared at being surrounded by many people, the bear attacked the team. Sudeep Kaur suffered a fracture and was referred to Ajmer for operation. According to sources, villagers of Jawaja block had made a complaint of bear sighting to the forest department. A team of the department confirmed that a bear from nearby Raila Tatgarh forest had strayed into the residential area. A team from Jaipur was informed who came with tranquilizer gun to Ajmer. On Saturday, DFO Kaur accompanied the team to catch the bear alive. DFO Kaur slipped and got injured while two more team members were injured in the attack. They were taken for treatment in Beawar. Sources said Sudeep Kaur underwent an operation in a private hospital of Ajmer. DFO Sudeep Kaur is the wife of Ajmer collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bear-attack-leaves-dfo-hurt-in-ajmer/articleshow/75928092.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘Withdraw order on power bill’||Jaipur: Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari on Saturday told energy minister B D Kalla that the decision of the state government to combine the electricity bills of three months and impose penalty has burdened the citizens facing crisis due to Covid. During a meeting with Kalla, Kumari said that it will be unfair to collect the interest and penalty on the deferred bills of March, April and May from the common people. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/withdraw-order-on-power-bill/articleshow/75928085.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||No heavy vehicular movement in Bareilly city in wake of Eid||Bareilly: With Eid-ul-Fitr round the corner, Bareilly traffic police on Saturday barred movement of heavy vehicles in the city in view of the festive rush which is likely during the weekend. Traffic police officers said traders in the city have been directed to get their vehicles to unload the consignment of goods on the main roads. The heavy vehicles will not be permitted to enter interior parts or lanes to avoid traffic congestion. Besides, heavy vehicles will not be permitted to take Choupla crossing route in Bareilly due to the ongoing flyover construction in the areaFor heavy vehicles, route diversions will remain in place till the festival ends. Four-wheelers going from Bareilly to Badaun, Kasganj, Agra and Mathura will move via Chowki crossing, Lal Phatak and Ramganga trisection during the festive period. Superintendent of police (traffic), Bareilly, Subhash Gangwar said, “In accordance with the instructions of the state government, markets in various districts were granted permission to open while adhering to social distancing norms. As a result, several prominent city markets have now been opened in the city. With Eid approaching, there will be significant footfall in public places like markets. To ensure that traffic movement remains smooth and roads remain free of congestion, we have imposed restrictions on the movement of heavy vehicles in the city during this period.” Gangwar added, “The traders and shopkeepers have also been directed to get their goods vehicles unloaded on main roads during the day time or transport the goods on light vehicles that do not cause traffic jams." Officials said in case of an emergency, traffic inspectors can be contacted by traders on 7839872740, 7839872743 in connection with plying of heavy vehicles within city limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-heavy-vehicular-movement-in-bareilly-city-in-wake-of-eid/articleshow/75924910.cms||Maria Khan
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Bhainsa victim’s treatment by MIM||Hyderabad: AIMIM on Saturday decided to bear the cost of the treatment of Bhainsa communal violence victim. A youngster was injured in a communal incident on May 10 in Bhainsa. AIMIM stated that some miscreants entered a religious place and attacked a few persons offering prayers. Party president Asaduddin Owaisi has paid for the treatment from Majlis Charitable and Relief Trust. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhainsa-victims-treatment-by-mim/articleshow/75927166.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Institutional quarantine reduced to seven days||Dharwad: The government has issued fresh guidelines for Covid-19, stating that the institutional quarantine has been reduced to seven days. Chairing a meeting of health taskforce here on Saturday, DC Deepa Cholan said that as per the new guidelines, the inter-state travellers arriving in the state from hotspot states should be kept under institutional quarantine compulsorily for seven days, and home-quarantined for the next seven days. Those coming for green states (having less positive cases) should be home-quarantined for 14 days. Those who are lodged at institutional quarantine facility and hotel quarantine and have completed seven days’ period should undergo Covid-19 testing on the seventh day. If they are asymptomatic, they should be discharged from institutional quarantine, she added. In the new guidelines, pregnant women, senior citizens aged 80 and above, medical professionals and law-enforcement agency personnel have been barred from institutional quarantine. Till May 22, as many as 1,515 were undergoing institutional quarantine in Dharwad district. Those who have completed seven days of institutional quarantine and whose have been tested negative should be freed from institutional quarantine, and be directed to undergo seven days of home quarantine. She further said that patients, who have availed over-the-counter medicines for fever, cold and cough, should be screened for Covid-19 and their identity should be included in the Health Watch app. Patients who have been registered o Arogya Sethu app with symptoms of Covid-19 should be identified and tested, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/institutional-quarantine-reduced-to-seven-days/articleshow/75924890.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chennai||After long halt, Chennai corporation resumes civic work to get monsoon-ready||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation is slowly resuming civic work that had piled up during the lockdown. Commissioner G Prakash held a meeting last week instructing all engineers and zonal officials to complete pending projects. Pre-monsoon work under the Chennai mega city development fund has started. Construction of drains in T Nagar under the smart city project began last week while 37 tenders have been floated for road restoration. Of the 47 ponds to be restored at Rs 103 crore cost, work has begun in 21 locations. Road restoration and stormwater drain construction has also begun in six zones. Under the smart city project, the corporation has started preparing detailed project report for the integrated transport management project, smart parking system and river restoration projects. Other World Bank-funded projects will be also be taken up, said an engineer. “Under the Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Fund, work on 674 bus route roads were to be taken up of which 164 had been completed. Work on 96 roads were ongoing, that will begin now,” said L Nandakumar, chief engineer. 4.4km stormwater drain work across several prime roads will begin. “We will resume restoration of 140 city lakes that had been halted due to the pandemic. With the schools to hold Class X board exams, we have also asked officials concerned to complete repair work in various schools,” said another official. Under the solid waste management, construction of a 50-tonne bio-CNG plant under a public—private partnership has begun. The private company will collect, process organic waste and profit from selling it. Work on Kodangaiyur incineration plant will begin this week. Social distancing, safety and hygiene will be maintained at all work sites. “All workers will be provided with masks, gloves and hand sanitisers,” said Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-long-halt-corpn-resumes-civic-work-to-get-monsoon-ready/articleshow/75927160.cms||Komal Gautham
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown effect: Rajasthan gets safer, crimes plunge||JAIPUR: Amidst the lockdown, cases registered under various categories of crime in the state have shown a decline by 51.16% in April 2020 as compared to April 2019. The cases registered also showed a remarkable decrease from March to April 2020 by 47.67%. Cases of theft, rape etc, are the ones which have shown a decrease. “Due to lockdown, people have been mostly inside their houses and crime has definitely seen a reduction as the lockdown has been strictly followed. Moreover, this indicates that during March and April this year, the crime rate has reduced as compared to the same two months last year,” said a senior police official. While the total number of cases registered in April 2019 was 15,786, the number reduced to nearly half in this year April with 7,710 cases being registered in 2020. The number of cases registered in March this year was 14,733, which indicated that in the second week of lockdown, crime indeed reduced. Official added, “The most interesting trend was as compared to April 2019, this year percentage of cases being registered in nearly all categories, except for dacoity, there was a reduction. Since March to April this year, in all categories there has been a reduction with highest decrease being in cases of theft, abduction and others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-effect-state-gets-safer-crimes-plunge/articleshow/75928097.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Some clueless about open book mode, many feel ‘left out’||NEW DELHI: In Jharkhand’s Chatra, Vivek Agarwal managed to sit through just five of the 25-odd online classes on contemporary economics conducted by Delhi University’s Satyawati College. It took 20 hours for St Stephen’s student Hamzah Mattoo to transfer a 3MB file as part of his April assignment from Srinagar, Kashmir. Sri Aurobindo (Evening) College student Rajesh Kumar has to climb to the roof of his house in Laxmangarh village in Sikar, Rajasthan, even to use his phone. All students of Delhi University, their struggles with phone and internet connectivity are examples of how the university’s open-book, online semester exams could prove a huge problem for those in a similar predicament. Close to 60% of DU’s students are in their hometowns, having left after the semester ended in March. With the opening of educational institutions unlikely soon, the university proposes to test its students through end-semester open-book examinations (OBE). There has been much protests against on social media, ironic given that for many students coming on social media to express concern is only a distant possibility. Internet connectivity is the backbone of the successful conduct of any online examination. Saima Bhat, a 3rd year BA(H) student at Kalindi College, left Delhi for Kashmir when the lockdown was announced. “We though it would be a short break and didn’t carry textbooks, and now there’s news of online exams,” worried Bhat. “We have no access to 4G connectivity, only 2G after the revocation of Article 370. How can we download PDF files? We have to submit practicals and assignments. It’s so uncertain here, and phone services are suspended immediately whenever something happens.” Her state mate Mattoo, a fourth semester BA Programme student, said, “I tried twice to connect on Zoom app for online classes but couldn’t. Anything over 5MB fails to download. Sitting for online exams won’t be possible. It’s not just the speed, both data and voice services have snapped three times in the last 15 days.” Kumar’s anxiety may not be about mobile telephony suspension. “I am taking your call from the rooftop because the network is unavailable inside the house,” he shouted into this correspondent’s phone. The son of a labourer and first-year student doesn’t know what OBE entails. “I hope my college conducts the exams whenever it opens,” is all he can say. Shashank Shekhar Gautam too left behind his books while returning home to Balia in UP near the Nepal border. The 2nd year economics (H) student of Satyawati College said, “For those financially underprivileged, the online system is not fair.” Agarwal adds that even evaluating students on internal assessments or previous exams is “unfair because of fluctuations in performances”. With confusion about OBE all around, a Manipuri student of Hindu College said, “When DU finalises its plan, I hope it’ll keep in mind the most underserved students on its rolls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/some-clueless-about-open-book-mode-many-feel-left-out/articleshow/75927161.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held with 50 cases of IMFL||Ahmedabad: The strike squad of Zone-5 DCP Ravi Teja on Saturday held two bootleggers, Vishal Rajput, 30, of Ramol and the driver of the vehicle, Shankhvar Chandrabhan, 25, of Amraiwadi with 50 cases of Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from Amraiwadi area of the city. Another bootlegger who was piloting the liquor loaded vehicle, Yogesh Shivpujan Gupta of Amraiwadi, is still absconding. Teja said they had been getting inputs over the last two or three days that Gupta, alias Daddu, who was member of ‘Lakda gang’, is going to smuggle IMFL into the city. “I had alerted my staff and asked them to keep a watch on him. On Saturday, while patrolling they got information that he has gone out in his car and is about to smuggle in a large quantity of IMFL,” Teja said. Police sources said they kept a watch near Sardarji Chawl and intercepted a pick-up van and seized 34 cases of IMFL. “We arrested Rajput and Chandrabhan from the pick-up van. On their interrogation it came to light that another 16 cases were kept at Daddu’s house. We carried out a raid and seized that stock too,” Teja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-with-50-cases-of-imfl/articleshow/75927213.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Small biz owners close ranks for revival||Coimbatore: Small business owners in the district have taken to Instagram to promote each other and revive the sagging businesses. Earlier this week, Instagram had announced a new feature - Support Small Business sticker - to help small businesses that were hit by lockdown. It allows one to promote a business by adding a story to the story feed with the Support Small Business sticker, ensuring more visibility. And the most trending Instagram hashtag in the district in the past one week was #smallbusinesses, which small business owners use to promote other small businesses, sometimes their direct competitors. Some of the first to catch up with the trend were well-known and popular bakers. Deepa Pathmanathan of Sweet Sprinkles, who gave a shout-out to some of the talented bakers she came across in the district and Chennai, was one of them. Aarudhra Giri of Café Gluttony says, “The link to my café’s page was shared a few times, but this initiative goes beyond just linking people to other small businesses. We truly want all our competitors to survive the crisis as well. In fact, now I link many of my customers to other businesses in my field for the orders that I can’t deliver.” A few business operators say the hashtag is motivating. According to them, it improves visibility and results in increased response. “While I may have 2,000 followers, when I tag six other local brands in my story and they reshare my post to thank me, I automatically increase viewership to my post. Even if some followers are common, thousands of new eyeballs are grabbed by supporting each other. It leads to more inquiries and response, which is much needed at times like this,” says Mirudhula Bharath of lil Amore, Baby and Kids Goods. Others say the initiative has opened many of them to local vendors, who they did not initially know about. They comprise local cocoa powder producers, vanilla essence makers and seasoning makers, etc. Saranya Balu, a dessert baker who has a page called The Happy Jar, says “I am considering a local brand of cocoa powder like Indian Natives, instead of the international brands that I usually use. I have also replaced a Kerala-based vanilla extract maker brand with a Pollachi-based brand.” The lockdown has made many people turn to local producers as a lifestyle choice, outside their businesses. Food scientist Srijanani Prasad says, “The support for local goes beyond our businesses too. When online platforms couldn’t ship during lockdown, we ended up trying many local body care brands like Vilvah and Bee Little. I am considering a local dressmaking brand too. They are as good as multi-national, corporate brands. Maybe more expensive, but they are more exclusive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-biz-owners-close-ranks-for-revival/articleshow/75927215.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 22 cases daily in Mumbai police, tally nears 900||MUMBAI: In the last 40 days, almost 900 city cops, including 137 officers, have tested positive for Covid-19, with 12 succumbing to the disease. On an average, 22 cops have tested positive daily since April 20, with the first death (of a head constable) occurring on April 25. The youngest cop to die was an assistant inspector aged 32 years. Till now, 136 of the 898 infected personnel, including 23 officers, have recovered. Mumbai’s police strength is 41,115, including 3,500 in traffic division. Senior officers say there are mainly two reasons why over 2% of them have been infected: bandobast duty in slums, which account for a disproportionate number of the city’s Covid-19 case load, and the fact that it’s difficult to perform police duties for long hours in PPE. The infection rate among those on duty is much higher than 2%, though, as many of the 41,115 cops are above 55 and are on leave because given their age, they are at increased risk of Covid-19. “The majority of those who tested positive were deployed in slum pockets, including those in Dongri, Kurla, Wadala and Bhendi Bazar,” said a police officer. The virus hasn’t spared any police department or region, whether it’s area police, crime branch, EOW, motor department, special branch, traffic or protection branch. The highest number of infected cops are from armed police, 196, followed by 157 from the central region (Worli, Parel, Byculla, Dadar, Kurla, Dharavi), 135 from west (Bandra, Andheri, Powai, Vile Parle, BKC), 135 from south (Colaba to Pydhonie), 65 from east (Mulund to Ghatkopar, Chembur to Trombay), and 45 from north (Dahisar, Borivli, Gorai, Goregaon, Kandivli). The worst-affected police stations are JJ Marg (46 cases), Sahar (28), Oshiwara (12), Wadala TT (8) and Vakola (6). In all 3,935 cops, including 366 officers, were placed in quarantine at isolation centres as of May 22, with the maximum from the armed police (1,237). A serving IPS officer told TOI that cops are exposed to the virus while dealing with different kinds of people. “They do not know who is a carrier and who is not. That’s not possible to know. Duty in slum pockets is not the only thing to blame. There are multiple factors, like the places where constables live and hygiene conditions in their surroundings,” he said. “The route a cop takes to reach the workplace also matters as does whether he or she uses a sanitizer on duty or washes hands frequently. The virus can be contracted through any means. We do not know who all are infected.” A senior officer said all the city cops who died of Covid-19 had comorbidities -- underlying health issues like diabetes and hypertension. Joint commissioner of police (administration) Naval Bajaj said the police are collecting details and trends to scientifically investigate how cops are contracting the virus. Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Pranaya Ashok said, “Each cop has been asked to take HCQ tablets, besides vitamins. Safety gear has been provided to all. Health details are collected daily.” Former state DGP Pravin Dixit said that instead of using batons and other repressive means for implementing the lockdown, the police should develop contacts with NGOs, social workers, local politicians, NCC cadets and community leaders to assist them in maintaining order. “This will help cops maintain social distancing themselves while they perform their duty,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/22-cases-daily-in-mum-police-tally-nears-900/articleshow/75929015.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Distribution of wheat doubled in April, May: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that an additional amount of Rs 114 crore was borne by the state government for the distribution of free wheat during the lockdown period. Wheat offtake from Food Corporation of India was tripled compared to normal during this period. Gehlot said that during the period of lockdown, dry ration and cooked food items were distributed to 3.7 crore helpless and needy people in the state through district administration. Migrants and other special category people who are not included in the list of food security scheme will be given 5kg wheat per person free for the next two months. He directed to prepare a database by conducting survey so that wheat could be distributed to them through fair price shops. The chief minister said that the names of ineligible people in the National Food Security Scheme (NFSA) list should be removed and names of those genuinely entitled should be included. The number of people associated with NFSA in urban areas, especially in Jaipur, is very low, so the names of eligible people should be surveyed in urban areas. He said that the Department of Food and Civil Supplies and the Department of Medicine and Health should take to task adulterants and black marketers. He also stressed on the up-gradation of POS machines to solve the problem of not getting network and taking long time for biometric verification. Gehlot appreciated the innovations adopted by the Department of Food and Civil Supplies and the distribution of door-to-door ration materials through fair price shopkeepers during Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/distribution-of-wheat-doubled-in-april-may-cm/articleshow/75928093.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Baby girl abandoned near dustbin rescued||Coimbatore: A newborn baby girl was found abandoned next to a dustbin near a private hospital at Periyar Colony in Tirupur in the early hours of Saturday morning. The district Childline operator has rescued the baby girl, who will be taken care of at the government hospital in Tirupur for the next couple of days. Chinnaswamy, Childline operator in Tirupur, said a man had called him up around 6am saying an abandoned newborn was found at Periyar Colony. According to the caller, he said, the baby was tightly wrapped in a white cloth and placed in a box near a dustbin in that area. “I rushed to the spot, where I was joined by the Anupurapalayam police, who took the baby to a nearby private hospital. Doctors said the baby was delivered just a couple of hours ago. They got a new mother to feed the baby girl, after which she was kept in incubator for three hours,” he said. Meanwhile, district child protection officials arrived at the hospital and the baby girl was shifted to the government hospital in Tirupur, where she is likely to be kept for 7 to 10 days to ensure she is free of any infections and is completely healthy. From the hospital, the baby will be moved to an orphanage for adoption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/baby-girl-abandoned-near-dustbin-rescued/articleshow/75927167.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chennai||No Tamil Nadu city on list of garbage-free spots||CHENNAI: No city/urban local body from Tamil Nadu feature in the list of star-rated garbage-free cities announced by the ministry of housing and urban affairs recently. In the list announced on Tuesday, for the year 2019-20, six cities were rated 5 star, 65 cities 3 star and 70 cities 1 star. More than 1,400 cities applied for the star rating, according to an official release. No metropolitan city in the country features in the list. Among the southern states, only Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have cities featuring in the list — Mysuru, Tirupati, Vishakapatnam, Vijayawada. The low number of certifications signifies the rigorous and robust certification protocol, the official release added. There is no clarity whether corporations and municipalities in Tamil Nadu applied for the star rating as neither the officials in Chennai Corporation nor the commissionerate of municipal administration (CMA) responded to queries about the star rating. The state has 15 corporations and 121 municipalities and 48% of the total population live in urban areas, according to the municipal administration and water supply department. The star rating protocol was launched by the ministry in January 2018 to institutionalize a mechanism for cities to achieve garbage-free status, and to motivate cities to achieve higher degrees of cleanliness, the release added. “The importance of sanitation and effective solid waste management has been brought to the forefront now due to the Covid-19 crisis,” said Hardeep S Puri, minister of state (in-charge). According to the protocol devised by the ministry, each ward in every city must achieve a certain standard across 24 different components of solid waste management (SWM), including components such as cleanliness of drains and water bodies, plastic waste management, managing construction and demolition waste and is graded based on overall marks received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-tn-city-on-list-of-garbage-free-spots/articleshow/75927169.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 3am tweet seeking help moves businessman||HYDERABAD: Businessman Rajendar Agarwal became somebody’s 3am friend even though he did not know them at all. Agarwal got up at 3.10 am on Saturday and in a little while noticed a tweet. The request moved him. He woke up his wife Neelam and they rushed to a hotel in Madhapur to help two pregnant women who needed financial assistance to hire a room for their quarantine on their return from Dubai. “It was a god-given opportunity to help them,” Agarwal told STOI. “We were just being human,” he said. Agarwal happened to read a tweet by social worker Amjed Ullah Khan that 10 passengers who arrived from Dubai were taken to a hotel on their arrival from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport but had no money to pay for the hotel stay. Among the passengers were women. Agarwal cleared the hotel stay bill of the two pregnant women. “The hotel allowed them to use their common facilities, served dinner and tea before I went. Later, they shifted them to a room while I was still there,” Agarwal said. Amjed Ullah Khan said Agarwal reached the hotel at 4am and paid Rs 22,500 towards the hotel bill. “This is real Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of Telangana,” he said thanking Agarwal for helping the two Muslim women. Amjed Ullah Khan said many passengers had arrived on Friday from Dubai and among them 10 had been taken to a hotel in Gachibowli. Two persons who were out of job since the last four months and affected due to lockdown are unable to pay Rs 15,000 being charged by the Telangana government for quarantine, he said. “They are not being allowed a room since Friday night and made to wait at the lobby. Someone kindly reach them as they need Rs 30,000 for two single rooms,” Amjed Ullah Khan had tweeted at 3 am. The joint family of Agarwal staying near Peddamma Temple at Jubilee Hills has been providing home-cooked meals to 10 homeless people since the lockdown near their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-am-tweet-seeking-help-moves-bizman/articleshow/75928095.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot condemns arrest of UPPC chief||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday condemned the arrest of Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Lalu for allegedly flouting lockdown rules for protesting against the UP government for not allowing buses from Rajasthan for migrant workers. CM Gehlot also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah to intervene in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-condemns-arrest-of-uppc-chief/articleshow/75928098.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Time robbed: Institutionalised children pine to return home||CHENNAI: It’s been a tough period for kids in child care institutions across the city. They usually return to their families during April-May, but have remained cooped up in the homes since March 24 when the lockdown began. Most of the children in such institutions have come to get an education and better upbringing. “I want to go see my mother,” says a 12-year-old girl who speaks to the older woman in Tirunelveli over phone every alternate day. The authorities agree children do get overwhelmed, especially when they speak to their parents over the phone. “We keep talking to them and explain the situation. It is a hard time for us all,” says Maya Gaitonde, general secretary and trustee of Balamandir Kamaraj trust. Joseph Leo, director of Don Bosco Anbu Illam, says they try to keep the children busy with various activities. “But there is only so much we can do. They still miss their parents.” However, since the lockdown relaxations were relaxed, a few parents on the city’s outskirts have been allowed to take their children home. There are more than 87,000 children in 1,600 homes across TN, the state with the most children’s homes. Most children in such homes are from dysfunctional families or have single parents. At the Madras Christian Council for Social Work, a few parents took their children home. For those left behind, says director Isabel Richardson, a plan was chalked out. “We started holding activities and competitions like cooking, painting, baking and dance. The children are now honing their creative potential and are fine.” Every week, district child protection units have been holding video conferences with children at every home in TN. “They are anxious and want to know more about the crisis. Regular interactions have been helping a lot,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/time-robbed-institutionalised-children-pine-to-return-home/articleshow/75927188.cms||Aditi R
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Historical structure demolished in Vizianagaram||Vizianagaram: The three lanterns pillar, which had silently witnessed the north-coastal Andhra region transforming from imperialism to democracy, was brought down by municipal authorities late on Friday night. While heritage activists criticise officials for pulling down the symbol of the Vizianagaram rajahs, municipal authorities have justified their action by saying that it will help ease traffic congestion.  Leaders of opposition parties staged protest on Saturday. Main opposition Telugu Desam alleged that the landmark was demolished to erase the memory and contribution of the royal family of Gajapathirajus. TDP president Nara Chandrababu Naidu tweeted that the pulling down of the monument was a “deliberate effort” to erase the contributions of the forefathers of former Union minister P Ashok Gajapati to the region. He said “petty politics must never take precedence over history”. Officials said the demolition was necessitated for beautification of the locality. Vizianagaram municipal commissioner SS Varma told TOI that the structure was not demolished. “As part of the renovation works, it was removed and three lanterns and lions are safe and a new pillar would be constructed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/historical-structure-demolished-in-vizianagaram/articleshow/75927199.cms||Siva G
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University sets an example in online mock test||AHMEDABAD: At a time when universities across the country are grappling with the problem of conducting examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Gujarat Technological University (GTU) today announced that it had successfully completed an online mock test in which more than 1.28 lakh students participated. Candidates from at least 20 Indian states and countries including Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Myanmar participated in the online exam. GTU, which is one of the biggest varsities in the state with more than 550 affiliated colleges and about 5.5 lakh students, conducted the mock test in two phases for BE, BPharma and diploma engineering students who are in their second, fourth and sixth semesters. “With participation from more than 1.28 lakh students, GTU is perhaps the first varsity in the country to hold an online mock tests on such a large scale,” said Navin Sheth, vice-chancellor of GTU. The varsities and colleges had to shut down in March in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown. The annual examination for the colleges was not held as a result. The state government announced that unlike schools there will be no mass promotion for college students and that annual examinations will be held. The government has asked varsity vice-chancellors for suggestions on conducting the exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic. On May 18, the varsity conducted a mock test for BPharm students in which 8,993 candidates from 2,000 villages spread across 99 districts participated. Of these, about 75 % students cleared the test. In the second phase, the varsity conducted online test for BE and diploma engineering colleges on May 23. This saw participation from more than 1.19 lakh candidates. The results of the exams were immediately declared online. While 80% BE students cleared the exams, 78% of diploma engineering students cracked the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-sets-an-example-in-online-mock-test/articleshow/75927214.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Biggest single-day spike in Gadag with 15 cases||Hubballi: In its largest single-day Covid-19 spike thus far, Gadag district reported 15 cases of the pandemic on Saturday. The overall Covid-19 tally in the North Karnataka district has now reached 35, of which 30 are active cases. Of the 15 people who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Gadag on Saturday, six had returned to the district from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, while the remaining individuals reportedly contracted it from previously infected patients. While a 25-year-old man and a 17-year-old boy who tested positive had returned to Gadag from Gujarat, a seven-year-old girl was among the three people who returned from Mumbai and were confirmed infected on Saturday. A 17-year-old girl was the other returning migrant, she arrived in Gadag from Rajasthan, to test positive. Deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said that all those who had been confirmed with the infection had been admitted to the Covid-19 ward at the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). He added that as many as 17 people had returned to Gadag from Gujarat on May 18. “Of the 17, two have tested positive, while we have kept the remaining 15 people under observation. Meanwhile, four people who came from Maharashtra had hired a vehicle, which dropped them at Nippani, from where they came to Gadag by truck. While three of them have been confirmed infected, the other individual is under observation,” Hiremath added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/biggest-single-day-spike-in-gadag-with-15-cases/articleshow/75924923.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Returnees in villages seek jobs, farming inexperience an issue||NAGPUR: If industries are likely to face shortage of workers due to the reverse migration following lockdown, villages are teeming with returnees who may start looking for employment in the coming days. A large number of persons living in villages, especially those in western Vidarbha, have been working in cities like Mumbai and Pune. According to estimates, around 80,000 have returned to districts of Western Vidarbha alone. Back home, they now add to the workforce available in the rural areas. With sowing to begin next month, farmers have already begun preparing for the kharif season. Farmers and farm activists say majority of the returnees have no experience of farming even if their families own land. “Such persons may not be very useful as farm hands while their return may impact the overall economy of villages. Working in the cities they used to send money home which in turn was used in agriculture by their families. Now source of funds is not there,” said Vijay Jawandhia, a veteran farm activist from Wardha. According to Jawandhia, the government should compensate for their loss of wages in the cities. “If the returnees work in their own farms too, it should be covered under MNREGA and paid wages,” he said . Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), the state government task force on farm crisis, said that these persons cannot work as farm labourers but will still need jobs. The government will have to come up with measures to provide them employment during their stay in the villages. Farmers across the region TOI spoke to said that though preparations have begun, sowing will only begin after rains. A large number of persons who have come back are still under quarantine and the need to employ them will only arise once they are out, said the farmers. Samadhan Supekar from Isoli village in Buldhana district said the concern can be felt. “The boys who had gone out are not used to farming and they cannot return to the cities either. However, there is hardly any work in the villages.” Buldhana has seen large number of migration from villages due to series of droughts. Some pockets in the rural areas have also seen migration of farm hands. Vijay Ingle of Chitalwadi village in Akola said the area had a number of farm workers from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh who are now leaving due to Covid scare. “The workers are lining up to get fitness certificates and are leaving for their home state,” he said. Tiwari said certain crops are grown with the help of workers from Telangana who have returned to their states. “The Telangana and Andhra Pradesh farmers who took up farms in Maharashtra on rent have also fled,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/returnees-in-villages-seek-jobs-farming-inexperience-an-issue/articleshow/75927186.cms||Shishir Arya
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Record-hot sea surface bleaches corals along Tamil Nadu coast||CHENNAI: After a record-high sea surface temperature observed in some pockets of Bay of Bengal triggered a change in the atmosphere and gave strength to cyclone Amphan that wreaked havoc in coastal Orissa and West Bengal, it is now posing threat to coral reefs, one of the most vulnerable marine ecosystem, near Tamil Nadu coast. An underwater survey conducted by researchers from National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) found that nearly 85% of the corals in Gulf of Mannar bleached between mid-April to mid-May after the sea surface temperatures touched a record 34Rs C. The bleaching was observed both in the natural habitat as well as restoration area in Manoli Islands, where polyps are planted on small concrete slabs. A few days before Amphan formed, a few weather buoys in the south and north Bay of Bengal recorded sea surface temperatures of 32-34Rs C . According to climatologists, one of the reasons behind the high seas surface temperatures in Bay of Bengal, observed probably for the first time ever, was due to global warming. “The bleaching was observed up to 5m depth while those in 10m depth were not affected. We saw a similar bleaching event last year, but the temperatures were not this high, and bleaching was observed only in the month of May. This time, we saw 43% bleaching in April and it increased in May,” said an NCCR scientist involved in the survey. “In the 2019 event, corals recovered in August 2019 when the temperatures dropped. This time we have to wait and see,” he added. Gulf of Mannar is home to 128 species like acropora and porites that were mapped through remote sensing by NCCR scientists between 2002 and 2005. The study team, which also mapped coral species in other locations in the Indian regions including Gulf of Kutch, Lakshadweep and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, is planning to survey their health status through another study. “We may soon conduct a survey in Lakshadweep,” a scientist said. Several factors like change in chemical composition, temperatures and carbon dioxide can affect corals. When the sea surface temperature rises, corals expel zooxanthellae, an algae that gives corals its colour, and turn white (bleaching). While corals survive such bleaching events, they die when they are exposed to extreme stress for a long time. In Gulf of Mannar, unlike the global bleaching events recorded in 2016 and 2017 that resulted in 16% mortality of corals, NCCR scientists said the present event is due to a local phenomenon. Climate scientist Roxy Mathew Koll from Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune said Bay of Bengal has been warming over the last several years and is contributing to the drastic intensification of cyclones developing over the region as well as posing threat to the already vulnerable coral reef ecosystem. “Bay of Bengal has been rapidly and monotonously warming in the last several years and it is part of the global warming trend,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/record-hot-sea-surface-bleaches-corals-along-tn-coast/articleshow/75927201.cms||U Tejonmayam
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Mentally ill girl raped, killed by brother, friends in Jaipur||JAIPUR: In a heinous crime, a 10-year-old mentally challenged girl was raped and murdered by her brother and his three friends in Manoharpur police station area on the outskirts of Jaipur. The girl had gone missing on May 17 and her body was found on May 21 following which the four accused were arrested on Saturday. “On May 18, the girl’s parents registered a complaint that she had gone missing and we started a search. The girl was mentally challenged and could not even speak or do routine tasks on her own,” ACP Sulesh Choudhary, investigating officer of the case, told TOI. The cops registered a case and started investigation. The cope were clueless for three days as no one had seen the girl after she went missing around 4pm on May 17. “For three days, we kept looking for the girl and hundreds of cops were deployed in the area to find her. The family was also not giving us any straight answers but instead were contradicting themselves. We searched for her in the forest area as well thinking that perhaps the family killed and buried her there,” Shankar Dutt Sharma, SP, Jaipur Rural, said. After three days, the girl’s family came to the cops with the clothes which she had worn at the time she went missing and claimed that they found them in the forest area. “The family themselves brought the clothes and FSL teams were deployed. Finally, we found the child’s body which had been dumped in the forest,” added the SP. Using call records of the likely suspects, cops zeroed in on the four accused including the victim’s brother who confessed to the crime. “The girl’s brother and his three friends took her to the secluded area probably to kill her but they used the opportunity to rape her. All four accused raped her following which she was strangled to death. The accused even purchased new clothes for the child the day she was kidnapped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mentally-ill-girl-raped-killed-by-brother-friends/articleshow/75928102.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 24, 2020||Nashik||48,000 tons of food grains given in Nashik division||NASHIK: Close to 48,000 tons of food grains were distributed in the May to the beneficiaries of Public Distribution System (PDS) across the Nashik division. According to sources, the target for the distribution of food grains for May was 70, 863 tones which include Nashik Dhule, Jalgaon, Nandubar and Ahmednagar districts. Food grains are also stocked in the remote villages of the division which will be distributed to the people in the period of June to August on a monthly basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/48k-tons-of-food-grains-given-in-nashik-division/articleshow/75924944.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Testing of police starts, 80 sampled||NAGPUR: Samples of around 75 cops from the city and five from the state reserve police force (SRPF) were collected by the team of Mayo Hospital staffers after the drive to test police personnel kicked off on Saturday. One of the rooms of the Lakadganj police station was converted into a makeshift sampling station. It’s learnt that around 872 cops from different units, including the SRPF, deployed at containment zones, would be tested in the coming days. Around 35 cops from city police and 28 SRPF personnel are now in quarantine. Senior inspector of Shanti Nagar police station is also home quarantined. The top brass of the city police decided to go ahead with the testing of samples of their personnel in the backdrop of two of their constables and six SRPF personnel turning positive while serving in the Mominpura containment zone. “Chances of several cops, including a few officers, being detected as asymptomatic carriers are high,” said a police personnel. He welcomed the testing. A few days ago, city police and NMC had jointly filed a petition to go ahead with the testing their personnel who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Though NMC decided otherwise, city police wanted to go ahead with their earlier plans of testing their cops, especially the ones deployed in containment zones from where their first two positive cases were reported. CP BK Upadhyay said the testing cannot be deferred for the betterment of the force and welfare of their families. “We already have eight men positives. There is a need to find out if there are any more positives among our personnel and isolate them so that their families are saved,” said the CP. “We have been engaged in every possible high risk job and standing round the clock at containment zones which further make us susceptible,” he said. It’s also learnt that the city police have earmarked Tehsil police station and another NMC clinic in Mominpura for conducting the testing. Under chief medical officer, Dr Sandeep Shinde, the city police hospital has already geared up with a 16-bedded isolation facility. Around 20 ventilators would be provided by the Indian medical association (IMA) to the city police hospital, said Dr Shinde. Another four private hospitals have been roped in with ventilator facility which would treat Covid-19 patients from city police. “Homeopathic and allopathy booster dosages have been repeatedly given to the police personnel and we are screening them every day both at the police station and also at the place of deployment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/testing-of-police-starts-80-sampled/articleshow/75927202.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Grocery kits distributed to disabled||Secunderabad: Over 100 physically-challenged people at GHMC Sitaphalmandi division in Secunderabad received grocery kits on Saturday. Sitaphalmandi corporator S Hema distributed the kits to beneficiaries. Speaking on the occasion, she said that an NGO- Ashray-Akruti has come forward to help physically-challenged people during the lockdown. The grocery kits contain dry essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grocery-kits-distributed-to-disabled/articleshow/75928103.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||50,000 migrants sent to their home states from Jaipur||JAIPUR: So far, nearly 50,000 migrants have been sent to their home states from Jaipur district and around 15,000 have returned to the district from other states, said an official at the district collectorate. On Saturday, two shramik special trains left from Jaipur. One left for Bhagalpur in Bihar with 1,600 migrants and the other left for Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh with 1,555 migrants. “So far, 27,953 migrants have been sent to their home states by shramik special trains from Jaipur. Twenty trains originated from Jaipur and three others took a halt at Jaipur railway station,” said Lok Bandhu, nodal officer (Jaipur) for movement of migrants by trains and CEO Jaipur Smart City Limited. “We are providing them with food packets that include two meals and water bottles; 2-3 masks, soaps, juice, biscuit packets and chocolates for children. After screening, we send the data to the state concerned informing them that there are no Covid-19 symptoms in the passengers. Roadways buses pick them up from various points in the district and drop them at the station. They are not charged anything for this. At times, food packets are provided to them at the pick-up points,” he added. The ticket fares that range from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 each are borne by the Rajasthan government. “The railways raise a demand for every notified and scheduled train, and it is paid by the state government,” said Bandhu. “A train for West Bengal, scheduled to leave on Saturday, got cancelled due to the cyclone,” he added. Additional district magistrate - IV Ashok Kumar said, “Nearly 50,000 migrants have left for their home states from Jaipur and around 15,000 of them have come back to Jaipur.” On Saturday, 11 buses carrying nearly 400 migrant workers left for Hathras at Uttar Pradesh border from Kanota shelter camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50000-migrants-sent-to-their-home-states-from-jaipur/articleshow/75928101.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Over 1 lakh got work under NREGA in Bundi district||KOTA: At least 1,03,014 people have so far got work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) at 737 work sites in 182 gram panchyats of Bundi district since April 20. It is the highest number of employment of people in rural areas of the district under MNREGA in the last 10 years, chief executive officer of Bundi zilla parishad Murlidhar Pratihar said. Since the lockdown which had shattered the economic condition of families in rural areas, employment under MNREGA is rendering financial backup to families in rural areas, Pratihar said. Pratihar said on an average, not less than 560 labourers in each of the 182 gram panchyats are being provided work under MNREGA while number of families demanding work is still rising. He added speedy steps with regular review of demand of work were underway to provide jobs to remaining families. Reports for payment to labourers have been sent to banks within 8 days of completion of fortnight mustroll, the CEO said and added on the basis of requirement of work in gram panchayats, approvals for new projects as per the rules were being issued to provide work for 100 days to every job card holder. Dial 181 for MNREGA work: Job card holder families in rural areas now can lodge their demand for work under MNREGA at toll free number 181 and can get work, the CEO said. The previous toll-free MNREGA number 1800-180-6127 is currently being used for relief work for Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-1l-got-work-under-nrega-in-bundi-district/articleshow/75928100.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Thrown out by landlord, boy reunited with family after a month||NEW DELHI: Two women in two states, conscientious police officers and social media helped a 13-year-old boy reunite with his family two months after he was thrown out of the house by his landlord in Dwarka. The boy, Vishal, met his parents in Patna on Saturday morning. “My son looks famished and is continually sleeping. Our landlord was demanding rent and we told him we would pay him when we returned to Delhi. But after a tiff between our children, he turned Vishal out of the house,” said Santosh Pathak, the boy’s father. The parents disclosed how the homeless boy was found sleeping in the park by a woman who feeds stray canines. The Pathaks left the boy behind with his elder siblings, Prakash (20) and Divya (18), when they travelled to their village in Bihar on March 15 to arrange for their daughter’s wedding. “I was to return in a few days, but got stuck in Bihar due to the lockdown,” said Santosh. “My children called me to tell me the landlord had thrown Vishal out of the house and they couldn’t find him. I think he did it to force us to pay the rent for April.” Divya suffers from gall bladder stones and forgets occasionally to take her medicines. “In March last week, Prakash scolded me for not taking my medicines and also slapped Vishal, who started crying. The landlord came and asked Vishal not to make a racket,” narrated Divya. “On April 2, he ordered Vishal out of the house. We called the cops, but to no avail.” A month later, on May 2, a woman identified as Yogita Kumari, who regularly feeds the area’s stray dogs, saw Vishal asleep in a park in Sector 7, Dwarka. Kumari said, “He told me he was thrown out of the house and initially stayed in an abandoned toilet. When an ‘uncle’ tried to force his pants open, he ran away and started staying at the park. From that day, I started giving him food. Then finally, on May 20 Sneha responded to my story and said she wanted to help the boy.” Sneha, who works with a private firm in Rajasthan but is currently in Uttar Pradesh, told TOI said when she saw Kumari’s story on Vishal on Instagram, she wanted to help him. “Somehow we found the phone number of the boy’s father and I tagged IPS officer Arun Bothra and @indiacares_2020 on my Twitter post. They responded,” added Sneha. Bothra, who is posted in Odisha, contacted his batchmate in Patna. Sanjay Kumar, IG, SSB, then contacted the parents in the Samastipur village. Kumar said “The family hadn’t spoken to Vishal for over two months. We arranged for a ticket and also sent a car for them to pick up their son. The parents’ happiness on meeting their son on Saturday morning was all we ever wanted to see.” Kumar and Bothra run an online platform, @indiacares_2020, to help people trapped by the coronavirus lockdown. “We have officers and volunteers in different parts of India willingly serving people,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thrown-out-by-landlord-boy-reunited-with-family-after-a-month/articleshow/75927193.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Traffic cops distribute sanitary pads, masks to migrant women||JAIPUR: Traffic police, while observing the Pandemic Cleanliness Week, distributed sanitary napkins and masks among migrant women on Saturday at the ITI located at Bani Park. The cleanliness week will be observed till May 28 during which not only will sanitary napkins be distributed among migrant women and girls, but awareness will also be raised about the same. “Our programme through social media gained such a popularity that people in large numbers are coming to donate even Rs 1,000 to tell us that we should purchase sanitary napkins for free distribution. Thankfully, with the support of the public and the government, we will continue this for the migrant and destitute women,” said Rahul Prakash, DCP (traffic). A sanitary napkin vending machine has also been installed at Ajmeri Gate in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/traffic-cops-distribute-sanitary-pads-masks-to-migrant-women/articleshow/75928105.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government allowed trains, but says no to domestic flights||MUMBAI: Despite the Centre making it clear that domestic flights across the country would resume from Monday, the Maharashtra government, for all practical purposes, refused any flight in the state from May 25 due to the Covid-19 lockdown, saying it will only consider emergency or transit flights. The refusal is likely to hit thousands of passengers who have booked tickets on the 1,400-odd domestic departures and arrivals scheduled in the last seven days of May to and from Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur. A state bureaucrat told TOI on Saturday that since the MMR region, Pune and Aurangabad were red zones, it would not be advisable to allow flights until there is normalcy. An airline official said in that case, airlines will have to carry out major rescheduling of operations as several flights are routed via Mumbai, India’s 2nd busiest airport.“We have informed MIAL, which controls Mumbai airport, that unless it fine tunes airport operations, it will not be allowed to initiate domestic flights from Maharashtra from May 25. We will allow flights of purely emergent nature, for international transfer passengers, medical emergencies, students and for cases on compassionate grounds,” the bureaucrat said. TimesViewThe state government’s decision not to allow flights defies logic. Lakhs and lakhs of migrants have been allowed to travel by bus and train — and rightly so. Flying is far less trying. Airports—and Sahar compares with the best in the world—are more organised. There are fewer passengers than at train and bus stations, and there is greater access control and security. Also, exposure to fellow passengers is limited to a few short hours: A Mumbai-to-Kolkata flight, for instance, takes less than a tenth of the time of a train journey between the two cities, and there’s no need to have food on board. Not just that—if operations remain suspended, airlines might find it difficult to continue supporting the wage bills of their Mumbai staff. The government needs to reconsider its decision. This is the business capital of India. It needs to get back to business.We have informed MIAL, which controls Mumbai airport, that unless it finetunes airport operations, it will not be allowed to initiate domestic flights from Maharashtra from May 25. We will allow flights of purely emergent nature, for international transfer passengers, medical emergencies, students and for cases on compassionate grounds,” the bureaucrat said. The state’s nodal officer Saurabh Vijay sent a letter to the civil aviation secretary on Saturday in this regard. “It is not clear,” he stated, “whether MIAL has worked out requirement of staff including ground staff, technical and non-technical, their availability, health conditions/check-up for their fitness level to resume work at airport and daily commute. It is also not clear from which part of the city they will commute and whether it falls in containment zone, which have (sic) total restrictions on movement.” The letter further stated, “You say 27,500 passengers are expected to commute daily from May 25, but besides this load, there will be a large number of airport and airline staff, their commuting will be a big challenge as public transport and private taxis are off and to start normally at such short notice without proper planning will disrupt lockdown restrictions and passengers will be put to severe inconvenience, besides disrupting the state machinery’s fight against the epidemic.” Responding to the government’s stand, an aviation industry official said that MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Ltd) was ready to handle domestic flights. “It is the state government’s responsibility to see that passengers are able to reach the airport to board flights and those who land are able to reach their destinations in the city,” the official said. Mumbai and other red zones in Maharashtra have stringent restrictions in place even in lockdown 4.0 though the Centre has allowed relaxations in this fourth phase even in the red zones. In his letter, Saurabh Vijay also requested the civil aviation secretary to plan daily operations in detail and furnish information to the state government on the issues raised by it. He also stated that while making requests, “please bear in mind that the local authorities and resources are very much strained due to the existing Covid-19 situation.” “The state government will provide you all possible assistance for smooth start of these operations in a phased manner,” he added. Watch Maharashtra government says no to domestic flights||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-allowed-trains-but-says-no-to-domestic-flts/articleshow/75929019.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||50-year-old beggar among 7 tests positive, cases from 6 new areas||NAGPUR: Seven people including a 50-year-old beggar tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 417. Cases have come from six different localities. There was some tension at Pandhrabodi when a large number of people gathered demanding denotification of the containment zone. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande told TOI that the beggar was suffering from distension of abdomen and was at Gandhi Putla area in Itwari. He was brought to the hospital by the police. “He was not clean and was breathless. Medical officer Dr Ranveer Yadav cleaned him up, started treatment and also collected swab samples which tested positive,” said Pande. NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar said this cannot be seen as “community spread”. “He was in Satranjipura containment zone for a long time and might have contracted the virus there,” he said. Earlier too a couple of beggars had tested positive but they were from NMC’s night shelter home in Mominpura containment zone. A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Habib Nagar, Teka Naka in North Nagpur, came for a routine check up as she had completed 8 months, and tested positive. The efforts of Nagpur Rural district health officer Dr Dipak Selokar and additional DHO Asim Inamdar led to the detection of two positive patients in Kamptee and Dahegaon (Saoner tehsil). The team had taken swab samples of 72 persons who returned from Mumbai to Kamptee and asked them to remain in home quarantine. All but a 24-year-old man tested positive. Similarly, a 25-year-old of Dahegaon returned from Mumbai on May 17 and developed symptoms at home. He rushed to IGGMCH and tested positive. A father (52) and son (25) from Butibori tested positive at AIIMS. The son had returned from Mumbai. The total number of cases from Nagpur Rural increased to 7. A 22-year-old pregnant woman, who was travelling from Mumbai to Kolkata, was admitted at GMCH for delivery and tested positive. A large number of people gathered on the road at Pandhrabodi demanding denotification of containment zone. The police at the barricade seemed unable to disperse them. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre reached the spot and called NMC officials. According to Thakre, the NMC had assured people that containment zone, notified on May 7, would be withdrawn on May 22. “After a positive person died on May 11, there have been no more cases from Pandhrabodi. I have lodged a complaint with CM Uddhav Thackeray,” he said. NMC official said that as per norms “an area continues to be in containment zone for 28 days after discharge or death of patient”. 12 corona positive patients from IGGMCH were discharged taking the total number to 332. 11 were from Mominpura containment zone and one from Satranjipura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/50-year-old-beggar-among-7-tests-positive-cases-from-6-new-areas/articleshow/75927225.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 24, 2020||Mangaluru||IndiGo, SpiceJet announce flights to MIA from B’luru, Mumbai, Chennai||Mangaluru: IndiGo and SpiceJet have announced their domestic schedule to Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) ahead of commencement of domestic operations by the airlines from May 25. While IndiGo will operate daily flights from Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Chennai up to June 30 to start with, SpiceJet will operate flights here from Mumbai and Bengaluru, as per the schedule these airlines have submitted to the Mangaluru International Airport authorities. IndiGo Flight 6E5327 will arrive from Mumbai at 11am and depart for Mumbai as flight 6E5328 at 11.40am. Flight 6E0279 will arrive from Bengaluru at 6.55pm and depart as flight 6E0388 at 7.35pm. Flight 6E7141 from Chennai will arrive at MIA at 7.35pm and leave for Chennai as flight 6E7139 at 8.05pm. While IndiGo will use Airbus A320 aircraft for operations from Bengaluru and Mumbai, it will deploy an ATR on the Mangaluru-Chennai sector. SpiceJet flight SG356 from Mumbai will arrive at MIA at 8.35am and depart from Mumbai at 9.05am as SG353. The SpiceJet flight from Bengaluru (SG1035) will arrive at 9am and depart as flight SG1027 at 9.20am. The second SpiceJet flight (SG3743) from the state capital will arrive at MIA at 9.15pm and depart as flight SG3744 at 9.35pm. SpiceJet is using the 186-seater Boeing 737-800 aircraft on the Mumbai route, and the 90/78 seater Bombardier Q-400 to Bengaluru. V V Rao, director, MIA, held a meeting with the airlines on Friday, and said that the Airports Authority of India is fully geared up for smooth operations of all domestic flights as per guidelines and SOPs announced by the ministry of civil aviation. The new flying regime will also entail greater responsibility on the flyers, in that they will have to be at the airport two hours prior to the departure of the flight, he said. Rao said other airlines that operated domestically to the city prior to the lockdown, namely Air India, too could finalise their schedule, and the same will be made public once the airlines submit the same to the AAI. The airport has also increased amenities for passengers coming on board Vande Bharat Mission flights to the airport, prior to them leaving for institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/indigo-spicejet-announce-flights-to-mia-from-bluru-mumbai-chennai/articleshow/75924953.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to acquire 1,400 acres to set up food processing units||HYDERABAD: Around 1,400 acres of land will soon be acquired by the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) and Ranga Reddy administration for turning the district into a hub for food processing industries (FPI). With the Telangana government being keen on establishing special economic zones (SEZ) for food processing units, officials have said that a plan to acquire land in four villages in Ranga Reddy district Rs Sidhapur (330 acres), Khanapur (365 acres), Tallapalliguda (473 acres) and Kothapally (246 acres) Rs is in making. According to officials, the acquisition process will be completed at the earliest. At a review meeting with ministers, district collectors, corporation chairmen, chairmen of Rythu Bandhu Samitis, agricultural officials and agri-scientists earlier this week, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao directed collectors to identify the land for establishment of SEZs soon. The CM has directed that at least 600 acres to 1,000 acres should be acquired to develop SEZ, according to officials. Since the area required is big, the government has said that the lands idensitifed for industrial purpose by TSIIC can also be utilised. “The collectors have been asked to give preference to government land and assigned land under Protection of Tenants (POT) and lands should be free from litigation,” a senior official of the revenue department said. Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA) and chief secretary,in his order, said the land allotted in the existing industrial parks, now unutilized, should be used for the SEZs. Asking the collectors to consult with the local public representatives, the chief secretary said no survey of persons on the land parcel should be done at this stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-acquire-1400-acres-to-set-up-food-processing-units/articleshow/75927218.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||NIA: Hyderabad man, wife arrested for trafficking||HYDERABAD: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested a man from Hyderabad and his wife in connection with a 2019 human trafficking case. NIA officials in a press note said that 47-year-old Justin alias Abdul Salam and his wife Shivuli Khatoon, 29, were arrested and three women were rescued. Officials discovered that Khatoon allegedly entered the country illegally in 2012 from Bangladesh. “Searches were conducted at Justin house and incriminating documents have been recovered,’’ an NIA official said. Three women who were rescued from the house were found to have been illegally trafficked into India, a few months ago from Bangladesh, for sexual exploitation. It was also learnt that Khatoon played a key role in the trafficking of women. NIA in 2019 had arrested three Bangladeshi nationals- Mohammed Yousuf Khan, Bithi Begum and Sojib Shaik besides one Indian national, Ruhul Amin Dhalli in the same case. The investigators had already filed a chargesheet against them in March, 2020. This case was first registered in Chatrinaka police station and was later taken over by NIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nia-hyd-man-wife-arrested-for-trafficking/articleshow/75927217.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Strap on your mask & get ready for take off||HYDERABAD: In less than 24 hours from now, the Hyderabad airport will throw open its doors to domestic passengers — most of them part of the city’s migrant workforce — anxiously waiting to visit their families in other states. While aviation industry sources say that the metro routes — to Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and even Pune — are likely to see maximum rush, they add that the overall footfall will be low. Reasons: limited airline operations coupled with apprehension among travellers to travel in an aircraft. “Those flying in the initial days are primarily those who have been stranded in Hyderabad over the last two months and want to return home. They are either those who came here on work and got caught , orworkers, in IT and other sectors,” said a industry insider. Among them is Ashish Rai who is set to travel right on Day 1— May 25. “I haven’t seen my family for months now. So, the first opportunity I got, I booked my tickets,” Rai told STOI. According to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) summer schedule, the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport will operate about 164 daily connections between May and August, as opposed to its usual domestic load of 480 flights. But given that a large section of travellers are still in the wait-and-watch mode — before they can book their tickets — tour operators in the city are yet to start work. On Saturday, most of them confirmed that they aren’t taking any bookings yet. “We will wait for a while before resuming bookings. We don’t want to get into a situation again where flights start getting cancelled and we have to refund fares to passengers. Also, not many are expected to travel for a while,” said Abdul Majid Faheen, chairman, Travel Agents Federation of India (Hyderabad chapter). Apart from health concerns many are also unsure about the numerous guidelines that passengers now have to follow while flying in and out of an airport. If some are unclear about the quarantine system — Telangana is yet to provide clarity — others are fretting over the Aarogya Setu app. “I am from Hyderabad. I am stuck in Indore from past two months. I don't have a smart phone. But, as per the airlines guidelines states that every passenger must carry and "Arogya Setu App". Any alternative way to board flight IDR-HYB?” tweeted VVS Ashish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/strap-on-your-mask-get-ready-for-take-off/articleshow/75927208.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven were alive before falling in well: Doctors||HYDERABAD: Preliminary tests suggest that at least seven of the nine people — whose bodies were fished out from a borewell in Warangal last week — were alive when they fell into it, said forensic doctors at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Hospital in Warangal. Two others, they suspect, were already dead by then. The nine bodies, all of them of workers employed at a local gunny bag manufacturing unit, had been retrieved from a borewell in Gorrekunta, over a period of 48 hours. While four of them belonged to one family originally from West Bengal — Maqsood, his wife Nisha, daughter Bushra and her three-year-old son — the others, identified as Shabaz Alam, Sohail Alam, Shakeel, Sham, Sriram, belonged to Bihar and Tripura. With leads from forensic analysis being inconclusive, investigators are now analysing the call data records (CDR) of the deceased. Among other probabilities, cops are also trying to ascertain if someone had pushed the victims into the well. Speaking to STOI local police sources said two people, both natives of Bihar, had been taken into custody for questioning. Police are still trying to conclude the cause of the suspicious deaths. “In the primary investigation, we found that they died of drowning. There were scratch marks on some of the bodies. How they occurred, is still being investigated. Among the nine bodies, we suspect that seven were alive when they fell into the well while two others were either sleeping or already dead when they were thrown into the well,” said Dr Raza Malik who performed the post-mortem examination. The scratch marks are suspected to have been caused due to dragging of the bodies or injuries suffered while falling into the well. Dr Malik said that they were yet to conclude the cause of death and were waiting for Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) to perform some tests before reaching any conclusions. Since most of the bodies were in a decomposed state, forensic experts found it difficult to draw conclusions. The doctors, through FSL, want to find out if there was any poison in the liver or viscera to ascertain if there was any foul play. Meanwhile, based on CDR data, police found that Maqsood had called Shakeel to the gunny manufacturing unit on Thursday night. This was confirmed by Shakeel’s wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-were-alive-before-falling-in-well-docs/articleshow/75926966.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Judges, lawyers turn tech-savvy for virtual hearings||JAIPUR: While Covid-19 has urged many to change their working style, it has made others enhance their technical knowhow about internet, video calling and video conferencing. The judges, magistrates and lawyers in Rajasthan are a prime example. Since the lockdown till May 15, the Rajasthan High Court has heard 5,227 cases via video conferencing while the district courts across the state heard at least 16,000 cases! Petitioners who had negligible knowledge of video calling, updated their knowledge so they could be heard clear by the courts where their litigations and cases were pending. “It was of course an enriching experience where you have to address and make your submission before the court through video calling. I believe unlike a usual court set-up here you have to be specific and to the point,” said Anoop Dhand, a lawyer at Rajasthan High Court. He said that addressing the court through video calling has been a learning experience. “This has also taught us to be precise and concise and emphasize on the points which we want to bring to the notice of the court rather than beating around the bush,” he added. Likewise, Rampratap Saini, another lawyer at the Rajasthan High Court keeps his laptop and mobile phone ready and equipped with good speed internet at the time of case hearing. “You can’t cut a sorry figure in front of the court. Thus, you need to be ready with all your gadgets at the time when your matter comes for hearing. It was really a great and unforgettable learning experience for me and many lawyers across the state,” he added. The government lawyers who approached Rajasthan High Court and district courts across the state have a similar story to tell. “Initially, it was a little awkward, however, gradually I started liking it. Also, I felt it was no different from a usual court proceeding,” said a lawyer from Jhunjhunu on the condition of anonymity. According to the data available with the courts, nearly 15,820 cases were heard by the district courts across the state. “Pali heard the maximum cases in the state, i.e., 84 from March 23 to March 31, 512 in April and 400 till May 15,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/judges-and-lawyers-turn-tech-savvy-for-virtual-hearings/articleshow/75928106.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Curious case of ‘missing children’||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Posing serious questions about the functioning of orphanages, a state government audit has revealed that the actual number of children who are permanent residents in these institutions is not even one-tenth of the figure submitted by them to obtain government grants. Making things worse, there are several orphanages that receive grants but are not registered under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. As per a Supreme Court order, registration under the JJ Act is mandatory for obtaining government grants. The number of children residing in as many as 307 institutions functioning under the orphanage control board — that received a financial assistance of Rs 12.53 crore in 2019-20 — was verified during the second week of May by officials of the women and child development department. It was found that these institutions, that had claimed to have 16,720 children till about two months ago, had in reality only 1,333 children as permanent residents. In fact, it was found that more than 50% of institutions, some of which even claimed to have 1,000-plus residents, did not even have a single child. The government provides a grant of Rs 1,100 per child per month to such institutions. The grant is released for the maintenance and protection of each child and is sanctioned on the report filed by district social justice officer after inspecting the register maintained by orphanages. In Malappuram alone, there are 55 such institutions that together claimed to have as many as 6,296 children in them. But during the verification, the actual number was found to be just 29 children. Also, 10 of these institutions were not registered under the Juvenile Justice Act. There are as many as 826 orphanages under the orphanage control board in the state, out of which only 307 receive grants from the government. Of these, only 272 are registered under the Act. “As per a Supreme Court judgment, children’s homes should be registered under the Act. The court had even directed high courts to ensure their registration,” said Biju Prabhakar, secretary, social justice and women and child development. According to top government sources, when the JJ Act specifically says that institutional care for a child should be the last resort after three other choices, the preferential order being the child allowed to reside with biological parents, adoption and foster care. Government sources said such homes, many of which are run by religious organizations, are not only violating the SC order, but also fudging the numbers to obtain grants from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/curious-case-of-missing-children/articleshow/75924965.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Air travel resumes tomorrow with 21 flights connecting 13 major cities||JAIPUR: Good news for flyers. From Monday, the city airport is going to restore at least 21 flights to 13 cities including Mumbai, Bangalore, Amritsar, Surat and New Delhi. Authorities at Jaipur airport are working round-the-clock to complete various work related to the SOPs for the restoration of flights. Various teams have been trained and told about the new SOPs. Different areas of the airport has various kinds of marks to ensure social distancing by passengers and crew. According to sources, the airport and various operators have sent their flight plan to the Director General of Civil Aviation and bookings for various circuits have already been started. Authorities said they have evolved a ‘no touch’ system while to manage passengers. “There will be web check-ins and passengers will have to install Aarogya Setu app. We have put up various markings across the airport at the check in, security and waiting area. Various teams had been working for the last 14 days to prepare the airport to handle flights,” said airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara. He added various departments and their teams were also informed and educated about the new SOPs. He added there will be two flights daily to Mumbai, four flights each to Bangalore and New Delhi and one flight each to cities like Agra, Amritsar, Surat and Jalandhar. However, passengers are in a fix since there has not been any clarity if they would be quarantined after landing. “We are yet to get any directions on this for domestic travellers,” said an officer at Jaipur airport. On Friday, the first special international flight from London, carrying 148 Rajasthani expatriates, arrived at Sanganer international airport amid strict security measures. The family members stood at the airport’s exit gate to catch a glimpse of their loved ones, as the passengers were whisked away for the mandatory 14-day quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-travel-resumes-tomorrow-with-21-flights-connecting-13-major-cities/articleshow/75928107.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Chaos on Ballari Road as 6,000 migrants wait for Odisha-bound train with 1,600 seats||BENGALURU: Chaos prevailed outside the Tripura Vasini gate of Palace Grounds on Saturday after more than 6,000 migrant workers, including women and children — mainly from Odisha — gathered to board a Shramik Special train to Puri with a seating capacity of only 1,600. Many arrived as early as 2am hoping to complete the paperwork in time. Police personnel struggled to control the migrants, who queued up for hours without food or water. Many Odisha natives who thronged Ballari Road had received an SMS on Friday night reading: ‘One train going from Bengaluru to Puri. You are requested to come to gate number 2 of Palace Grounds on Saturday at 9am.’ Vivekandand Rao, from Balangir, said: “I received the text at 8.30pm on Friday. I was waiting for it as I had registered online to leave a few weeks ago. I packed my bags and reached Palace Grounds at 8am on Saturday and was stunned to see hundreds already waiting there,” said Rao, a construction worker who had already vacated his rented room. By 2pm, the situation turned uncontrollable with many migrants pressing against the Tripura Vasini gate demanding police let them in. Many, including senior citizens, women and children, were seen clinging to their heavy bags under the scorching sun. “We cant leave the line or else we will be pushed to the end,” said Dilip Kumar, who was in accompanied by his wife Janibhai and daughter Palki. As the number of migrants started to swell, authorities used the public addressing system to control the desperate crowd. Volunteer Prasanth Patnayak tried to convince the migrants in Odiya but the crowd remained restless. Forwards, gate change spark more confusion Police personnel on the ground said some persons who had received the SMS had possibly forwarded it to other Odisha migrants, which resulting in the mass gathering. “I lost my job as a cook at an eatery in Koramangala and have been struggling for more than 50 days without food. This is my last chance to go back home to my loved ones,” said Sanjai Das from Puri. Confusion prevailed among police personnel too. On-duty personnel changed the gate for migrant entry from 2 to 7 after hundreds had waited for hours. Some like Mohammed Fayez who came to the spot as early as 3am was forced to the tailend of the queue due to the changes. “We are being treated worse than animals. We are forced to wait here for hours with no official addressing our concerns,” rued Fayez. SWR operates additional train after request While SWR scheduled only one train to Odisha on Saturday, it later decided to operate two trains. Sources said Karnataka chief secretary requested an additional train be operated considering the demand from Odisha-bound passengers. While 1,600 passengers boarded the first train to Odisha, which rolled out from KSR Bengaluru railway station at 6.25pm, the second train was scheduled to depart at 11.45pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chaos-on-ballari-rd-as-6k-migrants-wait-for-odisha-bound-train-with-1-6k-seats/articleshow/75926793.cms||Petlee Peter
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Raa Cheruvu goes from bad to worse||HYDERABAD: After municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao tweeted to pollution control board officials, apprising them of Raa Cheruvu in Boduppal, the situation seems to have turned from bad to worse. KTR’s tweet followed an article in TOI about the sorry state of the water body. On Saturday, water seeping into the lake turned yellow. “The water seemed fine till yesterday. Today when we went there to do some work to restore the lake, we saw a bright yellow colour water. This is quite disappointing,” Veeramallu, who has been fighting for the lake for over four years, said on Saturday. Venkat Chary, another resident of the Boduppal area, said, “Despite KTR’s tweet nothing has changed. After his reaction, a slew of people came to this area. But what is use of their work when there is no effluent treatment plant for the industries nearby? First the water should be treated, only then any beautification work matters.” Pollution control board officials said that they had inspected the lake and would convene a meeting with nearby industries once the lockdown ends. Asking people to be patient, one source said on condition of anonymity that notices have already been sent to 73 industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raa-cheruvu-goes-from-bad-to-worse/articleshow/75927297.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rs 1,500 for all white ration card holders||HYDERABAD: The state government has started depositing Rs 1,500 as financial assistance in the bank accounts of even ration card holders who have not taken rice from January to March. This is being done in compliance of high court orders. Telangana Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy said Rs 3,000 (Rs 1,500 each for April and May) has been deposited in the bank accounts of 2.08 lakh white ration card holders. In case card holders whose bank account were not functional or account details were unavailable, money is being distributed through post offices. Prior to this, the State government had not provided Rs 1,500 to white ration card holders who had not collected 12 kg free rice from ration shops for three months. However, the high court directed the government to extend financial assistance to all white ration card holders irrespective of them having availed the free rice or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1500-for-all-white-ration-card-holders/articleshow/75927230.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||HC posts hearing on Jhund movie copyrights to May 28||HYDERABAD: A civil court in Ranga Reddy district has posted to May 28 a case pertaining to copyrights tussle over the upcoming Hindi movie Jhund that allegedly revolves around the lives of two individuals. They are Akhilesh Prakash Paul, a goon turned football player who went on to become the captain of the Indian team in the World Slum Soccer World Cup in 2010, and Vijay Barse, a football coach at Nagpur in Maharashtra. The petition was filed by Nandi Chinni Kumar, a filmmaker from Hyderabad, stating that he entered into an agreement with Akhilesh Paul to make a biopic on his life story. But contrary to this agreement, a Hindi film was made ready on the same subject. He was urging the court to stall the release of this film which is all set to be released soon through OTT and also through theatres. He said that he also registered his story with Telangana film writers association with a title Slum Soccer. The Hindi filmmakers too filed pleas before the same court not to pass any orders in this case without first hearing them. When the court gave them notices, they told the court that their film is about Vijay Barse and not about Akhilesh Paul. The role of Vijay Barse is played by Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bacchan. Vijay Barse encouraged slum children to play football instead of falling prey to bad habits. He is also the founder of Slum Soccer Foundation. Akhilesh too was his product. The protagonist in our film is Vijay Barse and Super Cassettes Industries Private Limited (T-Series) is producing the film, the T series firm said in its affidavit filed before court opposing any injunction or stay on the release. Stating that the Hindi filmmakers are twisting things, Chinni Kumar says that he was inspired after coming to know about the story of Akhilesh in a TV show Satyameva Jayathe anchored by Bollywood hero Aamir Khan who introduced Akhilesh to the world through this show. He was Nagpur slum boy addicted to bad habits and it was his love for football that saved him. He was an accused in 45 criminal cases and he is now helping the slum children to lead dignified lives through football, he said. Even Akhilesh entered into an agreement with me, but now everyone is turning against me, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-posts-hearing-on-jhund-movie-copyrights-to-may-28/articleshow/75927282.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress web portal to help migrants||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress has launched a web portal to address issues of stranded migrants in Telangana. TPCC IT cell and USM systems developed the chatbot. It has been designed by party’s IT cell chairman Madan Mohan Rao. By clicking a link, migrant labourers or those who want help can give their location and situation they are in, following which Congress leaders from nearest location will reach them to help. Several Good Samaritans have reached out to help stranded migrants and destitute persons during the lockdown by making donations in the form of essential supplies or connecting them with NGO workers and shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-web-portal-to-help-migrants/articleshow/75927233.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Leopard forces lockdown in Dahod society, rescued||VADODARA: A leopard had a free run in a residential society in Dahod town for almost a whole day on Saturday, keeping the residents as well as foresters on tenterhooks. The drama began with the wild cat entering the porch of a locked house in the Agrawal Society on the Mandava Road in Dahod in the morning. The leopard injured a woman in another nearby society first before it sought refuse in the car of a local resident.… https://t.co/tedVpkcXei— TOI Vadodara (@TOIVadodara) 1590294852000However, soon it kept darting about nimbly in lightning acceleration keeping the rescue squad scurrying along behind it. Finally, after a lot of high drama and a few injuries too, it could be captured in the afternoon after tranquillising. The leopard injured a woman in another nearby society first before it sought refuge behind a car in the porch of Kamlesh Agrawal’s locked up residence. Scared residents of the society, meanwhile, dialled cops and the forest department for help. But not quite enjoying its stay in the locked house, the leopard decided to venture further and reached the Mandava Road. Here it came across a fruit seller who he tried to maul, but left before much harm and hid near the water tank of another house in the area. Then it went further to reach Malino Delo, located at a distance in the same area, and entered the compound of a school. Priya Jain, a resident of the Agrawal Society said that it was the scariest morning of her life. “After injuring a woman of a nearby society on the street, it entered the compound of a house located right in front of our house. But sensing trouble, after volunteers and forest department officials gathered, it disappeared from the scene and kept playing hide and seek!” Jain recounted her horror to TOI. Finally, the forest department officials and wildlife volunteers found the animal hiding on a tree and shot tranquillising darts at it. One hit the target, but the cat started running again. Not to be outdone anymore, a few volunteers lunged at it armed with a net. They could finally overpower it, but not without it inflicting injuries on nearly five of its captors. Assistant conservator of forests Rushiraj Puvar said that around five persons were injured in the bid to nab the leopard. “We have sent the men for treatment. The leopard will also be sent for treatment of any injuries it may have received,” he added. Watch High drama as leopard enters residential society in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-forces-lockdown-in-dahod-society-rescued/articleshow/75925899.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Moon not spotted, Id-ul-Fitr to be celebrated tomorrow||Hyderabad: Id-ul-Fitr or the festival of alms-giving that marks the end of the fasting month of Ramzan will be celebrated on Monday under the shadow of Covid-19 lockdown. The crescent for Shawwal, the 10th month of Islamic Hijri calendar, was not sighted anywhere in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Saturday and thus Sunday will be the 30th day of Ramzan. Moulana Mufti Khaleel Ahmad, vice-chancellor of leading Islamic deemed university, Jamia Nizamia, said Id-ul-Fitr will be celebrated on Monday as none of the state-level official moon-sighting committees across India has confirmed the sighting of the crescent on Saturday. “The sky was clear in many parts of the country. But nowhere the crescent was sighted,” Mufti Khaleel, who is also a member of the official moon-sighting panel for Deccan region, told media. Id prayers will not be held in congregation, he said urging Muslims to offer thanksgiving Namaz at home. With the lockdown hitting the livelihood of millions of people, Ramzan 2020 has been a subdued personal affair for Muslims as many decided to celebrate the Id on a low key. Islamic scholars have called upon the community not to buy clothes and other accessories for the Id and donate the money to the poor and migrant labour. Ramzan has always been a mega affair both in spiritual and temporal terms in Hyderabad. Right from the day Hyderabad was founded by Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah V in 1591, Ramzan and Id have been the integral part of the Deccani Tehzeeb (tradition) with the Charminar and its vicinity coming to life. For the first time in about a century the aura of Ramzan is missing thanks to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/moon-not-spotted-id-ul-fitr-to-be-celebrated-tomorrow/articleshow/75927237.cms||Syed Akbar
May 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad crosses 1,200-mark with 30 more Covid-19 cases||AURANGABAD: As many as 30 confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Saturday, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,248. Meanwhile, three more patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll in the district to 48. Meanwhile, one of the 30 Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday is a police personnel from Aurangabad city. So far, as many as 13 personnel from the Aurangabad city police have contracted the infection. Moreover, a couple of staffers reportedly serving with the decree department too have tested positive for the contagion. The latest developments have stunned the administration, following which measures to prevent workers in the frontline of Covid-19 management from getting infected were freshly reviewed. Deputy commissioner of police Meena Makwana said that of all those who have tested positive from the city police, one police officer and two constables have been discharged while 10 others are undergoing treatment. On Saturday, social media remained abuzz about the harassment and lack of facilities the infected policemen were allegedly facing at one of the private hospitals in the city. Senior police officers remained silent on the issue till Saturday evening before the DCP finally spoke about the issue. Speaking about the difficulties some of the police staffers were undergoing at a private hospital, Makwana said that she spoke to the management of the hospital and efforts were on to address the issue. Sources in the police said on Friday, a traffic police officer’s son tested positive for Covid-19, following which the officer and other members of the family were made to undergo throat swab tests. However, the officer’s report wass found to inconclusive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/abad-crosses-1200-mark-with-30-more-covid-cases/articleshow/75924956.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Are labourers not humans? Asaduddin Owaisi asks Uttar Pradesh||HYDERABAD: AIMIM president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, through an online public address, slammed the Uttar Pradesh government which he alleged had broken 35 labour laws. “They are ending minimum wages for labourers. There are 19.5 crore waterers, this government did not give them any financial support, instead created more hurdles for them,” Asad said. “UP government suspended 35 laws which favour wagers, Payment of Wages Act 1936 has been suspended...are labourers not humans?,” he added. The Hyderabad MP went on to question the BJP-led Union government over its foreign policy. “What is happening in Ladakh...China is transgressing on our territory, and now even Nepal is creating problems for us. What is the prime minister doing?” Asad said. The AIMIM chief also said that the Rs 10,000 crore aid announced for Bengal in wake of Cyclone Amphan was insufficient as the loss is much higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/are-labourers-not-humans-asad-asks-up/articleshow/75927315.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mangaluru||SOP 3.0 unlikely to give a fillip to domestic flyers||Mangaluru: The standard operating procedure (SOP) 3.0 for entry of persons from other states into Karnataka is unlikely to see a mad rush of people, including business travellers, queue up for domestic air travel resuming on Monday. The catch lies in sections 4 – a, b and c of the SOP that the commissionerate of health and family welfare and Ayush services released late on Friday. It mandates a total of 14-days of institutional and home quarantine and different set of rules for business travellers. While home/institutional quarantine applies for people returning from high prevalence states that the state government has notified including via road/rail/air with home quarantine for pregnant women, children below 10, senior citizens above 80 and terminally ill, others for low prevalence states need to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. Businessmen coming for urgent work too have a lot of leg work to do under section c of the new SOP. For starters, they need to bring a negative test report of Covid-19 from an ICMR approved lab and it should not be more than two-days prior to the date of travel. If they don’t have the certificate, they must undergo Covid-19 test and stay in paid institutional quarantine till the results come. After the results is negative, they can finish their work and return. If their stay is beyond five days, they must go to a fever clinic and get themselves examined. An auto extension of another five days is granted if found asymptomatic. S Suresh Kumar, nodal minister for Covid-19 briefing in Karnataka, said SOP 3.0 was reframed after deliberations at the highest level involving the chief minister. “The specific needs of business travellers who are used to jet setting between cities across states was taken in to consideration,” he said, adding it could be further refined based on their needs. TV Mohandas Pai, chairman, Manipal Global Education said the Centre must come up with a common methodology to facilitate travel and not leave it to states. “Hardeep Puri, Piyush Goyal and Nithin Gadkari must facilitate framing of this methodology, failing which there will be chaos and people stranded on arrival at their destination,” Pai told STOI. “There is also need for adequate testing centres failing which people will not be able to get around,” he added. Pradeep G Pai, a city-based businessman said, “While the SOP is fine as far as air-travel within the state is concerned, it is a tad cumbersome for inter-state air travel, especially with the quarantine part.” VV Rao, airport director, Mangaluru International Airport said he has shared the SOP with airlines and requested them to ensure their patrons are clear about sections 4 a-c of the new SOP to avoid last minute confusions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sop-3-0-unlikely-to-give-a-fillip-to-domestic-flyers/articleshow/75924980.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Autos back on roads, find hardly any takers||Coimbatore: Autorickshaw drivers were disappointed to find hardly any patrons as they resumed operations after around two months of lockdown restrictions on Saturday. They attributed the situation to lack of commuters in the absence of proper public transport and the state’s rule restricting the number of passengers per trip to just one. Auto driver union representatives said only 60% autorickshaws was on roads in the district on Saturday. The rest are being repaired and most probably would start operations on Monday. There are around 13,000 autorickshaws in the city limits and another 2,000 in rural areas. P K Sugumaran, president, Coimbatore Federation of all Autorickshaw Workers’ Union, said, “We will see more rides only if the ‘one person per ride’ rule is relaxed. At least, two people should be allowed per ride. Usually, people would want to travel in autos only as families or in groups.” M Nagaraj, an auto driver, said he managed to get only one ride that too to a hospital. “Because of the state rule we lost a few rides that otherwise we could have got. People hesitate to take an auto just for a person. If two people are allowed, we could ensure a distance of around 2ft between them inside the vehicle. Moreover, we have kept sanitisers in our vehicles and most people wear masks.” Nagaraj said almost none of the 150 auto drivers on their WhatsApp group had found any rides. Disappointed, many of them left for homes by noon. D Shobinath, an auto driver from Perianaickenpalayam, said things weren’t any different for him either. “I went around areas such as Veerapandi Pirivu, Perianaickenpalayam and Thudiyalur, but didn’t manage to get any ride. Only if bus services resume, there would be movement of people, who would take auto rides.” Drivers said before lockdown they used to earn Rs 600-Rs 700 a day, of which Rs 200 would be spent on diesel. But on Saturday, they had to return home empty-handed with an extra expenditure on fuel. Some drivers said they had borrowed money from relatives to meet family expenditure for the past two months. The union has sought the state to allow them to ferry at least two passengers per ride and a compensation of Rs 15,000 towards their livelihood disruption due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/autos-back-on-roads-find-hardly-any-takers/articleshow/75927243.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad’s SP MLA booked for ‘lockdown violation’||BAREILLY: Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Moradabad Ikram Qureshi was booked for “assembling a large crowd at his residence for ration distribution and violating social distancing norms amid Covid-19 lockdown in a hotspot”. Police have lodged an FIR against him and his son Ubaid on Saturday. The SP MLA, however, said that every year on the last Friday of Ramzan he distributes food among the poor and he was only following the tradition. Additional superintendent of police (city) Amit Anand said that an FIR under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act was lodged against the MLA and his son. “Further action will be taken,” the police officer said, adding that while distributing ration, they were not using face masks. The FIR had been lodged on the basis of a complaint filed by a sub-inspector in which he stated that he was, along with his team, on lockdown duty when around 2:30 pm he found that scores of people, including women, had come out on to the streets from Asalatpur and Eidgah localities. “The people said that they were going to the MLA’s house where food was being provided. I immediately informed the police station for additional force to control the crowd. The MLA didn’t respond whether he had taken permission from the district administration,” a copy of the complaint stated. When asked, despite being a lawmaker, why he wasn’t aware of the lockdown norms, the MLA said, “What can I do if people assemble in such large numbers? I have been feeding the poor every Ramzan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabads-sp-mla-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75924983.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district registers 77 Covid-19 patients in a single day||KOLHAPUR: Satara district registered a surge in Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 77 fresh cases reported in a single day with 122 active cases. The swab report of a deceased man from Lodhwade village of Maan taluka arrived on Saturday confirming that he tested positive for the contagion. The patient had died on Friday evening. Satara district has reported six Covid-19 deaths so far. In an official communication, district civil surgeon Dr. Amol Gadikar said that new patients are being traced in areas such as Karad, Umbraj, Patan Maan, Phaltan, Wai and Koregon. Majority of the patients have travel history from Mumbai. Most of these people are aged above 50 while some of them are in their twenties. Officials attribute the reason for increasing number of patients to the large influx of people coming from Mumbai. Around three lakh people are estimated to have entered Satara district since Covid-19 outbreak. Solapur registers 49 new cases Solapur district has registered 49 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 548 active patients. On Friday, Solapur recorded six deaths — one woman and five men with 28 cases recorded on the same day. Considering the coronavirus situation in Solapur, district collector Milind Shambharkar has listed 190 private clinics for treating patients. A list of hospitals and clinics in Solapur is available with the Covid control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-registers-77-patients-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75924990.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: New SOP in place for primary health centres post lockdown||HYDERABAD: A person cannot walk into a primary health centre (PHC) without a mask and sanitising his/her hands on entering the premises is mandatory, according to a new set of guidelines issued by the state health department for containing Covid-19 post the lockdown. Not allowing spitting in public places, including PHC premises, regularly disinfecting thermometer, BP machine and stethoscope as well as mandatory sanitising of hands by PHC staff and doctors after coming in contact with a patient are among other mandatory measures issued in the order on Saturday, detailing the post lockdown strategy across Telangana.  It also stressed on the need for co-ordinated efforts of various departments to control the spread in urban areas and GHMC limits. Also, surveillance would be continued in all erstwhile containment zones and all hospitals, both private and government, have been mandated to report cases of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases to the ‘ebirth and notifiable diseases portal’. “All SARI cases should be tested for Covid-19,” it said. At PHCs, the order mandates, disinfection of all surfaces should be done at least twice a day with 1% sodium hypochlorite. Ambulances transporting suspected Covid-19 patients should be disinfected after every visit. Biomedical waste management should be done scrupulously with specific focus on disposal of protective gear, it added. For surveillance, ASHA workers and ANMs have been asked to monitor fever and influenza like illness (ILI) cases at field level and medical officers have to alert district health officers in the instance of a spurt in the number of cases. “Migrant workers have to stay in mandatory home quarantine for 14 days and will be followed by ANM and ASHA workers. In case of symptoms, they have to be tested,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-sop-in-place-for-primary-health-centres-post-lockdown/articleshow/75927246.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Relief for Wayanad as 32 tribal primary contacts test coronavirus negative||KOZHIKODE: The Covid-19 shadow over tribal hamlets at Thirunelly in Wayanad abated, to a large extent, after all primary contacts in four tribal colonies tested negative. This comes as a big relief for the district administration and health authorities as 32 tribesmen were included in the primary contact list of a Covid-positive shop owner at Panavally, who was part of the Koyambedu cluster. District administration and health authorities had put in place unprecedented containment steps to keep the tribal belts near Panavally free from the pandemic, considering the acute vulnerabilities of the community. As many as 409 persons belonging to 109 households from four tribal colonies were put under 24-hour surveillance and the colonies were totally insulated with two police personnel and health workers keeping guard in each colony. “Having a significant number of tribesmen among the primary contacts of the patient was a worry. But, we took aggressive containment and testing in the area and also ensured that the tribal primary contacts didn’t mingle with others in the colonies. Now, all tribal primary contacts in the area tested negative,” said district medical officer Dr R Renuka. According to health officials, as many as 62 samples taken from the Panavally area, including that of 32 primary contacts, tested negative. “However, we haven’t lowered our guard and will be continuing surveillance of tribal contacts and other residents for 14 days by continuing home and institutional quarantine,” said district surveillance officer Dr S Soumya. To ensure round-the-clock health monitoring of tribal population in containment zones near Panavally, around a dozen tribal youths from the colonies were roped in as volunteers apart from hamlet ASHA workers and tribal promoters. Each of them has been monitoring the health status of residents in 10 houses daily, looking for fever and other Covid-19 symptoms. “Also, we ensured the staff paid daily visits to monitor people in high-risk category including three sickle cell anaemia patients, four pregnant women and people with other diseases and the aged people in the colonies,” said Dr Jerin S Jerod, who has been overseeing surveillance activities in the tribal colonies, adding that 17 tribal primary contacts were shifted to institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/relief-for-wayanad-as-32-tribal-primary-contacts-test-negative/articleshow/75924996.cms||K R Rajeev
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||2 supermarkets raided, booked||Hyderabad: Two supermarkets in Rachakonda limits were booked in a joint raid by Civil Supplies and Legal Metrology department on Saturday and five cases each were registered. The raid was conducted between 11.30 am and 2.30 pm. Ratandeep in Saroornagar and another Hyper Market store in Vanasthalipuram were booked under five cases under Legal Metrology (Packaged Essential Commodities) Rules for not making declarations about date of manufacture, quantity, expiry date, manufacturer’s details among other details about products at the store. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-supermarkets-raided-booked/articleshow/75927238.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||4 held for hindering cops||Ahmedabad: Four persons, including two women, were arrested for hindering police work in three separate incidents, by Ranip, Sola and Chankheda police on Friday. In Ranip, a woman constable stopped an autorickshaw coming from Subhash Bridge and asked the driver to pay a fine. However, two women in the back of the rickshaw, Dikshita Sharma, 27, and Falguni Nai, 34, told the driver not to pay the fine and fought with the woman police constable. Both were arrested. In Sola, a two-wheeler rider, Praveenkumar Jha, was booked for emerging after 7pm.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-held-for-hindering-cops/articleshow/75927241.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS gets its first Covid-19 patients||NAGPUR: Two patients of Covid-19 have been admitted at the Covid ward and undergoing treatment at AIIMS Nagpur on Saturday. A 27-year-old man, and his father, 52, residents of Butibori, were admitted on May 23 morning as suspects for Covid-19 following the screening at AIIMS Nagpur. Their nasopharyngeal swabs were collected and sent for testing at the Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, AIIMS Nagpur, which came positive late afternoon. The 27-year-old son was working in Mumbai and returned to Nagpur on May 16. He developed symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection (fever, cough and sore throat) since the last 7 days. His father, a known case of bronchial asthma and systemic hypertension developed cough and sore throat since May 22. The clinical condition of both father and son are stable at present. The father son duo is first covid-19 patients admitted in the AIIMS Nagpur. Until now, only GMCH and IGGMCH are the two hospitals where Covid-19 patients are treated. Sources at AIIMS informed that the institute is ready with a separate ward for Covid-19 patients and they can treat the two patients admitted on Saturday as they don’t have any serious symptoms. However, the AIIMS is currently running only it’s out patient department (OPD) and its inpatient department is not ready and fully functioning yet. So, in case the condition of these patients deteriorate, they will be shifted to either of the government hospitals in city. Covid ward at AIIMS has isolation facilities for 16 patients at present. It was ready since last 2 months. As people are now returning from Mumbai, Pune and other places, the number of suspects is set to grow. AIIMS is in the vicinity of Butibori industrial area and MIHAN where several IT companies are set to start afresh post lockdown. It could be the first choice of many returnees to get themselves tested as AIIMS also owns an advanced Covid testing facility. Sources said that patients were happy to see the world class facilities, regular monitoring by doctors wearing PPE kits and 24 hour CCTV monitoring of the Covid ward at AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-gets-its-first-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75927240.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad man kills father after latter denies money for liquor, hides body in box||BAREILLY: A man in his thirties allegedly strangulated his 52-year-old father after the latter denied him money for liquor. The accused, identified as Vicky, managed to escape after hiding his father’s body in a box. The incident came to light only after victim Mahendra Singh’s wife opened the box on Saturday to find her husband’s body hidden there. The incident took place at Kundanpur village under Majhola police station limits in Moradabad. According to police, when on Saturday afternoon a shocked Bhagwati Devi started screaming on discovering her husband’s body in a box, family members and neighbours rushed to the spot. They immediately informed the police. Additional superintendent of police Amit Anand said, “Mahendra Singh and his two sons – Vicky and Bunty – were vegetable vendors. Singh’s wife said that Bunty had gone to sell vegetables on Friday morning when their elder son Vicky got into a scuffle with his father over money for purchasing liquor. A few minutes after the incident, when his mother had gone out, Vicky strangulated his father and hid the body inside the box.” At the time of the incident, his wife and four-year-old daughter were also inside the house. In the evening, Bhagwati Devi and Bunty tried to look for Singh, but in vain. Police said, “An FIR in the matter has been lodged against Vicky under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Efforts are on to nab him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-man-kills-father-after-latter-denies-money-for-liquor-hides-body-in-box/articleshow/75924993.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC buses start plying on 55 routes in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After a gap of two months, the Sindhi Camp Bus Stand witnessed a usual hullabaloo when passenger services for 55 routes identified by Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) were started on Saturday. The bus service is for green and orange zones only and will not halt at any red zone area on the way. The buses were sanitised prior to departure while passengers were asked to queue up while maintaining proper distance. “My father is in Jhalrapatan for the past two months. I have been trying to bring him back. With the start of the bus service to Jhalawar, I have booked a ticket to bring my father,” said Kishan Singh, who works in a private company, before boarding a bus to Jhalawar. Drivers and conductors were seen in masks while thermal screening of the passengers was conducted. “Initially, we have given thermal screening devices to various stands in the bus depot. Later, we will equip bus conductors with the devices,” said an officer with RSRTC. The buses will ply from Jaipur to cities like Dausa, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Karauli, Hindaun City, Kishangarh, Sawai Madhopur, Sriganganagar, Nohar, Chomu, Shahpura, Hanumangarh and Gharshana. “This is an end-to-end service and there are no halts in the red zone districts on the way,” said Sudhir Bhati, manager, public relations, RSRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-buses-start-plying-on-55-routes/articleshow/75928108.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||Migrants brave rising mercury & hunger, travel in trucks for home||Bareilly: Migrant workers - in a desperate bid to reach home - are still travelling in crowded trucks amid rising mercury and without much food. The reverse migration continues even as several special trains and buses are being run across states by governments to ferry them home during the Covid-19 lockdown. Many of them have even died in recent road accidents and hunger. On Friday evening, BJP MLA Roshanlal Verma stopped one such truck with around 50 migrants hiding under a tarpaulin - all of them on their way to eastern UP from Punjab. Each of them had paid around Rs 3,000 to the driver for the journey. “It is disheartening to see poor labourers bearing such enormous pain in scorching heat without food and spending huge amount of money. Honestly, I am on the road since lockdown, feeding the people. The migrants are still returning home, many hiding in trucks and even travelling on foot despite government's initiative to start trains and buses. This is a failure on the part of the officials who are not following the instructions given by our honourable CM Yogi Adityanath," the MLA said at Tilhar area in Shahjahanpur. "Around 50 migrants were found hiding in a truck battling scorching heat and hunger. I offered them food and water at Tilhar and even offered them a bus, but they requested us to let them go by the same truck as they had already paid a huge amount to book the truck. The police failed to check the truck at the district border and administrative officials failed to provide them food and water during the course of their journey," the MLA added. "People will hold government responsible if something happens to any one of them. I will raise this issue in front of our CM,” the MLA further said. Most of these migrant labourers were from Deoria, Ballia and Basti districts. Munaga Lal, one of the migrants said, “We were living in Punjab for the past 10 years and we were hopeful that the Covid lockdown will be over and factories will start operating. But, recently our contractor asked us to return home as there is no hope of renewal of work for the next few months. The factory owner doesn’t have any orders for shoes and sporting goods. So, we were left with no other option, but to return home. The virus is also spreading fast.” Local administrative and police officials refused to make any comment on the migrants still travelling on trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/migrants-brave-rising-mercury-hunger-travel-in-trucks-for-home/articleshow/75925001.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur constable run over by van, dies||KOLHAPUR: A 30-year-old constable attached with the Solapur police died after a pick-up van ran over him at Wadakbal check post on Saturday. The constable is identified as Rameshwar Gangadhar Parchande. The van driver identified as Gaus Nabilal Qureshi was later arrested from his Bashi Peth residence in Solapur. He has been arrested under murder charges by the police. The incident took place when Qureshi did not stop the vehicle at the check post. Police became suspicious as number plate of the vehicle was not visible and it was transporting cattle. Parchande chased the vehicle and overtook the vehicle but Qureshi ran over him and escaped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-constable-run-over-by-van-dies/articleshow/75925003.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Will those arriving be quarantined? Telangana to decide today||HYDERABAD: A day before domestic air travel resumes across airports in India, passengers travelling to Hyderabad are still clueless about the quarantine protocol they need to follow, once they touchdown at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA). A tweet put out by TOI on Saturday morning — to connect with passengers taking a flight on May 25 — saw scores of readers ask only one question: Will we need to be quarantined once we reach Hyderabad? @TOIHyderabad Any idea about telangana norms related quarantine for domestic Travellers. I'm trying to find out but… https://t.co/445c6S28Wq— Sanjay Bajaj (@sanjaybajaj89) 1590247243000Asked Sanjay Bajaj: “Any idea about Telangana norms related to quarantine for domestic Travellers. I'm trying to find out but no response from any resource.” Another flyer, Kuriseti Sudhir tagged @RGIAHyd and @TelanganaCMO seeking clarity on the same issue. “Dear Sir, Can you please clear the air on the quarantine norms in the state of Telangana for the passengers travelling from 25th May through domestic flights?” he wrote. @RGIAHyd @TelanganaCMO Dear Sir Can you please clear the air on the quarantine norms in the state of Telangana for… https://t.co/FApPMadE49— kurisetisudhir (@kurisetisudhir) 1590248472000The lack of clarity, many said, is what’s holding them back from booking their tickets. They appealed to the authorities to at least confirm if they have to undergo institutional quarantine — like Karnataka which has announced that passengers from six states will be sent for a mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine — or can be quarantined at home. @RGIAHyd Could you please share what is the state protocol for passengers arriving in Telangana via domestic flight… https://t.co/inQrmrS6GR— Neha Maheshwari (@neha_mahesh03) 1590248383000@TelanganaCMO hello sir I would like to know that how much will be the quarantine period for persons coming from d… https://t.co/XZXYDXRgyS— Anubhav sood (@Anubhavsood2) 1590238374000“Could you please share what is the state protocol for passengers arriving in Telangana via domestic flights? Whether it is home quarantine or institutional and for how many days? Several news articles are doing the rounds hence requesting a confirmation,” wrote Neha Maheshwari, in response to TOI’s tweet. As did Anubhav Sood: “@TelanganaCMO hello sir, I would like to know that how much will be the quarantine period for persons coming from domestic flights in Telangana from May 25? And will it be a home or institutional quarantine.” When contacted, senior government officials said that Telangana is yet to take a final call on the issue. “We are still deliberating. We will announce it on Sunday (today),” said an official. Earlier, the state health minister Eatala Rajender had said that the state is awaiting ICMR guidelines and will abide by them. Attempts to reach him on Saturday, failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-those-arriving-be-quarantined-t-to-decide-today/articleshow/75927244.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Two trains leave for Odisha, UP with 1,600 guest workers each||Coimbatore: Two more special trains left the city on Saturday, carrying 1,600 guest workers each to Balangir railway station in Odisha and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. The trains are expected to reach their destinations in two days. A Southern Railway official said an Assam-bound special train, which originates from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, would stop at the city railway station around 4am on Sunday to take more than 100 guest workers home from the district. The official said the number of coaches in trains has been increased to 26 from 24 to ferry more number of guest workers home. A total of 25 special trains have left the city so far, carrying more than 30,000 guest workers to their home states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal, the official said. While industries have resumed operations at several places, most of the workers are in no mood to stay back and are packing their bags to go home. A district administration official said they were returning home as industries have not started utilizing 100% manpower. “Most of the workers are willing to come back once normalcy returns.” Meanwhile, nine special trains were operated from Tirupur district to ferry guest workers back to their respective states. However, there wasn’t any train service from that district in the past couple of days. Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan, who was in Tirupur on Saturday, urged the state and district administration to take steps to send guest workers back home in trains without causing them any hassles. Explaining that the guest workers had worked hard for the development of the district, he said their works should not be downplayed by not extending them a helping hand. Speaking to reporters at the CPM office there, he said after Chennai, Coimbatore and the dollar city had the most number of guest workers in the state. “There should be transparent measures to send them back home. Workers, who have already registered online, have been walking to railway stations in groups every other day, only to be sent back by police. To avoid this, train timings should be announced in advance and help desks should be set up.” As textile units can employ only 50% workers, jobless guest workers are still waiting to go home. The state and district administration should ensure that they get food, essentials and assistance fund, he said. Pointing out that industrial units have been paying workers only 70% of their salary, he said employers were using the crisis to undermine workers’ rights and benefits. “As a part of this, the BJP-ruled states are trying to amend labour laws. While industries represent their issues to the government, they should also ensure to pay the workers in full.” He said micro, small and medium enterprises were affected by lockdown and that they should be given interest-free bank loans through simple procedures along with a year’s holiday period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-trains-leave-for-odisha-up-with-1600-guest-workers-each/articleshow/75927249.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||IT firm in Alp shortlisted for national innovation challenge||Alappuzha: Techgentsia, an IT firm functioning in Cherthala Infopark, has been shortlisted by the ministry of electronics & information technology in an innovation challenge for developing a video conferencing solution under the Make in India initiative. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac congratulated the company in a Facebook post on Saturday. He said Techgentsia was the only company from the state to be shortlisted in this challenge. According to Techgentsia chief executive officer Joy Sebastian, the ministry had received at least 2,000 proposals from across the country. “Of them, 30 firms from various states were allowed to make their proposals on May 21, and based on the presentations, 12 firms, including Techgentsia, were shortlisted,” said Sebastian. The ministry informed that the growing need for videoconferencing solutions in the wake of the change in work culture forced upon by the Covid-19 was the motivation behind the Innovation Challenge. “Coronavirus outbreak has led to the unprecedented enforcement of lockdown throughout the country. The concept of Work From Home (WFH), which was until now was mostly synonymous with the IT industry, has become a household term. With organizations asking employees to WFH, videoconferencing has become an integral part of daily life. The national policy on Software Products-2019 has also a vision to drive the rise of India as a software product nation, to make India a global player in the development, production, and supply of innovative and efficient software products. In the light of these developments, the ministry announced an Innovation Challenge for development of a videoconferencing solution under the Make in India initiative,” a ministry statement said. Techgentsia, set up in Kochi in 2009, had also played a significant role in managing the control room activities during the 2018 floods. Isaac wrote in his FB post: “Techgentsia is not a mere start-up company. This company has proved its social responsibility through various activities. It is voluntarily acting as the IT backbone of all the local development projects’ in Alappuzha assembly constituency. The company developed software for Alappuzha during the flood in a short period and it also spearheaded the activities of the Alappuzha control room. They also played a pivotal role in school digitalization projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/it-firm-in-alp-shortlisted-for-national-innovation-challenge/articleshow/75924987.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Man loots gold from loan firm, arrested||Coimbatore: The Tirupur city police on Saturday arrested a 34-year-old man for robbing 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs 29,270 in cash brandishing a machete and threatening two staff of a private gold loan company located on Kumaran Road in Tirupur on May 19. The video of the robber threatening the staff went viral on social media on Saturday. The accused has been identified as S Azhaguvel, 34, a native of Thalaivasal in Salem district. He was residing in a house at 15 Velampalayam in Tirupur city. Around 4.20pm on May 19, the accused entered Attica Gold Company and threatened the staff brandishing a machete. He covered his head with helmet and was wearing a lungi and a t-shirt. The staff gave 81g of gold ornaments and Rs 29,270 in cash to the robber. Later, he closed the steel shutter from outside and escaped. The incident was recorded in a CCTV camera. The staff managed to come out and alerted Tirupur north police. “We have collected CCTV footage from few commercial establishments and found the robber was using a motorcycle. We traced the motorcycle owner by using the registration number and identified the robber within 48 hours,” deputy commissioner of police V Badri Narayanan said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-loots-gold-from-loan-firm-arrested/articleshow/75927256.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||One year of governance: All poll promises fulfilled, says YSRC||VIJAYAWADA: The YSRC celebrated its first anniversary of its electoral victory on Saturday. The YSRC claimed that in the last one year, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has fulfilled all his poll promises. The flagship ‘Navaratnalu’, the roap map for welfare measures, have been implemented. YSRC general secretary and advisor to the government on public affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said unlike previous governments, all the welfare schemes as promised in the manifesto have been delivered in the first year itself. The chief minister with his vision has ensured that all the benefits are delivered to the people at their doorstep. He achieved it with the help of the village and ward secretariat system and network of volunteers. Ramakrishna Reddy said policy decisions taken in health and education sectors to improve infrastructure so that schools and hospitals will deliver services at par with corporate schools and hospitals will remain a game changer. “This will ensure quality education and healthcare for all irrespective of people’s economic status” he said. On the other hand, opposition TDP accused the YSRC of initiating destructive policies in the last one year. TDP state president Kimidi Kala Venkat Rao said “The chief minister with his ignorance and arrogance has destroyed all institutions and systems in the state. The number of judgements that have been passed against to the government speaks for it. The only thing the government successfully did was to send away all investors from the state. The state has regressed by about ten years in development in the first year of YSRC rule”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/1-year-of-governance-all-poll-promises-fulfilled-says-ysrc/articleshow/75925010.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Bihar-bound Shramik special ends up in Delhi, SCR says ‘not a mistake’||HYDERABAD: Migrant workers travelling in one of Shramik Special trains woke up shocked on Saturday morning to find the train moving in the wrong direction. Around 1,200 migrant workers, including 55 madarssa students who were stranded in Telangana for almost two months, boarded the train at 10pm on Thursday from Ghatkesar station on the city outskirts. But several hours into their journey, passengers realised that the chartered train took them to Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station instead of Bihar’s Muzaffarpur junction railway station. A few passengers who reached out to TOI from Nizamuddin station said the train was due to reach Muzaffarpur via Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Patna, but the route had been changed without their knowledge. “Some of us asked the driver why we were on the wrong route. The driver told us the train reached Delhi after following instructions of the railway master,” said Mohammad Shoukat, 22, a passenger, adding: “We were supposed to be in Bihar by 6.30 am or 7 am on Saturday. We will now reach Bihar on Sunday”. Passengers protested on the railway tracks at Nizamuddin station demanding accountability for the delay caused due to the mistake of the railway officials. They have also alleged that no food was served to them during the journey. Mohammad Raihan, 28, who was heading the group of 55 madarssa students, said, “ Officials gave us some rice, a bread packet and two water bottles when we started our journey. After that, we did not even receive water on Friday or Saturday.” “We requested railway police officials at Delhi to provide food at least to our children. They said they will make arrangements to provide water at Ghaziabad station, but we did not receive anything there,” he said. When contacted, a South Central Railway spokesperson said, “We have enquired about the delay and found there was no mistake on the part of railway master or anybody else. Since, there is a continuous influx of Shramik trains to places like UP and Bihar, they are taking alternative paths to reach the destination. It will be very difficult if they take the regular route.” “No destination time is given to passengers. They may be assuming the route as per regular train journeys,” he added. Officials also denied allegations about food not being supplied to workers on the train. “It is impossible. Arrangements for food are not just made at one station, but all along the route,” he said. Watch Shramik train bound for Bihar ends up in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bihar-bound-shramik-spl-ends-up-in-delhi-scr-says-not-a-mistake/articleshow/75927265.cms||Moulika.KV
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||20 discharged, two confirmed infected in Uttara Kannada district||Karwar: On Saturday, 20 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), while two more people in the district were confirmed infected. The discharge of the patients was accompanied by some pageantry, with a ceremony being held at KIMS, with Uttara Kannada deputy commissioner Harish Kumar in attendance, to bid farewell. The DC called for people not to discriminate or fear people who had contracted Covid-19. “Those discharged after recovering must not be subjected to any form of boycott in society,” Kumar said. Kumar also emphasised the role of society, as a whole, in preventing widespread transmission of the novel coronavirus, and reinforced the need to maintain social distancing. However, he said that people must refrain from creating panic among friends and neighbours. “This is the time to instil confidence among people. That is why the 20 people who were discharged from KIMS were honoured,” he added. The two people who tested positive in Uttara Kannada – one each from Honnavar and Yellapur respectively – have taken the district’s Covid-19 tally to 67. Of these, 32 have already been discharged. As many as 34 patients are being treated at KIMS, as are two patients from neighbouring Udupi district. Five returnees from Maha test positive Dharwad: Five more positive cases were reported from Dharwad on Saturday taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 38. Of them 10 persons have been cured and discharged and the number of active cases remains at 28. The 51 year-old man identified as P-1913 has returned from Maharastra. After reaching Dharwad he was screened and kept under institutional quarantine. His throat swab returned on Saturday testing positive. The other four persons who tested positive too had returned from Maharastra and were screened at the UAS, Dharwad, and sent to quarantine. Meanwhile, a 57-year-old man, P-589 who was being treated at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi was cured and discharged on Saturday. Deputy commissioner Deepa has appealed to the people who could have come in contact with these five persons to contact the district administration by calling 1077.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/20-discharged-two-confirmed-infected-in-uttara-kannada-district/articleshow/75925006.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Palakkad sees alarming rise in +ve cases||Palakkad: There is high alarm in Palakkad district as 19 persons turned Covid-19 positive on Saturday, the highest in a day, taking the total number of positive cases to 44. The new positive cases include 12 men and 7 women: 8 persons returned from Chennai; 2 from Mumbai; 3 health staff including the one on duty at Walayar checkpost; one each from Kuwait, Gujarat and Kanchipuram. Two persons were affected through local contacts. A 39-year-old person from Nellaya, Ottapalam, coming from Kuwait tested positive while under treatment in Manjeri medical college . Two staff nurses of Palakkad district hospital —a 19 year-old man and a 44-year-old woman— both natives of Sreekrishnapuram, tested positive. A 46-year-old man and a 56-year-old woman, both hailing from Chunamgad in Ottapalam, had returned from Mumbai. The 11-year-old girl from Vellinezhi returned from Gujarat. Eight of those from Chennai are in quarantine. They are 28-year-old Thottakara, Elappully native; three person aged 50, 56 and 43 years hailing from Chunamgad, Ottapalam; 42-year-old Mundur native; Kadampazhipuram natives aged 50 and 20 years and another 53-year-old person. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palakkad-sees-alarming-rise-in-ve-cases/articleshow/75925018.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolhapur||SCR fixes iconic rail bridge after 43 years||AURANGABAD: In one of the biggest Indian Railways maintenance operations during the Covid-19 lockdown, the South Central Railway (SCR) has completed the comprehensive track maintenance work on the iconic 3km rail-cum-road bridge across the Godavari river in the Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam railway section. The SCR was able to seize the perfect oppotunity to carry out the maintenance given the current restrictions on passenger train movement. SCR’s chief public relations officer Ch Rakesh said the track maintenance work was undertaken for the first time in 43 years since the bridge was commissioned in 1977. “The work was carried out after maintaining a 36-hour block on the bridge. The work had been pending for the want of such a long block to train services, given the fact that the bridge is critical to the South-East rail link, connecting the two sides of the Godavari on the Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam Railway section,” he said. The work involved laying of track on six spans. The existing railway track (along with sleepers), which had served for a few decades, was removed and replaced with a fresh set of pre-fit lengths of rail track along with sleepers. “The fully automated and mechanised process, which required minimal physical labour, was carried out to expedite the maintenance work. The work presented huge challenges on account of technical aspects associated with the engineering of the bridge, which handles rail traffic on the lower deck and road traffic on the upper deck,” Rakesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/scr-does-maintenance-of-iconic-rail-bridge/articleshow/75925013.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||Husband not beau killed Shahjahanpur woman||Bareilly: Nearly two months later police found that a woman, who was killed in Hamjapur village of Shahjahanpur, was actually killed by her husband not her beau. The 28-year-old woman was brutally murdered on March 12. Her husband Reetram had alleged that she was killed by her beau Krishan Kumar and an FIR was registered against Kumar at Nigohi police station. However, during investigation, police found that Reetram had killed the victim after finding her in position with her beau. There were at least 40 injuries on the face of the victim and this was considered as one of the most brutal murders reported in recent times in Shahjahanpur. SHO Indrajeet Bhadauria told TOI, “We were already suspecting that the woman was murdered by her husband but she died before recording her statement. We checked the mobile’s location and spoke with her children and other family members to gather evidence. The husband has confessed to having committed the crime. The accused told us that he used to love his wife a lot and never expected betrayal from her. We have also booked the beau Kumar for cheating as he is also somewhere responsible for destroying the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-not-beau-killed-shahjahanpur-woman/articleshow/75925023.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Famed Pomburpa spring sees spurt of frolickers, locals call for ban on outsiders over coronavirus fears||PANAJI: With the mercury increasingly rising above 35 degrees Celsius in May, the flow of visitors to the popular Pomburpa has started surging, prompting villagers to urge authorities to restrict its use to only locals. The spring with a perennial flow is believed to have medicinal properties in its cool water and has been frequented by people from many parts of the state for a refreshing bath or a picnic to enjoy the hillside ambience. “The number of visitors, including tourists from neighbouring states, has started increasing and due to the Covid-19 pandemic, our villagers are apprehensive about the risk to their lives,” Vijay Shirodkar, a local said. The residents have sent a memorandum to various government agencies, including the tourism department and police to stop outsiders from visiting the spring for picnics and bathing. “The visitors also drink liquor and fling the bottles everywhere, creating a mess and we cannot do much,” a local said. The villagers said they have been traditionally using the spring at Palmar for bathing and other uses since hoary times. A tourism department project had carried out beautification of the spring nearly a decade back. But lack of maintenance has caused decay, and villagers have appealed for a makeover for the spring. Special funds for the maintenance of the spring was announced at the time of the inauguration. “The lights are not working and the infrastructure is in a bad condition,” Shirodkar said. As part of the extensive beautification carried out back in 2010, the department had strived to retain the heritage value of the spring as well as its ambience. Separate cubicles for ladies and gents to change their garments were built, as well as a shower facility. A children's park and eco nature reserve above the spring along with mini gardens and walking tracks were set up. Elaborate arrangements for parking a stage for hosting cultural activities were also part of the plans conceptualised in 2008.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/famed-pomburpa-spring-sees-spurt-of-frolickers-locals-call-for-ban-on-outsiders-over-virus-fears/articleshow/75928112.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn reclaims seven cents of land at Bharathi Nagar||Coimbatore: The city corporation removed encroachments on seven cents of land earmarked as reserved site at Bharathi Nagar near Kavundampalayam in the city on Saturday. Five discarded four-wheelers that have been at the reserved site for almost a decade were also removed. “Initially, the number of houses constructed in the locality was minimum and there was enough vacant space. We did not oppose then. But now, without any space, children were forced to play on the road,” said K Anbu Priyan, vice-president of Bharathi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association. Close to 100 houses have come up in the layout that is almost three decades old, he added. Pointing out that encroachers had damaged both the fencings and the board which was installed by the corporation claiming the ownership of the reserved site, he said that they had sought the intervention of the corporation officials only in December when the encroachers had started parking more number of cars at the site. The corporation had intervened only after the residents staged a protest in January, he said. Meanwhile, the civic body issued a letter on May 19 directing the encroachers to remove the cars within three days and warned of removing the encroachments themselves upon failing to do so. As the encroachments remained on the reserved site even as the deadline crossed, the civic body had removed it with the help of earthmovers on Saturday. A corporation source said that steps would also be taken to fence the land at the earliest. Anbu Priyan said the site could be developed into a park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-reclaims-seven-cents-of-land-at-bharathi-nagar/articleshow/75927273.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||WB workers in Vizag desperate to get home||Visakhapatnam: The 200-odd families from West Bengal employed as ‘zari’ workers at various boutiques in Vishakapatnam are looking for any means to reach West Bengal, in the midst of the lockdown and cyclone Amphan . With hardly any public transportation available, they are now looking to find a lorry on a highway heading towards West Bengal. “I came to know that the cyclone has completely destroyed my mud house,” said Jamal Molla from Mograhat in South 24 Parganas district. For years, between 200 to 250 families from various districts in West Bengal engaged in ‘jari’ work have made the City of Destiny their permanent home. Most stay in Visakhapatnam with their families and visit their native villages once or twice a year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wb-workers-in-vizag-desperate-to-get-home/articleshow/75927272.cms||Arpit Basu
May 24, 2020||Kochi||CM’s Twitter live-stream marred by glitches||Kochi: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said key lessons from Kerala’s success in battling the pandemic were “people’s participation and putting trust on people”. But the hour-long livestreamed Twitter interaction with the Kerala CM on Saturday was a tame affair marred by technical glitches with long segments of missing audio and video. “Your first episode of #AskTheCM is so messed up. Audio gets muted every now and then. Video interruption is irritatingly frequent. I hope you address this before the next episode,” tweeted Arun P S, tagging Twitter India which initiated the series. Chief ministers across the country are expected to hold similar Twitter Q&As in coming days. The session was broadcast using Periscope and hosted by Ardra Balachandran had two segments with the chief minister answering in English a set of questions tweeted using #AskPinarayiVijayan hashtag, mostly on the exemplary way in which Kerala handled the pandemic. Terming the Kerala model as a people-centric one, Vijayan said the participatory approach to solve problems, high literacy and investments made by the state in human development, especially health and education, helped Kerala overcome these challenges. In the second session, he answered queries raised by tweeple on a host of concerns over job losses, impact on economy and containment strategy in the backdrop of massive inflow of non-resident Keralites to the state. “Lakhs of people from Kerala are working abroad. A good percentage of them may loss jobs and may return to Kerala. All these people have some skills and we plan to utilize them,” he said. Answering a question on challenges posed by the digital divide and the accessibility of devices and internet, Vijayan said they can be overcome. “If a household does not have them, public institutions like libraries and clubs can provide such facilities,” Vijayan said while highlighting the K-fone initiative to provide broadband connectivity to the masses. Regarding concerns of outstation students who have to appear for exams here, Vijayan said the state government view is that exams should be held. “Students from outside may have to go on quarantine for 14 days. If they do not have facility, government will provide them. Students from containment zones would be provided separate facilities,” he said. The video had a live viewership of around 12,500 viewers, but the average viewer spent only 1.31 minutes because of glitches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cms-twitter-live-stream-marred-by-glitches/articleshow/75925035.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Migrants told to vacate camps, say they have nowhere to go||HYDERABAD: Migrant workers staying at a government shelter camp are in a spot of bother as they have been asked to vacate. Around 80 people have already vacated the Victory Play Ground premises in Chaderghat on Saturday. A source said that workers staying at the Nampally Exhibition Grounds would also be removed within a week. “We don’t have a place to stay now, we can’t even go back to our native place. I wish the government could provide some work,” said S Raja of Kolkata, who was moving towards Nampally railway station from VPG, in search of a new shelter. “I used to stay at the site where I worked. But after lockdown I was asked to leave. I will soon have no place to stay. We were informed by GHMC officials to vacate in a week,” said Madhav from Maharastra, who is staying at Exhibition Grounds shelter. However, GHMC officials said that workers volunteered to leave. “GHMC did not evict them forcibly. The workers in Nampally and VPG wanted to go to their native places. We arranged transport facility for them,” said Vinay Kapoor, GHMC deputy commissioner of Goshamahal circle. Kapoor is monitoring both the camps. GHMC officials in Serilingampally zone are also planning to relocate a camp in their area. “We had temporarily relocated workers to Zilla Parishad High School, Lingampally when lockdown started. We have to find a new place before schools re-open. Some people volunteered to leave. We did not force anyone to leave,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-told-to-vacate-camps-say-they-have-nowhere-to-go/articleshow/75927269.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Maharashtra returnees account for 82% +ve cases in Dungarpur||JAIPUR: The country’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot Mumbai is casting its shadow on Dungarpur, a tribal district in Rajasthan. Of 314 Covid positive cases reported in the district till Saturday afternoon, as many as 258, or 82%, are those who had returned from Mumbai suburbs like Dharavi, Goregaon and Vadala in the past 20 days. “An alarming 82% positive cases in the district are migrant workers, who returned from Mumbai alone. They were engaged in menial jobs in the construction sector, hotels, restaurants or worked as maids,” said Mahendra Kumar Parmar, chief medical & health officer, Dungarpur. Almost 80% of them were asymptomatic and easily cleared the screening test. “The first five cases in the district were people who had come from Indore and then 32 migrants who came from Ahmedabad tested positive,” said Parmar, adding that 19 corona warriors, including health workers and policemen, later got infected. These migrants are from three tehsils — Aspur, Saghwara and Simalwara. Local authorities fear that the infection count in the tribal town will rise further since migration is continuing. Following the spike among migrant labourers, screening has been intensified at the Ratanpur border where a team of 30 doctors have been deployed. “A strict protocol is being followed for those coming from Mumbai,” a health official said. Meanwhile, the state on Saturday started sending buses to Maharashtra to bring its citizens stranded there due to the lockdown. It has already sent 70 Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) buses under the scheme, Rajasthan Special Shramik Buses, from Banswara, Pratapgarh and Udaipur. The move came after the state received permission from Maharashtra. “These buses will bring back state residents from Yavatmal, Nasik and Mumbai,” said RSRTC MD Naveen Jain. The registration numbers of the buses along with its location, driver’s name and his mobile number have been texted to the workers. Every bus will carry 25-35 passengers keeping to ensure social distancing and will halt at specific places for food, he added. Of the 16 lakh inbound migrants registered with the state, 3.5 lakh are from Maharashtra. Soon buses will be sent to Karnataka, Goa, Telangana and Kerala to bring back labourers. The scheme was announced by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on May 17. Bus services for outbound migrants hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab were rolled out on May 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maha-returnees-account-for82-ve-cases-in-dungarpur/articleshow/75928113.cms||Shoeb Khan
May 24, 2020||Kolhapur||17 more test positive for Covid-19 in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: The number of Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district jumped to 278 after 17 travellers tested positive on Saturday for the contagion. At present, the swab reports of people who travelled from the red zone districts are being tested. Of the total number of travellers, the swab reports of 978 people have arrived by 8 pm on Saturday, of which 17 tested positive for coronavirus. Most of the travellers are asymptomatic and have been placed under quarantine as a precautionary measure. Civil surgeon B C Kempipatil said, “We are getting the swabs of symptomatic persons tested immediately. Not many are symptomatic. We expect to clear the pending tests in the next couple of days. However, we are ensuring that people who enter Kolhapur from red zone districts are immediately tested for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/17-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/75925021.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Five-member gang robs 3, takes nude photos of two||COIMBATORE: A five-member gang robbed three people of gold ornaments weighing 12 sovereigns, three mobile phones and Rs 8,500 while they were discussing a second-hand scooter deal at a house at Vadavalli here on Friday evening. The gang also made a man and woman at the house pose nude for photos and threatened them to circulate them on social media, if they were to approach police. According to the Vadavalli police, the incident took place at the house of a 51-year-old woman at Kamadenu Nagar when her friend, a 29-year-old woman, and a 37-year-old second-hand two-wheeler dealer came there to discuss a possible deal. A police officer said, “The women are members of a self-help group. The 29-year-old had sought Rs 10,000 from the other woman to buy a second-hand scooter. The latter asked her to meet her at her house on Friday afternoon. She also invited the second-hand two-wheeler dealer.” When the two came to the elderly woman’s house around 2pm on Friday, five people with masks on their faces entered the house and robbed them of all their valuables. “Later, the gang took the young woman and the dealer to the kitchen, removed their clothes and made them pose for photos. They threatened to circulate the photos on social media if they approach police and escaped,” the officer said. Based on the second-hand two-wheeler dealer’s complaint, Vadavalli police inspector G Manivannan registered a case against the gang under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 450 (house trespass in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment for life) of the Indian Penal Code. Police have collected phone call details of the trio and formed a special team to nab the gang. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-member-gang-robs-3-takes-nude-photos-of-two/articleshow/75927268.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Salem||A dull start for Salem autorickshaws on 1st day of restarting services||Salem: Autorickshaw drivers in Salem city were a disappointed lot as only a few patrons used their services on Saturday. The state government allowed autorickshaws to resume services from Saturday after they were halted since March 23. “More than 800 autorickshaws were operated in Salem city before the lockdown. On Saturday, only 30% of them resumed operation,” T Sekar, a functionary from INTUC trade union, said. While some faulted government rules, others pointed to te steep fares charged by drivers. “Allowing only one passenger in the autorickshaw is a ridiculous move. If a couple wants to go somewhere, will they take two autos,” K Manickam, one of the autorickshaw drivers, asked. R Kavitha, 22, who wanted to take her mother R Amuthavalli to a private hospital in the new bus stand area from Ammapet, dropped her plan when autorickshaw drivers demanded Rs 300 per vehicle for a single trip and Rs 500 for the round trip. “I would have spent Rs 1000 for two autos to take my mother to the hospital. It would an additional financial burden to my family,” Kavitha said. Meanwhile, autorickshaw drivers urged the state government to allow them to take two passengers in a trip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/a-dull-start-for-salem-autorickshaws-on-1st-day-of-restarting-services/articleshow/75927278.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Influx of migrants: MGNREGA work force touches record 39L in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With MGNREGA labour engagement in the state touching a record 39.16 lakh on Saturday due to enrolment of a large number of migrant workers, it has now become difficult for the department to manage the work force. The state’s MGNREGA department will therefore engage extra manpower to oversee in order to ensure that wage payment is not delayed. It will also strengthen its monitoring through Whatsapp groups, and divide 33 districts into three parts, assigning an engineer in each of them. “It is expected that another 20,000 to 30,000 labourers may increase in the coming days and we may touch around 40 lakh by the end of the month. It is a huge labour force and the task of its management will become difficult and challenging — like getting their muster rolls processed, ensuring effective work site management and making their payments within 15 days,” said state’s MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “Earlier, the maximum labour force used to be around 30-31 lakh. Even at 30 lakh, the system used to get disturbed. Every system is designed for a certain amount of load. Up to 25 lakh labourers, the system works quite smoothly; up to 30 lakh labourers, extra effort is required,” he added. “Beyond that, it is very difficult to manage. The officers on the ground have to pull up their socks else, it may lead to delays,” he added. He further said, “We can monitor through Whatsapp groups by engaging extra people. I will divide 33 districts into three parts and an engineer will be assigned in each of these three parts for monitoring work. Now, only one executive engineer is overseeing the entire work in the state. We will also engage more BDOs in supervision work. Moreover, we will have to improve work site management and the level of inspection.” “We shall have to ensure that Covid-19 preventive measures are also implemented in the field. When there are less number of labourers, the payment can be easily made in 15 days. Now, it will become quite challenging. But we will have to ensure that payment doesn’t get delayed,” Kishan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/influx-of-migrants-mgnregawork-force-touches-record-39l/articleshow/75928116.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||With death in Amravati,Covid-19 toll in Vidarbha is 50||NAGPUR: Amravati crossed the 150 mark in Covid-19 positive cases and recorded the 15th death on Saturday. Two deceased from rural Buldhana whose samples were collected after their death also tested positive, taking the death toll in Vidarbha to 50. The virus is spreading aggressively in Vidarbha, especially in rural areas. On Saturday, nine out of the region’s 11 districts recorded 52 positive cases. Most of them are from rural areas and returnees from hotspots. Akola continued to record the highest number of cases in Vidarbha for the third day in a row. In all, 23 cases were reported in Akola on Saturday. On the same day, eight women were discharged. The city now has 378 cases, including 219 recoveries and 23 deaths. Neighbouring district Buldhana recorded two deaths. The two deceased were from rural Buldhana, including a 77-yr-old woman who tested positive. Buldhana now has 3 deaths and 36 cases. The recovery rate of Buldhana is also good. So far, 25 patients have recovered here. On Saturday, an 8-year-old girl recovered and was discharged from the District Hospital. Amravati recorded a death for the second day in succession on Saturday. According to an official release, a 56-year-old woman of Al Hilal colony, who was the first to test positive from her colony on May 21 and was undergoing treatment at the covid hospital, died late Friday night. Her death is the seventh at the covid hospital here. The city also saw seven new positive cases from different localities on Saturday, taking the count of the district to 152. The list includes 15 deaths, 58 active cases, two referred to GMCH, Nagpur, and 76 recovered. Chandrapur also recorded three new positive cases on Saturday. The patients include a Mumbai-returnee nurse, another person who came from Dharavi and a 16-year-old girl, a contact of a person who had come to Vriva village in Sidewahi tehsil. The number of positive patients in Chandrapur is now 15. Civil Surgeon Dr ND Rathod said that a nurse working with a private institute in Mumbai came back to her house in Babupeth here on May 16. She had served 22 days of institutional quarantine in Mumbai at a private hotel before leaving for Chandrapur. Soon after arrival, she went into home quarantine. However, as she started developing symptoms of the virus, she went to GMCH and got herself admitted on May 20. Her sample was taken on May 21 and her positive report came late on Friday night. Her three family members have been put in institutional quarantine and their samples have been collected for testing. A 37-year-old man who came to Ballarpur from Dharavi, Mumbai, on May 20. He was immediately put in institutional quarantine. His swab sample, which was sent on Friday, tested positive on Saturday. Another 16-year-old girl, a contact of a person who had travelled from Malegaon MIDC to village Virva in Sindewahi tehsil, tested positive on Saturday evening. She has also been put in institutional quarantine. In Wardha, a new patient was registered for the second day in a row on Saturday. As a result, the number of cases in the district has increased to 12, including 9 from different districts, informed civil surgeon, Dr Purushottam Madavi. Two days ago, a 25-year-old youth came from Mumbai to Rohana village in Arvi Tahsil. He was working for a housekeeping company in Mumbai. He tested positive on Saturday. The youth had complained of fever and cold on May 21. He was admitted to the sub-district hospital, Arvi. His swab sample was sent to MGIMS for testing on the same day. After his positive report on Saturday, he was shifted to Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram. In Yavatmal, the graph of positive cases is rising. It’s a cause for concern. On Saturday, one person from Kalamb, who returned from Pune, tested positive which makes the total 17. Two persons were admitted in the isolation ward. There are 22 patients in the isolation ward of which 17 are positive. Seven test reports are awaited. So far, 113 tested positive of which 96 have recovered and discharged for home quarantine. Around 15 are in institutional quarantine while 486 are in home quarantine. In Gondia, 7 more labourers coming from Mumbai tested positive. A couple returning from Pune tested positive in Bhandara. Except Gadchiroli and Washim, all districts in Vidarbha reported positive cases on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-death-in-amravaticovid-19-toll-in-vid-is-50/articleshow/75928122.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 positive migrants clueless about how they have contracted the virus||BAREILLY: When a 28-year-old man reached Bareilly from Mumbai on May 17 by a special train and a bus, he thought that worst was over for him and he would be able to be with his family on Eid. However, after he asked his family to pick him up from a temporary shelter home where he was quarantined, officials told him that his pool test came positive. Later, his individual test report also confirmed positive on Friday night. The asymptomatic patient, a native of Hafizganj in Bareilly, who was working as a 'zari' (hand-embroidery) artisan in Mumbai, said, “I am surprised that I have tested positive even as I never felt sick during the lockdown period. I don’t know how I contracted the virus.” Like him, 18 migrants, mostly from Mumbai and Rajasthan, tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly in the past one week. Besides, two relatives of migrants contracted the virus through two patients. Another 24-year-old patient who travelled from Mumbai to Bareilly, along with a 24-year-old youth, said, “The lockdown rendered us jobless and we were surviving on food given by people. In such a difficult time, we desperately wanted to be with our family. We reached Lucknow by a special train and then we were sent to Bareilly in a bus. We couldn’t even meet our parents and siblings as we were transferred from the shelter home to a hospital.” “When I learnt that I have tested positive for Covid-19, I could not believe it initially because I am healthy and had not come in contact with any positive case,” he added. A 40-year-old man, who walked from Jaipur to Hathras and was later sent to Bareilly in a bus, said, “I along with my family members was quarantined at a shelter home in Bareilly. To my surprise, I tested positive but my wife and children tested negative. Though it is a matter of relief that my family is safe, I am clueless about how I have contracted the virus.” District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “When the migrants from other states are sent, they are screened for fever, which is not the only criterion, as asymptomatic patients do not show symptoms. These migrants carry the virus and may infect other travellers if social distancing is not followed in vehicles like trucks. We are collecting pool samples for the test of all the migrants. If the pool test comes positive, we collect individual samples of these people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-positive-migrants-clueless-about-how-they-have-contracted-the-virus/articleshow/75925039.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 24, 2020||Goa||KTC’s Kochi trip to have 134 persons||Panaji: Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTC) will be sending six buses carrying 134 people to Kochi, Kerala, on Sunday. These are people stranded in Goa after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. Following the MHA guidelines of social distancing, KTC will allot one seat per passenger. Their body temperature will be scanned using hand-held thermal devices before boarding the buses. The buses are expected to reach Kochi by Monday, KTC officials said. Prior to this, the KTC had dropped stranded people on May 11 and May 15 and May 17, while on May 5, it travelled to Kasargod. KTC first began its relief operations on May 5, and has undertaken 30 trips to various interstate locations across the country so far. The buses have since also brought in stranded Goans from other states, including from Gadag where a Bengaluru to Goa bus had met with an accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktcs-kochi-trip-to-have-134-persons/articleshow/75928114.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||‘Lockdown sex therapy is good for well-being’||Lockdown is in place for more than two months now and several physical, mental, emotional and psychological health aspects have been thoroughly discussed on various platforms. But, when it comes to sexual wellness, social media is brimming with only jokes. Dr Sanjay Deshpande, well-known consultant in sexual medicine, is practising in Nagpur since last 25 years. In a ‘lockdown’ interview with TOI, he shared tips for those single, married, in a relationship, living away from partners and those who don’t have partners. Excerpts.. Q. Are people having more sex during lockdown? A. Yes, and I believe its great. Everybody is stressed in lockdown and there is uncertainty. We don’t know when it will end or if it will be extended again. Many of us are working from home and it has its own stress. Many are stuck away from families. Some have kids to look after, others have ailing elderly people at home. There is physical, mental and social stress. Moreover, there are clouds of financial uncertainty hovering over us. Sex can be a remedy to all such stressful situations. It could be the distraction that you need amid this unpredictable crisis. It’s communication, relaxation and exercise. Sex reduces pain, its anti-hypertensive and stress-buster. Sex is must-have thing in lockdown. However, I have observed that the excitement about sex in lockdown-1 has gone down gradually until lockdown-4. Q. What new problems are your patients sharing with you especially after Covid-19 crisis? A. To my surprise, I am attending 10-12 patients in one session, which is almost like normal times. Many couples are using this period to fix sexual problems. Some are using this period to re-explore the lost pleasure in their relationship, which is a positive thing. Certainly, sex life has seen many changes during the Covid-19 crisis. Cohabiting with a family, managing day-to-day chores in travel ban and commuting limitations and, most importantly, added stress from following coronavirus news are affecting one’s sex life. Some are getting too much privacy and getting bored, while others have lost their private moments as all family members are at home all the time. Q. What do you suggest to those who are living away from partners? A. There are many couples who had to stay away from each other due to travel restrictions. Many in secret relationships who used to meet regularly are not getting opportunities. Singles also get sexual desire during extended free time offered by lockdown. I tell them you are the best partner for yourself and masturbation is the safest and best way to get sexual pleasure during Covid crisis. It’s not possible to maintain Covid distancing during sexual activity and having sex with an unknown partner is full of infection risk. Even while having sex with an known partner, both should take special care of sexual hygiene. Sexual minorities like LGBT should also take care of hygiene. Covid-19 does not spread through sexual intercourse, but it’s important to stay safe. Q. What do you suggest to those who go out for work? A. Take special care about hygiene so that they should not carry infection with them. If your partner is having cough, cold, fever or other symptoms, you should avoid having sex. Ultimately, sex is for pleasure and not to be done under pressure. Q. Several incidents of child abuse have been noticed during lockdown. A. It's a harsh reality. Parent have an additional responsibility to look after their kids. If your child is willing to share something, you should listen with patience. Awareness is the key in such matters. Q. Lot of buzz about the probable baby boom due to lockdown. Your take? A. Many couples are indeed experiencing a better sexual life, especially those who had busy schedules and little time for each other in the pre-Covid era. Many of them may plan pregnancy during this period. If you and your partner want it, its perfectly all right. But, I suggest people to use contraceptives and avoid unplanned pregnancy during this period. Even married or newly married couples should delay the pregnancy in current situation. Because pregnancy means you have to visit hospitals regularly and coronavirus threat is here to stay for a long time. Q. What can be the post-Covid situation? A. I would say post lockdown. People may be anxious after lockdown relaxation. Many will meet up after long gap and chances of unprotected sex are more. People must avoid sex with unknown partners. Those who are into hookups and night stands should be more careful. Sex life is not going to be as easy as it used to be before lockdown. Golden advice from me would be stay indoors and have it only with your most trustworthy partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-sex-therapy-is-good-for-well-being/articleshow/75927303.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 24, 2020||Goa||307 rail travellers alight at Margao, migrants pin hope||Margao: At least 307 passengers alighted from two trains at Margao on Saturday after which they had to undergo a Covid-19 test. An official said that 281 passengers alighted from the Delhi to Margao Rajdhani Express while 26 alighted from the Thiruvananthapuram to Delhi train at Margao. All those who alighted at Margao were sent to the new district hospital for testing. There was no train from Margao leaving for any destination with migrant workers on Saturday. Sources said that around 251 inmates of the Navelim shelter were ferried to Karmali by the authorities to enable them board the Shramik special. Migrant labourers, who are getting impatient at being unable to get a place on the Shramik special trains, are pulling on with the hope that they will get lucky in the next couple of days. Thousands have assembled at the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium in Navelim where arrangements have been made for their accommodation. The last couple of days have seen the authorities facing a rough time in managing the affairs at the shelter. On Saturday, arranging food for them was not an easy task. Other facilities, such as mobile toilets, had been enhanced on Friday, as the numbers had swelled beyond expectation.  An AAP functionary urged the CM to intervene saying that a large number of migrants were at the shelter and that food was limited. Meanwhile, South Western Railways opened its counters for bookings at Hubballi, Dharwad, Belagavi, Vasco, Bellary, Hospet and Vijaypura. They will be open from 8am to 5pm, an official said. In view of Ramzan being a national holiday, reservation counters will function from 8am to 2pm on May 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/307-rail-travellers-alight-at-margao-migrants-pin-hope/articleshow/75928117.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolhapur||New government order paves way for opening around 300 beds in private hospitals in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: With the state coming out with a revised notification to cap treatment charges for Covid-19 and nearly 200 non-Covid procedures in private hospitals and applying the capped rates to 80% of the hospital beds, the civic administration here estimates that around 300 beds in private hospitals will open up for treating both patients suffering from the viral infection and those from other critical ailments. Currently, Kolhapur has around 400 isolation beds in four major hospitals of which, 55 are occupied by Covid-19 patients. Rest of the patients are undergoing treatment at various public hospitals in the rural parts of the district. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has already reserved 16 isolation beds with ventilators in two private hospitals. Officials from the civic administration said, “We have estimatd that around 300 beds can be reserved in private hospitals for treating Covid and non-Covid patients. So far, there is no need for acquiring private hospitals.” A senior health officer at KMC said, “The state government has fixed the charges for treating Covid patients at private hospitals. Besides, patients with critical illness will also be treated at the private hospitals as most of the staff and infrastructure of public hospitals have been deployed to look after confirmed Covid-19 patients and suspected cases who have been recommended quarantine. We are referring the critical patients to two hospitals currently but more hospitals will be added considering the demand.” The state government has invoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act for the hospitals. This has been done to ensure the patients referred by the administration get proper treatment and all the staff at the private hospitals attend to the patients. The new notification states strict action, including cancellation of registration, against doctors, nurses and staff reluctant to report to work. Meanwhile, though most of the private clinics have opened for attending to non-Covid patients, private practitioners from Shirol tehsil have signed up with Covid care centres. Some doctors from Kolhapur city too have signed up for Covid management. Officials claim that many healthcare staff have enrolled for various works in Covid-19 management that will help reduce the burden on the existing staff attending to the patients suffering from the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/new-govt-order-paves-way-for-opening-around-300-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75925028.cms||Abhijeet Patil
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Cops crack down on illegal liquor trade||GUNTUR: Cracking the whip against bootleggers, Guntur rural police and the special enforcement bureau (SEB) destroyed 16,880 litres of fermented jaggery wash and seized 360 litres of illicit distilled (ID) liquor in the past week. Cases were booked against 47 people for brewing hooch in the district. Rural district superintendent of police (SP) Ch Vijaya Rao said they seized 12 vehicles used by the accused. The SP said another 66 vehicles were seized after arresting 176 people involved in the illegal transport of liquor from neighbouring states to Andhra Pradesh. The SP said they recovered 1,840 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and added they have slapped cases against 51 persons running belt shops in the district and recovered 187 litres of IMFL. Vijaya Rao said they seized 331 bottles of liquor being illegally transported into the state in a single day on Friday. Police special teams carried out raids at different places in Sattenapalle, Gurazala, Narasaraopet and Tenali sub-divisions and nabbed several offenders. The SP said they have booked nine cases against 18 people in different cases registered in the last 24 hours. The SP said the special team also unearthed a hooch-making unit in Adavuladeevi forest in Bapatla sub-division and arrested three persons involved in brewing arrack. Gurazala urban police seized 72 bottles of liquor from the possession of four persons while Dachepalle police seized 243 bottles from another four persons. Another six persons were arrested in Sattenapalle for illegally transporting liquor. The SP said they seized 10 litres of ID liquor under Narasaraopet rural limits. The SP warned they would not spare anyone who resorted to illegal transport of liquor or brewing hooch in the district. Meanwhile, special enforcement bureau additional SP Arif Hafeez said they have booked cases against 20 people for the illegal transport of sand and recovered 63 tonnes of sand from different places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-crack-down-on-illegal-liquor-trade/articleshow/75925027.cms||Samdani MN
May 24, 2020||Pune||PMC aims to complete cleaning of stormwater channels, chambers by May 31||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation is planning to complete the crucial pre-monsoon work of cleaning stormwater channels, drains and repair chambers by the end of May. The administration has said that about 19,000 stormwater chambers out of the total 24,000 have been cleaned so far and the remaining are expected to be cleaned before the arrival of the monsoon. As per the PMC’s data, the city has about 1,400km-long roads, which are more than six-metre wide. Of these, about 650km-long roads have stormwater drains. The administration has identified stormwater channels on about 200km-long roads, which need to be cleaned before the monsoon to prevent waterlogging. About 165km-long stormwater drains have been cleaned so far, officials said. Work is also underway in the containment zones with due precaution and permission from the city police. About 300 workers have been deployed for cleaning the drainage and channels. All of them have been issued identity cards and have been told to undergo health checks. During the last year’s monsoon, many roads witnessed huge flooding which had put a question mark on the quality of pre-monsoon work carried out in the city. An official said, "The administration has taken two important steps this time. A software has been introduced to monitor cleaning of every chamber and stormwater channel. This software sends real-time updates to the system after cleaning is done at a particular spot. The work progress can be monitored every day. About eight contracts have been issued for eight zones for the cleaning work. A team of 40 engineers, appointed in these eight zones, is monitoring the work through a web-based app." The civic administration has also introduced changes in the allotment of cleaning work this year. Till last year, the work used to be allotted by the zonal offices. This year, the responsibility of allotment and monitoring of work has been given to the road development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-aims-to-complete-cleaning-of-stormwater-channels-chambers-by-may-31/articleshow/75928115.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic staff in a fix over action against dilapidated structures||PUNE: The demolition of dilapidated structures in the city’s containment zones ahead of the monsoon has become a cause of concern for the civic administration. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has identified 15 rundown structures as extremely risky in the central parts of the city, which include Kasba Peth, Bhavani Peth, Guruwar Peth, Shukrawar Peth, Nana Peth, Ganesh Peth, Shaniwar Peth and Rasta Peth. With maximum number of Covid-19 cases, these areas have been classified as containment zone. The civic officials said given the severity of the outbreak in these areas, they can neither ask the occupants of these structures to evacuate the properties nor can they risk lives of the latter owing to the probability of the weakened structure crumbling down. The PMC carries out action against dangerous properties in the municipal limits every year ahead of the monsoon. The residents of these properties are asked to move out to safer places and the vacant structures are demolished. This year, the civic body has identified 250 properties that pose threat to lives. As many as 25 of the 250 properties are identified as “extremely risky” and 15 of these are in the containment zone, while the remaining 10 are in the non-containment zones. “We had served notices to the property owners of these structures, but they are yet to vacate the houses. This has complicated the process. The staff is in a fix on how to handle the situation,” a civic official said. Civic officials said the demolition drive would also focus on pulling down dangerous retaining wall and labour camps. “The drive in the non-containment zones has already started. Some properties have already been razed. We will take a call on the action in containment zones and plan it accordingly,” Rajendra Raut from the PMC’s building permissions department said. He said a public notice about the action was issued in April. Such notices will also be issued in the days to come. Those living in such properties should corporate with the civic administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-staff-in-a-fix-over-action-against-dilapidated-structures/articleshow/75928118.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 24, 2020||Goa||Since lockdown, cops register over 50,000 violations||Panaji: Goa police have collected over Rs 60 lakh in fines and reported over 50,000 lockdown violations since March 22, when it was first imposed. Also, since April 27, when the wearing of masks in public was made compulsory, the force has fined over 15,000 people for not wearing them, and 7,663 for spitting. The force has arrested 1,405 persons — 572 in North Goa and 833 in South Goa — since lockdown began, and registered 772 FIRs. A senior police officer said the 53,500 registered violations include moving around villages and cities without permission, opening shops defying government orders, and in some cases, even transporting furniture. Goa police has said that it is enforcing the lockdown strictly and its patrolling staff are persuading the public to comply with its conditions. Lockdown 4.0 started on May 18, and chief minister Pramod Sawant had said there would be no additional relaxation. The police have said that appeals to the people to stay at home have been circulated on social media through posters. Video clips have also been circulated to citizens and religious institutions not to hold public gatherings. Traffic police have also been deployed at nakabandis, the force said. Meanwhile, inspector general of police Jaspal Singh said that Goa police have provided refrigerators at all check posts so that food brought by police personnel doesn’t get spoilt. Singh said that police have not engaged anyone to supply food, but has asked staff to get their own home-cooked food. Police have made necessary arrangements at railway stations for stranded migrant workers returning to their home states to avoid any possible inconveniences to these workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/since-lockdown-cops-register-over-50000-violations/articleshow/75928123.cms||Murari Shetye
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Tiger found dead; two held for poaching deer||VIJAYAWADA: A 20-year-old male tiger died of age-related ailments at Chennupalli Chenchu village in Prakasam district on Saturday. According to Markapur district forest officer Sheikh Khadar Basha, locals found the big cat lying dead at the Nallamala forest area in the morning. Officials said that the carcass was sent for post-mortem and cremated after following due process. In another incident, a spotted deer was found dead with stab wounds at Ummadidevarapalli village in Krishna district on Saturday evening. Within an hour of the finding, forest officials managed to arrest two persons, identified by eyewitnesses, for poaching the animal protected under the Wildlife Act. According to Krishna district forest officer N Ramachandra Rao, the two accused had knives on them. A case has been registered and both will be produced before the district magistrate soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tiger-found-dead-two-held-for-poaching-deer/articleshow/75925047.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Only 1 firm bids for state’s health scheme||JAIPUR: Claiming that no other firm came forward, the state government is mulling handing over the contract for Ayushman Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY) to a company which quoted more than the total budget allotted for the scheme. While the Opposition cried foul, the health department officials claim they were renegotiating the prices with the company. After the merger of the former BJP government’s ambitious Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojna (BSBY) with Centre’s Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), the Congress government in the state had launched AB-MGRSBY in October 2019. The scheme provides health insurance cover to over four crore people. However, the health department is yet to sign a contract with an insurance company to run AB-MGRSBY in the state. “Bids have been invited. Evaluation of the bids is currently under process. It got delayed due to the lockdown. Bringing in an insurance company, whether public sector or private, will introduce enhanced professionalism and better management of the entire process,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, the health department claimed that nothing has been finalised yet. “Only one company has qualified. It is single bidding. Nothing has been finalied yet as it requires financial approval, etc,” said Suchi Tyagi, CEO, State Health Assurance Agency, Jaipur.Beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), 2011, are covered under AB-MGRSBY. There are at least 1.1 crore families in the state which are covered under the scheme. In 2018-19, the Centre had provided Rs 400 crore and more than Rs 1,200 crore were contributed by the state government in the scheme. “Only one company has bid for it, that too, a private firm. Also, the matter has been sent for financial approval, which indicates there’s something wrong. It should be investigated and retendering of the scheme should also be done,” said Kalicharan Saraf, former health minister and a BJP leader. Saraf said that he had written a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot informing him that beneficiaries under the scheme are not getting cashless facilities as the insurance company is not paying due bills of the private hospitals. He said that the company had paid only Rs 40 crore out of the total Rs 300 crore bill of the private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/only-1-firm-bids-forstates-health-scheme/articleshow/75932580.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Erode||School admissions must begin only after board exams results: Tamil Nadu minister||ERODE: Admissions for the next academic year should not be started in all schools, including private, before results of Class X and XII board exams were announced, said state education minister K A Sengottaiyan. Speaking to reporters at Gobichettipalayam on Saturday, the minister warned action against errant schools. He also warned against taking special classes for Class X students. He asked parents to file complaint against private schools which urge them to pay term fees On teachers refusing to go to evaluate answer sheets of Class XII board exams in Covid-19 hotspot districts like Chennai, Tiruvalllur, Ariyalur and Kanchipuram, the minister said answer papers from those districts would be sent to other districts where evaluation is going on. The minister said the school education department had sent a letter to forest department to allot 50 cent land for a school at Vilankombai, a tribal village in Erode district. “Tender has been floated to lay tar road to the village. Works will start from June 3,” he said. He was replying to Tirupur MP Subburayan claim that the government had not take any step to construct a government school at Vilankombai. The minister said a school has been run in the area with help from NGOs, who had also supplied food, books and other amenities to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/school-admissions-must-begin-only-after-board-exams-results-minister/articleshow/75927283.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Robbers damage car & rob driver, trash 2 more vehicles||PUNE: Four armed men damaged two cars and a tempo in Pimple Saudagar early on Friday besides robbing one of the car drivers of Rs 1,000. The car driver, Sikandar Salim Munde (35) of Pimple Gurav, lodged a complaint with the Sangvi police on Friday morning. Munde was headed home in his car around 12.30am when four men armed with iron rods intercepted him, police said. “The suspects then smashed his windshield with rods. Before Munde could realize what was happening, the suspects issued threats of dire consequences and robbed him of Rs 1,000,” a police officer said. Police said the suspects then fled the spot. However, before fleeing they also damaged another car and a tempo which were parked along the road. The police are studying the CCTV footages from the area to ascertain the identity of the suspects, who, prima facie probe revealed were aged between 18 and 22 years. In another such incident, the Talegaon Dabhade police booked four persons for damaging Ramchandra Sawant’s (32) car in Godumbre village during early on Friday. Police said the suspects and Sawant had an old animosity. The suspects damaged his car as revenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/robbers-damage-car-rob-driver-trash-2-more-vehicles/articleshow/75928124.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bareilly||After notice for poor food to Covid-19 patients, contractor mends ways||BAREILLY: Two days after, Bareilly's chief medical officer (CMO) served a notice on a contractor for supplying low quality food to patients under treatment at the community health centre in Bithri Chainpur, designated as Covid-19 level one hospital, the meals have improved. Patients themselves vouched for getting better food. Vineet Shukla, CMO, said the contractor was to provide a proper "thali" for lunch and dinner but he was supplying only vegetables with some chapatis. According to officials, the contractor was supplying bread without butter for breakfast while pulses and rice were missing from lunch and dinner. The matter came to the fore after a few patients complained about poor food during a telephonic conversation with a state minister. Dr Shukla said, “Though no special contract was made for Covid-19 patients, the contractor has to supply breakfast, lunch and dinner according to the contract terms of the Janni Suraksha Yojana (JSY). However, as the quality of food supplied here was not up to the mark, we have served notice on the contractor, who has since improved quality of food. Besides, we have started providing fruits and milk through other sources to the patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-notice-for-poor-food-to-covid-19-patients-contractor-mends-ways/articleshow/75925049.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 24, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Only 1 firm bids for state’s health scheme||JAIPUR: Claiming that no other firm came forward, the state government is mulling handing over the contract for Ayushman Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY) to a company which quoted more than the total budget allotted for the scheme. While the Opposition cried foul, the health department officials claim they were renegotiating the prices with the company. After the merger of the former BJP government’s ambitious Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojna (BSBY) with Centre’s Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), the Congress government in the state had launched AB-MGRSBY in October 2019. The scheme provides health insurance cover to over four crore people. However, the health department is yet to sign a contract with an insurance company to run AB-MGRSBY in the state. “Bids have been invited. Evaluation of the bids is currently under process. It got delayed due to the lockdown. Bringing in an insurance company, whether public sector or private, will introduce enhanced professionalism and better management of the entire process,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, the health department claimed that nothing has been finalised yet. “Only one company has qualified. It is single bidding. Nothing has been finalied yet as it requires financial approval, etc,” said Suchi Tyagi, CEO, State Health Assurance Agency, Jaipur.Beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), 2011, are covered under AB-MGRSBY. There are at least 1.1 crore families in the state which are covered under the scheme. In 2018-19, the Centre had provided Rs 400 crore and more than Rs 1,200 crore were contributed by the state government in the scheme. “Only one company has bid for it, that too, a private firm. Also, the matter has been sent for financial approval, which indicates there’s something wrong. It should be investigated and retendering of the scheme should also be done,” said Kalicharan Saraf, former health minister and a BJP leader. Saraf said that he had written a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot informing him that beneficiaries under the scheme are not getting cashless facilities as the insurance company is not paying due bills of the private hospitals. He said that the company had paid only Rs 40 crore out of the total Rs 300 crore bill of the private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/only-1-firm-bids-forstates-health-scheme/articleshow/75932581.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Criminal hacked to death over old enmity in Pune||PUNE: Three men on Saturday were detained by the Hadapsar police on the charge of hacking to death a 21-year-old man with past criminal records near Bhekrainagar on Saswad Road on Friday night. Police have identified the deceased as Shoaib Shaikh (20) from Hadapsar. Police said Shaikh and two others were riding on a motorcycle on Friday night when the suspects travelling in a car hit his vehicle from the behind. “The impact of the collision made Shaikh fall on the road. He soon realised who was in the car and took to the heels on spotting the trio,” assistant inspector Dilip Gade from Hadapsar police said. “The trio then chased Shaikh and caught him near the lane of a private hospital and hacked him to death. They fled the spot after the incident,” Gade said. The officer said the suspects have been monitoring Shaikh ever since he was released on a bail in 2018. “Prima facie probe revealed that Shaikh and the suspects were friends but had a fallout in 2018 after the deceased assaulted them. Shaikh was then arrested in a case of attempted murder but was later released on bail,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-hacked-to-death-over-old-enmity/articleshow/75928127.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Osmanabad woman tests Covid-19 positive hours after discharge from hospital||AURANGABAD: A woman from Kalamb taluka of Osmanabad district tested positive for Covid 19 on Friday within hours of getting discharged from the hospital where she was undertaking treatment for the viral infection along with her husband. As per official record, the couple reported to the state-run hospital in Kalamb after returning from Mumbai on May 13. Medical superintendent at Kalamb government hospital Jeevan Waydande said, “As per the revised protocol of ICMR, Covid-19 patients becoming asymptomatic during the seventh day of treatment cane be discharged on the 10th day. The protocol does not mandate throat swab test for cured patients. However, we decided to carry out the swab test for the couple before discharging as the laboratory in our area did not have much load. While the reports of the woman returned positive, her husband’s test report is inconclusive.” Osmanabad district civil surgeon Rajabhau Galande said there were chances of throat swab samples of recovered patients returning positive. “The presence of the dead virus in the body manifests in the form of testing positive for Covid-19. The presence of virus in such form can neither harm the cured patient nor others. Both the woman and her husband have been asked to be in quarantine for seven days and are in good health,” said Galande. Osmanabad district has reported 27 confirmed Covid-19 cases, most of which are from Kalamb and Paranda talukas. Six patients have been discharged till Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-woman-tests-ve-hrs-after-discharge-from-hosp/articleshow/75925040.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Not so sweet times for savoury makers of North Karnataka||Hubballi: In addition to the profusion of tourist destinations that dot the landscape of North Karnataka, visitors to the region look forward to indulging themselves in the various delicacies that each district has to offer. If it is the pedha in Dharwad, it is the kunda in Belagavi, the nutrient-rich kardant is a specialty in Gokak and the ironically named ‘khara (the word means spicy in Kannada)’ is famous in Savanur. However, the lockdown has sent their businesses on a downward spiral, and they are not too optimistic about being able to revive their business. The owners of these savoury units point to the exodus of migrant labourers as being one of the major hurdles to resumption of business. Umesh Thakur, owner of Babusingh Thakur Pedha, said that the months of April and May, when the wedding calendar was packed, were months that generated tremendous business for savoury makers. “With the lockdown enforced in the two months, we incurred massive losses. We prepared 350kg of Dharwad Pedha every day, but we are able to make no more than 40kg now. It will probably take a year for business to return to the state it was in prior to the lockdown,” Thakur added. Thakur’s workforce has also shrunk from 40 to 15, with many of his skilled labourers having returned to their homes in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Owner of Sadanand Sweets in Gokak Uday Devarmani said that production of the famed kardant at his company had come down from 20 quintals every day to just 100kg. The delicacy, which is an amalgam of dry fruits in a thick paste of jaggery, was earlier shipped to various parts of the country and abroad. “I am running my factory with three or four labourers, where I had 20 earlier. We are receiving orders for kardant from more than 60 distributors, but lack of transport facilities has meant that we have not been able to meet the demand,” he added. Rajesh Kotak, owner of Savanur Khara in Haveri district, said that most of his customers were too afraid to turn up at his store, as a result of which his business had nosedived. Atul Purohit, maker of kunda in Belagavi, said that production of the sweet at his unit had dropped from 100kg per day to 10kg. “Business has taken a very bad hit owing to the lockdown,” Purohit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/not-so-sweet-times-for-savoury-makers-of-north-karnataka/articleshow/75925046.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Only 1 firm bids for state’s health scheme||JAIPUR: Claiming that no other firm came forward, the state government is mulling handing over the contract for Ayushman Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY) to a company which quoted more than the total budget allotted for the scheme. While the Opposition cried foul, the health department officials claim they were renegotiating the prices with the company. After the merger of the former BJP government’s ambitious Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojna (BSBY) with Centre’s Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), the Congress government in the state had launched AB-MGRSBY in October 2019. The scheme provides health insurance cover to over four crore people. However, the health department is yet to sign a contract with an insurance company to run AB-MGRSBY in the state. “Bids have been invited. Evaluation of the bids is currently under process. It got delayed due to the lockdown. Bringing in an insurance company, whether public sector or private, will introduce enhanced professionalism and better management of the entire process,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, the health department claimed that nothing has been finalised yet. “Only one company has qualified. It is single bidding. Nothing has been finalied yet as it requires financial approval, etc,” said Suchi Tyagi, CEO, State Health Assurance Agency, Jaipur.Beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), 2011, are covered under AB-MGRSBY. There are at least 1.1 crore families in the state which are covered under the scheme. In 2018-19, the Centre had provided Rs 400 crore and more than Rs 1,200 crore were contributed by the state government in the scheme. “Only one company has bid for it, that too, a private firm. Also, the matter has been sent for financial approval, which indicates there’s something wrong. It should be investigated and retendering of the scheme should also be done,” said Kalicharan Saraf, former health minister and a BJP leader. Saraf said that he had written a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot informing him that beneficiaries under the scheme are not getting cashless facilities as the insurance company is not paying due bills of the private hospitals. He said that the company had paid only Rs 40 crore out of the total Rs 300 crore bill of the private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/only-1-firm-bids-forstates-health-scheme/articleshow/75932579.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Only 1 firm bids for state’s health scheme||JAIPUR: Claiming that no other firm came forward, the state government is mulling handing over the contract for Ayushman Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY) to a company which quoted more than the total budget allotted for the scheme. While the Opposition cried foul, the health department officials claim they were renegotiating the prices with the company. After the merger of the former BJP government’s ambitious Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojna (BSBY) with Centre’s Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), the Congress government in the state had launched AB-MGRSBY in October 2019. The scheme provides health insurance cover to over four crore people. However, the health department is yet to sign a contract with an insurance company to run AB-MGRSBY in the state. “Bids have been invited. Evaluation of the bids is currently under process. It got delayed due to the lockdown. Bringing in an insurance company, whether public sector or private, will introduce enhanced professionalism and better management of the entire process,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, the health department claimed that nothing has been finalised yet. “Only one company has qualified. It is single bidding. Nothing has been finalied yet as it requires financial approval, etc,” said Suchi Tyagi, CEO, State Health Assurance Agency, Jaipur.Beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), 2011, are covered under AB-MGRSBY. There are at least 1.1 crore families in the state which are covered under the scheme. In 2018-19, the Centre had provided Rs 400 crore and more than Rs 1,200 crore were contributed by the state government in the scheme. “Only one company has bid for it, that too, a private firm. Also, the matter has been sent for financial approval, which indicates there’s something wrong. It should be investigated and retendering of the scheme should also be done,” said Kalicharan Saraf, former health minister and a BJP leader. Saraf said that he had written a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot informing him that beneficiaries under the scheme are not getting cashless facilities as the insurance company is not paying due bills of the private hospitals. He said that the company had paid only Rs 40 crore out of the total Rs 300 crore bill of the private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-1-firm-bids-forstates-health-scheme/articleshow/75928125.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Aurangabad||15 of family contract Covid-19 in Aurangabad, one succumbs||AURANGABAD: In Bahadurpura, Covid-19 has exacted a heavy price on a family. Fifteen members of the family contracted the infection, including an elderly woman who succumbed on Friday. The virus had infected an elderly couple, their three sons, three daughters-in-law and five grandchildren. Moreover, the elderly couple’s Phulambri-based daughter and granddaughter also tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of affected family members to 15. The elderly woman’s 27-year-old grandson said his grandmother was healthy before contracting the infection. “My grandmother was the first to get infected in the family. She developed cold and cough about a fortnight ago. The family members consulted the nearest doctor, who failed to diagnose the early onset of Covid-19. Grandmother was rushed to a super-speciality hospital after her condition worsened, but the doctors there asked us to approach the state-run hospital. Her health continued to deteriorate even after getting admitted at the state-run hospital and she passed away on Friday,” he said. The family had earlier made an official complaint to the CM’s office against the alleged poor treatment meted out to the elderly woman at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). “My grandmother complained to us over phone that there was nobody to take her to the latrine or the washroom at the hospital which anyway had poor hygiene. Later, she was admitted to the ICU. She was not aware that other members of the family, including children, have caught the infection,” he said. The youngest son of the deceased woman lives at Pune, but he could not go to Aurangabad to perform the last rites. “While others are reading about the ever-increasing Covid-19 figures, we have felt the havoc the disease wreaks. As many as 14 of my close relatives are battling the disease and one has succumbed,” said the grandson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/15-of-family-contract-covid-19-in-aurangabad-one-succumbs/articleshow/75925057.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||CRPF women beef up security at containment zones||NAGPUR: An all-woman company of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), part of the battalion tasked to guard highly sensitive Srinagar airport and volatile Imphal, has been deployed to guard some of the 19 containment zones in the city. This is in addition to the SRPF, city police and riot police. It’s learnt that the company, which has 83 women commandos under assistant commandant Pragya Bajpayee, has been posted at important containment zones like Satranjipura, Gaddigodam, Shanti Nagar and a few others. There is no clarity on who requisitioned the CRPF. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said police commissioner BK Upadhyay “will be in a better person to explain”. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe declined to comment on the issue. Upadhyay said the prime focus of the commandos would be to strengthen the security at the containment zones. “State has sent the force on its own,” he said. Sources from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation told TOI that Mundhe and his team were not happy with police’s efforts in guarding the containment zones. In recent days, Mominpura and Satranjipura has seen a spike in cases despite the two localities being notified as containment zones on April 4 and April 6, respectively. “The commissioner had raised the issue of movement of people within containment zones with CP a few times and also held review meetings with police. When it did not help, he requested home minister Anil Deshmukh to explore options like CRPF,” the sources said. Senior cops TOI spoke to said there was no question of any “lacklustre show by city police”. While the CRPF women are well-equipped with face shields, masks, half gowns and gloves, city cops are using only cloth masks and gloves. “We have provided face shields, gloves, sanitizers and also PPE kits at the police stations. Constables should use protective gears,” said Upadhyay. Mominpura has registered 220 positive cases and Satranjipura 121. Also, a family from Satranjipura and Mominpura were found hiding in Kalamna to escape quarantine. A couple from Shanti Nagar containment zone had whisked away their children to Bhaldarpura. A man from Mominpura even shifted to Panchgaon, Kharbi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crpf-women-beef-up-security-at-containment-zones/articleshow/75928135.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 24, 2020||Goa||Candolim civic body refunds ‘train’ fees||Panaji: A week after collecting money from shack operators and workers with the promise of special trains to West Bengal and Odisha, minister for ports Michael Lobo’s plan has been scrapped. On Saturday, some of the money was returned to the workers and employers who had paid between Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,500 per person for a ticket to return home. Several hundred workers, mostly employed in the hospitality industry, had gathered outside Calangute MLA and ports minister Michael Lobo’s residence at Parra with 2,800 people registering for the trains. Sources within the government and Konkan Railways said that there was no provision to charter special trains when the Centre has already announced Shramik Special trains to help stranded labourers return home. “We stopped collecting money after the collector told us that there was no permission for the trains. Candolim panchayat had collected some money and whatever was collected was given back,” general secretary of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS), John Lobo said. Most of the workers employed in shacks, hotels and restaurants hail from West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. Shack owners had urged the state to arrange for trains so that they could send their staff back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/candolim-civic-body-refunds-train-fees/articleshow/75928128.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Id-ul-Fitr to be celebrated across the state tomorrow||Hyderabad: Id-ul-Fitr, or the festival of alms-giving that marks the end of the fasting month of Ramzan, will be celebrated on Monday under the shadow of Covid-19 lockdown. The crescent for Shawwal, the 10th month of Islamic Hijri calendar, was not sighted anywhere in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Saturday and thus Sunday will be the 30th day of Ramzan. Moulana Mufti Khaleel Ahmad, vice-chancellor of leading Islamic deemed university Jamia Nizamia, said Id-ul-Fitr will be celebrated on Monday as none of the state-level official moon-sighting committees across India confirmed the sighting of the crescent on Saturday. “The sky was clear in sparts of the country. But nowhere the crescent was sighted,” Mufti Khaleel, who is also a member of the official moon-sighting panel for Deccan region, said. Id prayers will not be held in congregation, he said, urging Muslims to offer thanksgiving Namaz at home. With the lockdown hitting the livelihood of millions of people, Ramzan 2020 has been a subdued personal affair for Muslims as many decided to celebrate the Id on a low key. Islamic scholars have called upon the community not to buy clothes and other accessories this Id, but donate the money to the poor and migrant labour. Ramzan has always been a mega affair both in spiritual and temporal terms in Hyderabad. Right from the day Hyderabad was founded by Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah V in 1591, Ramzan and Id have been an integral part of the Deccani Tehzeeb (tradition) with the Charminar and its vicinity coming to life. For the first time in about a century, the aura of Ramzan is missing thanks to Covid-19. Lad Bazaar, a symbol of celebration for over four centuries, wears a deserted look. Ramzan 2020 was more about virtual bonding rather than personal one, thanks to social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/id-ul-fitr-to-be-celebrated-across-the-state-tomorrow/articleshow/75925055.cms||Syed Akbar
May 24, 2020||Goa||Denied entry into Goa, family of three lives at Karnataka checkpost||POLEM: For five days now, 34-year-old Meet Kaur has been spending her nights sleeping just metres away from the Karnataka border checkpost at Polem. She and her brothers, Karamdip and Karamjit Singh, eat food from the packets provided by Karnataka police. Meet spends her days trying to plead with the authorities to help her cross the border into Goa, weeping hysterically at her fate every now and then. While being raised in Goa and still a teenager, Meet found herself orphaned following the sudden death of her parents. The three siblings have not known what it’s like living anywhere else, until this January, when Meet briefly moved to Kerala for work. “I am well known among the entire biker community as a much sought-after mechanic for Royal Enfield bikes. Look to what state I have been reduced to here. I was called to Kerala for short-term assignments and moved there in January with my brothers with the intention of returning to Goa once I am done with the work at hand. Suddenly the coronavirus cases in Kerala began rising and now we want to return home to Goa,” said Meet, pointing to the trio’s Aadhar cards and other documents, which indicate an address in Santa Cruz. Karamdip said, unable to afford a home, they had been living in rented premises all their life and are now being denied entry into Goa with no permanent address to call home. “Goa is home for us. It is where we are most comfortable. We were orphaned as children and had a hard life because of which we could not educate ourselves. Now the authorities are asking us to fill different forms, which is Greek to us. No one is showing us the way forward. I am crying seeing my sister wailing in pain,” said Karamdip. The siblings said they already had a difficult journey back towards Goa through different police checks and hitching rides, only to sleep out in the open at Polem. “When we left for Kerala, we had to give up our rented place as we did not know the definite time period of the job for which I was hired. We do not have an address to tell the authorities, that is our only fault. If we are refused entry in Goa, where we have always lived, where are we to go? They should tell me where I belong, if not here,” said Meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/denied-entry-into-goa-family-of-three-lives-at-karnataka-checkpost/articleshow/75928132.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||Hospitals open in Mysuru; elective surgeries begin||MYSURU: With the lifting of the lockdown norms in total in the city, with no locally transmitted Covid-19 positive cases in last 18 days, hospitals are back to normal. Most hospitals are now offering full-fledged services to patients including elective surgeries. “We started performing elective surgeries five days ago,” said Dr BH Manjunath, Director of DRM Multi-speciality Hospital. JSS Hospital, which earlier used to run its OPD service from 9am to 1pm, has extended it to 4 pm, said the hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Guruswamy. “We opened a fever clinic as most of the clinics were shut for many days. We implemented all the guidelines including social distancing and ensured patients do not face any problems to get emergency treatment,” he said. Founder-chairman of Suyog Hospital Dr SP Yoganna said. “Anyone can enter the hospital only after a check-up including thermal screening. We didn’t close any services including surgeries,” he said. Meanwhile, footfalls have increased in OPDs at hospitals. “For the last three to four days, the number of surgeries and patients coming to the OPD have increased,” said Dr Upendra Shenoy, chief of medical services, Columbia Asia Hospital. “During the lockdown, we did fewer elective surgeries after taking all precautions. Corona is not going to go away in a hurry, and we must learn to live with it. Surgeries have to be done to patients who are suffering. As a precaution, those who are all working in OT wear PPE,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hospitals-open-in-mysuru-elective-surgeries-begin/articleshow/75925060.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Madurai||20 TN natives from Chile left to fend for themselves in Delhi||Madurai: After facing two months of gruelling lockdown in Chile and Argentina, as many as 20 natives of Tamil Nadu, including a pregnant woman, returned to India on May 21 only to find themselves stranded in Delhi. They said they are in a constant state of fear and uncertainty as they have been asked by authorities to fend for themselves. They are to complete quarantine for 14 days in Delhi and make arrangements to return to Tamil Nadu on their own. As no arrangements have been made so far by the Tamil Nadu government to help them return to at least Chennai, they submitted petitions to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as well as MPs S Venkatesan and A Raja in this regard.All 20 had reached Delhi on the morning of May 21 via a special flight LATAM, which was carrying around 50 Indians. Among the 20 TN natives, 10 are post-doctoral research fellows working on projects while the others are software engineers and hotel staff. Among them is a si-month pregnant woman as well.“For two months, there was complete lockdown in Chile and our livelihoods were greatly affected. The lab I work at also shut down. It was after much struggle that we learnt of the special flight co-ordinated by Argentinian and Indian authorities that would travel via Australia and drop us off at Delhi. We saw it as our only chance and shelled out Rs 1 Lakh for the flight,” said Muneeswaran T, a post-doctoral research fellow in nano-biotechnology who was working in Chile. Though initially they were told that they would help make arrangements for return to Tamil Nadu after spending a few days in Delhi, now officials are telling them it was not possible.“On reaching Delhi, officials took our passports and luggage, and immediately asked us to pick hotels to be quarantined at. They said that after 14 days, we would be given passes which we could use and then make our own arrangements to return to Tamil Nadu once public transport is restored. We have no idea how long we will be here and our families are also in distress,” said Muneeswaran. They were forced to bear all expenses for their 14-day quarantine stay in Delhi where they could find accommodation only in luxury hotels charging Rs 3,000-4,000 a day. They said they have even been asked to pay for the Covid-19 test which they would have to take after 13 days. On Saturday night, N E Chinnadurai, joint resident commissioner, Tamil Nadu House, reached out to them and promised to help make life easier during their stay at Delhi. However, there was no mention of arrangements for return to Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/20-tn-natives-from-chile-left-to-fend-for-themselves-in-delhi/articleshow/75929026.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 24, 2020||Madurai||26 cases in south TN as spike continues in Tirunelveli district||MADURAI: A day after the ten southern districts reported a record high of 105 Covid-19 cases in a day, the region reported 26 cases on Saturday, of which 22 were those who came from other states. In the central region, Pudukottai turned out to be the only district with a new case, a 65-year-old woman who apparently contracted the disease from her son who returned from Maharashtra. The total cases in southern districts now stand at 1,207 while there are 831 cases in the central districts. Tirunelveli continues to see a spike as it reported more than 10 cases for the tenth straight day with 11 all of whom had returned from Maharashtra. With 282 cases as on Saturday, the district tops the list of maximum cases in south Tamil Nadu. Madurai district has the second highest number of cases with 226, including two reported on Saturday. A 38-year-old man who had recently returned from Uttar Pradesh and was quarantined, and a 39-year-old woman doctor tested positive. The doctor was recently on duty in the Covid-19 isolation ward at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and was currently quarantined. Tuticorin reported five cases, all Maharashtra returnees. Three more people, including a three-year-old girl who returned from West Bengal, tested positive in Ramanathapuram. Tenkasi reported two local cases while Theni reported one local case, all those with contact history. Health department officials in Pudukottai said both the 65-year-old woman and her were asymptomatic. Yet, they were being kept at the isolation ward in the government medical college hospital. Trichy district which had a total 72 cases till Friday had no new cases on Saturday but MGMGH discharged a 21-year-old woman of Perambalur, who tested positive on May 8 while on full term pregnancy. A contact of a Koyambedu returnee in her family, she was shifted to MGMGH in Trichy for better care considering her high risk. Under treatment for a week, her samples were tested on May 15 when she turned negative. She gave birth to a male baby through caesarean section on May 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/26-cases-in-south-tn-as-spike-continues-in-tirunelveli-dist/articleshow/75929025.cms||---
May 24, 2020||India||Now, Chhattisgarh & Maharashtra oppose restart of domestic flights||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Two days before domestic airlines are set to resume flights, the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government has said the Centre should not open up the skies or the rail routes without putting in place effective standard operation procedures (SOPs). No commercial flight will take off or land in Mumbai airport owing to lockdown restrictions, a top Maharashtra official said. Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel wrote to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and rail minister Piyush Goyal demanding SOPs for passengers, a mandatory 14-day quarantine, and insisted that the state government must receive prior information, including contact details, of all passengers who choose to travel. Raising concerns over the resumption of flight services without any SOP, Baghel asserted that it should be made operational only with strict and effective guidelines. He also said it may not be possible to avert the further spread of coronavirus if domestic flight services are resumed at the time when there is a spike in corona positive cases in the country. A senior Maharashtra bureaucrat told TOI since the entire Mumbai Metropolitain Region as well as Pune and Aurangabad districts are in red zone, it will not be advisable to allow flights. "We have informed MIAL, which control the Mumbai airport that, unless it finetunes airport operations... We will allow only emergency flights and on compassionate grounds only,'' the bureaucrat said. Earlier, Tamil Nadu said it didn't want domestic flights to resume during the lockdown which is on till May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-chhattisgarh-maharashtra-oppose-restart-of-domestic-flights/articleshow/75930617.cms||Swati Mathur
May 24, 2020||Pune||Amphan sucks out moisture from peninsular & central India, triggers heatwave conditions||PUNE: Super cyclonic storm Amphan sucked out moisture from major parts of peninsular and central India, triggering heatwave conditions in parts of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, some areas of coastal Andhra Pradesh and north interior Karnataka, and parts of Rayalseema. Scientists in India Meteorological Department (IMD) told TOI on Saturday that the drastic depletion of moisture pushed up the day temperature significantly in these regions. The heatwave conditions are likely to continue for the next two to three days. The heatwave condition is likely to develop over Marathwada and Rayalseema after 24 hours. The current heatwave situation in parts of the country including, north and northwest India, is the first largest spell in terms of its expanse for the summer of 2020. IMD scientists stated that the heatwave in north India was not a result of Amphan, but the super cyclone brought about heatwave conditions in parts of peninsular India and central India since May 20-21. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune said, “The super cyclone depleted all the moisture from peninsular India, even from Vidarbha, parts of Marathwada and central India during its passage and fag end, causing the day temperature to surge, expediting a heatwave situation in these regions from around May 18-21 — around the period of Amphan’s peak form and landfall. The heatwave conditions in parts of peninsular and central India are likely to continue during the next couple of days.” He said the ongoing heatwave situation was the first largest in India for this summer in terms of its areas-wise spread. “Amphan’s passage over the Bay of Bengal and exit are majorly responsible for the heatwave situation in parts of peninsular India, central India up to Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha. The super cyclone has not only put parts of central and peninsular India in a heatwave spell, but it has also reduced chances of summer rain there for some days because of the moisture depletion and high temperature,” added Kashyapi. On Saturday evening, IMD issued an alert stating that heatwave conditions were likely over some parts of Rajasthan with severe heatwave at isolated pockets. It said heatwave conditions were very likely in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Vidarbha during the next 4-5 days. It added that heatwave conditions were very likely in isolated pockets of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and southern parts of Uttar Pradesh during the next four-five days, and over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana during the next three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amphan-sucks-out-moisture-from-peninsular-central-india-triggers-heatwave-conditions/articleshow/75928133.cms||Neha Madaan
May 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kollam man dies of Covid-19 in Saudi Arabia||Kollam: A 55-year-old man from Kilikolloor in Kollam died in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The deceased has been identified as Sam Fernandez, 55, of CV Villa, 173, Pulari Nagar, Punthalathazham, Kilikolloor. He was under treatment at Jubail General Hospital for the past 12 days. His death occurred around Friday midnight. He first developed breathing problems and high fever. He was admitted to a private hospital and was shifted to the general hospital later. His first two tests were negative. However, he tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago. He had been working in R B Hilton company in Jubail for the past 17 years. He leaves behind wife Josephine, daughters Reshma (Federal Bank, Pooyappally) and Daisy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kollam-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-saudi-arabia/articleshow/75925070.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Cops to release impounded vehicles within a week: DGP||Vijayawada: DGP D Gautam Sawang on Saturday announced that the police have begun returning the vehicles impounded during the lockdown to their rightful owners. The process is expected to be complete within a week. Sawang said that the owners will receive the vehicles only after they submit documents and an undertaking that they will comply with the legal proceedings, which will start once the lockdown is completely lifted. He stated that there are several impounded vehicles parked across all police stations and the respective district SPs have been given instructions to dispose of the vehicles to the owners after imposing fines. The SHOs will play a key role at the ground level who will be collecting the details and release the seized vehicle after imposing fine under the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-to-release-impounded-vehicles-within-a-week-dgp/articleshow/75925065.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Reservation starts at 5 railway stations||AURANGABAD: The Passenger Reservation System (PRS) has started at Aurangabad along with five other railway stations to ply passengers as soon as the lockdown norms are relaxed from May 31 onwards. The fiver other stations include Nanded, Purna, Parbhani, Selu and Jalna, where ticket reservation for Nanded-Amritsar and Nanded-Sachkhand Express is currently processed. As per the official announcement, the advance reservation for these trains has now been made to 30 days instead of seven days. “Along with this all reservation quotas earmarked in normal Rajdhani Express trains will also be defined in these trains. However, there will be no provision for tatkal and premium tatkal quota,”” an official release said. The RAC/waiting list tickets will be issued in these trains as per extant instructions. However, waiting passengers will not be allowed to board the train, as per the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/reservation-starts-at-5-rly-stations/articleshow/75925069.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Madurai||Family from Mumbai stranded at Theni border for 12 hours||Madurai: A family of four returning to their native place in Theni district from Mumbai by bus had a rather harrowing experience at Devadanapatti village on Saturday. They were stranded in front of Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), a makeshift quarantine facility for those returning from other states, for 12 hours before finally heading home.C Shanmugavel, 30, working as a waiter in a hotel in Mumbai and his wife Adhilakshmi, 27, along with their two kids aged two and four were stranded in the city and struggling to make ends meet since the lockdown was announced. They had applied to travel to Tamil Nadu. A private bus, that had gone from Madurai to Rajasthan with guest workers on May 16 and was returning to Tamil Nadu, picked up 21 people including the family from Mumbai. At 6 pm on Thursday the bus started from Mumbai and after covering more than 1,400 km reached Vadipatti check post around 11.45 pm on Friday. “The pass was valid only till Friday so we had to enter Madurai before midnight,” S Laxman, one of the two bus drivers said. The bus was accompanied by a police escort vehicle to the quarantine facility at MKU at around 1 am. But the couple and their kids were denied entry into the campus. The rest of the passengers were taken to the quarantine facility and asked to stay there till their test results for Covid-19 came. “The police officer who escorted us said that only those returning to Madurai will be allowed to the quarantine facility,” Shanmugavel said and added that the family was asked to find their way home.Without any transport facility, they were stranded in the dark. An argument broke out between the bus driver and the police as the police asked the drivers to drop the family at Theni. “I told them that we only had a travel pass to travel till Madurai. Theni police would seize the bus if we entered that district without a pass. But we did not want to abandon the helpless couple with small kids in the night,” driver Laxman said. The drivers asked the family to stay in the bus till morning or till they got help. The family managed to relieve themselves on Saturday morning at the quarantine facility and got breakfast after contacting the police control room at 10.30 am.. After the incident was brought to the notice of the district administration, a fresh e-pass was provided for the bus to take the family to Theni. They bus left for Theni at around 1 pm – 12 hours after the ordeal began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/family-from-mumbai-stranded-at-theni-border-for-12-hours/articleshow/75929028.cms||M K Ananth
May 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy city officials on toes as more vehicles return from Chennai||Trichy: The five new Covid-19 cases reported in the past few days have come as a bolt from the blue for Trichy city especially since four of these cases were either a Chennai returnee or a close contact. Health and civic authorities will now be on their toes as the number of vehicles with e-passes returning from Chennai, a hotspot, has been witnessing a surge post the relaxations to lockdown was announced.The five, who have been admitted to MGMGH, include a man from Vayalur road employed in Perambalur, a Thiruverumbur-based policeman and an elderly couple from Karumandapam who returned from Chennai, and a woman — a contact of a Chennai returnee. The corporation collected 12 samples from their close contacts while other contacts are being traced. “We are disinfecting the entire wards where positive cases were reported twice a day. Waste from the houses of the patients is collected separately,” a corporation official said. No containment zone needs to be set up since five or more cases have to be reported from an area for that as per the revised directives.Civic body sources said they are coordinating with the police to trace people arriving from other districts. Details of returnees from other districts are recorded at 16 check posts on Trichy district’s borders and shared with the health department, police sources said. The Samayapuram toll plaza handles 7,000 vehicles a day now, mostly passenger cars, in place of only 2,000 during the lockdown. “Details of people entering the city with e-passes are being shared with us for follow-ups. The quarantined houses are monitored,” a senior official with the city corporation added. People returning from other districts have been asked to alert the corporation officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-officials-on-toes-as-more-vehicles-return-from-chennai/articleshow/75927318.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Harshvardhan gives up politics for spiritual books, wife to take over||AURANGABAD: Kannad MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav, who is also the son-in-law of Union minister of state Raosaheb Danve, released a video message on Saturday afternoon announcing his retirement from active politics. Jadhav had recently rejoined Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) led by Raj Thackeray and was tasked with playing an influential role in regional politics. In the video message, he claimed that during lockdown, he was able to give time to his hobby of reading spiritual books, which led him to rethink his decision to join politics. “We keep running after things but I have realized the reality...so I have taken the decision to resign,” said Harshvardhan, who was recently booked in an atrocities case registered in Aurangabad city. He further hinted that his wife Sanjana would carry forward the political legacy under the leadership of Danve, indicating that she might join BJP. Jadhav unsuccessfully contested the state legislative assembly and Lok Sabha elections in 2019. He garnered a record 2.83 lakh votes while contesting the general elections as an independent candidate, prior to which he served as an MLA for two terms as Shiv Sena and MNS candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/harshvardhan-gives-up-politics-for-spiritual-books-wife-to-take-over/articleshow/75925082.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Pregnant woman aboard Shramik train delivers||KOTA: A 30-year-old woman labourer gave birth to a baby girl in a Shramik train near Kota railway station on Saturday morning. The mother and baby were provided medical aid at the station where the train halted for nearly an hour before leaving for Uttar Pradesh. “Suman Kanojiya of Kateshwar tehsil in Jaunpur district of UP delivered a girl child in a general coach of a Sharmik train on Saturday morning,” said Laxman Singh, sub-inspector, Government Railway Police (GRP) in Kota. The woman along with her husband and family members had boarded the train from Vasai station in Mumbai to reach her hometown in UP. Early on Saturday morning, she started experiencing labour pains. “Other women in the general coach facilitated the delivery. When the train reached Kota around 10.30am, GRP personnel and medical team led by Dr Deepti Shukla rushed to attend to the mother and child,” Singh said. “Shukla examined the mother and the newborn and administered them the required medical care,” he said, adding that the train had to halt at Kota for about an hour. The mother and child were reported to be in sound health, he added. “Following medical aid at Kota, the woman and her family members expressed a desire to continue travel to home state by the same train. The train left for Bhadohai around 11.30am on Saturday,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pregnant-woman-aboard-shramik-train-delivers/articleshow/75927299.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||Deputation of staff to Covid-19 hosp, lab stretches MMCRI thin||MYSURU: The easing of the restrictions in the Heritage City has certainly not eased the lives of the personnel at the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI). During the lockdown, the state-run Krishna Rajendra (KR) Hospital and Cheluvamba Hospital were flooded with patients, many of whom rushed to Mysuru from quarantined and containment zones. Now, a large section of the crowd is also making its way to MMCRI, already stretched thin in terms of resources owing to the staff currently working at the Covid-19 laboratory at the institution. The Covid-19 laboratory at MMCRI is testing throat swabs for the fatal novel coronavirus from five districts in South Karnataka. In addition to deployment of staff for operations at the laboratory, doctors, nurses and other personnel are working at the Mysuru’s designated Covid-19 hospital. Consequently, this has left the hospital with a skeletal staff to serve other patients. The lack of a district hospital compelled the Karnataka health and family welfare department to rope in healthcare personnel from MMCRI at the Covid-19 hospital. The district hospital that has been built is yet to start operations after recruitment of doctors and other medical staff. MMCRI dean and director Dr CP Nanjaraj pointed out that, since Mysuru district had one active cases, the focus of the hospital administration had now shifted to the running of the outpatient department. “Despite the challenges, our staff has managed ensure that operations are not affected. But it will become difficult to run the show if the situation gets out of hand. We urge the health department to recruit more personnel,” Dr Nanjaraj said. Through the duration of the lockdown, the OPD at KR and Cheluvamba hospitals had been shut, with only emergency cases being attended to at the two institutions. Nearly 1900 patients seek treatment at KR Hospital’s OPD while about 500 plus at Cheluvamba hospital on a daily basis. KR Hospital medical superintendent Dr BL Nanjundaswamy said that, since the OPD resumed operations a week ago, around 900 patients had been seeking treatment, on average, every day at the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/deputation-of-staff-to-covid-19-hosp-lab-stretches-mmcri-thin/articleshow/75925079.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘Rs 1,400cr water fund from Centre unused’||Jaisalmer: Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary on Friday accused the Gehlot government of not utilising the Rs 1,400 crore sanctioned by the Centre to address water woes. While addressing reporters through a video conference, Choudhary said districts like Barmer and Jaisalmer are facing serious water crisis and the state government has not even started the process of calling tenders for water tankers. He said the Centre had given sufficient funds to overcome water crisis in the state, but so far no project has been started in this regard. Along with the water crisis, the state government is also collecting three months’ electricity bill with penalty, he added. He alleged that the state government has failed in controlling locusts and is shirking its responsibility along with playing politics. He said there is no talk with Pakistan regarding locusts. Whatever information is being received is through FAO. The situation of locusts in Pakistan is alarming and now these are entering Rajasthan. The Centre is not getting enough cooperation from the state government and now these locusts have reached Madhya Pradesh and other parts of the country, he added. He alleged that lakhs of farmers in Rajasthan were to receive the benefit of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, but the Congress government has not sent data due to which the farmers were denied the benefit. He also alleged that the state government is making amendments in Rajasthan Krishi Upaj Bazar Niyam 1963 and has imposed 1.5% cess along with 2% farmer welfare fee due to which farmers are facing losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1400cr-water-fund-from-centre-unused/articleshow/75927311.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Experts fear coronavirus spike after cyclone||KOLKATA: The complete disruption of lives caused by cyclone Amphan and efforts to restore normalcy seem to have broken down all social-distancing norms in the city and beyond, which are also in the grip of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Health experts fear a massive rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the next few days, with a huge number of people converging on the streets, either to help the city get back on its feet or to protest against the lack of power and water supply. Virologists pointed out that many among those gathering on the roads could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Even if there is a single super spreader among them, half of them could be infected. TimesViewWe will be fortunate if we do not see a second spike in the disease, thanks to the breakdown of all social-distancing norms because of Amphan. Some of what is happening may be unavoidable but we should all be conscious of the consequences and behave accordingly.“With the natural disaster forcing people to forego social-distancing norms, the pandemic could go from bad to worse in Bengal. We are bound to see a surge in the number of people getting infected in the next few days,” said virologist Amiya Hati, former director at School of Tropical Medicine. With 127 new Covid cases on Saturday, Bengal recorded 3,459 total cases; Kolkata has the highest number of patients (1,615). Peerless Hospital microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury pointed out that social distancing and hand hygiene were the two most lethal weapons against the virus. “In the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, thousands have been coming out on the streets, reversing the Covid-19 containment wheel,” he said. Adopting multi-pronged measures, the government has ramped up testing, which has brought the positivity rate to 2.7%. But people seem to have forgotten about the virus threat, even as they fight for their basic needs. “Covid-19 has taken a back seat for people who are demanding their basic needs, such as water and electricity. One cannot even argue with them as they are genuinely aggrieved. At the same time, the government cannot restore everything overnight. Amphan has reversed the efforts to contain the spread of the virus that were quite successful over the past few weeks,” said internal medicine specialist Syamasis Bandyopadhyay. “How can people maintain hand hygiene without water at home? How can protesters maintain social distancing? Amphan effect is also going to push up the number of infected people in South and North 24 Parganas, Midnapore and other districts, where many were put together in rescue camps,” added Chaudhury. Besides rapid spread of Covid-19, virologists also fear the spread of other diseases, like dengue, malaria and chikungunia, owing to waterlogging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/experts-fear-virus-spike-after-cyclone/articleshow/75927326.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 24, 2020||Aurangabad||330 ZP teachers to assist Beed cops in Covid-19 duties||AURANGABAD: Responding to the request made by Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar, 330 teachers of Beed zilla parishad’s education department have been deployed to assist police force in performing Covid-19 duties. This is for the first time in the state that teachers are being deployed along with the police for coronavirus duties. Depending on the requirement at each of the 27 police stations in the district, these teachers would be deployed for particular hours every day. Police authorities said that the teachers are being trained in taking appropriate precautions while being on duty. In addition, all the necessary gears are being provided to these teachers to rule out any possibility of getting infected. “At border nakas, we have deployed Class 2 officers of other departments in eight hour shifts along with police. For containment zones, we are using a combination of police, home guards and teachers of the zilla parishad’s education department. This reduces the strain on police force which is already heavily taxed,” Poddar told TOI. Considering the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in Beed district, district police chief sought the help of the teachers ZP chief executive officer Ajit Kumbhar said that based on the request made by the police department, 330 teachers have been deployed for assisting the police. “To avoid inconvenience to the teachers, they have been deputed to the police stations near their homes,” said Kumbhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/330-zp-teachers-to-assist-beed-cops-in-covid-19-duties/articleshow/75925075.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Experts fear virus spike after cyclone||Kolkata: The complete disruption of lives caused by Cyclone Amphan and efforts to restore normalcy seem to have broken down all social-distancing norms in the city and beyond, which are also in the grip of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Health experts fear a massive rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the next few days, with a huge number of people converging on the streets, either to help the city get back on its feet or to protest against the lack of power and water supply. Virologists pointed out that many among those gathering on the roads could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Even if there is a single super spreader among them, half of them could be infected. “With the natural disaster forcing people to forego social-distancing norms, the pandemic could go from bad to worse in Bengal. We are bound to see a surge in the number of people getting infected in the next few days,” said virologist Amiya Hati, former director at School of Tropical Medicine. With 127 new Covid cases on Saturday, Bengal recorded 3,459 total cases; Kolkata has the highest number of patients (1,615). Peerless Hospital microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury pointed out that social distancing and hand hygiene were the two most lethal weapons against the virus. “In the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, thousands have been coming out on the streets, reversing the Covid-19 containment wheel,” he said. Adopting multi-pronged measures, the government has ramped up testing, which has brought the positivity rate to 2.7%. But people seem to have forgotten about the virus threat, even as they fight for their basic needs. “Covid-19 has taken a back seat for people who are demanding their basic needs, such as water and electricity. One cannot even argue with them as they are genuinely aggrieved. At the same time, the government cannot restore everything overnight. Amphan has reversed the efforts to contain the spread of the virus that were quite successful over the past few weeks,” said internal medicine specialist Syamasis Bandyopadhyay. “How can people maintain hand hygiene without water at home? How can protesters maintain social distancing? Amphan effect is also going to push up the number of infected people in South and North 24 Parganas, Midnapore and other districts, where many were put together in rescue camps,” added Chaudhury. Besides rapid spread of Covid-19, virologists also fear the spread of other diseases, like dengue, malaria and chikungunia, owing to waterlogging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/experts-fear-virus-spike-after-cyclone/articleshow/75927313.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Confusion as Mumbai train stops at Kannur||KOZHIKODE: Confusion prevailed in Kannur for hours after it was known that the train from Mumbai carrying around 1,000 passengers would halt at the station on Saturday. The district administration and the health authorities had no clue about the arrival of the train that left Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai on Friday night. The information was that the train will halt only at Thiruvananthapuram. There were many passengers who wanted to alight at various stations in Malabar. Railways heeded to their request for a stop in Kannur. The train’s stoppage in Kannur was not communicated to authorities till 11am. Revenue, health and police personnel swung into action soon after they were informed. Station premises was sanitized and a medical team was rushed to the station. The train arrived around 3pm and 156 passengers alighted at the station. District collector T V Subash told media persons that the complete details of the passengers were not available with the district administration. After registration and medical examination, the passengers were taken to the institutional quarantine centres at Thottada and Mundayad. Upset chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is learnt to have written to the railways ministry for advance information on arrival of trains to Kerala from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/confusion-as-mumbai-train-stops-at-kannur/articleshow/75925088.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Citizens run from pillar to post for water after power cut sparks crisis||KOLKATA: Left with no water at home since Thursday because of a power cut, Samanta Dhar, a teacher who lives in Azadgarh, roamed the entire length of NSC Bose Road in Tollygunge in search of 20-litre jars of packaged drinking water. But shops have run out of packaged drinking water due to a water crisis that has hit large areas of Tollygunge due snapped power supply lines. As the Kolkata Municipal Corporation teams struggled to remove uprooted trees for the third consecutive day from added areas, like Behala, Tollygunge and Jadavpur, residents tried in vain to lobby with utility agencies and KMC for restoration of power. Without it, they cannot get access to filtered water. On Saturday, Bijon Mukherjee, a resident of Shahidnagar off EM Bypass, paid Rs 2,500 to hire a generator set to pump up water from his ground-floor tank to the second floor. “We have been living in hell — no electricity and no water. I finally had to pay Rs 2,500 to a local businessman for a generator to get water from our reservoir. We will somehow manage in this way for the next two days. But we don’t know what we will do if the power is not restored by then,” he said. In fact, hiring generators has become a feature in vast areas of Behala and Tollygunge, too, which have come under the grip of a severe water crisis because of non-availability of power for three days. Sangita Saha, a homemaker in Shantinagar, close to Moore Avenue, has been asking a person who delivers water to get her some ever since power was cut off in the area after a large tree fell on overhead wires. The tree could not be removed and, as a result, power is yet to be restored. “I have not seen such water crisis in the locality in the past 20 years,” Saha said. According to a water supply department official, efforts were on to restore supply in areas which have been badly hit by the water crisis. “We have asked the power utility agencies to restore supply by Sunday so that we can resume drinking water supply at the earliest,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-run-from-pillar-to-post-for-water-after-power-cut-sparks-crisis/articleshow/75927361.cms||Saikat Ray
May 24, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Three couples kill selves in 24 hours; 62 such cases in 35 months||AGRA: Three couples committed suicide in 24 hours in Agra, Firozabad and Hathras district. While two couples hanged themselves from trees after their family members objected to their relationship, another jumped in front of a moving train over family dispute. In Agra, a 25-year-old father was found hanging from a tree along with his 19-year-old paramour in a farm field in Budhara village of Tajganj police limits. Station house officer (SHO) of Tajganj Anuj Kumar said, “The couple was found hanging by local residents on Saturday. During investigation, we found that the duo used to be neighbours. While the man lived with his wife and five-year-old child, the girl was an undergrad student. Family members of both victims were against their relationship. They left home after midnight and hung themselves from a tree in a farm field.” In a similar case, a 27-year-old youth along with his 18-year-old niece were found hanging from a ceiling in Sirsaganj area of Firozabad. The incident took place on Friday evening in Nagla Hari village. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) of Sirsaganj Iraj Raja said, “The family of the couple claimed that the victims were in constant touch with each other. The youth originally hailed from Etawah.” In another incident, a couple committed suicide on Friday in Hathras city. A man and his wife jumped in front of a freight train on Delhi-Howrah route. The victims hailed from Baruli area. Inspector Vinod Kumar of Hathras junction said, “The couple is survived by a five-year-old daughter. During investigation, we found that their marriage was going through a rough phase for some years. On Friday, they jumped in front of a goods train after getting into a fight.” A data on couples committing suicide has revealed that a total of 62 couples have killed themselves in 35 months in western UP districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-couples-commit-suicide-in-24-hours-in-agra-firozabad-hathras-62-such-cases-in-35-months-in-wup/articleshow/75925113.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Covid rush at govt hosp leads to rehab for 4 schizophrenic siblings||Nagpur: Many government hospitals have been converted into Covid-19 treatment facilities and non-Covid patients are being referred to other hospitals. This has inconvenienced many patients but proved beneficial for four schizophrenic siblings from Pulgaon earlier this week. Studies say that around 1 in 100 people in a community develop schizophrenia. This case is rarest of rare as all four siblings are suffering from schizophrenia, say experts. Turned away from a government hospital in Sewagram due to Covid rush, a schizophrenic patient reached Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital (AVBRH), Sawangi Meghe, last week. Here, she was treated in proper psychiatry ward. Now, her sister and two brothers, who too are suffering from similar disorder, are set to get treatment. “We are planning for psychosocial rehabilitation such as involving them in candle making, drawing-painting and gardening because there is no earning member in the family. They rely on pension of their deceased father who was a railway employee. Their mother is the only normal member in the family,” said professor Dr Pradeep Patil, HoD of Psychiatry Department of the hospital who shared this unique case study with TOI on the eve of World Schizophrenia Day. “This 30-year-old unmarried girl from Pulgaon in Wardha district came to us earlier this week with complaints of poor oral intake, delusion about hearing voices, fearfulness, using abusive language, and irritability. She was admitted to female psychiatry ward and psychiatric treatment was initiated,” said Dr Patil. During investigation, it was revealed that patient’s three siblings too are schizophrenic. “They are patient’s two brothers and an elder sister. Their eldest sister too used to be schizophrenic but she died, they said. Now, two sisters are admitted in our hospital for schizophrenia,” Dr Patil said. “On further inquiry, we came to know that the maternal uncle of this patient also suffered from symptoms of schizophrenia. But their mother and father had no symptoms. This is rarest of rare case of five siblings with this disorder. I have came across such case for the first time in my 25-year-old career,” said Dr Patil. Dr Madhuri Thorat, medical superintendent of the regional mental hospital, too was amused on finding out about the case. “I have seen two or three brothers or sisters in family having schizophrenia, but this case is one-of-its-kind,” she said. Veteran psychiatric Dr Sudhir Bhave said that it’s a known fact that siblings exhibit similar symptoms but four of family is very rare. “Schizophrenia is genetic. In this case the family is fortunate that they will get proper treatment now,” he said. Schizophrenia is a mental condition which affects normal functioning of the brain. The condition interferes with a person’s ability to feel, act and think. Some schizophrenic patients recover completely and find an improvement in their symptoms. But others continue to suffer for a prolonged period and the distressing symptoms can last for years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-rush-at-govt-hosp-leads-to-rehab-for-4-schizophrenic-siblings/articleshow/75928179.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 24, 2020||Trichy||Car mows down shepherd, 36 sheep||Trichy: A 57-year-old shepherd and 36 of his sheep were mowed down by a speeding car on Chennai-Kumbakonam National Highways near Meensurutti in Ariyalur district on Saturday. The accident happened while the herd was moving into the national highway. Police sources identified the deceased as Kamaraj from Devamangalam village in Ariyalur district. On Saturday, the victim was guiding his 150 sheep along the highway to his native hamlet from Sethiathoppu in Cuddalore district. While approaching the Vennankuzhi village on the NH near Meensurutti, the herd of sheep was said to have strayed into the highway. Kamaraj had tried to keep the sheep off the road. However, a speeding sedan car driven by a 26-year-old man approaching the highway rammed the sheep and the shepherd. Kamaraj died on the spot, while 36 of his sheep also crushed to death. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/car-mows-down-shepherd-36-sheep/articleshow/75927339.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Agra||Clerk at Firozabad CMO office dies, colleagues stage protest||AGRA: A clerk posted at Firozabad CMO office died in district hospital on Saturday. The computer operator was ill for the last three days. He had requested for Covid-19 test before his death, however, the test was only conducted after his death. CMO office now claimed that approval for the test was given on May 20. The victim was admitted to a government hospital on Friday evening. His colleague staged a protest outside CMO office on Saturday morning alleging that the symptoms the victim was showing were similar to corona patients. “He was continuously coming to the office for the last two months. No leave was granted to him. Had his sample was taken on time, he could have been saved,” said the victim’s colleague. CMO Firozabad, Dr S K Dixit said, “The letter for the deceased’s corona test was approved on May 20. I have called for a probe to find out why his sample was not collected on time. However, now we have asked the medical staff to collect his family members and colleagues sample.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/clerk-at-firozabad-cmo-office-dies-colleagues-stage-protest/articleshow/75925123.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Trichy||1-passenger norm adds to autos’ woes as they return||Madurai/Trichy: A large number of autorickshaws hit the roads on Saturday in Madurai and Trichy as the state government allowed them to resume operations after 59 days. However, to their utter disappointment, only a few people opted for the service due to the restriction to carry only one customer per ride.To add to their woes, police personnel penalized erring auto drivers with Rs 500 fine in Madurai. Indeed, two people were allowed, but only in case of medical emergency and after showing proof of appointment fixed with hospital. Auto drivers led by R Deivaraj, president of Madurai city auto rickshaw drivers’ union, have urged the government to allow them to carry at least two passengers. More than 50 drivers from various parts of the city took part in a protest in front of the district collector’s office in support of this demand. In Trichy, the mobile application-based service providers of autos and cabs in the city and suburbs witnessed hardly 5% bookings. The service providers in Trichy receive an average 25,000 bookings a day of which 65% account for autorickshaws. “There are no outsiders in the city in the absence of public transportation. Also, since public events were suspended, our daily bookings have gone for a toss,” a representative of a service provider said. Though the drivers were provided with face masks and sanitisers, people were hesitant to hire cabs and autorickshaws. N Kuruvan, an auto driver from Arapalayam in Madurai said, “We have lost our livelihood for two months. Government said it had distributed Rs 1,000 to unorganized sector workers, but none of us got it.” M Ilangovan, an auto driver from Bethaniyapuram, said every autorickshaw owner requires Rs 1,500 for oil serving and to check complaints like battery as the vehicle was not used for two months, but none of them have the money, he said.“I wanted to visit a relative place along with my husband for a funeral, but could not find an autorickshaw as the driver refused to take more than one passenger,” said S Manjula of Bethaniyapuram. Closure of movie halls and temples have cost a fortune for the autorickshaws. Women and family members who usually rely on app-based transportation platforms in Trichy are yet to go back to the system. “It is an impractical restriction, families are not hiring us. Autos are hailed only for medical emergencies now,” A Mohammed Aliyar, a driver said. G Chellapandi, a mechanic from Puttuthoppu, said it has been a week since they opened shop, but not many vehicles had turned up. “Auto drivers do not have adequate money to feed their family. Then how do we expect them to spend on vehicle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1-passenger-norm-adds-to-autos-woes-as-they-return/articleshow/75927388.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Looking to restart tourism after May 31, says CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday that the state government will come out with a standard operating procedure (SOP) to start tourism activities in Goa after end of lockdown 4.0 on May 31. Stating that Goa has become a 365-day tourist destination, Sawant said, “At present we are working to control Covid-19. After May 31, we will declare a SOP for tourism.” TOI was the first to report that the state government will come out with a SOP to promote Goa as Covid-free tourist state before it opens its borders for tourists. While uncertainty over the resumption of mining activities continued, tourism turned a major source of revenue for the state government. Sawant said the government is trying to make Goa a Covid-free state once again. He said the health agencies are testing each and every one who arrives in the state. “Goa is the first state in India to conduct Covid-19 test on people entering the state via railways,” the chief minister said. “In Goa, first mining, second tourism, third industries, fourth agriculture and then the others contribute to the economy,” he said. To compensate for loss of revenue to the tourism industry, the state government has requested the Centre to amend the relevant act so that mining activities can resume in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-looking-to-restart-tourism-after-may-31/articleshow/75928188.cms||Murari Shetye
May 24, 2020||Agra||AMU seeks Level 3 hospital status for JNMCH||AGRA: Aligarh Muslim University vice-chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor has urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath to grant COVID-19 Level-3 hospital status to the University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JNMCH). In a letter to the chief minister, the VC said that JNMC Hospital fulfills all the requirements for a Level-3 hospital and its elevation will immensely benefit the patients in Aligarh division. Prof Mansoor said that the JNMC Hospital’s COVID-19 ward consists of 80 beds and ten ventilators with central oxygen supply to the isolation ward. AMU has purchased one RT-PCR machine for the screening of COVID-19 patients as well as placed an order for four new ventilators costing Rs 70 lakhs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-seeks-level-3-hospital-status-for-jnmch/articleshow/75925171.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Agra||Corona continues to target children, elderly in west UP||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: Covid-19 positive cases continued to surface in various parts of western Uttar Pradesh till Saturday evening, with importantly, children among those affected in Aligarh and Saharanpur, while the elderly and many migrant workers battling against the deadly virus in other districts. Three more persons, including two women, succumbed to the virus in Aligarh on Friday night, taking the death toll to 12. While three, including two boys, aged three and 12, tested positive on Saturday, taking the district's tally to 122. Of these, 53 have recovered so far. Also, five new cases were reported in Meerut, on Saturday, taking the tally to 370, which includes one in Kanpur. Meerut's CMO Dr Raj Kumar said, “Five new cases were found positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Saturday. Out of the five, three are admitted at private hospitals. The other two cases are contacts of earlier cases.” Hapur reported two fresh cases, taking the tally to 93. Both are from Majeedpura. Six more tested positive in Bijnor, taking the tally to 76. Three others from Bijnor had earlier tested positive in Kanpur. All six are migrant labourers and their contacts. They are from Najibabad and Mandawar. As of now, three persons, including a woman, have died here. The woman was a cancer patient and was undergoing treatment at AIIMS in Rishikesh - where she had tested positive. Her cremation was performed in Uttarakhand on Saturday. According to Bijnor DM Ramakant Pandey, on Saturday, six people tested positive. All are migrant labourers and their contacts. They were quarantined earlier. Three members of a Saharanpur-based family who had just returned from Delhi have been tested positive. Significantly, patients include a three-month-old baby. On May 14, the family of four had returned after which health officials were informed, who took samples. Three of the four have been tested positive now. Thirteen more samples have been taken for testing from Sadar Bazar-based locality. Circle officer Mukesh Mishra said, "All lanes of Ramu Gate colony in Sadar Bazar have been sealed now." Saharanpur has registered 223 cases, of which, 23 remain active. In Firozabad, corona tally had rose to 208, with 14 active cases and seven deaths till Saturday evening. A septuagenarian who was tested positive on Friday, succumbed hours later in hospital. Two migrants who travelled to Bareilly from Gujarat and Rajasthan also tested positive. Both are asymptomatic. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “A 35-year-old man who came from Anand and a 50-year-old man from Jaipur tested positive. After the duo reached Bareilly, they were quarantined at a degree college in Faridpur on May 18.” With this, the tally in Bareilly reached 33, including 10 discharged and one death. In neighbouring Shahjahanpur, three members of a family were tested positive after they came from Maharashtra. While in Pilibhit, the health department on Friday night received reports of six more cases. Of them, two had come from Gurugram, three from Mumbai and one from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/corona-continues-to-target-children-elderly-in-west-up/articleshow/75925145.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||At 47.4°C, Tangatur village hottest in AP||Vijayawada: Temperatures continued to remain high across the city for the third consecutive day as the heatwave continued across the state. According to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS) data, Vijayawada’s maximum temperature stood at 46 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 29 degrees Celsius at night. The maximum temperature in the state was recorded at Tangatur village and two other stations in Prakasam district, which recorded 47.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday afternoon. APSDPS reported that Prakasam, Krishna and Guntur districts continued to be in the red zone in terms of the heat conditions. Guntur district too recorded some of the highest temperatures. According to officials, Jangameshwar situated at Palnadu region recorded around 47 degrees Celsius maximum temperature. On the other hand, Amaravati area recorded a temperature of 45 degrees Celsius, while Rajahmundry, Eluru and Ongole towns recorded a temperature of 46 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in Visakhapatnam continued to remain below 40 degrees Celsius at 37 degrees Celsius. The State Disaster Management Authority issued an advisory that from May 22 to 25, daytime temperatures would fluctuate between 43 and 48 degree Celsius and appealed people to stay indoors. IMD officials explained that the sudden spike in temperature is attributed to Cyclone Amphan as it took away the moisture in the air, thus reducing humidity and increasing temperature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/at-47-4c-tangatur-village-hottest-in-ap/articleshow/75925166.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Jaipur||Covid scare dampens Eid shopping spirit in Ajmer||AJMER: Long queues of women at the bangle shops in Naya Bazaar in the city were common before Eid. However, this year, the shops remain deserted in the wake of the pandemic amid the fear of being infected. On Saturday, just before Eid, the markets lacked the usual hubbub that engulfs the place. Naya Bazaar is a shopping hub during festivals like Eid or Diwali. On Eid, people in large numbers from across the country come to offer prayers at the Ajmer dargah. Madar Gate, Khailand and Station Road markets are open, leaving the curfew areas of Dargah Bazaar, Ganj and Diggi Chowk. Amid the fear of pandemic, people are hesitant to come out and shop. “The people are terrified as Mochi Mohalla has been a hotspot in Ajmer and people do not want to take a risk,” said a source. Suaha Lal, a bangle shop owner in Naya Bazaar said that not a single customer has come to his shop in last two days. “Since the last 40 years, our sales went up to Rs 1 lakh per day before the festival of Eid,” said Suaha Lal. Women would come in groups, looking for bangles in different designs and patterns, and would buy without much bargaining, but the situation is different this year, with hardly any buyers. Shops selling clothes are facing the same fate. “Customers are not coming in. We open our shops in the morning and go back without any sales,” added Ghanshyam Das, who owns a shop that sells chunnis at Madar Gate. Another reason being cited for the markets facing a lull this year is that many are low on cash due to the lockdown and with businesses being shut. “At Dargah Bazaar and the surrounding region, the main earning is through the devotees coming to the dargah, but from March 23, the dargah is closed and no one is coming to offer prayers,” said a khadim. He said that people may not have the money to purchase new things. Meanwhile, the district administration and police have made arrangements for social distancing and masks for people shopping in the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-scare-dampens-eid-shopping-spirit-in-ajmer/articleshow/75927336.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC told to consider PIL as representation||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has directed the authorities concerned to consider a petition, which it refused to entertain as public interest litigation (PIL), as a representation. Social worker Meraj Ahmed GSA Ansari had approached the HC through lawyer S S Qazi seeking directions to the authorities to provide daily food and economic aid to the family members of the Covid-19 patients in quarantine. The hearing on the PIL was conducted by Justice V L Achliya through video conferencing on May 19. The HC refused to entertain the petition as a PIL as the petitioner had not annexed newspaper clippings and the videos in support of his claims. However, while disposing of the petition, Justice Achliya observed: “Since the petitioner has raised certain grievances in respect of the difficulties faced by the persons residing in the containment zone as well as the persons put under quarantine and their families, the petition filed by the petitioner can be treated as a representation made by the petitioner to authority competent to examine and redress such grievances.” The court also directed the lawyer representing the civic body “to forward the copy of petition to respondent no.5 (civic body) to treat and decide the same as representation made by petitioner and decide same as expeditiously as possible and preferably within two weeks from date of this order.” Ansari had pointed out that (by then) 20 persons had died of coronavirus and 743 persons had been detected as Covid-19 positive in the city. Police commissioner of Aurangabad has sealed the areas wherever Covid-19 positive patients were detected. He said the family members of the Covid patients and others were confined in such localities and were not allowed to go out of the containment zone, nor the outsiders were allowed to enter into such areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-told-to-consider-pil-as-representation/articleshow/75925188.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 24, 2020||Ajmer||Covid scare dampens Eid shopping spirit in Ajmer||AJMER: Long queues of women at the bangle shops in Naya Bazaar in the city were common before Eid. However, this year, the shops remain deserted in the wake of the pandemic amid the fear of being infected. On Saturday, just before Eid, the markets lacked the usual hubbub that engulfs the place. Naya Bazaar is a shopping hub during festivals like Eid or Diwali. On Eid, people in large numbers from across the country come to offer prayers at the Ajmer dargah. Madar Gate, Khailand and Station Road markets are open, leaving the curfew areas of Dargah Bazaar, Ganj and Diggi Chowk. Amid the fear of pandemic, people are hesitant to come out and shop. “The people are terrified as Mochi Mohalla has been a hotspot in Ajmer and people do not want to take a risk,” said a source. Suaha Lal, a bangle shop owner in Naya Bazaar said that not a single customer has come to his shop in last two days. “Since the last 40 years, our sales went up to Rs 1 lakh per day before the festival of Eid,” said Suaha Lal. Women would come in groups, looking for bangles in different designs and patterns, and would buy without much bargaining, but the situation is different this year, with hardly any buyers. Shops selling clothes are facing the same fate. “Customers are not coming in. We open our shops in the morning and go back without any sales,” added Ghanshyam Das, who owns a shop that sells chunnis at Madar Gate. Another reason being cited for the markets facing a lull this year is that many are low on cash due to the lockdown and with businesses being shut. “At Dargah Bazaar and the surrounding region, the main earning is through the devotees coming to the dargah, but from March 23, the dargah is closed and no one is coming to offer prayers,” said a khadim. He said that people may not have the money to purchase new things. Meanwhile, the district administration and police have made arrangements for social distancing and masks for people shopping in the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-scare-dampens-eid-shopping-spirit-in-ajmer/articleshow/75936206.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters arrest poacher||MYSURU: Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary foresters have arrested a man on charges of poaching a hare, and have seized snares from him. Following a tip-off on poaching, Hoogyam forest range officers and staff visited Maralli ‘D’ Line forest area coming under Elethota beat near Minyam. There they found Sundara Nayak, 40, and Nagaraju, 45, residents of Maralli village, with a hare which they had allegedly caught by setting up a snare in the forest area. Though the foresters caught Nayak, Nagaraju gave them the slip. Besides recovering the hare and snares, the foresters have launched a manhunt for Nagaraju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-arrest-poacher/articleshow/75925164.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Agra||No Eid prayers at Aligarh Muslim University||Agra: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, this year Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has decided not to hold Eid-ul-Fitr prayers in any of the mosques under its control, including the Jama Masjid. Also, the traditional Eid celebrations at the vice-chancellor’s residence will not be held. However, funds have been sanctioned to prepare special meals for the students who are still in the hostels on the campus. According to officials, nearly 1,000 students from various parts of country, including Bihar, West Bengal, are still residing in the hostels. Prof Mohammad Saleem, Nazim-e-Deeniyat (Theology) said that individuals can offer Namaz-e-Chasht at their homes or hostels following the social distancing protocol. He said Eid-ul-Fitr prayers are not compulsory and in the current situation, people can perform it at an alternative place as per Islamic principles. He, however, urged people to take out the obligatory Fitra before performing Eid prayers. Vice-chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor has conveyed his warm wishes to all the members of AMU faculty, alumni, students and citizens of the country on the occasion and urged them to help the economically weaker sections of the society. He has also urged everyone to follow the guidelines issued by the public health authorities and help them in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-eid-prayers-at-amu/articleshow/75925157.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘We can neither eat nor drink, neither live nor die’||POLEM: Less than a year ago, Vinod Shamanappa Katagi arrived in Goa from a hamlet near Gadag in Karnataka, hoping for higher wages and a better life. By the afternoon of May 22 (Friday), things had changed drastically for Vinod, who found himself squatting under a lone tree along a deserted highway in Canacona with eight others, in the scorching summer heat. Without food or water, Vinod and seven others were sent to the spot, seven kilometres from the Polem checkpost by Goa officials, who said it was to avoid crowding. Neither Karnataka officials nor Goa officials are providing us information about the procedure to cross over. We can neither eat nor drink, neither live nor die,” said Vinod, who worked as a daily wage labourer in Calangute during this time in Goa. “They told us that if any bus from Karnataka comes to take us, this is the pick-up point. But we are out of food and water and if we have to make an enquiry, we will have to cover seven kilometres by foot again to the check-post. Among the group of eight is a fellow labourer Mahantappa Komaragopadda with his family of four, including children, and a couple Mala Solanki and Giriyappa Patted, who had arrived as tourists. “We had arrived from Hubballi as tourists on March 19 and within days there was a lockdown. After spending more than a month at different lodges, we decided we could not live like this any longer and caught whatever public buses were available to get from Calangute to Margao,” said Mala. It is on this bus that the couple met the labourers from Karnataka and hired a shared taxi to Polem. Even while in distress himself, Vinod doesn’t fail to point to the two other families stuck at the Polem check-post with five children below the age of four. “We were working at a construction site in Valpoi and heard there is a bus available from Polem to Karnataka at 7am, so we hitched a ride on trucks and other goods vehicles to get here. We thought we would be leaving at 7am from Goa so did not get anything to eat with us for the children. They are only sipping on water since we left Valpoi on Friday morning,” said Saroja Lamani, a young mother of two, as her husband has queued up with at least 100 other workers to get a permit to enter Karnataka. “If anyone is left stranded here, it is because the Karnataka government has not accepted their application. It is our job to make it clear to them that if they cross over with no bus to take them to the nearest township, they may be stuck on the Karnataka side of the border in an uninhabited area,” said a Goa official. At twilight, Vinod and the group of seven others began their trek to the Polem check-post again, with no sign of any bus. “There is no place to buy food or water around. But we hope to get back somehow to our village where we have land to grow something we can eat. Here, we do not how long it will be before we get regular jobs again. For now, we will spend the night at the Polem check-post, where at least there will be some safety for the women and children,” said Vinod. By Saturday afternoon, a starving and frustrated Vinod had set out to return to Calangute, with no help forthcoming. He took off by foot hoping to hitch a ride. Mahantappa, his wife Shantavva and children Nagraj (12) and daughter Akshata (10) were issued permits to cross over with no buses. Mahantappa said that his family refused to enter Karnataka for fear of being stuck in a forested area with no transport home. “We are being asked to choose either to cross the border with no guarantee of transport or to shift to the shelter for in Margao. Officials have told us we wont be allowed to hang around much longer. My daughter has been crying of hunger and fear,” said Mahantappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-can-neither-eat-nor-drink-neither-live-nor-die/articleshow/75928211.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 24, 2020||Agra||On return, migrant labourers in Agra face hunger, denied ration, health checkup||AGRA: Several migrant labourers who had returned from major cities during Covid-19 lockdown are facing shortage of food at home. A majority of them in different blocks of the district have not been provided ration by the local administration, sources said. Besides, their health check-up has not been done. After a group of migrant labourers under home quarantine in a few villages of Shamshabad block registered a complaint with the district control room, the district magistrate has issued a notice to the block development officer seeking clarification. Besides, the sub-divisional magistrates have been directed to ensure that migrants do not suffer from hunger and are deprived of other basic requirements. There are 695 villages in 15 blocks of the district. During the lockdown, around 2,000 workers have returned from other states to their homes in 138 villages of the district. These people have been kept under home quarantine. Earlier, the state government had ordered the formation of village monitoring committees to take care of the needs of the migrant labours and ensure that they follow home quarantine. However, the majority of these committees remain inactive due to lack of monitoring by the local administration. A village head in Bah block told TOI, “Local authorities have not made adequate arrangements for ration and other basic requirements of the migrant workers who returned from other states. Health department teams are yet to come for their checkup. These people are surviving on food provided by neighbours and relatives.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We are taking feedback from the migrant workers who had returned to their homes in different villages of the district. Unsatisfactory feedback was received from Shamshabad block. People had complained of not getting ration and other essentials. In this regard, a notice has been issued to the block development officer seeking clarification. Officials have been sent to different villages to communicate with the migrant labourers and address their problems in a time-bound manner.” On Saturday, chief development officer J Reebha along with a police team visited villages in Bah block to take stock of the problems being faced by the migrant workers. According to the health department officials, of the 2,000 workers who have returned during lockdown, samples of 127, who had cough or fever, were collected. All of them tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/on-return-migrant-labourers-in-agra-face-hunger-denied-ration-health-checkup/articleshow/75925199.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 24, 2020||Goa||Man who came to Goa by bus tests positive||Panaji: Goa’s Covid-19 tally continued to rise on Saturday, as a person who travelled from Mumbai by bus tested positive for the novel coronavirus. This takes the number of active cases in the state to 39. On Saturday, 610 samples were tested, of which 572 came negative and 37 reports are awaited. However, the state government admitted four persons to isolation wards after they exhibited symptoms of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the 23 passengers who arrived from Kerala by train tested negative, while testing is underway on the 281 passengers who arrived in the state by the Rajdhani Express. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said that despite Goa’s rising numbers, the state continues to be a Green Zone. “Zoning is something to be decided by the state government,” she said. “We don’t have any local cases in Goa, as all active cases have arrived from outside the state. Hence, there is no possibility of a person within Goa transmitting to people in and around them. Only when that happens do we need to think about changing the zoning. So even in the Centre’s database, Goa remains a Green Zone.” The health secretary announced that the department of health services is in the processes of ramping up testing capabilities to prepare for the influx of travellers in the coming week. “We now conduct an average of close to 1,200 tests daily, and this capacity can be ramped up,” she said. “We are not just proposing but have already got the approval for expanding our testing capacities by getting more machines. We have already announced that we are getting a high-capacity machine for GMC. This machine will be with us very shortly, because we have got all procedural approvals, and it is now only a matter of getting the supply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-who-came-to-goa-by-bus-tests-positive/articleshow/75928233.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Senior doctors lobby to extend retirement age||AMARAVATI: Veteran professors in government medical colleges, many of who have kept away from Covid-19 emergency duties for the past two months, have intensified lobbying for extension of the retirement age from the existing 63 years to 65. Sources said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had turned down the move when a note to this effect was first circulated three months ago. With more than a dozen senior professors due to retire on May 31, the lobbying has gathered pace, said the sources. Sources said another nearly 36 professors from all government medical colleges would retire by December. However, many professors in medical colleges are opposing the retirement extension proposals saying it would lead to stagnation of promotions in many departments and prevent the entry of new talent in to the government pool. The professors, who are lobbying for retirement extension, have been continuing as heads of departments (HoD) for several years. Many specialists who joined the government services are continuing as their juniors without promotion. The previous TDP government had extended the retirement age from 60 to 63 years without consulting representatives of doctors’ associations. Sources said the group which succeeded in getting extension of service during the TDP regime is now citing University Grants Commission (UGC) rules which prescribe 65 as retirement age for university teachers. However, experts believe that extending the retirement age might not be a wise move, particularly in the midst of a pandemic, as many veterans above the age of 55 have been relieved from emergency duties, resulting in more pressure on remaining professors. Several senior professors have gone on leave citing vulnerability to the virus. “The state government had already issued notification for recruitment of specialists on contract basis to handle Covid-19 situation. Regularising the services of freshers will be a good move rather than granting extension to the veterans,” said a professor at a government medical college. The UGC rule could be made applicable only when the state government grants pays and perks to the existing faculty in medical colleges on par with AIIMS, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/senior-docs-lobby-to-extend-retirement-age/articleshow/75925205.cms||Samdani MN
May 24, 2020||Agra||7-year-old boy succumbs to injures after falling from terrace of community centre||Agra: A seven-year-old boy succumbed to his injuries he sustained after he fell down from the terrace of a three-floor community centre in Mathura. He was flying a kite at the terrace when the incident took place.The deceased was identified as Deepu, who hailed from Madhya Pradesh and his parents work as labourers.According to local residents, after hearing cries of the injured boy, people rushed him to the hospital, but he died on the way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/7-year-old-boy-succumbs-to-injures-after-falling-from-terrace-of-community-centre/articleshow/76112776.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Trichy||‘Rlys must provide credit vouchers’||Trichy: The announcement by railways to provide cash refund for cancelled trains due to Covid-19 has been welcomed by Thanjavur District Rail Users’ Association, but it said the process would be a Himalayan task. So, the association has appealed to the railways to provide the refund in the form of credit vouchers with validity up to March 31, 2021. Lakhs of passengers have booked tickets through passenger reservation system (PRS) counters. Now, with the opening of PRS counters, the cash refund for cancelled trains will be a great task, it said. Apart from credit vouchers, if the applicant has smart card or UTS App wallet, the refund amount may be credited there. Bank details may be obtained in prescribed format along with required proof and payment may be effected to the respective account electronically, A Giri, advisor of the association and member of DRUCC, Trichy division said. Passengers should not be advised to approach claims office with a ticket deposit receipt (TDR) for getting the refund. Further, in order to mitigate these type of problems in the future, bank particulars may be obtained at the time of booking and all refunds can only be made electronically with suitable amendments in the booking procedures. This will enable passengers not to approach a booking counter if they opt for online cancellation, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rlys-must-provide-credit-vouchers/articleshow/75927446.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Pump snag leaves Howrah with no water||Howrah: About 10 lakh residents of Howrah Town continued to suffer the impact of Wednesday’s cyclone, which snapped water supply in most parts of the Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC) area. Padmapukur Waterworks, Howrah’s lone water treatment plant, broke down on Wednesday night with six of its pumps going under water. Since Thursday, HMC engineers and workers have been trying to drain the rainwater out. They added that after the water was drained, the pumps would have to be dried. Only then can repairs start. By Saturday morning, some of the rainwater was cleared and two of the pumps were repaired. Areas like Shibpur, central Howrah and N S Road started receiving water from Saturday afternoon itself. Businessman Bikash Sadhu, a resident of Salkia’s Babu Danga in north Howrah, said, “We have no tap water supply or electricity since Wednesday night. We are drawing water from the tubewell and carrying buckets up to our third-floor apartment.” In south Howrah’s Bakultala, on Andul Road, homemaker Swapna Das said, “We are reeling under a water crisis. There are no tubewells in our area, so we have to spend extra to buy bottles of mineral water.” Private firm employee Aloke Banerjee of Mahendra Bhattacharya Road in central Howrah said, “I can’t afford to buy water and am getting it from a pond, like many of my neighbours. I’m worried after learning that some are down with stomach ailments.” State minister Arup Roy visited Padmapukur Waterworks with HMC commissioner Dhabal Jain and engineers. “Engineers are trying to restore water supply as soon as possible. We hope Howrah residents will start getting water from Sunday night,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pump-snag-leaves-howrah-with-no-water/articleshow/75927431.cms||Rupak Banerjee
May 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC to challenge Swachh star rating||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has decided to bring the alleged discrepancies occurred during the declaration of star rating to the notice of the officials of Swachh Bharat Mission. Vizag’s rating dropped to a one-star from the last year’s two star, while Tirupati and Vijayawada retained the three-star under the ‘star rating of garbage-free cities’ initiative. The scoring mechanism is based on the progress achieved by a certain civic body in three different indicators, namely ‘mandatory’, ‘essential’ and ‘desirable’ parameters. A certain score in ‘mandatory’ and ‘essential’ parameters is sufficient to achieve a one star. But at least 30% progress in the ‘desirable’ catalogue is required to get a three-star. Even though the GVMC scored 84 and 70 percent in the ‘mandatory’ and ‘essential’ categories, the city was awarded zero marks in the ‘desirable’ component. It was mentioned in the report that the city failed to achieve the required score in the city level parameter ‘D3’, which deals with construction and demolition waste plant storage, segregation, processing, and recycling. But the construction and demolition plant has been in existence for the last two years. GVMC additional commissioner V Sanyasi Rao said they would submit documents pertaining to the construction and demolition waste plant and its functioning to the Swachh Bharat Mission officials in New Delhi on May 26. “Based on the same, we request them for an upgradation of the star rating of the GVMC, which otherwise could negatively affect the city’s ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2020,” said Sanyasi Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-to-challenge-swachh-star-rating/articleshow/75925234.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cyclone destroyed our homes, say workers from WB in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: As news of the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan that made landfall in West Bengal on May 20 trickles in, the 200-odd families from West Bengal employed as ‘zari’ workers at various boutiques in the city are looking for any means to reach home in the midst of the lockdown. Details of homes being severely damaged or collapsing have started to reach workers here and most are desperate to reach their native villages. With hardly any public transportation available, they are now looking to find a lorry on a highway heading towards West Bengal. “I came to know that the cyclone has completely destroyed my mud house. My mother – who stays in that house all alone — has shifted to my maternal uncle’s home in a neighbouring village. With very low network connectivity available in that area, I am not able to get in touch with her,” said Jamal Molla from Mograhat in South 24 Parganas district. The region is barely 250 km from the Indian side of the Sundarban delta where Amphan made its landfall. For years, between 200 to 250 families from North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Murshidabad districts in West Bengal engaged in ‘jari’ work have made the City of Destiny their permanent home. Most stay in Visakhapatnam with their families and visit their native villages once or twice a year. “Generally, they go to their native place this time of the year during Eid. But this year they could not go as no public transportation was available because of the lockdown. Amphan has added to their woes. We are trying to arrange transportation but most of our efforts are in vain,” said Bugatha Lakshmi who runs a boutique store and is the president of a boutique association in the city. However, following the efforts of Aneesh Daniel, a film director from Hyderabad, a truck was arranged late on Friday in which 45 people headed towards Howrah. Another group of 10 to 15 labourers set out on foot on Saturday morning. “What should I do? Following a bike accident 12 years ago, I became 60% handicapped. Until and unless a truck or a vehicle is arranged I can’t go to my native village. At this time of crisis I want to go back for my ailing parents,” said Sheikh Yakub Ali, who stays near Bulayya College with his wife and three sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cyclone-destroyed-our-homes-say-workers-from-wb-in-vizag/articleshow/75925276.cms||Arpit Basu
May 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Dean refuses to accept transfer||KOLHAPUR: Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye, who was transferred to the Jalgaon civil hospital by an order issued on Friday, has not vacated her position yet. The order was issued on Friday evening and she told to join the Jalgaon hospital by Saturday. The order added that Jaiprakash Ramanand, who is currently with the Dhule civil hospital, will take charge in her place. He was the acting dean of CPR a few years ago. Gajbhiye said she has requested the state health directorate to allow her to continue at CPR hospital. She told TOI: “I was told that a competent and full-time dean is required at Jalgaon, where the cases are on the rise. However, in Kolhapur too, the Covid cases are increasing. It will not be right to disturb the system now. Also, it is not possible for me to travel immediately. There is a lockdown and I will have to cross many districts. I will require permissions from several authorities.” Gajbhiye stayed at the CPR hospital on Saturday waiting for the revised order. It is learnt that internal strife among the staff and administrative officials is the main reason for the transfer. She faced wrath of the nursing staff for providing poor quality PPEs and making them work for long hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dean-refuses-to-accept-transfer/articleshow/75925242.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Congress to blame for crisis, show of sympathy is drama: Mayawati||LUCKNOW: In a stinging criticism, BSP chief Mayawati has held Congress responsible for the worst humanitarian crisis in the country, in which hundreds of migrants are being forced to walk back to their homes. She said had Congress ensured proper development and jobs in towns and villages, these workers would have never migrated to other states. Even now, she said, attempts by Congress leaders to show sympathy for migrants is mere “drama”. Interestingly, in her most recent salvo, she totally spared the ruling party both at the Centre and state, advising them to not follow Congress’ footsteps. In a series of attacks over the past week, including accusing Congress of playing dirty politics over buses to ferry migrants, Mayawati has said that Congress is the “real culprit for the terrible state of migrant workers”. She said Congress was in power for several years after independence but did nothing to ensure jobs in cities and villages. “Had it made any provision for employment generation, so many people would not have been forced to move to other states,” she said. Attacking senior Congress leaders for making a show of their sympathy for migrants, Mayawati said videos of them sitting with workers and sharing their pain looked like “drama”. While she did not name anyone, the BSP chief was apparently referring to former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, who recently met home-bound migrant workers on Delhi-UP border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-to-blame-for-crisis-show-of-sympathy-is-drama-maya/articleshow/75928289.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Gadag youth offers himself for Covid trials||HUBBALLI: A youth from Bellatti village in Shirahatti taluk of Gadag district has offered himself for medical trials to find a cure for Covid-19 infection. In a video, Veeresh Kuravatti, 22, has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept his offer and allow the researchers to conduct trials on him. Veeresh, who is studying diploma (civil engineering) in Narasapur in the district, told STOI that Covid-19 is spreading rapidly in the country, and also claiming lives. “Many researchers are struggling to find a vaccine to treat Covid patients,” he said, adding that he got inspired from a person from Uttar Pradesh, who too has made a similar offer to the PM. “I have decided to undergo experiments in the interest of the country, and help the government find medicines to control the virus. I have also sent a letter to the PM to accept my request. I’m waiting for a reply from the PMO. If I don’t get it, I shall tweet a reminder,” he said, and clarified that he is not doing this for publicity. “I seriously want to help researchers,” he added. Veeresh said he will also meet the Gadag DC and discuss the matter at the government level. However, Veeresh said his mother Suma Kuravatti, an anganwadi worker, is opposing his decision. “But I’m firm on this,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gadag-youth-offers-himself-for-covid-trials/articleshow/75925281.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: SC/ST case against AIMIM MLA Ahmed Bin Abdullah Balala||HYDERABAD: AIMIM legislator Ahmed Bin Abdullah Balala has been booked under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and other sections for allegedly abusing Bangaru Shruthi, daughter of former BJP chief Bangaru Laxman. On May 7, Malakpet MLA Ahmed Balala had visited Kamal Nagar following an alleged sexual assault on a Dalit minor girl reportedly by an MIM worker. BJP SC Morcha secretary Shruthi alleged Balala used derogatory language against her and party leaders on that day. She claimed he also abused her in the name of her caste. Though the case was booked against the MLA after Shruthi’s complaint on May 9, it came to light now. Chaderghat police registered a case against the legislator under section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC and 3(1)r of SC/ST POA Act. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc/st-case-against-mim-mla-balala/articleshow/75927459.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Councillor’s hubby, eight others held for mining sand||TRICHY: The husband of an AIADMK union councillor was among nine people arrested for illegal sand mining in a river near Manapparai in Trichy late on Friday. A special police team formed by Trichy district superintendent of police Zia Ul Haque arrested Ravichandran, 45, of Thottiyapatti, Thiruppathi, 34, of Meenaveli, Dhanapal, 46, of Annadhanapatti, Kumaresan, 33, of Minikkiyur, Sadasivam, 37, of Kodumbalur, Rasu, 46, of Chinnakonarpatti, Sathishkumar, 27, of Chinnakonarpatti, Sangan, 39, of Muthalvarpatti and Arunachalam alias Perumal, 56, of Minikkiyur on charges of illegal sand mining in the Vembanur river near Minikkiyur village. Acting on a tip-off, the team was conducting a patrol in Minikkiyur area on Friday night. Police found the gang loading sand from the Vembanar on a truck using an earthmover. Police rounded them up. Ravichandran is the owner of the truck and Thiruppathi owned the earth mover. Perumal is the husband of an AIADMK union councillor in Trichy district. She was elected in the recently-held local body elections. He was also a former AIADMK union councillor in the area. He was said to be the kingpin of the gang. Though the river was not connected to either the Cauvery or Kollidam in the region, the quality of sand was as good as that of the main rivers. The accused were remanded and the vehicles were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/councillors-hubby-eight-others-held-for-mining-sand/articleshow/75927429.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Shell out Rs 2,000 for Covid-19 test or choose 14-day home quarantine’||PANAJI: The state government said on Saturday that every individual entering Goa from Monday — whether by flight, rail or road — will either have to undergo a TrueNat test for the novel coronavirus, or agree to a 14-day home quarantine. The new norms formthe Goa government’s protocol for all those entering the state, whether Goan or otherwise. With domestic flights set to land at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Monday, and more trains set to chug into Goa from June 1, the state has drafted the health screening protocol to deal with the huge influx of passengers in the coming week. “The first option is to get the Covid-19 test done,” health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters. “We will take the swab and the person has to pay Rs 2,000 to cover the cost of the test. The second option is a 14-day home quarantine, with a stamp,” she said. Thus, every individual arriving in the state will have to first undergo thermal screening at the border checkpost, railway station or airport. If the person has a fever, they will be taken for mandatory testing. Those who do not have a fever will be given the two options, which have to be indicated in a self-declaration form that has to be submitted at the entry point, the health secretary said. When asked about the possibility of a person transmitting the virus during the quarantine period, Mohanan admitted that there is a small element of risk involved, but she also pointed out that quarantining a large number of people on a daily basis is not practical. “Quarantining is a burden in terms of getting infrastructure and manpower, because a whole lot of manpower is required for it,” she said. “What we are interested in is taking their swab and testing it on the same day. We will let them go after that and if required, immediately contact them. For those who opt for testing, part of the declaration is that they will maintain in isolation till test results come.” The government said it would keep close tabs on those who opt for home quarantine, with their names shared with medical officials. These officials, along with local governing authorities and Goa police, will monitor and follow up with those quarantined at home. “At the end of the quarantine they will not be tested because that is not part of the protocol,” Mohanan said. “Through the 14 days, they will be contacted by medical officials and checked for symptoms.” A tweet by health minister Vishwajit Rane created a bit of confusion. “We shall also be relying on a Covid-19 negative certificate from a recognized laboratory for people boarding flights, from their respective state. This will help in preventing community transmission and go a long way in keeping Goa safe,” said Rane. When asked about this statement, Mohanan said, “What I have told you is the decision taken by the government, which the SEC has empowered me to share with you”. However, the protocol announced by the Goa government on Saturday will not affect expats and seafarers who are being rescued and brought back to Goa on flights or by ships, Mohanan said. Ever since the Centre announced the resumption of domestic flights, there have been questions and concerns about Goa’s protocol for passengers, and the precautions to be taken to prevent community transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shell-out-rs-2k-for-covid-test-or-choose-14-day-home-quarantine/articleshow/75928270.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 24, 2020||Trichy||Banana farmers lost Rs 6,000 crore, set up food processing clusters: NRCB||TRICHY: The banana farmers have incurred losses to the tune of Rs 6,000 crores due to the steep drop in prices and disruption in the supply chain caused by Covid-19, scientists from the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Trichy, said. Director of the centre said that time has ripened to set up cluster-based banana food processing industries in major banana growing states. The supply chain of banana was immensely affected by the coronavirus, pushed the farmers to hue and cry. The procurement prices of traditional varieties such as Nendran (Rs 10 per kg), Poovan (Rs 6 per kg) and Ney Poovan (Rs 9 per kg) have drastically decreased as a result of non-availability of workers for harvest and poor demand in the market. “Farmers tend to have a net loss up to Rs 2 lakh per acre. Because of the steep price drop and supply chain disruption, the business has lost around Rs 6,000 crore across the country. This crash in prices is due to disruption of logistics as the main catchments such as Chennai, Bangalore, Mumbai, and Delhi are in the red zone or in containment zone where the movement of vehicles is strictly banned. In addition, there is a huge loss of Rs 200 crore in the export trade,” Dr S Uma, director, ICAR- NRCB said. The director said that with the push from the government through infusing economy revival plan in micro food enterprises (MFE), the time has ripened to set up cluster-based banana food processing industries in major banana growing states. She emphasized that due to mishandling of the produce, about 25-40% is being wasted in the supply chain and only 2% is processed into value-added products. It is essential to carve out innovative ways, identify gaps for capturing the market and making footprint rather than normal market channels, she said. “Creation of cross-functional convergence with development agencies, converging farmer producer organizations (FPOs), market linkages and assessment of the impact through technological incubation and cross-cutting initiatives are the primary steps for the successful establishment of the processing industry. In the end, bigger players such as ITC, Britannia, Parle-G, Horlicks, Boost, Bournvita, Pepsi, Coca Cola, Dabur should come up with the plan to utilize the banana flour, powder, puree and juices in their product portfolio to scale up the industrial use and to market it effectively”, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/banana-farmers-lost-rs-6k-cr-set-up-food-processing-clusters-nrcb/articleshow/75927477.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: A tree house for quarantine stay||AYODHYA: Two migrant workers, who returned to Ayodhya from Mumbai in a Shramik Special train last week, hit upon a novel idea to quarantine themselves by building a scaffolding (machan) atop a 25-foot tall mango tree, replete with facilities, including a cot and solar panel to charge their mobiles. The unique tree quarantine unit of the two youths, Gulsher and Mahtab, helped overcome space constraint in their homes while keeping families safe from virus spread. The tree-houses on village outskirts have bamboo cots neatly placed between strong branches, strung with mosquito nets and complete with household infrastructure like water coolers, utensils, potable water in drums, solar mobile charges and even a prayer rug. Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha said, the health department has accepted the self-isolation units atop the mango tree and pasted the quarantine order on the tree trunk. “We do not have symptoms of coronavirus, but as a precautionary measure we have quarantined ourselves far away from the village to keep our families protected,” said Mahtab. “Our families provide us with food wrapped in paper, which we burn after eating. We clean utensils and maintain social distancing when they come with food,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-tree-house-for-quarantine-stay/articleshow/75928339.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
May 24, 2020||Goa||In virtual space, netizens plan next holiday to Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s tourism sector may currently be shut due to the novel coronavirus pandemic and resultant lockdown, but the sunshine state’s brand is thriving in the virtual world. Even before flights begin to touchdown in the state, social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are already rife with netizens posting pictures of their earlier holidays in Goa and discussing future plans for a “Goa trip”. Along with tourism, Goa as a destination for holiday homes or second homes has also garnered increased interest. The most obvious indicators of the demand for a Goa getaway are the thousands of netizens uploading pictures of their memories in Goa and expressing a yearning to visit the state once the lockdown is lifted. Travel blogger couple Ian and Chris shared a throwback to their holiday on Patnem beach. “Hoping to return to Goa, India, and pick up our adventures in October, if this crisis is over,” said the pair on social media. From 6.8 lakh domestic tourists in 1985, to over 70 lakh Indians marking their presence in the state in 2019, the arrival of domestic tourists has provided a more than satisfactory safety net for the tourism industry at a time when foreign tourist arrivals are declining. In 2018, 9.3 lakh foreign tourists took to the sunny shores of Goa. The 2019-20 season has proven to be a dampener with most stakeholders writing off the season as a loss. Europe has always been Goa’s main source of international tourists, whether it is the British, Germans, Scandanavians or visitors from Ukraine. Russian tourists also form a major chunk of the chartered tourist arrivals in the state that has attained a cult-like status as a tourist destination since the first hippies arrived in Goa decades ago. While international flights to Goa remain grounded, the Indian Railways and domestic airlines are all set to restart services in a calibrated manner. With travel restrictions and fear of infection ruling out vacations to international beach destinations in the forseeable future, Goa seems to be the hot favourite among Indians itching to travel after being cooped up at home. As soon as the ministry of civil aviation announced that flights would resume, a Twitter user going by the name of @sweetspotradar posted, “Are Goa hotels opening? Airbnb villas, flights from Delhi to Goa?” Similarly, an online travel blogger has listed Goa as one of the top 10 locations in the country to visit after the lockdown. Sharing a picture of his holiday at Baga, Gujarat resident Nihar K said on Twitter, “Goa’s magic never wanes.” Secretary of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) Jack Sukhija said that Goa’s draw as a tourist getaway may have gotten even stronger post the pandemic. “Goa’s brand as a tourist destination has not been affected. In fact, I feel that Goa may even get enhanced as a brand. Despite being an international destination, the number of Covid-19 cases that Goa witnessed were very few, and most were from outside,” said Sukhija. He said that the present situation is an opportunity for Goa to improve its services. “This is a chance to reboot and bring in higher standards. This is a time to rejuvenate the beaches so that when we open up, we can offer better hygiene. One thing that may happen is that the people living in metros, people who are well-off and can work remotely, may look to move to Goa,” said Sukhija. Real estate firm Naik Navare seems to agree, and has launched an online promotional campaign called ‘Goa Home Buying Fest’ to try and woo customers in other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-virtual-space-netizens-plan-next-holiday-to-goa/articleshow/75928311.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, HCQ for police on Covid duty||Vijayawada: The Union health ministry, in its revised advisory, has brought three more categories of people under the umbrella of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) prophylaxis (treatment given or action taken to prevent disease), at a time when most discussions are centred on the efficacy of the drug in patients with Covid-19. As per the earlier advisory, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommended HCQ as a prophylactic agent only for healthcare personnel involved in the care of suspected or confirmed Covid cases and for asymptomatic household contacts of the Covid-19 positive patients. But the chemoprophylaxis (the use of drugs to prevent disease) with HCQ is now also recommended for the frontline workers such as surveillance workers deployed in containment zones and the paramilitary/police personnel involved in Covid-19 related activities. However, the Union health ministry reiterated that the intake of HCQ should not instil a sense of false security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-hcq-for-police-on-covid-duty/articleshow/75925364.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 24, 2020||Trichy||Tamils stuck in Bangkok urge TN govt to airlift them||TRICHY: Around 200 Tamils stranded in Bangkok, including expectant mothers, patients and jobless labourers, have appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to take steps to bring them back at the earliest. Though the Union government is operating Air India Express flights to rescue thousands stranded abroad under Vande Bharat Mission, the Tamil Nadu government is being blamed for its alleged reluctance to permit flights to bring the hundreds from the state stranded in various countries. M Muthuganesan, a native of Trichy working in a power plant in Bangkok, said many Tamils who have come there on a three-month tourist or business visa are also stranded there. “More than 200 Tamils are stranded in Chonburi and Ryong in Bangkok for weeks. They include expectant mothers, senior citizens who arrived here to take care of their children, diabetic and heart patients. Workers with expired visa and those left with no money after losing their jobs due to the lockdown are among those stuck here”, he added. He pointed out that many Malaysian nationals were airlifted by Air Asia and Malindo via Trichy airport. “When Tamil Nadu government is allowing special trains into the state from neighbouring states and seeing off guest workers to their states, why isn't it allowing flights to bring back Tamils stranded in foreign countries", V B Jaganath of Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavors (Tides) asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamils-stuck-in-bangkok-urge-tn-to-airlift-them/articleshow/75927500.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Contraband worth Rs 47L seized, 2 held||Vadodara: Based on a tip off the sleuths of special operations group (SOG) of city arrested two persons carrying methamphetamine worth Rs 47 lakh near Dena crossroads on NH-48 on Friday. The two accused Narendra alias Chenaram Chaudhary, a native of Jalore district in Rajasthan, and Pankaj alias Vikram Mangukiya, a resident of Botad, were coming to Vadodara in an SUV when they were apprehended. When Chaudhary and Mangukiya were frisked, a small zip-lock packet was found from both. Another packet was also found from their car, police said. “We had a hunch that the powdery contents may be narcotic substance and so we called the forensic team which confirmed our doubts after a test that it was methamphetamine,” said a police official. The official added that the total quantity seized is just 470 grams but market price of one gram is valued at Rs 10,000. An offence under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against them at Harni police station and they were taken into custody. “Their swab samples have been collected for coronavirus test. If their report turns out to be negative, we will formally arrest and interrogate them,” said inspector V B Aal of SOG. He added that primary investigation revealed that the duo used to get the drug from Rajasthan and distribute in Saurashtra, Vadodara and south Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/contraband-worth-rs-47l-seized-2-held/articleshow/75925917.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy woman, 25, kin booked for abetting hubby’s suicide||TRICHY: A woman and her parents and family members were booked and taken in for questioning for abetting the suicide of her husband at Ariyamangalam in Trichy late on Friday. S Prabhu, 27, of Kamaraj Nagar , was found hanging at his house at 7.30am on Thursday. Based on a suicide note left behind, police registered a case of abetment of suicide against his wife Dhamini ,25, her father Karunanidhi and family members Chandra, Amutha, Udhayakumar, Dhanalakshmi and Jotheeswaran. Prabhu’s mother S Mallika also lodged a complaint blaming Dhamini and others for the suicide. Prabhu married Dhamini one-and-a-half years back and they have a seven month old son. In the suicide note, Prabu alleged his wife craved a luxurious life which he could not afford, which frequently led to quarrels between them and eventually she left him and went to live with her parents with the baby. Prabu and his mother went to Dhamini’s house on invitation of her family on May 20 for conciliation. But a scuffle broke out and Mallika got injured in her head. Prabu and Mallika went back home but he was disturbed over the incident. The body was handed over to his family after the post-mortem on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-woman-25-kin-booked-for-abetting-hubbys-suicide/articleshow/75927524.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Vij takes baby steps towards normalcy||Vijayawada: Although Covid-19 cases continue to be reported in the city, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and Krishna district administration are trying to restore normalcy. On the brighter side 12 patients were discharged from Covid hospitals across the district. The state government has given a call to restore business activity in non-containment areas as a part of relaxation measures suggested by the Union government for lockdown 4.0. Consequently, the VMC and Krishna district administration are helping small and marginal business units in non-containment areas to function again. The latter also denotified around 15 containment areas; while, the VMC is daily evaluating the list of containment areas based on reports of fresh cases. There are eight containment areas with active cases in the city now. Business establishments have welcomed the decision of the district administration and civic body to encourage trade. Many buyers could be seen at shops and establishments at Mahatma Gandhi Road and Karl Marx Road on Saturday. “Although officials relaxed the rules, we initially hesitated to open the shops fearing Covid-19. But we have opened our business units following requests from consumers. The Ramzan season is on and we are happy with the sales,” said K Bapuji, Who runs a store selling home decor items at Karl Marx Road. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh has asked VMC’s revenue wing to help local business units to start functioning. An official bulletin released by the state government confirmed one Covid-19 death in the district on Saturday. Meanwhile, the VMC has taken up the long-pending stormwater drain project at Kaleswara Rao Market junction in One Town. Roads were often inundated in the area due to congested drains. Despite the VMC taking up desilting work, the drains in the area continued being congested and clearing the stagnated water became a herculean task for civic authorities. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas and VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh restarted the works after lockdown came into force. “This project is very beneficial for the residents of the Old City. The project is designed in a way that it clears inundated water with gravity.,” VMC chief engineer Marianna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-takes-baby-steps-towards-normalcy/articleshow/75925339.cms||Venu Lanka
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Green destruction may trigger microclimate change as city set to lose 5L kg oxygen a yr||Kolkata: The widespread destruction of greenery by Amphan is likely to cause microclimate change in the city, with recurrence of heat island effects this summer. Apart from the ecological degradation, destruction of trees, which strike the delicate climatic balance, causes higher rate of surface level warming, said experts.Even by a conservative estimate, the city will be deprived of nearly 5,00,000 kg oxygen a year, with the destruction of 5,500 trees by Amphan. Moreover, each mature tree absorbs 22 kg of carbon dioxide. “The loss is irreparable in the sense that a sapling, if planted today, will take 15 to 20 years to mature to provide the same amount of oxygen to absorb same amount of carbon dioxide,” said green crusader Bonani Kakkar. Amphan is not the last cyclone to hit the city. With the climate crisis looming large, there will be many more such fierce cyclones. “Thus we need more resilient indigenous trees on the road side, which can withstand the blow,” said Kakkar whose organization Public had moved the HC for enforcement of National Urban Greening Guideline in the city while planting and conserving the public space greening. “For survival, a human needs 740 kg of oxygen a year. This translates into requirement of six to seven trees per person. Kolkata has 1.5 crore population. By that logic city requires 10.5 crore mature trees. But city’s mature tree population will be a few lakhs. Thus any destruction of tree has a damaging impact on human health,” said Sudipto Bhattacharya of Saviour and Friends of Environment.At some of the ecological hotspots like Rabindra Sarobar, Vctoria Memorial, Indian Institute of Engineering, Science and Techonolgy, Shibpore and Botanic Garden, the devastation indicates that the loss is much more than what we could conceive. The damage at Rabindra Sarobar has been extensive. The storm has felled over 300 trees, many of them decades old and habitat of a variety of birds, both resident and migratory. The few trees that were there on the twin islands after a fungal attack led to the death of several trees around a decade ago have been flattened by the storm. Of the trees that have been lost, 200 were large trees. “The damage caused in nine hours won’t get healed in nine years. Trees that lie on the jogger’s track can be cleared within a few days. But the rest will take over a week,” said Sudhin Nandy, official in-charge of the lake of national importance. At the garden of Victorial Memorial Hall, 14 large trees were uprooted. “Usually, the pre-monsoon storms lead to uprooting or damage of two-three trees. But this was massive. We are lucky to get away with minimal damage. We will compensate the loss with planting of 100-odd saplings,” said VMH curator Jayanta Sengupta. A preliminary estimate at IIEST says 500 trees were wiped out. At Botanic Garden, over 1,000 trees were damaged, including the Mad Tree and the centuries old Kalpa Brikshya, which are lone surviving species in the world.(With inputs from Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-destruction-may-trigger-microclimate-change-as-city-set-to-lose-5l-kg-oxygen-a-yr/articleshow/75927479.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Uprooted signals add to traffic trouble across city||Kolkata: More than 80 hours after cyclone Amphan disrupted several forms of infrastructure and communication, over 218 traffic signals at major crossings across the city are yet to become functional. There are more than 550 major traffic signals at important crossings, with several more on non-important ones. Several CCTV cameras set up by Kolkata Police on these signal posts, too, have been hit. This has forced cops to go manual, with multiple officers deputed at crossings to manage traffic. As more and more offices resume operations, the number of cars and people will increase on the road. Traffic management will then get tougher. And this problem will intensify unless the signals are restored. With several roads still blocked due to fallen trees and a jump in the number of vehicles on the road compared to the past 48 hours, the cops say their target is to get these signals up and running by Tuesday. “The fact that it is an extended weekend will help our clause,” said an officer. He said that, at present, cops are busy reclaiming the uprooted signals and ensuring repairs as quickly as possible. “Most of the signals fell due to trees. In some areas, there is still no electricity and in others, technical errors have been detected after the cyclone. But we have already got a few signals in the north and central Kolkata working,” he explained. Cops at Tollygunge Phanri said the entire traffic signalling system at the crossing was discontinued as a portion of the signal post on the Tollygunge-bound flank of SP Mukherjee Road had collapsed. Similarly, the important signal on the Loudon Street-Theatre Road crossing is not working. At Behala, several signals on Biren Roy Road have stopped working since there is no electricity. “This is a problem we face every time there is a storm. However, this time, it is on a larger scale,” said an officer. Bigger traffic guards, like Jorabagan, are feeling the heat. “Officially still a containment zone where several officers had to be quarantined, we have three signals which have been fully or partially uprooted and five that are not functioning properly. At all eight spots are now being operated manually,” said a source. The daily activity of the traffic guard is to monitor the major markets at Posta and Burrabazar. On Saturday, joint commissioner of police, traffic, Santosh Pandey said major damage has been reported across Kolkata traffic police areas. Senior officers said they were worried as signal posts in major intersections in the south, including Ballygunge Circular Road and Gurusaday Dutta Road crossing, and Central Avenue and Jawaharlal Nehru Road crossing, were badly damaged. “We are ascertaining the monetary damage. Necessary action will be taken to restore the signals and cameras as soon as possible,” said an additional CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uprooted-signals-add-to-traffic-trouble-across-city/articleshow/75927518.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Schools ignore govt fee collection diktat||HYDERABAD: Despite the state government directing schools to collect monthly tuition fee, a few schools in the city are asking parents to submit ‘evidence’ to accept monthly payment, failing which they are forced to pay annual fee at one go. Parents and teachers alleged the school managements are asking parents to submit payslips or a letter from their organisation, indicating that there is a negative impact on their salary due to the lockdown. Teachers said they were asked to maintain separate records of those parents who want to pay fees on monthly basis. “Once, the principal gets list of these parents, he/she calls parents and ask them to send some evidence to show that their employer has imposed pay cuts. This exercise is being followed to ensure that those parents who are not affected because of the lockdown continue to pay fee on quarterly basis,” Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers’ Forum said, adding that majority of schools in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the state were still collecting term or annual fees. “Many schools are sending messages to parents informing that they can get discounts if they can clear full fee,” said Venkat Sainath, joint secretary, Hyderabad Schools Parents’ Association. He said that schools were not implementing all these rules—no fee hike or collection of fee on monthly basis, to the new admissions. The private school managements, meanwhile, said that it would be better if parents, whose income is not affected by the lockdown, pay fee as per the schedule as they too need to pay their staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-ignore-govt-fee-collection-diktat/articleshow/75927514.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Social distancing goes for a toss at MCC counters||Mangaluru: Want to get the self assessment form to pay property tax at the city corporation? Then gear up for some risky business as social distancing norms have gone for a toss inside the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) counters. People were seen standing in long queue to get the Self-Assessment System (SAS) form and pay other taxes at the MCC counters. The city corporation has been planning to introduce online property tax payment system for many years. However, with Covid-19 and social distancing becoming the new normal, the MCC officials on Friday held a meeting to roll out a software for online property tax payment. However, it may take another month for the development of suitable software and the launch, officials said. The city corporation also expects that a large number of people will pay property tax with the government extending 5% rebate for those who are paying it in May. The government has extended the rebate till May 31 in all the urban local bodies, except the BBMP, in view of the extended lockdown. Normally rebate is given for tax payments done in April. The idea of introducing online property tax payment was mooted when Sameer Shukla became the first IAS officer to take charge as MCC commissioner in 2008. However, thereafter the city corporation could not take it forward due to technical reasons and the lockdown has yet again made them think of launching it at any cost. MCC commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde told TOI that the work on online property tax payment system was pending due to several reasons. “We have already held a meeting to discuss about the proposal. We are aware that manual tax payment process may lead to violation of social distancing norms. Hence, we have decided to expedite the project. It may take at least a month to complete the project,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-mcc-counters/articleshow/75925347.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mollem residents spooked as ore truckers ‘roam’ in village||PONDA: The residents of Mollem in Dharbandora are apprehensive as they allege that drivers of mining trucks coming from outside the state roam around in the village. Fearing the spread of coronavirus, panchayat members have demanded that the mining companies provide all facilities to the truck drivers inside the respective company’s premises. Deputy sarpanch and representative of the Suktali ward, Sushant Bhagat, told TOI that mining truck drivers roam around the village in groups without wearing masks. He also claimed they spit all over. “This behaviour is bound to lead to the spread of coronavirus in our village,” he said. Sarpanch Snehalata Naik said that at a meeting held before the transportation of the iron ore began, the mining companies concerned had agreed they would take care of the truckers. The sarpanch also said villagers from non-mining wards are also of the opinion that except essential commodity carriages, no other transport vehicles should be allowed into the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-residents-spooked-as-ore-truckers-roam-in-village/articleshow/75928367.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Dimple Yadav on secret charity mission, feeds migrants||LUCKNOW: Away from media glare and milling crowd of party workers, Dimple Yadav, former MP and wife of Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav, has been distributing food and medicines among displaced migrant workers who are trekking back home or arriving in trucks stashed like cattle. For six hours in the scorching sun, Dimple gave away food packets and other essentials to migrant labourers on Agra-Lucknow Expressway on Saturday. Though Dimple is no longer in active politics after Akhilesh Yadav announced last year that she won’t contest again, the humanitarian streak is still alive. Moved by the plight of migrant workers, Dimple left her Vikramaditya Marg residence on Saturday morning with only two private security guards in tow, while keeping her husband in the dark about her mission. She stopped at Agra-Lucknow Expressway and distributed food, water and medicines among migrant labourers till well past noon. She has been on this secret mission for over 10 days now and decides the itinerary on her own. When TOI contacted her, Dimple refused to divulge details on her charity work. She’s never critical of the government while speaking to labourers, said sources. Not to be seen as indulging in politics, she works in anonymity and drives straight back home after serving the needy. As Kannauj MP when her husband was also chief minister, Dimple headed the State Nutrition Mission to bring down the infant mortality rate in UP. Perhaps on her insistence, Akhilesh Yadav announced aid to a Lalitpur woman, who recently delivered on road and also decided to adopt the mother and child, in the same manner, he adopted “Khajanchi”, who was born in an ATM queue during demonetisation. The Yadav couple feels the “unplanned lockdown” is another example of ill-planned policies of the BJP government. Meanwhile, a former minister in the Akhilesh Yadav government told TOI that SP workers and supporters have been distributing over 5 lakh food packets every day in parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dimple-on-secret-charity-mission-feeds-migrants/articleshow/75928388.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 24, 2020||Goa||HC seeks govt reply in ore transit PIL, case on May 28||Quepem: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday directed the state government to reply in four days on a PIL seeking suspension of iron ore transportation through the Cavrem-Maina-Quepem-Sanvordem route. The plea, filed by The Gavda, Kunbi, Velip and Dhangar Federation (Gakuved), alleges that flouting of rules and conditions during transportation of ore has resulted in environmental damage. It also states that tribals living in mining affected villages have been facing hardships. The court has posted the matter for hearing on May 28 and has asked the directorate of mines and geology and the Goa State Pollution Control Board to reply by May 26. A division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar passed the order after the counsel for the respondents sought time to respond to the petition. It has also granted liberty to mining companies and other authorities to file a reply by May 26. During the hearing of the case, advocate general Devidas Pangam stated that the authorities have been continuously monitoring iron ore transportation. He pointed out that trucks have been fitted with GPS devices for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-seeks-govt-reply-in-ore-transit-pil-case-on-may-28/articleshow/75928382.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Goa||Announce Rs 2k cr aid package for Covid-hit: MGP||Panaji: With no financial relief forthcoming from the Centre, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) on Friday demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant announce a financial package for the people affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The government had sought a minimum of Rs 2,000 crore for the state as the mining and tourism industries had both come to a halt, further straining state finances. Speaking to mediapersons, senior MGP leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that Sawant should reveal to the people of Goa the amount of aid money the state was entitled to, from the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “After reviewing the package, I realised that there is nothing for Goa in it,” he said. Dhavalikar said that the state has been allowed to borrow Rs 4,450 crore as a loan, which is 3 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP).He also said the state cannot borrow this loan to pay salaries or repay pending loans, but can utilise it only for development.  “The government needs around Rs 1,000 crore to clear the bills of developmental works undertaken by various departments. The expenditure is more than the revenue of the state ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/announce-rs-2k-cr-aid-package-for-covid-hit-mgp/articleshow/75928408.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nashik||Highway police provide food to migrants at Kasara||NASHIK: The highway police at Kasara have been providing food to migrant workers coming from Mumbai side as the workers undertake a tiring journey back home amid the crisis Police officials said that though the number of migrant workers coming from the Mumbai side have reduced over the past few days, some are continuing to travel either on foot, in cycles or in other vehicles. Amol Valzade, assistant police inspector of the highway police at Kasara, said that the state transport department has arranged buses at Kasara so that the migrant workers coming from the Mumbai side can be taken till the state borders. “Initially there were a large number of workers arriving. Some walked, some came on bicycles and some in trucks. Most of them were so tired from walking and were hungry, so we prepared pulav for them initially and then many people started donating fruits, water bottles, biscuit packets, fruits, etc for them,” said Valzade. The distribution was carried out by the highway police maintaining social distancing. With the help of a group of IAS and IPC officers, the highway police distributed 40,000 juice bottles. With the help of donors, the police still provide the migrants with water and food before they board buses at Kasara .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/highway-police-provide-food-to-migrants-at-kasara/articleshow/75925397.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 24, 2020||Dehradun||After Corbett, 8 cameras go missing from Rajaji Tiger Reserve during lockdown||DEHRADUN: Four pairs of camera traps, installed in Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) to keep a watch on wild animals and protect them from poaching, have gone missing in the past one-and-a-half months of the ongoing lockdown. This comes soon after a pair of camera traps went missing from Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) sometime ago. The instances of camera traps going missing in RTR have been recorded from Motichur forest range, Haridwar forest range, Beriwala forest range, and Ramgarh forest range between the months of April and May as per RTR administration. Notably, the Chilla-Motichur corridor is one of the most sensitive and wildlife-rich zone of RTR. That camera traps have gone missing from here has raised concern among the forest officials. The camera traps were installed there for monitoring wild animals and for keeping a tab on their population. The officials are speculating various reasons behind disappearance of these cameras. Some believe that the theft is an outcome of “personal enmity among forest staff” while others feel that this is a case of “intrusion by those forest dwellers who live close to the reserve”. RTR warden Komal Singh told TOI, “At Beriwala, we are suspecting that Van Gujjars may have removed the cameras while entering into the forest to collect fodder for livestock and easy fuel wood. And at Ramgarh range, it is probably a deliberate act of forest staff itself. We could not find any broken pieces of camera or snapped wire in that place. It seems that cameras were removed by someone who is acquainted with the system. The cameras were removed with the help of proper equipment.” The official added that all the four cases have been filed at RTR’s register of complaints and the nearest police station has also been apprised of the matter. However, none of the cases has yet been solved. “We have put our teams on high alert and have increased night patrolling and ambush to avert any poaching instance in the reserve. We are looking into various angles behind cameras going missing. It may be an act of poacher or an intrusion by forest dwellers. The probe into the matter is underway. The areas are being combed rampantly and fortunately, we have been successful in preventing poaching,” said Amit Verma, RTR director. Another RTR official requesting anonymity said that abandoned anti-poaching posts may have encouraged such crimes. “Some of our forest posts have turned into abandoned buildings, like the ones close to river Suswa in Faduvata. Consequently, even staff members do not want to be deployed there as they fear attack by leopards or elephants. This is probably why the anti-social elements are daring to pull off such crimes,” said the official. However, Verma said that the infrastructure of RTR will be improved. “Our prime focus this year would be to get the pre-existing structures revamped rather than investing on new infrastructure,” he added. Meanwhile, the Corbett Tiger Reserve administration has also failed to crack the case of missing camera trap pair from the reserve till now. “We haven’t found the accused yet but we continue to investigate the matter. We have got a lead though and we are hoping to crack the case soon,” said Rahul, CTR director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-corbett-8-cameras-go-missing-from-rajaji-tiger-reserve-during-lockdown/articleshow/75925947.cms||Shivani Azad
May 24, 2020||Goa||Detect real cause of frequent Sonsoddo fires: Curtorim MLA to govt||Panaji: Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has written to the state government reminding them to find out the real cause for frequent fires at the Sonsoddo garbage dump. Local residents are frustrated with the gas and smoke clouds billowing from the site and want a permanent solution from the government, said Lourenco. “I would like to remind your good selves that the populaces in and around Sonsoddo garbage dump are a dejected and frustrated lot as their health is severely affected by the poisonous smoke billowing from the fires at the aforesaid site,” said the Curtorim MLA in his letter. He has called for constant monitoring of the garbage dump and asked that the personnel engaged at the site be vigilant at all times to prevent fires at the garbage dump. A massive fire broke out at the site in May 2019 and this year in mid-March another fire lit up at Sonsoddo. “I appeal to your good selves to please find out a permanent solution for preventing the re-occurrence of fires at Sonsoddo,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/detect-real-cause-of-frequent-sonsoddo-fires-curtorim-mla-to-govt/articleshow/75928432.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Missing drivers drag down FMCG availability in Maharashtra||PUNE: The dearth of Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) in the market is likely to continue for a while as transporters across the state are staring at 30% shortage of drivers, sources from the Maharashtra State Goods and Passengers Transport Association told TOI. Sources said that there was currently a significant backlog of consignments that need to be transported between states, even districts. Further, consignments from Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are not flowing freely into Maharashtra and this, in part, could explain why local consumers are still finding many items missing from the shelves at grocery stores and online portals. Transporters said many orders have to be placed in abeyance as they do not have enough drivers to transport the goods. President of the association Baba Shinde stated, “Even though products like grains are available, some other household consumer products are in short supply despite factories starting production. One of the reasons is that we are falling short of drivers for our vehicles as they have not returned from their villages. Although vehicles are available, there is a 30% shortage of drivers.” The shortage of drivers has created a backlog in transporting some consumer items from factories to wholesalers’ godowns. “We are trying to fulfil pending orders as we get drivers, so it will happen gradually,” said Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/missing-drivers-drag-down-fmcg-availability-in-state/articleshow/75927529.cms||Neha Madaan
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||Social distancing on track on board Mys-B’luru train||MYSURU: Train Mysuru-Bengaluru train service saw good patronage on Saturday, the second day of its service post-lockdown, with many passengers travelling. Railway authorities, however, ensured passengers maintained social distance during the journey. Based on the feedback of passengers, TOI, in its Saturday edition, highlighted how social distancing was ignored on the first day, even when a few passengers were in the bogies. On Friday, only 63 persons travelled from Bengaluru to Mysuru, and just 59 from the other end. A section of passengers was upset with the authorities for allotting tickets to all the three seats in the row, thereby not allowing the passengers to practise social distancing. Some passengers had also said how this would prove costly if any of them is infected. To address those concerns, the railway authorities on Saturday ensured safe distance between the passengers. Officers were seen telling passengers to maintain safe distance by leaving the middle seat unoccupied. On their part, the passengers sat only at the two ends of the seat. There will be no service on Sunday due to 36-hour lockdown — from 7pm on Saturday to 7am on Monday. Priya Shetty, divisional commercial manager (Mysuru division), told STOI: “Compared to Friday, there was good response on Saturday with 183 passengers travelling from Bengaluru to Mysuru, and 194 from Mysuru to Bengaluru. We also ensured that people kept social distance from one other.” ‘Step out only if necessary’ Meanwhile, Mysuru city police commissioner Chandragupta on Saturday has directed people to observe total lockdown on Sunday. Accordingly, permission has been given only for essential and emergency services — sale of fruits and vegetables, hospitals and clinics and ambulance service. People can go to hospitals for medical check-ups and treatments. Weddings can also be host, but with prior permission. However, stepping out of house for no strong reasons has been restricted. Bars, saloons and parks will be shut, and autorickshaws and cabs will be off the roads. People can use their private vehicles only for emergency purposes. “Security at check-posts will be tightened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/social-distancing-on-track-on-board-mys-bluru-train/articleshow/75925406.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Cash-starved corporation saddled with Ro-Ro repair costs||KOCHI: At a time when the Kochi Corporation is facing a financial crunch, the local body has found itself burdened with the task of funding for the periodical maintenance of its Ro-Ro vessels and for a boat plying between Fort Kochi-Vypeen, which is expected to cost close to Rs 2.25 crore. This has come at a time when the cash balance in the corporation’s coffers was just Rs 2 crore as on May 19. The civic body will require at least Rs 11 crore for meeting its monthly operational expenses. The dry docking of the Ro-Ro vessels, Sethusagar-1 and Sethusagar II, is scheduled to begin on June 15 and June 16, respectively. It will require at least Rs 2 crore for the purpose. The vessels had resumed services on Thursday after a gap of two months. In a letter sent to the corporation, Kerala Shipping & Inland Navigation Corporation Ltd (KSINC), the agency which operates the vessels on behalf of the civic body, has stated that the repair cost excludes the expense for spare parts, if they are to be replaced. The cost of repairing Fort Queen, the boat which had been plying in Fort Kochi-Vypeen sector, is around Rs 25 lakh. “Such expenses are going to be an additional burden for the corporation. Still, we can’t stop the services. Hundreds of people depend on them,” said K R Premakumar, deputy mayor, Kochi Corporation. Opposition councillors blamed the lackadaisical attitude of the corporation authorities for the crisis. “It was around three years ago that the Cochin Shipyard Limited completed the construction of the two Ro-Ro vessels. The corporation authorities, who sat on the proposal to float a special purpose vehicle all through the years, have spoiled the chances of generating revenue from the service. It was after spending Rs 15 crore that the vessels and jetties were constructed,” said C K Peter, councillor from Konthuruthy division. “A few months ago, Fort Queen, the boat which was bought for Rs 1.25 crore, was removed from Fort Kochi-Vypeen sector. Since then, it has been lying idle. Corporation authorities could have operated the boat in another sector,” Peter said. The KSINC, which started the Ro-Ro service almost two years ago, has not handed the corporation its share profits. The agency has been citing high operational costs and claiming that it has been running into losses. “We will demand the payment. Then, we will have to mobilize the balance amount required for dry docking the vessels,” Premakumar said. “We have asked our officials to collect tax dues from shops and establishments. Now, the daily collection is just Rs 4-5 lakh. We have just Rs 2 crore left in our coffers. We will require at least Rs 7.5 crore for paying salaries and pensions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cash-starved-corp-saddled-with-ro-ro-repair-costs/articleshow/75925404.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Ancient idol of Lord Vishnu found in UP's Kaushambi village||PRAYAGRAJ: An ancient idol of Lord Vishnu was recovered on Saturday at Rasoolpur Badagav village in Kaushambi district during digging of a pond by labourers engaged under MNREGS. Speaking to TOI, district magistrate (Kaushambi) Manish Kumar Verma said, “we have apprised Archaeological Survey of India officials about the idol, which could hark back to the 12th century. The idol is currently in possession of the treasury department and teams of ASI and Allahabad Museum would examine it on Sunday.” SDM (Manjhanpur) Rajesh Chandra said, 150 labourers were digging khumbhi pond in Rasoolpur Badagav development block when a labourer stumbled upon the idol and alerted the village head and block development officer. District officials rushed to the spot, took possession of the ancient idol and notified ASI officials. According to villagers, the idol mirroring Lord Vishnu has four arms, carrying a conch, gada and chakra. Officials said, they can divulge more details after consulting archaeologists. Leaders of Hindu frontal organisations also assembled at the pond to take a glimpse of the idol and requested district authorities to install it at a temple for puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ancient-idol-of-lord-vishnu-found-in-kaushambi-village/articleshow/75928437.cms||Kapil Dixit
May 24, 2020||Goa||GPSC set to take up major PWD promotions on May 26||Panaji: Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) will carry out major promotions in the PWD during its departmental promotion committee meeting scheduled on May 26. There are five superintending engineer and 47 executive engineer posts to be filled. GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha said that the commission will consider promotions to the positions of superintending and executive engineers at the departmental promotion committee meeting during the departmental promotion. He said that executive engineers who possess a degree in civil engineering with five years’ experience are eligible to be promoted to the post of superintending engineer, whereas assistant engineers who have a degree in civil engineering and possess eight years’ experience are eligible to be promoted as executive engineers. “Diploma holders who are assistant engineers should possess 12 years’ experience,” he said. The commission is considering a bulk promotion after many years and these officials, once considered and appointed, will open up further promotional avenues in the department at the assistant and junior engineer level. The GPSC will also take up promotions in Goa Medical College (GMC), tourism department, archives, factories and boilers and forensic science laboratory on the same day. The promotion committee meeting is convened by the commission on circulation due to the ongoing pandemic. Before the lockdown, GPSC had promoted large number of government employees in various department, including five deputy superintendents of police. It had also promoted 135 government employees in the first half of February. Thirty-nine officers were promoted to the post of junior scale officers and 25 to the post of senior scale officers. Junior scale officers include deputy director, deputy collector, under secretaries, whereas senior scale officers include director and joint secretaries. GPSC also promoted 20 persons to the post of assistant account officer under common accounts cadre in the directorate of accounts. Further 18 persons have been promoted at the post of section officers in the secretariat, seven persons to the post of deputy director of accounts and two doctors to the post of lecturer in the department of pharmacology in GMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gpsc-set-to-take-up-major-pwd-promotions-on-may-26/articleshow/75928441.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Yerawada Central Prison releases 1,000 inmates||PUNE: The Yerawada Central Prison, which had 5,800 inmates around two months ago, now has 4,800. “The prison was one of the most overcrowded ones in the state for many years. We have released 200 inmates on parole, while 800 others have been released on temporary bail, so far,” the prison’s superintendent UT Pawar said, adding that the prison would release another 100 inmates either on parole or temporary bail in the next two days. The state prisons department had decided to decongest the jails by offering inmates temporary bail and parole in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The step was taken to maintain social distancing and to avert any infection in the prisons. The process of decongesting the prisons started on March 26. The state government constituted a high power committee to look into the release of inmates. The prison authorities regularly communicated with the courts and other authorities to release the inmates, a senior prison official said. The Yerawada Central Prison has an official capacity of 2,449, but it was housing around 6,000 inmates for the past 15 years on a regular basis, an officer said. Pawar said, “The Yerawada jail has been successfully decongested because of the move and there is less of a threat of the infection spread in the prison.” He said the inmates staying in Pune were handed over to their relatives or Pune police authorities, who took them to their homes. The inmates from Pune district were handed over to the Pune rural police. The Pune city police dropped the inmates from other districts at their district headquarters, from where the local police shifted them to their homes. The parole period of the inmates will be extended until further orders from the state government. The inmates will be asked to return to the prisons after receiving a notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/yerawada-central-prison-releases-1000-inmates/articleshow/75927540.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Will pay for migrants keen to return to work: Credai||PUNE: The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) is keen to foot the travel bill of migrant workers willing to get back to work in Maharashtra. A crisis is looming over the realty sector in the state, with over 70% of the migrant workers having returned home to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said they had on online conference with all their members this week, during which they put forth this proposal to ensure work can resume in the state at the earliest, especially in the Pune, Nashik, Thane and Mumbai regions. “Many workers were staying at the construction sites and being looked after by the developers. However, with the states allowing travel, the workers decided to leave amid fears that there would be no work for them in the coming months,” Kataria told TOI. “With many of them from agrarian families, we are aware that after the sowing season they would want to come back to work and so, we have proposed that our members fund their travel back to the state, giving them an incentive to return,” Kataria added. He further said Credai was planning to ensure decent on-site accommodation for these workers. “Our members are expecting the workers to return in July after they complete the sowing activity,” he said. Many developers said there has been no construction activity for two months and now, in the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown, construction activity has resumed in some areas. “At these very places, workers had left for their hometowns,” one developer said. Workers who stayed back have complained that they were not getting enough ration and so they too were planning to go back. On Saturday, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI that over 1.12 lakh people have left for their hometowns, especially to the afore-mentioned states. “Most of the migrant workers staying on-site too have left after the Shramik Special trains have commenced,” Ram said.  “Daily, we have been sending out 10-12 trains ferrying these workers. We will continue to send out the trains as long as there is a demand,” the collector said. Ram further added that they were issuing passes to the construction industry, which has been demanding permissions for passes for vehicles ferrying raw material, and that stone-crushing activity too has been allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-pay-for-migrants-keen-to-return-to-work-credai/articleshow/75927532.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Army, NDRF, forest dept help KMC clear choked roads||Kolkata: With Army, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and forest department teams by its side, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Saturday made significant progress in clearing city’s arterial roads by removing large trees that were uprooted by the super cyclone. The civic body claimed it was now in a position to clear all major thoroughfares by Sunday. “We have set a target of clearing all major thoroughfares in the city by Sunday. Even then, we need to continue our work to clear some other roads in fringe areas during first half of next week,” a civic official said. The Army on Saturday afternoon deployed five columns of the Kumaon Regiment to clear trees uprooted by cyclone Amphan that were blocking major roads in the city. The deployment followed an appeal for help from the state. Road-clearing equipment, such as payloaders and bulldozers, were requisitioned from the engineering units based at Fort William and the teams were sent to various locations in Tollygunge, Ballygunge, Rajarhat, New Town, Behala and Diamond Harbour. The government has made a similar appeal to the Railways, Kolkata Port Trust and the private sector for teams and equipment for the clean-up and restoration work. “The Army columns were accompanied by NDRF personnel. Both Army and NDRF personnel were equipped with electric saws and chopped branches within minutes, allowing the heavier equipment to clear the mess. NDRF has been working in various parts of Kolkata for the past two days,” an officer added. The state government on Saturday tweeted that it was mobilizing maximum strength in unified command mode on a 24X7 basis for immediate restoration of essential infrastructure and services ASAP. “Army support has been called for; NDRF and SDRF teams deployed; Rlys, Port & private sector too requested to supply teams and equipment,” the state home department tweeted, adding that generators were being hired where necessary and that more than 100 teams from multiple departments were working to remove fallen trees. “WBSEDCL & CESC asked to deploy maximal manpower, even while lockdown significantly affects the deployment potential of the latter. Police on high alert,” the tweet added. NDRF said it was rushing 10 additional teams to Bengal for post-cyclone management following a written request from the state disaster management and civil defence principal secretary. The teams are expected to reach the city by late Saturday night. At present, 26 NDRF teams, including five in Kolkata, are deployed in cyclone-affected areas of the state. The forest department has deployed 30 teams — from Midnapur, Jhargram and Bankura — in Kolkata to clear the trees. Thirty more teams from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar will reach Kolkata on Sunday. The KMC parks department has roped in additional manpower from the conservancy department and workers from 100-day job scheme to remove uprooted trees from added areas like Behala, Jadavpur and Tollygunge. However, a civic official conceded that the department would need 15 days more to remove all uprooted trees from across the city. According to a KMC official, had the civic body not faced dearth of manpower and electric saws, all trees would have been removed on the first day itself. KMC has pressed into service 17 more electric saws. “We had 50 electric saws but some proved to be non-functional. That is why we have purchased 17 more,” said a KMC parks department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/army-ndrf-forest-dept-help-kmc-clear-choked-roads/articleshow/75926650.cms||Saikat Ray
May 24, 2020||Goa||Mapusa urban staff not paid salaries: Cong||Saligao: The Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) said it is unfortunate that the 184 employees of the 55-year-old Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank have not received their monthly salaries even after a liquidator was appointed by the government. GPCC general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said, “The Goa government deliberately did not put in efforts to help the local bank. Initially, chief minister Pramod Sawant was willing to help the bank, but due to pressure from BJP functionaries he changed his mind.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-urban-staff-not-paid-salaries-cong/articleshow/75928446.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nashik||54 fined for plying autos in Nashik||NASHIK: The traffic branch slapped e-challans on as many as 54 autorickshaw drivers on Friday for plying in different parts of the city despite the restrictions imposed on public transportation given that Nashik is still in the red zone. Autorickshaws started plying in the city from May 17 after some of the lockdown norms were relaxed. Police said that though the drivers knew no kind of public transportation was allowed, some of them were still seen ferrying passengers. Inspector at the Nashik city traffic branch Fuldas Bhoye said that e-challans of Rs 200 were slapped on each autorickshaw driver, taking the total fine collection to Rs 10,800. Autorickshaw drivers who did not wish to be named said that their source of livelihood had been completely cut off in the last two months. Some of them also had to borrow money from other people to sustain. They added that with the lockdown getting extended, they did not have any other alternative but to ply their autorickshaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/54-fined-for-plying-autos-in-nashik/articleshow/75925417.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 24, 2020||Nashik||30 cured cops resume duty outside Malegaon||NASHIK: Thirty personnel of the Nashik rural police, who were had contracted Covid-19, have resumed their duties in the non-containment zones outside Malegaon after making full recovery. As many as 152 policemen serving in Malegaon from various parts of the state had tested positive for Covid-19. Arti Singh, Nashik rural SP, said of the 152 policemen, 112 have recovered and 30 of them have even resumed duty. “They have have been given duty outside the containment areas. We have decided to give them letters of appreciation,” Singh said. She added 80% of the policemen who caught the infection did not show any symptoms but were kept in institutional quarantine. Meanwhile, to motivate the cops serving in the textile town, SP Singh herself has shifted to Malegaon to ensure that the bandobast is maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/30-cured-cops-resume-duty-outside-malegaon/articleshow/75925427.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 24, 2020||Meerut||‘Silent epidemic is brewing for non-Covid patients thanks to bureaucratic approach’||Meerut: A sudden spike in blood pressure knocked Gaurav Singh out. His family took him to six hospitals and nursing homes one after another, but none admitted him. In such a forbidding situation, however, a ray of hope for the family came when a hospital agreed to treat Gaurav but refused to admit him — the 24-year-old youth had developed a blood clot in the brain and his treatment began without admission to a hospital. Similarly, a 70-year-old resident suffered acute abdominal pain and a phone call to a physician hardly served any purpose as there could be “a hundred reasons for the pain and that could not be diagnosed over the phone”.Reduced access to private healthcare facilities to out-patients and denial of hospitalisation services are proving to be a medical crisis for thousands of non-Covid patients and as has been put by medical fraternity — the suffering of non-Covid patients can be ten times more serious problem than Covid ones, but the entire state machinery and policymakers are only focussed on coronavirus-related issues.“Even after two months of lockdown, the government has permitted us to treat only emergency non-Covid patients. But, a large number of patients are suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular diseases, chronic diabetes, renal complications, etc, and they require regular monitoring and frequent change of medicines and their doses, but all these are not allowed. And, by not giving them proper attention, we are letting these patients enter the emergency stage,” says NK Sharma, president, Meerut chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA).Senior physician Dr Tanuraj Sirohi told TOI, “The problem is the bureaucratic approach. There is a communication between the government and private medical fraternity, but the approach is top-down, which means policies are drafted at the government level and being implemented on the ground without seeking medical fraternity’s opinion.” However, the government is clear in its priorities. A senior director with the health department in Lucknow said on condition of anonymity, “We are aware of the problem, but at this juncture, the government’s entire focus is on preventing the spread of coronavirus. Because, if it goes out of control, there will be havoc. It should not be seen as insensitivity on our end, but a desperate measure to outsmart the killer virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/silent-epidemic-is-brewing-for-non-covid-patients-thanks-to-bureaucratic-approach/articleshow/75925437.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Give govt some more time: CM||Kolkata: CM Mamata Banerjee has appealed to people to bear with state agencies for some more days before power lines are restored. “Try to understand the difficulties. We are not sitting idle. A total of 225 teams are working in Kolkata. I understand your problem. I have spoken to CESC’s Sanjiv Goenka quite a few times during the last 24 hours. CESC is a private organisation. It is not under us. They are having a manpower shortage due to lockdown,” the CM said at Nabanna on Saturday. Later in the evening, she went to Victoria House, the CESC headquarters, to speak to Goenka and the executives. According to CESC sources, 3 lakh out of the total 35 lakh consumer base are yet to get their power supply restored. CESC has cited inadequate manpower, uprooted trees and posts and waterlogging as impediments to the restoration. Most of the CESC last-line workers are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh who went to their home states due to lockdown. CESC is operating with 60 of the total 140 teams in the city. The state agencies also have a manpower shortage. “We don’t have enough people to cut trees. I have told KMC chairperson Firhad Hakim and police commissioner Anuj Sharma to engage locals. The Odisha government has told me that they will be sending men to cut trees. But they can help CESC men at work. I have also urged CESC to hire 150 generators and supply water and electricity,” the CM said. The state is procuring heavy-duty generators from Salt Lake stadium and Netaji Indoor stadium to help out CESC. “State finance minister Amit Mitra informed me that industry is arranging some heavy-duty generators,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/give-govt-some-more-time-cm/articleshow/75926698.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Protest pockets lock down south, make commute tough||Kolkata: Demonstrations and roadblocks continued for the second day in large parts of the city, particularly in south Kolkata, as irate residents took to streets demanding restoration of power and water supply at the earliest. However, the blockades adversely affected the movement of vehicles, especially those on emergency duty, adding to the commute woes triggered by uprooted trees and lamp posts. Aggrieved locals squatted in front of Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre and Research Institute’s (SGCCRI) gate demanding immediate restoration of power supply. The protest paralysed the hospital’s functioning as healthcare workers were not allowed to go in or come out of the hospital. Even vehicles carrying doctors were not allowed to enter the hospital. “One OT nurse was manhandled when she requested protesters that the hospital gate be spared. I had to send SOS to numerous people, including local politicians, police and administration. One can understand the anguish of the protesters but how could they hold the hospital to ransom in demand of power restoration,” said Arnab Gupta, SGCCRI medical director. Protests turned violent and at least six persons, including two cops, were injured and a truck was set ablaze on Kalyani Expressway in the Khardah-Titagarh area. A large police contingent, including RAF and combat force, had to be deployed to bring the situation under control. Traffic came to standstill on Kalyani Expressway for over three hours. Large areas of Behala, Tollygunge, Jadavpur and areas closer to EM Bypass went out of bounds for citizens as locals vented out their frustrations by blocking traffic, gheraoing CESC workers and even forcing them to accompany the protesters, who have been struggling without power and water for more than 72 hours. At most places, the protesters claimed there has been an absolute no-show by government representatives and that all calls to emergency numbers were not even entertained. The protests, mostly spontaneous, hit emergency services as police, CESC, NDRF and KMC teams got stuck in them, delaying rescue operations further. In the southern parts of the city, Behala’s Parnasree and Shakuntala Park areas turned to be protest hub. People in Behala blocked almost every possible connection between the city proper and the southernmost part of Kolkata at Joka. Blockades were put up on Diamond Harbour Road at Behala Silpara and Thakurpukur Bazar, James Long Sarani was closed between Behala Chowrasta and Kadamtala and MG Road was blocked at Badamtala crossing near James Long Sarani-MG Road connector till late in the evening since noon. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee herself rushed to different Behala localities to pacify people and assure them that electricity and water would be restored at the earliest. “While electricity is being restored in several parts of the city, it seems like we are the most neglected. It has been four days and still we don’t have power at our homes. We will not leave the road until the power lines are restored immediately,” said Bibhas Halder, a resident of Silpara. “It has been three days that we have been moving from the CESC offices at Taratala and Budge Budge. They are saying KMC will do the job. Police are saying CESC will do the job. For three days now, my 80-year-old father-in-law is suffering. Where is the administration, why can’t they work simultaneously?” fumed Sayoni Patra, an IT executive who stays in Sector V. At the protest zones, people used whatever they could lay their hands on to block the road — from police guardrails, fallen tree branches and heaps of sand and bricks to even damaged and battered store hoardings and glow sign boards. “I had to reach office today for a very important meeting but in spite of several attempts for over four hours, the office car couldn’t leave Behala. Finally, I had to return home, where I obviously don’t have any power or internet connectivity,” said Rahul Basu, a resident of Thakurpukur Back in Jadavpur and Tollygunge, roadblocks were reported from Garfa’s Sapuipara and Jadavpur Sulekha crossing. The local CESC office was gheraoed. Protests were also reported from Jadavpur’s Mondalpara and Santoshpur Jorabridge. The multiple protests halted traffic movements towards EM Bypass. Bratati Roy and Piyush Roy, senior citizens from Survey Park, were on their way to a pathological lab in Jodhpur Park for some tests and was then scheduled to meet a doctor at AMRI Hospital. “We, too, have borne the burnt of Amphan. But if you keep blocking the emergency workers, you are only delaying the help coming to you. It is a major natural disaster and everyone needs to put the best foot forward,”stated Bratati Roy. Agitators also put up road blockades at different places in Dum Dum, demanding immediate restoration of electricity and water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/protest-pockets-lock-down-south-make-commute-tough/articleshow/75926675.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Reruns of 90s TV shows bring two generations together||Millennials are bonding with their parents through the pop culture of the nineties. Youngsters are introducing their parents to OTT platforms and the new age content that they offer while Generation X, those born between between 1965-79, are using it to reminisce about the hit shows of the 90s. Souvik Ghosh, a 25-year-old IT professional, said, “As a child, we would get ready to sit down to eat dinner in the hall in front of the television to watch Zubaan Sambhal Ke. It was about a group of adult students learning spoken English, and it was hilarious. We found the show online and my parents and I have started binge watching it again.” Ananya Puri, a blogger (22), finds herself watching Full House And The Fresh Prince of Bel Air with her mother. “When I was a toddler, my family moved to the US for six years. My mother used to watch these shows, but I don’t remember it. Now, we have started watching it together and I am enjoying it. I was surprised to find many catchphrases used in these shows that are so contemporary, and many others that I’m going to add to my vocabulary to help them make a comeback,” she said. Her mother also found shows like Sex and the City, but Ananya said she can’t watch it with her because of the innuendos. “Even though I’m an adult, it is awkward. But I’ve watched some episodes and also got hooked to it,” she added. The classic sitcoms about “nothing” — Seinfeld — is another hit with the youngsters. “Everything has a theory behind it in the show and there’s a term for everything. I like the show so much that I’ve started following the meme pages on social media dedicated to it, and I keep tagging my dad on them. He tells me about how everyone back in the day had a friend like each character in the show, and other stories from his friends circle. Bonding over this show has brought us closer,” said Anthony Joseph, a 27-year-old BPO employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reruns-of-90s-tv-shows-bring-two-generations-together/articleshow/75927543.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Vyttila, Kundannoor flyover works to be over by June 30||KOCHI: The construction of Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers are progressing well and the Road and Bridges Corporation-Kerala (RBDCK) expects that the two big-ticket projects would be over by June 30. The construction work gained momentum after regulations of lockdown were eased down. RBDCK managing director R Rahul said, "Rain is a major concern. It might cause some delay in tarring work. If not for the rain, we expect to finish the work within the targeted time." He said there are no issues related to availability of construction materials or labour force. Regarding quality tests, he said such checking are being carried out at various stages of construction and there would be no compromise on the aspect. On a question on the need for carrying out load testing on these two flyovers, Rahul said the state government will take a final decision on it. Regarding fund flow, he said there is sufficient funds for projects that are being executed through Kerala infrastructure investment fund board (KIIFB). "Once bills are submitted, KIIFB will release 75 % of funds," said Rahul. RBDCK also maintained that plans for construction of road over bridges (ROB) at Vaduthala and Atlantis are also progressing. Construction work can begin once district administration completes land acquisition process. The Indian Railways follow stringent standards of construction, and hence, it will not be possible to get railway’s approval without submitting definite plans. The construction of Vathuruthy ROB is another project that is yet to begin construction in the city. In January 2020, Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden had said issues related to implementation of the ROB was being resolved and that the railway has given an in-principle approval for the clearance of the project. The ROBs at Vaduthala, Atlantis and Vathuruthy are expected to ease down traffic movement through the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vyttila-kundannoor-flyover-works-to-be-over-by-june-30/articleshow/75925434.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA restarts works after hiatus||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), which began working with 100% staff since May 21, is expected to redefine the priorities of the urban development body over the next few months. The outbreak of the novel coronavirus and the consequent lockdown had put on hold VMRDA’s work. Now, VMRDA officials are brainstorming on what the urban development body can do to turn the tide. Work for the NAD Flyover and other select development works have already begun over the last few days. However, shortage of labour and other logistical problems remain and may continue for a few more months. Speaking to TOI, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the body is in the process of identifying priority areas to play a larger role in the development of the region, both during and after the lockdown. The urban development body is also looking for ways to increase revenue. “The upper rotary works from the airport to the city, which were supposed to be completed in March, will be finished within the next one week. VMRDA wants to make the most of the low traffic during the lockdown period and speed up the flyover works,” Koteswara Rao added. The VMRDA had conducted an open design competition for the planetarium in Kailasagiri and invited entries from architects and architectural firms from across country. The metropolitan commissioner said that the top three entries of the ‘conceptual design competition’ will be finalised within the next week. Further, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had laid foundation stones for around Rs 380 crore worth of works in December 2019. The VMRDA is currently in the process of taking these works forward. While tenders for a few projects have been finalised, others are still at the planning stage. Works on the Kailasagiri Hilltop Park renovation is expected to begin in the next few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-restarts-works-after-hiatus/articleshow/75924157.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Six senate members take on move to cancel exams||PUNE: A group of senate members from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have opposed the state government’s request to the University Grants Commission (UGC) to cancel the final year exam. The members have demanded a senate meeting through a videoconference to discuss the matter, rather than making a hasty decision. They pointed out that students work harder in the final year as the mark sheets are considered for higher education as well as jobs and cancelling the exams will be unfair to them. The senate members also reasoned that if the exams are cancelled, there is a risk of this batch being labelled as the ‘corona-batch’ and the gradation process may affect their opportunities while applying for jobs or seeking admission to foreign universities. One of the senate members Shamkant Deshmukh said, “If you conduct random sampling, you can see that most students score best in their last year. This is because they know their score in the last year reflects in the degree certificate that is used to apply for higher studies or jobs. Secondly, many job opportunities come with an average 60% marks rider. So even if a students has scored about 58% till the penultimate year, s/he can study hard and score a higher percentage in the final year so that the average is above 60%.” Deshmukh added that postgraduate (PG) students, many of whom want to take up teaching as a career, may also be affected and class improvement schemes are generally not a good idea for most students.Another official said that class improvement is also not a viable option as students have to appear for exams in at least three subjects and when there is a gap in education, the results are usually not very good. Meanwhile, UGC vice-chairman Bhushan Patwardhan said, “UGC has issued clear guidelines. The universities are free to devise suitable mechanisms to evaluate and grade students. This may be done based on the local situation keeping in view academic requirements and in the best interest of students’ future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-senate-members-take-on-move-to-cancel-exams/articleshow/75927553.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 24, 2020||Goa||Shops in city forced shut after vendors found spitting||Panaji: Fifty of the 200-odd shops that had started operating inside the Panaji municipal market complex were forced to down their shutters on Friday for violating the no-spitting and prohibition of gutka rules. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has come down heavily on the vendors and their staff for blatantly spitting inside the market complex building despite the Covid-19 guidelines advising against the act. The complex was closed for six weeks owing to the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of coronavirus. During this time, the CCP workers had washed out the paan stains, cleaned the toilets and disinfected the entire building. When the complex opened on May 7, it was with a warning to shop owners to avoid spitting and by imposing a ban on the use of chewable tobacco. However, over the past week, CCP inspectors posted at the premises noticed vendors and their staff violating the rules. Shop numbers of people suspected of chewing tobacco and spitting inside the premises were noted by Thursday, following which they were prohibited from entering the premises on Friday and Saturday. In a strict warning, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar has asked the violators to clean their own mess. “They have been caught red handed with the tobacco products. They will not be allowed to enter till Monday. On Tuesday, we will take an undertaking from them that if they are found spitting again, their shops will be forced shut again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shops-in-city-forced-shut-after-vendors-found-spitting/articleshow/75928448.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Meerut||Youth arrested for derogatory remarks against UP CM||Meerut: A youth in his twenties was arrested by Bulandshahar police for making derogatory remarks against Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on social media. The arrest was made after an FIR was registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC and IT Act at Gulawati police station in Bulandshahar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-arrested-for-derogatory-remarks-against-up-cm/articleshow/75925455.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 13 found unconscious in sugar factory tank||PUNE: Thirteen workers were found in an unconscious state inside a huge tank at a sugar factory in Malegaon, near Baramati, on Saturday morning. The workers were inside the tank cleaning it, when they were found unconscious. They were rushed to the hospital. The Baramati (rural) police said two workers are in the intensive care unit, while the rest have regained consciousness and are out of danger. Police said the workers entered the tank at the Baramati cooperative sugar factory at 8.45am. “Other workers looked inside the tank at 9am and found them all unconscious,” inspector Annasaheh Gholap of Baramati (rural) police station said. Gholap said there was no leakage of any poisonous gas in the tank. “We suspect the residue in the tank produced fumes, which adversely affected them,”he said., adding the workers could also have suffocated as the tank had no ventilation. Other workers pulled the 13 men out of the tank. The factory’s senior officials rushed them to the hospital. Police said the factory uses the tank to store large quantities of sugar cane juice before it is converted to sugar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-found-unconscious-in-sugar-factory-tank/articleshow/75927565.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Animal lovers come to the rescue of furry friends||PUNE: The city-based NGOs and individual volunteers have fed and provided succour to lakhs of stray animals during the lockdown since March 25. The volunteers and NGOs have also rescued several breed dogs who were abandoned by their owners over unfounded fear of contracting coronavirus infection from them. Priya Kailad, founder, Karma Foundation, told TOI, “We have rescued seven to eight foreign breed dogs, including a St Bernard, who were abandoned during the lockdown. All those rescued have now been adopted.” The foundation has given food for nearly 1.5 lakh cats and dogs and 11,000kg food for stray cows and those at shelters. They had also sent 5,000kg food for horses in the fringe villages around Matheran. Vineeta Tandon, who heads Animal Rescue Trust, said, “We have rescued over 20 abandoned dogs from the streets during lockdown. People are abandoning these canines over misplaced notions that their pets could be a source of the virus. These fears are unfounded as scientific studies, the health ministry and Animal Welfare Board of India have clarified Covid-19 cant be transmitted from dogs and cats to humans.” Animal welfare volunteer Ajay Pujar from Animal Adoption & Rescue Team (AART) said, “Volunteers from different groups like AART and Deccan Animal Welfare Group have managed to feed more than 1,000 street animals till date .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/animal-lovers-come-to-the-rescue-of-furry-friends/articleshow/75927563.cms||Neha Madaan
May 24, 2020||Nashik||Heavy police bandobast for Eid in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Rural police on Saturday said that there will be heavy bandobast on account of Eid-ul-Fitr or Ramzan Eid on Monday. People have been asked to celebrate the festival at their homes. Police said that as per the government guidelines, no religious programmes should be celebrated by coming together at religious places. There are a total 119 containment zones in Malegaon and surrounding areas. In a bid to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread, the rural police have deployed two SPs, two additional SPs, five Dy SPs, 22 PIs, 83 deputy officers, 1,058 police personnel and three platoons of RCP, three enforcement squads, 34 home guards and six companies of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in Nashik Rural district including Malegaon. Taking into account the festival, additional bandobast of 20 police officers, 100 police personnel and a company of Central Reserve Police Force along with 150 homes guards would be deployed in Malegaon and other parts of the district. SP Arti Singh said that police conducted a meeting of political leaders, religious leaders and office-bearers of social organisations on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/heavy-police-bandobast-for-eid/articleshow/75925452.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Thieves decamp with 18 ‘tola’ gold from TTD joint executive officer’s home||TIRUPATI: Thieves broke into the residence of TTD’ joint executive officer P Basant Kumar in the early hours of Saturday and decamped with valuables. With construction work underway at the residence, thieves managed to sneak into the premises of the bungalow through the compound wall, which was being repaired, said police. The burglars then entered the house through the windows and decamped with 18 tolas of gold and silver articles. Following the incident, SV University police along with TTD’s vigilance and security department sleuths inspected the JEO’s official residence and deployed a dog squad to gather clues. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/thieves-decamp-with-18-tola-gold-from-ttd-jeos-home/articleshow/75924189.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 24, 2020||Meerut||Man, 70, held for molesting minor||Bijnor: A 70-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for molesting a 7-year-old girl in Dhampur city of Bijnor district.The accused has been identified as Kuldeep Kumar.Dhampur station house officer Ranjan Kumar Sharma said that father of the girl filed a complaint against his neighbour alleging that the latter lured his daughter, took her to his house and molested her. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of IPC. Kumar was arrested and sent to jail on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-70-held-for-molesting-minor/articleshow/75925447.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 24, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: With no cover, post cane harvesting, foresters come to aid of wild animals||BIJNOR: With sugarcane cultivation drawing to an end in Bijnor, forest department have often rushed to the hitherto bare agricultural fields to rescue several wild animals, including leopard cubs and hog deer. Besides, sighting of leopards has also increased manifold, keeping the foresters on their toes. Bijnor district is rich in wildlife and also has the second largest area under cane cultivation in the state. Over the years, the cane fields have become home to several herbivores and carnivores, particularly leopards. After every harvesting season, the wildlife lose their cover and are exposed, The chances of man-animal conflict increase. That is when the forest department has to step in to protect both man and animals. Last week for instance, six nilgai stuck in a pond at Salmabad village, 5km from district headquarters, were rescued by the department. Chased by hunting dogs, the nilgai landed in a swampy pond and were stuck. In a another incident at Shakarpur village, a foresters' team rescued a nilgai which was attacked by canines. Later, two civet cat cubs and two wild cat cubs were rescued at Bhura Nangali and Chandpur, respectively. A barn owl, two pythons and a hog deer trapped in different pockets of the district were rescued and set free. Recently, a leopard cub was rescued from Jahanabad village. At present, a search is on to catch a leopard that has injured 11 people in an area bordering Bijnor and Amroha districts. Bijnor's divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, "Sightings of wild animals have increased manifold after cane harvesting. Our staff is on the alert and rescue operations are on. A dozen of wild animals and birds have been rescued recently. We have appealed to villagers to inform forest staff if they find any wild animal near populated areas." According to sources, poachers may exploit the situation and hunted wild animals in such prevailing situation. Several cases of bull and cows slaughtering have surfaced in the last some days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/with-no-cover-post-cane-harvesting-foresters-come-to-aid-of-wild-animals/articleshow/75925451.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 24, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Fraudsters clone cop's Facebook account, demand money from friends||BIJNOR: The cyber cell here is probing who is behind cloning the Facebook account of Mahesh Kumar, circle officer in Bijnor's Afzalgarh area, and sending out distress messages to those in his friend list for money. A relative alerted deputy superintendent of police Kumar about the demand for money in his name. The latter immediately contacted the cyber cell, which restored the account. A case has been registered against unidentified persons for cloning the circle officer's Facebook account and demanding money from friends at Afjalgarh police station. According to officials, fraudsters operate such gangs in Rajasthan, where they have duped many persons by hacking Facebook accounts or cloning accounts of officials. Police are probing the matter. When TOI contacted CO Kumar, he said, "Some unidentified persons cloned my Facebook account by using my profile. Then, they made a list of my Facebook friends and relatives and sent friend request to them. They befriended 250 people on Facebook within 15 days. Then, the fraudsters sent messages, demanding money from them." Kumar said, "I learnt on Friday about the fraudulent demand for money from a relative. It shocked me. I posted a message on my account, alerting all my Facebook friends about the fraud. I have filed a case in this connection. A probe is on."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fraudsters-clone-dy-sps-fb-account-demand-money-from-friends/articleshow/75925445.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: 81 lakh PDFs of Balbharati textbooks downloaded||PUNE: As many as 81 lakh PDFs of textbooks were downloaded from the Balbharati (Maharashtra State Bureau of Textbook Production & Curriculum Research) website during the lockdown, officials stated. The sale of textbooks for classes I to XI started in the open market from Saturday. The textbooks for Class XII would be made available in the market by May 27, said Kiran Kendre, public relations officer, Balbharati. "Due to the lockdown, textbooks from classes I to XII were uploaded on e-Balbharati website. The Class XII textbooks were revised this year and we uploaded them before the printed copies were available so that students could begin their studies. Till Saturday, over 20.54 lakh e-textbooks for Class XII were downloaded, while the number of downloads for classes I to XI is around 61.20 lakh," he said.  "Textbooks for classes I to XI in all 10 languages are being made available from Saturday. Textbooks for Class XII will be available from May 27," Kendre said. For classes I to VIII, 94.90 lakh textbooks would be distributed to government or government-aided schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/81-lakh-pdfs-of-balbharati-textbooks-downloaded/articleshow/75927561.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 24, 2020||Goa||Homes turn museums for virtual philately exhibition||Panaji: With the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown in place, a virtual exhibition of personal collections of stamps and currency went live on the Goa Philatelic and Numismatic Society’s Facebook page earlier this week. Titled ‘My Room My Museum’, the virtual exhibition showcased mini museums set up by stamp and coin collectors in their homes, featuring their collections. “This was the world’s chance to get a glimpse of what they had,” said the society’s president M R Ramesh Kumar. The exhibition was arranged in three categories: philatelic – showcasing postage stamps and other aligned material; numismatic - displaying coins and currency notes; and an ‘others’ category which saw collections of watches, matchboxes, model cars and erasers among other collectables. “The coin and stamp collections on display were of high intrinsic value, many of them rare and rich collections assembled patiently over many years with the doggedness that only a committed collector can bring to bear,” Kumar said. As part of the virtual exhibition, a special cover titled ‘My Room My Museum’ was launched. They were posted by the various members of the society amongst themselves. These covers posted from different post offices within Goa had post office cancellations on them. One cancellation was also of the newly-formed post office at Tapal Bhawan at Patto, Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/homes-turn-museums-for-virtual-philately-exhibition/articleshow/75928449.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Stranded Nepal migrants want to go back home||MEERUT: A group of Nepali migrants representing families stranded here met Saharanpur district magistrate Akhilesh Singh and requested the latter to arrange transportation for them so that they could go home to the Himalayan country. The delegation submitted a list of over 150 Nepali migrants who requested for arrangements to be made for their journey back home. Authorities have approved the plea and assured them that the transportation arrangement will be made over next two days. This comes amid the ongoing border dispute between the two countries after Nepal approved the new political map showing border areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhara as its territory. The move was seen as Nepal's retaliation to India's newly inaugurated road linking Lipulekh pass and Dharchula in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, speaking to media, stranded Nepali migrants claim that they have started running out of money and ration and now want to get back to their native place in Nepal. “We are about 150-200 people. We don’t have enough money and our resources, including ration, are drying up. As of now, we don't have a clue how we would even sustain, let alone managing our journey back home," Pasang Tamang, a Nepali resident, said. Responding to their plea, Saharanpur DM Akhilesh Singh said that buses will be arranged in the next two days and it will drop the Nepali migrants at the bordering district of Bahraich. “Will speak to Bahraich DM and request him to facilitate onward transportation of the migrants to their native place by coordinating with local officials in Nepal,” the Saharanpur DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amid-ongoing-border-dispute-over-150-nepali-migrants-stranded-in-saharanpur-want-to-be-sent-home-admin-promises-help/articleshow/75925441.cms||Piyush Rai
May 24, 2020||India||11 areas with 70% of cases asked to scale up Covid fight||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Saturday asked the 11 municipal areas accounting for 70% of active Covid-19 cases to step up testing for early detection, timely clinical management and a reduction in fatality rate.  The 11 areas with high case-load are in seven states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan.  In a review meeting with senior authorities of these areas, the health ministry asked them to be mindful of ramping up health infrastructure to ensure preparedness for the next two months and maintain high vigilance in old cities, urban slums and other high density pockets.  "It was told that the major challenge lies in those corporations having shorter doubling time, higher mortality rate and a higher confirmation rate than the national average," the health ministry said in a statement after the meeting.  The areas were briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping containment and buffer zones; activities mandated in containment zone, active search for cases through house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol, clinical management of active cases, etc, the ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/11-areas-with-70-of-cases-asked-to-scale-up-covid-fight/articleshow/75930911.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||KSINC pins hope on year-end season||Kochi: The Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) is pinning hopes on the months of November-December for revival. The agency which operates barges and vessels said that they suffered huge losses during the lockdown period. “The average loss in operating profit is Rs 1 crore for the months of April and May. In fact, our vessels had bulk bookings during the March-May period. All these bookings are cancelled. It is tough times ahead,” said KSINC commercial manager Cyril Abraham. KSINC is focused on barge operations and operates cruise vessels like Nefertitti and Sagararani. Though operations of cruise vessels have come to a complete halt, the barges have resumed operations. KSNIC operates seven barges. Though commercial operations of barges have resumed, those organizations like FACT are working in a limited way. “All we could do was engage in barge movement for IOC during the lockdown period. This brought in roughly Rs 6 lakh,” he added. Unless international trade catches up, the movement of cargo vessels will remain limited. KSINC does brisk business during summer holidays when schoolchildren go for vacations. The school schedules have changed, and tour programmes are also expected to change accordingly. Hence, KSNIC will have to wait for Christmas and New Year seasons to revive their businesses. However, the shipping corporation’s revival plans are largely related to the simulation that tourism industry receives. As Covid-19 continues to remain as a threat, people are largely confined to their homes. As travel plans are limited to essential needs, tourism sector has very little hope. KSINC, which incurred a loss of Rs 98 lakh in 2018-19, for the first time since its inception recorded a profit of Rs 1 crore in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ksinc-pins-hope-on-year-end-season/articleshow/75925458.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD disposed of 42 of its properties across southern states since 2002||Tirupati: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), between 2002 and 2020, has disposed of 42 properties spread across Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka, as per its own records. TTD officials say disposal of ‘unviable’ properties is within the right of the trust board and is as per endowment rules. “The TTD board is competent to sell, exchange or mortgage its immovable properties, if it is considered that the transaction is necessary or beneficial to the temple and is consistent with the objective of the TTD,” the official said. The AP government too, through a GO (Ms 405) in July 2002, issued certain guidelines for disposal of endowment properties. “Vacant urban properties which are not of immediate use for the expansion of the institution and are difficult to protect may be disposed of through public auction,” the GO read. Though writ petitions were filed in the high court to set aside the government order, TTD managed to dispose of 42 properties spread across four southern states — 27 properties in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Tamil Nadu, four in Karnataka and one in Telangana — through interim orders. The temple body’s law officer, whose opinion was sought over the proposed disposal of TTD’s properties, said the writ petition in the high court is only related to the endowments department. “TTD is not a party in the petition. The high court, in its interim order, stated that prior permission needs to be obtained before alienation of endowment property. But in this case, the properties belong to TTD, so it’s not mandatory to seek permission from the high court,” he said. Meanwhile, TTD estate officer V Devedra Reddy has constituted two teams to alienate around 26 properties owned by TTD in Tamil Nadu. Most of these properties, which include house sites, buildings and agricultural lands, were donated by Lord Venkateswara’s devotees over the years. The properties are spread across Kanchipuram, Vellore, Tiruvallur, Trichy, Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri, Kanchipuram and Villupuram districts of Tamil Nadu. The total upset value of the 26 odd properties has been estimated at Rs 1,54,11,256, which would be disposed of through public auction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-disposed-of-42-of-its-properties-across-southern-states-since-2002/articleshow/75924210.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 24, 2020||Kochi||CSML resumes stalled Smart City projects||Kochi: Many Smart City projects which were stalled due to lockdown over the outbreak of Covid-19 have resumed in Kochi. Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) has already started road work and hospital development projects while more works are expected to begin in the coming days. CSML authorities had initiated measures to resume work last month and contractors were asked to mobilize equipment and labourers for the purpose. “Work on many roads, including Shanmugham Road and Abraham Madamackal Road have already been started. Construction of new blocks at Ernakulam general hospital, Mattancherry taluk hospital and Karuvelippady taluk hospital have also been resumed,” an official with CSML said. There is shortage of workers which stands in the way of the work gaining complete momentum. “Contractors have mobilized as much guest workers as possible. So, many of the projects like the work on hospital renovation are progressing well,” the official added. However, there is no clarity on revising deadline of Smart City projects. In fact, the deadline for beginning the work was December 31, 2019. There were expectations that the Centre will grant an extension until March 31, 2020. “Government hasn’t given any written communication regarding the extension. The only instructions we got is that all work should be tendered by March 31, 2020. We have tendered almost all the work except the slum eradication one. The project for slum eradication is yet to get the clearance from Kochi corporation,” the official said. “Similarly, the proposal to take over the work on first tower of the apartment complex being constructed by Kochi Corporation under Rajiv Awas Yojana also is yet to get government nod,” the official said. At the same time, some of the key projects are still entangled in controversies. Due to protests from local residents, CSML authorities are unable to go ahead with vacuum sewer project in West Kochi. The sewage project aims at collecting and treating sewage from all the households and other establishments in five divisions of Kochi corporation at Mattancherry and Fort Kochi areas. Ernakulam market renovation, a Rs 100 crore project, is another project which couldn’t be started due to disputes. The land identified for rehabilitating the merchants from the market is entangled in a legal dispute. Meanwhile, as CSML resumed works, controversies too have stated resurfacing. “Road works are not in compliance with the norms for protecting heritage areas. The CSML is relaying most of the roads in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry using concrete. But, they should not have concreted the roads in heritage areas like Fort Kochi and Mattancherry,” said K J Sohan, former mayor, Kochi corporation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csml-resumes-stalled-smart-city-projects/articleshow/75925477.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body gives out ration kits||PUNE: The civic body on Saturday started distributing ration kits to 3,000 families residing in lower middle-class localities and slums in Kondhwa, which is a containment zone. The civic body has taken a policy decision to distribute ration to 70,000 families in containment zones to dissuade them from stepping out for purchasing essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-gives-out-ration-kits/articleshow/75927567.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Bathemetry survey of Unkal Lake begins||HUBBALLI: Due to torrential rainfall last year, many low-lying areas near Unkal Lake were flooded and bridges were damaged. Spread on 375 acres in the middle of twin cities, the lake is a prime water source. It has not been dredged in the last 42 years, but was only desilted in 1978, when the lake had completely dried due to severe drought. HDMC’s plans to dredge the lake in 2011-12 could not materialise, said senior officials. According to sources, exact details on the water-holding capacity of the lake, its depth and accumulation of sediment are not known to the administration. To get all these details, a bathemetry survey has been launched. Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd, under its City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain programme, has roped in a Mangaluru-based company to do the survey at a cost of Rs 4.6 lakh. HDSCL special officer S H Naregal told STOI that this the first-of-its-kind exercise in north Karnataka. “Based on the survey report, the government may take a call on dredging the lake,” he said, adding the survey will be completed in the next one or two days. HDSCL is planning to develop the lake, and the study will help in conserving the lake’s aquatic feature, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bathemetry-survey-of-unkal-lake-begins/articleshow/75925475.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 24, 2020||Nashik||Powerlooms in Malegaon’s red zones allowed to operate||NASHIK: The state government has allowed the powerlooms and handlooms in the textile town of Malegaon to begin operations, including red zones, except for the containment zones. “The decision to this effect was taken by the state government on Thursday. This would provide much relief to the people of the textile town where maximum residents are dependent on the looms,” Collector of Nashik Suraj Mandhare said. Malegaon is a densely populated city with maximum number of people directly dependent upon the powerlooms, besides plastic industries. However, due to lockdown, most people had lost their jobs. Now with the relaxation in lockdown rules, the state government has allowed the powerlooms in the district to operate, except for the containment areas in Malegaon. Also, the government guidelines state that those working in these powerlooms and handlooms must follow social distancing, among other norms. The powerloom operators have also been directed to look after the workers as well as the infrastructure. “The clearance to restart powerlooms and handlooms is given on the condition that the operators will ensure that social distancing and cleanliness is followed. Also, no worker from the containment areas will be employed as of now,” Mandhare added. A meeting to this effect was held between the collector and the powerloom owners/operators in which they were briefed about all the rules and regulations to be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/powerlooms-in-malegaons-red-zones-allowed-to-operate/articleshow/75925521.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Periyar remains polluted: Report||Kochi: A report by the irrigation department on water samples collected at Pathalam in Eloor-Edayar belt shows high levels of contamination in Periyar. Samples were collected during the initial days of easing of lockdown when industries had opened. The test results revealed that out of the seven samples collected from upstream side of Pathalam regulator-cum-bridge, four had extremely high values for electrical conductivity (EC, total dissolved solids (TDS), total hardness, magnesium, chloride and sulphate and failed to comply with drinking water specifications of the Bureau of Indian standards (BIS). TDS value is more than 25 times the acceptable limit and chloride content in the sample is more than 35 times the acceptable limit. There was no dissolved oxygen (DO) content in the samples, it said. Three samples indicated high level of turbidity in the water. The pollutants were seen in the waters even after opening of shutters but further downstream, as the waters mixed up, the water quality standards were in acceptable limits. The report said water pollution was more on the right bank of the regulator bridge. One of the reasons for unusual fish kill was the depletion of DO levels. DO values less than 3 mg/l generally affect the existence of aquatic organisms. But out of the seven samples analysed, only one sample showed no DO content while the rest of the samples had DO above 4 mg/l. When the water quality was measured for irrigation standards, samples proved that the quality standards were not up to required levels. Of the seven samples, each sample had one or the other value excess, including sodium absorption ratio and residual sodium carbonate. Following media reports on visible changes in the Periyar river waters at Pathalam, the high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the issue and asked for reports from authorities, including district administration, irrigation department and pollution control board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/periyar-remains-polluted-report/articleshow/75925493.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||Forest dept readying plan to relocate tribal hamlet out of the woods||MYSURU: Officials of the Male Mahadeshwara (MM) Hills Wildlife Sanctuary forest department are currently in the process of chalking out a comprehensive plan to relocate more than 225 families from Chengadi village. All residents of the hamlet are members of the Soliga tribe, and the foresters are conferring with them to ensure that the relocation of the village – the first-of-its-kind operation in Chamarajanagar district – is carried out with their consent. The tribal hamlet, with a population of 1,562, is nestled deep inside the MM Hills forest, completely cut-off from the world. No roads connect the residents to nearby towns and villages, and there is no electricity or means to supply power to such a remote location. The government has offered the residents a choice – they can either opt to relocate to Kothanuru, where a 400-acre land parcel has been identified and three-acre plots allotted to each household, or take Rs 15 lakh in cash. Chengadi is not the only isolated tribal hamlet in the range. A forest officer said that Thokkere, Doddane, Medugalane and Parasnatha are four other hamlets situated deep in the woods. “Around 90% of the people have consented to relocate, and we are trying to convince the others. Most of the people in the hamlet have either migrated to Mysuru and Bengaluru in search of employment or are living in Kollegal, Chowdalli and Hanuru, where they are engaged in agriculture. But all of them still have houses in Chengadi, and are entitled to compensation,” the officer told TOI. He added that a bulk of the people still residing in the hamlet were the elderly. “The youngsters have moved to cities and towns. We expect that most people will accept the Rs 15 lakh package since it will help them settle down,” he said. The survey being carried out by the forest department primarily entails identifying and demarcating land that will be allotted to those opting for plots, and the number of houses that will have to be constructed to house the families. MM Hills wildlife sanctuary deputy conservator of forests V Yedukondalu said that a blueprint for the relocation of the entire village would be ready in two months. “We will have to prepare a report with an exact estimate of the funds required for the operation, and other logistical details. Once the finance department releases the funds required, we will initiate the process,” Yedukondalu told TOI. He said that the forest department would look into relocation of the other four tribal hamlets once all the people at Chengadi had been duly compensated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-dept-readying-plan-to-relocate-tribal-hamlet-out-of-the-woods/articleshow/75925517.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Small-scale fishers thrive under new pricing system||Kochi: Harbour management societies floated to regulate buying and selling of fishes by adhering to social distancing norms has ensured fair price for traditional fishers who were at the mercy of middlemen known as ‘Tharakans’ and retailers who hold the sway when it comes to fixing the value of day's catch. Though these management societies comprised of representatives of all stakeholders including boat owners, middlemen, retailers, and fishers are considered temporary, the lessons learned from it would be useful in the future to enact laws governing fish auctions, officials said. “Traditional fishers with small boats are now getting a base price fixed by the management society. Earlier, if the catch was abundant this was quite difficult and the prices would drop,” says P V Jayan, Ernakulam district secretary of Paramparagatha Matsya Thozhilali Samithi. While the system is working well, the Tharakans and retailers are not quite happy with it because it has tinkered with their ability to maximize the profit. “The earlier system was better. Retailers and boat owners are asking when this would come to end. Not all fish retailers cannot enter the harbour because of the restrictions,” said Girish Kumar, who works as an agent. It is the Tharakans who finance the boats and this credit dependence fishers have on them gives middlemen a huge advantage. The Samithi is aware of the limitations of the system in the absence of a cold chain infrastructure. “The fisheries minister has promised that they would enact a law that ensures fishers are not exploited but cold storage facilities are crucial. Matysafed would be buying from the fishers if the middlemen and retailers quote below the base price but if this is to be realised they need to build storage infra,” said Jayan. A study paper titled 'Empowerment of Kerala’s fishermen: Need for change in the role of Matsyafed’ by Sara John and Nimmish Sany had found that lack of storage facilities is one of the major reasons for wide fluctuation of the price of fish. “For the small boats, it is a good deal. But we are not sure how long this would continue. The department has asked for a report from the CMFRI and this needs to be discussed in various levels by all stakeholders. Currently, the credit is provided by middlemen. There is the question of who will substitute this credit,” said Maja Jose, deputy director, fisheries, Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/small-scale-fishers-thrive-under-new-pricing-system/articleshow/75925515.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||Curbs Eased, Bhopalis Forget Covid-19 Lessons||BHOPAL: Heavy crowd in front of shops violating social distancing norms, missing masks and absence of senitisers sums up the condition in the state capital during the ongoing Lockdown-4. TOI did a reality check on Saturday to find that citizens are not adhering to the lockown norms making the state capital vulnerable for Covid-19. In order to ease the life of the citizens, the district administration has allowed several facilities to open in 6 sectors — Kolar, BHEL, Ratibad, Hoshangabad road, Bairagarh. However, problems were witnessed in Kolar, BHEL and Bairagarh where situation is alarming after several failed to adhere to the norms. Such is the situation in BHEL area that markets in morning and evening are full. “This is a bad situation. People are not understanding that their such attitude can make Bhopal a ticking bomb. Administration has given them permission but even not wearing mask is somewhat is not acceptable,” said Hari Narayan Mishra, a retired govt employee. Major markets of grocery, hardware and eateries in BHEL area (Vijay market, Piplani and Indrapuri) have been opened. Situation is worse on Kolar road where people could be seen loitering in several locations. Few shopkeepers tried to get the physical distancing done infront of their shops but citizens refused to follow them. When TOI team visited areas in Kolar, people could be seen arguing with the shokeepers. A shopkeeper Vinod Jaiswal said, “I asked the customers to keep a distance and wear masks while purchasing products my shop they found it better to buy from somewhere else. I am fine not selling anything but I can’t allow anyone to challenge guidelines as it is the safety of my family also,” said Jaiswal. Locations near Lalita Nagar were also found same where both shopkeepers and fruit sellers were spotted selling products without wearing mask. “Has the corona left Bhopal?” asked Sudhira Yadav, reacted a resident of Kolar. He added that it is the responsibility of every citizen whether he is a businessesman or a customer that this is high time for us and such attiy will lend up everyone in trouble,” said Yadav. At Hoshangabad road also appearance of people without following the safety norms. People were seen not wearing mask inside the Barkatullah University which is one the major campuses at Hoshangabad road. Bairagarh which is a walled area and one of the trading centres in Bhopal also failed to follow norms. Major concern of Bairagarh are Chanchal square, Station area and Premrai Chand road where people come out in large number not even wearing mask. When people were asked about it their justification were hilarious. Notably, realising the situation district administration has refused to open saloo s and beauty parlours. Important work related to construction, automobile, eateries, hardware and such other have been allowed to open for public since past three days in Lockdown-4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/alarming-citizens-and-sellers-even-stopped-wearing-masks/articleshow/75927582.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Covid-19 lab halts operations||NASHIK: For the second time, Nashik’s Covid-19 laboratory at the Dr Vasantrao Medical College Hospital and Research Centre has stopped functioning due to the lack of consumables. The laboratory can process 180 swab samples per day. However, it has stopped functioning since Friday night as the plastic consumables required for testing have exhausted. “The laboratory had placed the order for consumables from the manufacturer, but due to flight delay, there is a delay in supply and the lab has not yet received their order,” Collector Suraj Mandhare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-covid-19-lab-halts-ops/articleshow/75925543.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Official caught taking bribe on naval base||Karwar: A civilian officer was on Saturday caught red-handed in INS Kadamba Naval base while carrying Rs 15 lakh of unaccounted cash inside the naval base. The accused, M T Bugade, assistant engineer with the Military Engineering Service, was carrying the cash in his private car. The naval police, who had been observing his movement for the last several days, checked his car and found the cash, it is said. Buagde had allegedly taken the amount as bribe from private contractor in connection with the ongoing second phase work of Project Seabird. Later, Naval police took him to the naval headquarters. After an inquiry, the Navy authorities filed an FIR with Karwar town police. A departmental inquiry has been ordered, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/official-caught-taking-bribe-on-naval-base/articleshow/75924272.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: School to deliver textbooks via India Post||KOCHI: With an aim to fight the Covid-19 by stringently following precautionary measures adopted by government, Toc H Public School, Vyttila, in collaboration with India Post is planning to deliver textbooks and notebooks for the new academic year at their doorstep instead of collecting them from school. Parents would just have to make the order with the school through WhatsApp and the postman would deliver the books home with cash on delivery (COD) facility. School authorities said the decision was taken to ensure ‘stay at home’ guideline and also prevent crowding at school. “The school has so far initiated various unique facilities for parents and students to carry on with academic activities without any hindrance. “In this crisis time, it is better to stay at home. As online classes are to be continued, students can be at home but they will have to come to schools for books. So we thought that the books could be delivered at the doorstep at a very nominal charge. We are signing an MoU with the India Post in this regard,” said Juby Paul, principal. It is estimated that in addition to the price of books delivered, depending up on the distance and weight of books, the postage and handling charges will sum to Rs 150 to Rs 250. Interested parents can avail the same by sending their complete postal address with pincode, name of the student and admission number to their present class teacher’s personal WhatsApp. “Once the order is placed, the postmen will collect the books kit weighing between 4kg and 6kg from school. They will contact the recipient and will make an appointment for delivery. Later, the postal department will send the money of to the school. The books will be safely packed and delivered. The option is available for all students from kindergarten to XII. There are nearly 2,000 students in the school,” said Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/school-to-deliver-textbooks-via-india-post/articleshow/75925562.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nashik||21 more Covid-19 positive cases take Nashik district’s tally to 924||NASHIK: As many as 21 confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Saturday, taking the tally of positive cases to 924. Of the 21 positive cases, seven were from Nashik city, four from Malegaon and 10 from the rural parts of the district. Of the ones who have contracted the infection in Nashik city, four are from Naikwadipura in the Old City area, one each from Shivaji Wada and College Road and one more from Rana Pratap Chowk, who works in a private laboratory. All the seven cases reported on Saturday were among the high-risk contacts of the positive patients identified earlier. Meanwhile, a 54-year-old man, a resident of Samata Nagar Takli in Nashik city who died on Friday, also tested positive for the contagion on Saturday. This takes the death toll of Covid-19 in Nashik city to four. The man was rushed to the civil hospital on Friday as he was suffering from breathing problems. Nilesh Jejurkar, additional surgeon at Nashik civil hospital, said that the person already had diabetes, heart ailments and had undergone many surgeries. The person died within an hour of admission into the hospital. Meanwhile, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has drawn up containment zones in Lekha Nagar in Cidco, Mumtaz Nagar in Wadala, Ranapratap Chowk in Cidco and an area behind Shani Mandir on Dindori Road in the city. Three containment zones were already sealed on Friday. The containment zones in Indira Nagar, Tarwala Nagar in Panchavati, Takshashila row house in Konark Nagar, Ayodhya Nagari in Hirawadi, Haridarshan apartment and Sagar village in Dhatrak Phata were lifted on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/21-more-ve-cases-take-nashik-dists-tally-to-924/articleshow/75925554.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||APMC amendment will have no impacton Byadagi chilli market, say experts||HAVERI: The state government recently promulgated an ordinance to enable farmers to sell outside the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yards. While there has been opposition to this move from some quarters, the proposed amendment is unlikely to have any impact on Byadagi chilli market, one of Asia’s biggest markets. Good infrastructure, facilities for buyers and sellers, business connectivity and other reasons will help the historic chilli market to sustain, say experts. “Chilli farmers and buyers heavily depend on Byadagi market because of the infrastructure it offers. So the new APMC amendment will not affect our market. Commission agents, traders, buyers, and farmers need not worry,” said joint director of Byadagi APMC Somashekhar Nyamagouda. Ravi Menasinakai, vice president of KCCI, expressed apprehensions that the proposed amendment to the APMC Act will affect the existing APMCs and render many people jobless. “Private APMCs can be set up by businessmen according to the new amendment. In that case, government APMCs will be unable to compete with private yards. This will drastically affect the existing APMCs and the dependants will become jobless. “The state and the Union governments need to reconsider the decision in this regard,” he opined. “Without APMCs, farmers will not get competitive prices for their produce. Moreover, the government will lose revenue because cess cannot be collected according to the new amendment. The government must withdraw this ordinance,” said FKCC director PD Shiruru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/apmc-amendment-will-have-no-impacton-byadagi-chilli-market-say-experts/articleshow/75925557.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil worse than a dungeon, improve conditions: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Saturday said that it is sorry to learn that Civil Hospital at Asarwa is in “such a bad shape”. The court said that the lack of critical care is apparent at the largest hospital in Ahmedabad, and had some pointed questions for the health minister. After hearing about the condition of patients and fatalities at Civil Hospital, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said, “It is very distressing to note that most of the patients in the Civil Hospital are dying after four days or more of treatment. This indicates complete lack of critical care.” The high court discussed an anonymous letter sent by a resident doctor describing the sorry state of affairs at the hospital. “The Civil Hospital is meant to treat patients. However, it appears that as on date, it is as good as a dungeon,” the HC observed. “Maybe even worst than a dungeon. Unfortunately, the poor and helpless patients have no option.” The HC further said that though the patients admitted to Civil Hospital are poor, their lives too are invaluable and need to be protected. It directed the government to set things right within a week and sought a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-worse-than-a-dungeon-improve-conditions-hc/articleshow/75927823.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teachers demand full salary||HYDERABAD: Demanding that the state government pay full salary for May and clear the deferred salaries of March and April, members of Telangana state employees, teachers, pensioners and contract employees’ ikya vedika on Saturday staged a protest. The members wore black badges and held placards at their homes to show their dissent. “Lockdown restrictions are lifted in several places. Organisations started working with 100% staff and businesses have resumed which, in turn, has a positive impact on the financial condition of the state. However, the government is still imposing salary cuts,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, Telangana State United Teachers Federation (TSUTF). Teachers and employees said it has become difficult for them to manage their expenses lately with 50% of salaries. They asked the chief minister to intervene and issue orders so they get their full pay along with the arrears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-demand-full-salary/articleshow/75927614.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mysuru||MCC may extend property tax rebate by 2 more months||MYSURU: In what could provide major relief to over two lakh property taxpayers, the Mysuru City Corporation may extend the 5% tax rebate for two more months. Due to the lockdown, most citizens were unable to utilize the tax rebate extended by the government till May 31. The MCC has decided to write to the government to further extend the scheme for another two months, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde told TOI. The MCC has not been able to collect taxes in all its nine zonal offices as they have remained closed during the lockdown. Even the online collection system was not implemented as planned by the MCC as there was no approval from the government, delay in computerization of all properties and other teething problems. “MCC had discussed the issue of extending this tax benefit with corporators, finance and taxation standing committee members and decided to ask the government for an extension for another two months,” said sources. MCC had collected Rs 126 core property tax against the targeted Rs 157 crore in the last fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mcc-may-extend-property-tax-rebate-by-2-more-months/articleshow/75925569.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||Woman paraded semi-nude in Bokaro dist, five held||Bokaro: A 23-year-old woman was garlanded with shoes and paraded semi-naked on the streets in Chapi under Tenughat outpost of Bermo sub-division in Bokaro on Friday by a group of 20 women who accused her of being engaged in an illicit relationship. The woman was also thrashed, her hair chopped, face blackened and her hands tied with a rope though she pleaded innocence. While an FIR was lodged against 20 women and other unidentified persons, police arrested five accused on Saturday. Raids are on to nab the others, police said. Soon after receiving information, Bermo assistant superintendent of police Anjani Anjan rushed with a team to rescue the victim amid resistance from locals. Bokaro SP Chandan Kumar Jha said that majority of the accused are members of a local mahila samiti. Jha said, “An FIR has been lodged against 20 women and other unidentified persons and strict action will be taken against all the culprits.” Anjan added, “We lodged a case under Sections 147, 149, 323, 354, 354(b), 500, 504, 506, 341 and 342 of the IPC. Five persons have been arrested and raids are on to arrest the others.” According to the ASP, one of the victim’s in-laws, who stays in the neighbourhood, is the prime accused. “There is a dispute between the woman and the victim over some petty issues,” said Anjan. The victim is a mother of two and her husband works at a private organisation. On Friday, a group of women barged into the couple’s home and dragged the woman out, alleging that she was involved in an illicit relationship. “Even before the lady could speak, the mob resorted to inhumane behaviour with her,” said a cop on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-paraded-semi-nude-in-bokaro-dist-five-held/articleshow/75926594.cms||Divy Khare
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||Worker dies while cleaning SAIL’s coal mine chimney||Sindri: A contractual worker died while four others escaped unhurt during an accident when they were cleaning a clogged chimney of a coal mine of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) in Chasnala late on Friday night. Trade unions and other political parties allowed the body of the deceased to be taken away only after the management of the manpower company agreed to provide a job to his widow and announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh. Assistant general manager of the colliery, Ajay Kumar, said, “We had announced a compensation and job for Alam’s widow Faizia Tasleem (28) during the night itself, but the trade union leaders did not allow us to pick up the body demanding compensation from the contract firm. They later conceded only after the contract firm agreed to pay Rs 4 lakh as compensation.” Chief general manager of the colliery A K Roy said, “The worker, Mahtab Alam (37), had gone to the 12th seam of the longwal panel of the deep mine along with four other workers around 8.40pm and found the mine’s chimney blocked with chunks of coal. Alam tried to clean the chimney with a rod when he slipped and fell into the chimney.” He added, “Before others could understand what happened, Alam came down the chimney along with the clogged coal and fell on the chute and got buried under tons of coal and died on the spot. When the other workers raised an alarm, officials rushed to the mine. His body was retrieved from the debris only at 1am.” Alam was reportedly not wearing a safety belt at the time of the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/worker-dies-while-cleaning-sails-coal-mine-chimney/articleshow/75926771.cms||Anil Ashutosh
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Aide of Dawood man nabbed from Unjha by Gujarat ATS||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS on Saturday arrested one Babu Solanki, currently based in Mumbai and hailing from Unjha in Mehsana. Solanki was wanted in a gang war case registered by Gujarat ATS in 2006. He had been on the run for 14 years. Solanki was arrested on Saturday from Adalaj-Mehsana Road. ATS officials said that Solanki used to work for one Sharifkhan Pathan, a right hand man of Dawood Ibrahim, supposedly based in Pakistan. According to ATS sources, in 2006, a duo, Nilesh Shah and Jigar Choksi, had sold off shares of Pragnesh Patel who used to work in Gayatri Investment in Unjha. “The duo did not pay Rs 10 crore to Patel. Patel then contacted Babu Solanki alias Raju and an alleged ISI agent Sabirmiya Abbasmiya Sipai. Patel gave them the contract to recover Rs 10 crore from Shah and Choksi. Patel promised Solanki and Sipai Rs 3 crore for recovery,” said an ATS official. On the other hand, Shah and Choksi hired Mohammed Atik alias Jehangir and Iqbal Patel to take on Solanki and Sipai . In 2006, the cops arrested Sipai with a country-made pistol and five cartridges, Mohammed Atik alias Jehangir with one revolver and seven live cartridges. They were booked for carrying weapons. DIG, ATS, Himanshu Shukla said that since then Solanki was on the run and had fled to Mumbai where he worked as a bodyguard. “He has been booked and arrested in several offences in different police stations of the state,” said Shukla. ATS sources said in 2006, he was booked by Gujarat ATS for extortion. In 2008, he was booked for involvement in a Rs 32 lakh angadia loot. In 1996, he was arrested in Mumbai for attempt to murder, in 2015 he was wanted in a robbery case in Siddhpur and in 2019, he was booked for impersonating a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aide-of-dawood-man-nabbed-from-unjha-by-gujarat-ats/articleshow/75926496.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||3 lakh people under quarantine in Jharkhand, but testing rate dismal||Kolkata/Ranchi: Of the 3 lakh migrants who have arrived in the state from various parts of the country on trains, buses, trucks, cars bikes and cycles since May 1, less than 20,000 of them have been tested Covid-19. Meanwhile, the number of people under home and institutional quarantine has soared to almost 3 lakh in the last 10 days The Jharkhand government on Friday said only 19,686 (6.6%) of the returning migrants have been tested and 168 of them have tested positive for the virus as of May 22. A total of 43,988 samples were tested in the state till Friday. As of Friday, migrants labourers constituted about 90% of the 211 active cases in Jharkhand. Of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, all barring Khunti, Pakur and Sahebganj have reported Covid cases. With the influx of migrants, the number of people under home and institutional quarantine is now close to 3 lakh in a state which 330 Covid cases. The number of people in institutional quarantine centres rose seven-fold from 10,304 to 73,039 and those in home quarantine doubled from 1.11 lakh to over 2.25 lakh in the last 10 days. Addressing a press conference on Friday evening, health department principal secretary Nitin Kulkarni, said, “We all know that it is not possible to test all the migrants workers returning home. Among those who returned from Mumbai, 9,378 were tested and 99 — a little more than 1% — were found to be infected. Similarly, we have tested 3,000 workers from Surat and 0.86% were found positive. A bulk of the other patients are from Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Bengal among others.” Nodal officer for inter-state travel, principal secretary AP Singh said a total of 200 trains – including Shramik specials and Rajdhanis — arrived in the state between May 1 and May 22. On reaching their home districts, the passengers are sent to institutional or home quarantine. Such centres have been set up at schools and other government buildings at almost every village and blocks. The state government is at present focussing on boosting the immunity of those at quarantine centres by serving nutritious food to help them fight any infection with DCs of all the 24 districts monitoring the quarantine centres, an official statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-lakh-people-under-quarantine-in-jharkhand-but-testing-rate-dismal/articleshow/75926720.cms||Vishant V Agarwala
May 24, 2020||India||Chinese reaction may be a warning so that India sides with it on Covid, Taiwan, says ex-foreign secy Shyam Saran||Former foreign secretary Shyam Saran was PM’s Special Envoy, and as National Security Advisory Board chairman carried out three extensive surveys to upgrade India’s border infrastructure. Now senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, Saran tells Himanshi Dhawan that China’s recent muscle-flexing is a bid to expand its territorial claims in the region, and a warning to avoid action against its economic interests. What is the sudden provocation for the latest faceoff between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC)? There have been two incidents – in Ladakh and in Sikkim.The incidents at Naku La on the Sikkim-Tibet border and the other on Pangong Lake in Ladakh are not unusual. They often erupt when patrols of the two sides encounter each other in zones where there is a difference in perception regarding the alignment of LAC. These usually get resolved in accordance with well laid down SOPs observed by both sides. The frequency of such incidents has been increasing because significant improvements in border infrastructure on both sides have enabled more regular patrolling of hitherto remote areas. The subsequent incident in the Galwan river area in Ladakh is more worrying because our forces have been active in this area, including in undertaking road building, without Chinese objection in the past. Reacting to such activity on our side of the LAC with a build-up of forces and, in effect, expanding its territorial claim, is escalatory behaviour. These actions may be in the nature of a warning to India not to join the US-led chorus of condemnation of China’s handling of the Covid-19 virus, refrain from supporting the restoration of observer status to Taiwan in WHO and avoid taking actions against Chinese economic interests such as the recent closing of the automatic route for Chinese investment in India. PM Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping had agreed to keep the LAC peaceful after Doklam. Do you think that the latest incidents have shown that Wuhan and Mahabalipuram summits were a failure?It would be premature to make such a judgment. The confidence building measures agreed upon between the two leaders at their summits are operational. Military personnel of the two sides have been holding flag meetings to prevent escalation. One hopes that this continues to be the case. While such incidents do take place from time to time, the India-China border has generally remained peaceful over the past several decades. Is India's infrastructure building a key provocation? How crucial is the road project that goes up to Daulat Beg Oldie (DBG)?China would prefer that the glaring asymmetry between the quality of infrastructure on the Indian and Chinese sides is not bridged by India since that reduces China’s dominance of the disputed border. While the asymmetry is still quite significant, India has been making steady improvements through road building in high altitude locations, setting up of new air bases such as at Nyoma in Ladakh and Tezpur in Assam. The quality of our high altitude posts has also been upgraded. The Demchok to DBG road is very important because it runs parallel to LAC and is linked, at various points, with the major supply bases further inland. We have also upgraded the various advance landing grounds along this stretch, including at DBG, Chushul, Fukche and Demchok. The Demchok-DBG road is mostly complete except for a segment which was originally planned over a perma-frost area but the alignment was later altered. It remains within our side of the LAC. It is construction along this new alignment which appears to have been challenged by the Chinese. Since you had monitored the infrastructure development on the India-China border, how unbalanced is the development on the two sides? As I have pointed out, there has been significant improvement in our border infrastructure over the past decade or so but the asymmetry with Chinese capabilities remains serious. For example, the Chinese post at Demchok is connected with a metal road to the Tibet-Xinjiang highway. It has 24X7 power supply, being connected to the power grid. There is an observation tower on the nearby Zorawar Hill that enables monitoring of any troop movement on our side. Our post at Demchok still depends upon diesel generators and a considerable part of supplies use helicopters or fixed-wing aircraft. From DBG when you fly in a helicopter to the Karakoram Pass the flight is monitored by an array of Chinese surveillance cameras placed on the hills on either side of the valley. Has the pace of infrastructure development increased in the last five to 10 years? What is your assessment?Yes it has but there is still a long way to go. While we improve the infrastructure on our side, the Chinese are not sitting still. They continue to augment their capabilities. Do you find a link between China's behaviour in India-China border and the South China Sea? Does this aggressive behaviour show its weakness?China has been adopting a more assertive posture in the Yellow Sea, the Taiwan Straits and the South China Sea at least since 2010. It has forcibly occupied a number of offshore islands claimed by other states such as Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei. Its coast guard and naval vessels have been engaged in provocative manoeuvres and in effect, China now claims and seeks to dominate the whole of the South China Sea. So its behaviour on the India-China border appears to be part of this pattern. As a former ambassador to Nepal, how do you see it's role on Nepal's recent anti-India rhetoric and the publishing of maps making territorial claims. Do you see Beijing's active role in emboldening Nepal PM K P Sharma Oli's statements against India?Nepal’s reaction to the construction of the Pithoragarh-Lipulekh Pass road is more related to internal political dynamics in Nepal in which China has played a role but there may not have been direct instigation by China. Prime Minister Oli was under threat because the Maoist leader Prachanda and Oli’s rival in the party, Madhav Nepal, had reportedly joined hands to unseat Oli. The Chinese ambassador to Nepal allegedly played a role in persuading the two leaders to refrain from destabilising the government. The Lipulekh controversy came in very handy for Oli to deflect attention from his own troubles by upping the ante on this longstanding issue and projecting himself as an ardent nationalist and patriot, defying India. He went overboard in using abusive and offensive language against India but may have calculated that China will provide a shield against any Indian retaliation. One is reminded of a similar situation in 1960 when the then King Mahendra inaugurated direct monarchical rule and an anti-Indian nationalist policy calculating that in view of the deteriorating relations between India and China, India would have limited room to oppose him. Even at that time Nepal did not challenge India’s sovereignty over Lipulekh and its own maps did not show this area as belonging to Nepal. This happened post-1990 when some Nepalese scholars began to reinterpret the Sugauli Treaty of 1816, which defined the India-Nepal border in the west as the Mahakali river, by tracing the river’s main channel to a more western tributary. If long established borders are sought to be challenged on the basis of some old documents or maps resurfacing, then where do we stop? Having said that, I believe the Indian Army chief ought to have refrained from commenting on a matter that is diplomatically sensitive. The Nepalese side had already reacted adversely to the publication of an Indian map in November last year reflecting the newly created Union Territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir which showed the Lipulekh Pass in India. This did not represent any departure from the alignment depicted in the past and yet the Nepalese side sought to depict this as cartographic aggression by India. Being aware of the sensitivities involved perhaps a high profile event for the inauguration of the new highway by the defence minister could have been avoided. While rejecting Nepal’s claim we should remain committed to resolving all outstanding issues through friendly negotiations. After all 98% of the border is already settled. How do you see China's behaviour in the international fora, as it faces pressure to come clean on Covid-19? From its resistance to the probe into Covid-19’s origin to its muscle-flexing on Taiwan, what does it signal to the world?In keeping with its expanding economic and military capabilities, second only to the US, China has been playing a more active and combative role on the international stage. It wishes to be acknowledged as the uncontested leader in Asia. Chinese thinking equates hierarchy with harmony. Peace can be maintained only if there is a clear hierarchy of states each knowing its place in the pecking order. China believes it’s natural place is at the top of this hierarchy which other states must be persuaded to acknowledge; if necessary, should be compelled to do so through coercive measures. A section of the Chinese leadership believes that the Covid-19 pandemic is a window of opportunity for China to expand its regional and global influence. Its economic recovery is earlier and faster than other major economies giving it a first-mover advantage. However, while China may be hegemonic in intent, it is still not so in capabilities so there may be a real risk of its over extending. The pushback against China that we have witnessed in the past few weeks including at the World Health Assembly is noteworthy. Do you think Covid-19 has exposed President Xi's weakness? Can it become his Achilles Heel and could it become the “Chernobyl moment” for the Communist Party of China? What's your view of the post-Covid world?While in the initial phase of the Covid-19 crisis Xi Jinping’s leadership appeared to be shaky, he has regained his authority and standing. The drastic and apparently successful measures to overcome the coronavirus and the early signs of economic recovery have put him in a strong position. That confidence is reflected in the decision to convene the Chinese Peoples’ Political Consultative Conference and the National People’s Congress from May 21 onwards in the Chinese capital after a delay of only two months. Under the pretext of Covid-19 the two meetings could have been easily deferred if Xi felt he was under political threat. That he has gone ahead with the meetings reflects renewed confidence. The world is undergoing a wrenching transformation. We know that the post-pandemic world will be very different from what we have been familiar with but it is difficult to say where the chips will fall once the churning begins to ebb. On present indications, it appears that China may emerge from this as a more powerful country, at least in relative terms. We may see a loosely structured cluster of several regional powers and a more regionalised globalisation. Beyond that we will just have to keep our seatbelts fastened and wait to see where we land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-reaction-may-be-a-warning-so-that-india-sides-with-it-on-covid-taiwan-says-ex-foreign-secy-shyam-saran/articleshow/75926909.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||It’s different, but it’s definitely Eid||Ranchi: With the holy month of Ramzan nearing its end and mosques remaining closed for more than two months owing to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, Muslims across the city are prepared to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr without large feasts, family gatherings and exchange of gifts. The festival, marking the end of Ramzan, usually brings families and friends together, but this year community leaders and social outfits have asked people to stay at home and adhere to social distancing measures. Amid the pandemic, Eid celebrations are likely be a muted, but members of the Muslim community, particularly the youngsters, have reinvented the rituals and traditions of Ramzan in line with the call of the day. Observing Ramzan largely from the confines to their homes, young Muslims used technology and the internet to come together with friends and family. From sharing the most delicious iftars and sehris through video conferences on Zoom and Google Meet to greeting the family during late night chats on WhatApp groups, young Muslims gave a digital touch to the holy month. Anam Sanober, a resident of Karbala Chowk in the city, who has family members living in Bengaluru and Hazaribag, resurrected a group on social media to ensure they get the feel of togetherness. “Through the last four weeks, the family logged on to video chat apps every day during sehri. Some stayed up all night while the older members of the family woke up the lazy ones in time for the meal before sunrise. We may not be physically close, but I don’t remember the last time we connected as much during Ramzan,” said the 25-year-old, who quit her job as a primary school teacher days before the lockdown to pursue higher studies. Left with nothing to do with the stay-at-home order in place, teenager Fahed Abdullah discovered that his “grungy” personality is merely a mask and he cannot without being connected to his friends and family. At 15, he was going through the same awkwardness that boys his age do. “The lockdown made Ramzan a lot more relaxed than usual, giving me time and incentive to connect with relatives. I don’t have my own phone and my mother gets surprised whenever I ask her for hers to greet older members of my family. With schools closed and tuitions suspended, I spent Ramzan developing an interest in talking to others. I now realise that I actually enjoy these conversations,” said the Kairali School student, who is awaiting his matriculation results that have been delayed due to the lockdown. For Saba Gulrez, a resident of Doranda, the lockdown was unexpected and, on March 26, Ramzan was a month away. Like many others she made herself believe that things would be alright in time for the holy month and Eid. “I had no clue we would be locked in for this long and even a simple get-together with family and friends would become a challenge,” said Gulrez, who in her thirties runs a production house that specializes in making corporate promotional advertisements. “As the seriousness of the pandemic drove home, we started dedicating our Zakat to people who need it the most. Almost everyone I know are now using online donation platforms for Zakat. Every day I get dozens of such requests and appeals to help and we are trying to make a difference with whatever little we can do,” added the mother of two, who has been balancing work and family duties through the lockdown. Now, when the entire community has come to terms with the outbreak and is prepared to celebrate Eid behind closed doors. Fahed, the introvert teenager, said: “I will schedule at least half a dozen group calls with friends and relatives and show them the delicacies on the dining table. I am also help at a local initiative that is serving water and food and I will continue to contribute my time volunteering.” Gulrez said she will ensure that this Eid, which hopefully will never be celebrated under such circumstances ever again, will be remembered by her family. “For the first time in the 14-century history of Islam, our community members won’t meet and greet each other. I will share my moments of celebration with family and friends through video calls. For my boys, I’ll cook something from our list of family recipes and add a modern twist it so that they have something unique to remember this very different Eid,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/its-different-but-its-definitely-eid/articleshow/75926755.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||Dead migrant in Koderma tests +ve for Covid, state death toll at 3||Ranchi/Jamshedpur/Gumla: A 39-year-old migrant infected with the novel coronavirus died at sadar hospital in Koderma district on Wednesday, becoming the first returning worker and third patient in the state to succumb to the disease. He had returned from New Delhi on May 15 on his own arrangements and was put under home quarantine on arrival. The samples taken from his body tested positive along with 19 others on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the Jharkhand to 350. Talking to TOI, principal secretary (health) Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “The deceased was admitted to hospital after he complained of chest pain on May 16. He died during treatment on May 20. His samples were taken and they returned on Saturday.” Among the 20 cases detected on Saturday, 11 are from Koderma, four from Simdega, three from East Singhbhum and two from Ranchi. Of these, 19 are migrants. The other is a 21-year-old pregnant woman from Ranchi. Meanwhile, four patients from Ranchi and one from Deoghar were discharged after making a full recovery on Saturday. The state’s Covid tally now stands at 350, of which 205 are active while 142 have recovered and three patients have died. This is the first time the number of active cases in Jharkhand have crossed the 200-mark. The last 100 cases the state have been reported in just four days. Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap said: “We recorded 11 positive cases on Saturday and all are migrants who have returned from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and New Delhi. We have also recorded one death which include the deceased man from resident of Markachho.” In Ranchi, two women tested positive for the virus. “A 19-year-old resident of Angara block who returned from Rajasthan and a preganant woman from Harmu area with no travel history in Ranchi city tested positive. We are starting containment measures in Harmu area,” Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said. Simdega, which had only three cases until Friday, detected four fresh cases of coronavirus cases on Saturday. “Four migrants between 22 and 32 years of age tested positive in the district. All are migrants and are resident of Jaldega, Kuldega and Kolebira blocks,” Simdega civil surgeon P K Sinha said. In East Singhbhum, three more patients tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district total in the Steel City to 20. “They arrived from Bangalore, Odisha and Mumbai on May 13 and were under isolation at MGM hospital. Of the three, one is a resident of Mango locality and the other is a from the rural Patamda block. The location of the third is being ascertained,” DC Ravi Shankar Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dead-migrant-in-koderma-tests-ve-for-covid-state-death-toll-at-3/articleshow/75926660.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 24, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Hindus keep roza to thank those who fed them||VADODARA: If it wouldn’t have been for his benevolent Muslim neighbourhood, 19-year-old driver in Bodeli, Chirag Tadvi, would have faced starvation during the lockdown. But that’s not how the neighbours in Navinagri slums think — here brotherhood thrives above the material wants. And, it was in that community feeling that a kitchen fed 700-odd mouths daily, including 25-odd Hindus like Tadvi. But the feeling’s mutual. As a gesture of solidarity and gratitude, Tadvi and his friends also decided to share something precious to their benefactors — the 27th day of Ramzan fast — on May 20, considered very auspicious. “Usually, I observe fast every Saturday from a vow I took several years ago. But this time during Ramzan, we decided to observe fast on the 27th day to mark our gratitude for our neighbours who did not discriminate while feeding the needy during lockdown. We also prayed together to ward-off coronavirus,” said Tadvi. Children as young as eight to 15 were also among the group to observe the fast. Arvind Tadvi, a fruit vendor, said that he will remain eternally grateful to his neighbours for feeding them in the critical times. “We wanted to thank them by offering special prayers for them,” said Tadvi, whose 13-year-old daughter Esha and son Bhavesh (15) too joined him in observing a day’s fast along with others. “Had they not started the community kitchen, my family would have starved as my work was completely shut due to lockdown,” said Shankar Tadvi, an auto-rickshaw driver, from the slums. The fast observers continued their daily work without even drinking water, but by dusk they were exhausted. “By 4 pm I felt tired so I had to return home and take rest,” said Shankar. Another fast observer Dhaval Bariya too had to lie down for a couple of hours. Initiated by Mushtaq Khatri, a farmer, and his friends, the community kitchen was an effort from their own pockets during the initial days. Only later, he got help from several people in Bodeli to keep the kitchen fires burning. “We fed 700-odd people daily without any discrimination. A few traders and influential people also donated money which kept our kitchen running,” said Khatri, who would cook food and distribute in every household in the area with the help of volunteers. Food for ‘sehri’, a ritual prior to the fast, and ‘iftaar’, a meal taken while breaking the fast were also made by Khatri and his family members. From ‘ras-puri’, fritters, samosas, khaman, fruits among other items, iftaar was always a good sumptuous spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hindus-keep-roza-to-thank-those-who-fed-them/articleshow/75926347.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man involved in multiple armed robberies arrested||Ahmedabad: Gujarat ATS on Friday arrested one Haresh Goswami of Malad Mumbai, hailing from Vastral area in the city, for allegedly committing several armed robberies in Gujarat and in Mumbai. Cops said the robberies involve valuables worth crores of rupees. In-charge SP, ATS, Deepan Bhadran said that during interrogation the accused revealed he had committed armed robberies in several states including Gujarat and Maharashtra, with his associates Rajesh Khanna and Sarmad Khalil Baig of Chhota Rajan gang. ATS sources Goswami has confessed to robberies in Surat 2011, where he had looted diamonds worth Rs 80 lakh with his associates. “In 2017, Baig , Mohammed Sagir and Mohammed Gosh and other accused had robbed Rs 1.17 crore from near Bhilad checkpoint from an angadia firm employee. In 2018, Baig, Gosh and others had held a family at knifepoint near Bhilad checkpoint and robbed Rs 22 lakh. In the same year Rajesh Khanna and Gosh with other associates of the gang had fired on the car of a jeweller in an attempted robbery. Sometime later, they had looted Rs 17 lakh at Mankurd Railway station in Mumbai while firing shots in the air,” said Bhadran. ATS sources said earlier the accused had been apprehended several times in Mumbai. “We are interrogating him to learn whether he is involved in any other such incidents of robbery or loot,” said an ATS source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-involved-in-multiple-armed-robberies-arrested/articleshow/75926546.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||In 18 C-zones, NMC using spl equipment||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started screening high-risk persons in containment zones by using equipment like pulse oximeters and infrared thermometer guns. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer, Dr Yogendra Savai, additional chief medical officer, Dr Praveen Gantawar, and his team have implemented the system in 18 containment zones. The civic body has already quarantined and tested all family members and close contacts of all positive persons in containment zones. The NMC even conducted its mass quarantined model in few containment zones like Mominpura, Satranjipura, Parvati Nagar and Gaddigodam. “NMC teams are doing door-to-door survey in containment zones. At times, teams do not get correct information or miss identifying doubtful cases. We have to ensure the safety of all high-risk patients. We have given 165 Pulse Oximeters and 50 infrared thermometer guns,” Dr Gantawar told TOI. “Teams will check the oxygen saturation level and body temperature of high-risk persons and recommend quarantining accordingly. This will help in identifying positive patients and ensure treatment at the initial stage itself,” he added. In high-risk population, the NMC is targeting patients of cancer, severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), those over 60 years and pregnant women. The NMC has already started taking swab samples of pregnant women from containment zones. There will be special camps in Mominpura where eight pregnant women tested positive. There were similar camps in Satranjipura, Parvati Nagar and Pandhrabodi containment zones. Special camps have been planned in the remaining containment zones in the coming days. The Mominpura containment zone in Central Nagpur was started on April 4. Positive persons are being reported on a daily basis. The number of cases from this locality, the city’s second hotspot, has risen to 220. The Satranjipura containment zone in East Nagpur became operational on April 6. Nearly 121 cases were reported from this area which is the city’s first hotspot. No positive case has been reported from this locality since May 15. Gaddigodam in West Nagpur has emerged as the third hotspot where 22 cases have been reported since May 18. Although cases from the other containment zones are not reported on a daily basis, a few are under institutional quarantine. The central government’s Rapid Response Team had credited the NMC’s innovative measures for fewer deaths and cases in the city. Some of the measures were the mass quarantine model, door-to-door survey of all houses, special camps for high-risk patients, tracing close contacts of positive persons, 14-day institutional quarantine for all suspected patients and spraying of disinfectants across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-18-c-zones-nmc-using-spl-equipment/articleshow/75926923.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Almost impossible to follow Covid-19 norms, say schools||NAGPUR: Following the norms of Covid distancing in schools, especially English private-aided ones in the city which have a huge number of students, has drawn some sharp reactions among school officials and principals. They feel it will be almost impossible to implement the Covid distancing norms in English private-aided schools considering the high enrolment figures. Almost every section in these popular state board-affiliated schools is brimming with more than 50 students, where rising aspirations and zero or negligible fee has led to a spurt in admissions. Some of these schools are already operating in two shifts, which means there is no wriggle room left to implement Covid distancing guidelines. The idea being floated by education officials, health professionals and activists focuses on having classes on alternate days after dividing each section in two batches. “That won’t work in our schools because it’s already operating at double the capacity. Even if we split, there will still be minimum 20-25 students left in each class which even may be higher than the intended figure,” said a principal. So far no official guidelines have come but schools know that implementation of Covid distancing is dependent completely on physical infrastructure and capacity. Another principal said, “A couple of such schools are already working in double shifts because they are unable to adjust all students in a single one. If such schools have to implement the Covid distancing guidelines then students will have to be called just one in four days.” Another principal said the English private-aided schools cannot reduce the number of admissions. “Every parent from poor and lower middle class background aspires for English medium education for their children. The private unaided schools are beyond their financial reach while civic schools are not English medium. In such schools, they pay negligible fee till primary section as it is not under aided category, after which education is free. Only two schools in Nagpur have aided primary section, so at others you have to pay some about,” said the principal. The principal further said,“We would love to stop admission after 30 students in each section, but there is tremendous pressure from education officials and politicians to ‘honour’ their recommendation letters. That’s how over the decades our class sizes have swelled up.” Now, all eyes are now on new standard operating procedures which the state education department is expected to officially announce next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/almost-impossible-to-follow-covid-19-norms-say-schools/articleshow/75926933.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||With curtains down since two mths, artistes struggling a lot||Nagpur: The lockdown has spared none. Artistes and backstage workers are sitting idle since two months as cultural programmes, plays and concerts have come to a standstill, resulting in lack of livelihood or income. Recently, some artistes were provided with essentials by members of the Antarman Kala Academy, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and a few from the fraternity, but many are yet to get help in desperate times like these. A team of seven, led by Kunal Gadekar, president of Antarman Kala Academy and a theatre artiste himself, joined hands to help struggling artistes by providing flour, rice, lentils, sugar, tea, masala packets, biscuits, oil, salt and masks. “These artistes and workers deserve equal attention like the others. They have families to feed. The field of art and theatre is their only source of income. We helped them with our personal contributions,” said Gadekar. Team member Indrayani Babhule shared some insights. “We all pitched in money. We also received support from many citizens. We have helped over 50 artistes and intend to help more. We prepared a list of essentials and then made kits for distribution. Most of the artistes are daily wagers. They were happy to get help. We could see the smile of relief on their faces,” she said. Make-up artist Nakul Shrivas is in the business for over 15 years. He went to Uttarakhand to work for a Tamil film. The shooting was called off because of the lockdown and he was left him with no work. “I had to manage all my expenses in Uttarkhand on my own. It cost me a lot. After returning, I was helped by Gadekar and his team and a few other artistes from the city. I’m grateful to them. Artistes are struggling even to buy basic daily need items,” he said. Another make-up artiste, Asha Tarekar, faced a tough time to stock up her pantry, medicine and other needs. “We are happy for being acknowledged. Our income depends upon the number of events and shows we do. Because of lockdown, we earned no money,” she said. Limca Book of Records holder, singer Sunil Waghmare, discussed the sad situation of the city-based artistes and singers with Hemant Gadkari, state general secretary of MNS. In no time, Gadkari swung into action along with party colleague Dinesh Ilme and provided a fair amount of essentials, including groceries and bakery products to many artistes. “I have a lot of love and respect for singers and artistes. We had to help them after getting to know about their situation. We did our bit to ease their pain,” he said. There are a few who have dedicated their lives for their profession. “I am working in the city since 30 years. My passion and profession is acting in plays and dramas. It’s my only source of income. Nobody thought about us. We are not even in limelight. There are many who have not received any help,” said Milind Ramteke. At plays, Prakash Mule is a regular fixture in the lighting department. “We have received no help. Lightning and technical work is the essence of any play. I also have a team of workers who have families that are dependent on them. My business in shut and the situation is sad,” he said. Set designer Swapnil Bohate couldn’t agree any better. “The lockdown has taught us a lot of things and has shown us a very ugly side. My business in dependent on set designing. I took a loan to start the business. We need help from the government for the artistes, singers and performers. We need a funding scheme so that we can buy essentials according to our needs,” he said. If generous donors wish to help struggling artistes in any way then they can get in touch with Kunal Gadekar of Antarman Kala Academy (7709065653).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-curtains-down-since-two-mths-artistes-struggling-a-lot/articleshow/75926953.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Eid and Ramzan during lockdown a memorable experience, say rozdaars||Nagpur: This Eid is different and unique in its own way. Right from dressing up at home, greeting friends and relatives on video calls, offering prayers online with family and children keeping roza for the first time, it has been an amazing experience for the Muslim community. Dawoodi Bohras follow Misri calendar while rest of the Muslims follow lunar calendar. Bohras celebrated Eid-ul-Fitr on Saturday though the moon was not sighted. Rest of the Muslim community will celebrate the festival either on Sunday or Monday. According to rozdaars, this Ramzan taught them many new things. Professor Mohammed Ayub Khan believes that Ramzan in lockdown was a blessing in disguise as it gave them an opportunity to help the mankind. “We spent our month by helping the needy and poor. How often do we get to do that? We donated essential commodity kits, food and much more. This Ramzan all Muslims performed their best deeds,” he said. “Lockdown Ramzan and Eid was a very different experience. We were more relaxed as there was not much work to do. We did family gatherings and exchanged wishes on a digital platform,” said Shehr Merchant, an architect. Her mother Nilofer Kamal did miss the prayers offered in masjid during the holy month but felt it was a beautiful Ramzan experience. “This Ramzan will be a memorable one. It has taught the true meaning of love and patience. We prayed from our hearts for an end to the virus spread. We will be preparing all sorts of delicacies at home with my children so we can have or little family Eid celebration,” said Sumera Siddique. This Ramzan amid lockdown, Saleha Siddique said, has taught her about adjustments and valuing whatever she has. “Every Eid we would go out and greet our relatives by hugging and bonding with them. All my friends and cousins would come to our house and we would have feast together. This time I will dress up at home and help my mother in the kitchen,” she said. Hasan Zakir, businessmen who celebrated Eid on Saturday, said, “We had a good celebration at home. We couldn’t go out and meet our loved ones or offer namaz at masjid, but following rules was more important” he said. Kausar Ali Khumusi, head of Nagpur Jamaat that celebrated Eid on Saturday, believes that this was the most beautiful Eid celebration as it has taught many life lessons to all. “The essence of Ramzan and Eid is to understand the value of humanity and life. Today many are struggling to go home, hence this holy month taught us to value our resources,” he said. Being at home gave many children opportunity to keep roza for the first time. “My children were so excited to keep roza and each day they would help their mother in preparing the feast. This Ramzan will be remembered for years to come,” said Ejaz Ahmed, a lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eid-and-ramzan-during-lockdown-a-memorable-experience-say-rozdaars/articleshow/75926964.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pvt hospitals fleecing people: Congress||Ahmedabad: Even as the controversy over the price of N95 masks continues, the Gujarat Congress on Saturday alleged that private hospitals were fleecing people while offering Covid-19 treatment. The Congress said that the government is doing little to rein in private hospitals. The Congress said that as compared to neighbouring Maharashtra, the cost of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals was more than double in Gujarat. The BJP shot back, saying that when the state is battling the pandemic, the Congress was seeking political mileage. GPCC general secretary Nishit Vyas said that patients are being forced to pay Rs 10,000 for admission to normal wards in Gujarat, while the rate in Maharashtra has been fixed at Rs 4,000. He said charges for ventilators and ICU in Gujarat are Rs 19,000 per day while in Maharashtra it was only Rs 7,500. “Although there are more Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra, the rate of treatment at private hospitals is less than half of that here,” Vyas said. For the second consecutive day, the Congress raised the issue of pricing of N95 masks sold at Amul outlets. BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya, while refuting the allegations, said the Congress is making an issue out of a non-issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-hospitals-fleecing-people-congress/articleshow/75926669.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||108 helpline turns out to be a saviour on wheels amid battle against Covid||Nagpur: Maharashtra Emergency Medical Service (MEMS), which runs the 108 ambulance helpline, is proving to be one of the front-line soldiers in the Covid-19 pandemic situation. By May 18, these ambulances have served 11,718 patients in Vidarbha. These ambulances are used to transport Covid-19 suspects from their houses to the respective government hospitals. They also drop cured Covid-19 patients to their residence after discharge. Dr Deepakkumar Uke, operations head, East Maharashtra, said our ambulance drivers too deserve appreciation and recognition as ‘Corona Warriors’ as they are risking their lives in transporting potential Covid-19 positive patients. “Total 937 ambulances, including 233 advanced life support (ALS) and 704 basic life support (BLS), with over 5,000 emergency medical service professionals like doctors, drivers and managers are working in MEMS. In Vidarbha, 151 such ambulances are serving in 11 districts,” said Dr Uke. In the present pandemic situation, 25% of these ambulances have been identified in corporation areas for serving all suspected as well as confirmed Covid-19 patients from community screening centres like railway stations, airports etc and hospitals. All dedicated Coivd specific ambulances are equipped with oxygen delivery system (ODS), two jumbo oxygen cylinders, one portable oxygen cylinder and disposable oxygen delivery masks. Till May 17, total 54,164 patients were transported by MEMS team in these ambulances from community to healthcare facilities and also from hospital to quarantine facilities and back home. These include 11,718 from 11 districts of Vidarbha. Here, these ambulances also transported confirmed Covid-19 positive patients from Amravati to Nagpur and from Chandrapur to Nagpur. Uke informed that teams at 108 ambulance service are taking special care to be safe and keep others safe from infection. “Sterilization and fumigation of all ambulances serving Covid-19 suspects or diagnosed patients is being done immediately. Standard face mask, glove, hand sanitizer and complete PPE kits are provided to the ambulance staff as per requirements,” he said. All staffers have been given special training in disinfection, disaster specific communication and technology integration and emergency response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/108-helpline-turns-out-to-be-a-saviour-on-wheels-amid-battle-against-covid/articleshow/75926979.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 24, 2020||Nagpur||Machine, men meant for Vid labs diverted to Jalgaon||NAGPUR: Despite state government’s repeated assurance to the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that Viral Research and Diagnostics Laboratory (VRDL) at Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gondia would be made operational in a month, none of them is ready even as Covid-19 cases are increasing in all three districts. Senior officials from government medical college and hospitals (GMCHs) at all the three districts blamed it on the government for diverting machinery and technicians required for its installation to Jalgaon, where number of cases has spiralled since last few says. The respective deans told TOI that their infrastructure is ready but they are yet to receive other crucial equipment and machinery to start the Covid-19 testing. At Chandrapur, the GMCH is yet to receive RT-PCR machine, which is most crucial for conducting these specialized tests. “The government has diverted our machine to Jalgaon by issuing a circular. Otherwise, we are fully ready to start VRDL operations. We are expecting the RT-PCR machine in a couple of days,” dean SS More told TOI. In Gondia, though the RT-PCR machine was delivered, the technicians supposed to install it were taken to Jalgaon citing emergency. “We were told that the technicians will first install RT-PCR at Jalgaon and then visit Gondia. Except cold centrifuge machine and some other minor equipment, we are fully ready. We expect to start the trials by May 26-27,” dean VP Rukhmode told TOI. In Yavatmal too, cold centrifuge machine is yet to be delivered, which is crucial for conducting the Covid-19 tests. “We have already installed RT-PCR machine, but until cold centrifuge machine arrives, we can’t go ahead. It’s expected to be delivered within a couple of days after which we can start trials. Our doctors and technicians have already completed training to operate the machines,” professor Dr Kamble told TOI. After HC’s censuring, the government on April 23 had informed that it would take at least three to four weeks for making Covid-19 labs operational at GMCHs of all three districts, as purchased orders were placed through Haffkine’s Institute. Till date, none of centres have full set of machinery. On March 23, the HC had first directed the government to open VRDL centres at Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Gondia, along with Gadchiroli within two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/machine-men-meant-for-vid-labs-diverted-to-jalgaon/articleshow/75926999.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Saurashtra to get Narmada water||Gandhinagar: The state government has decided to supply water for irrigation purpose in the summer months to areas of Saurashtra under the SAUNI scheme. The government said on Saturday that 25 reservoirs, 120 lakes and 400 check dams will be filled with 4,000 million cubic feet of water from the Narmada canal. This will also result in a rise of the groundwater level, the government said. Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, the reservoirs, lakes, and check dams in Saurashtra and Kutch region will be filled with an estimated 4,000 million cubic feet water from Narmada river during the summer, as an initiative of the irrigation department. The process is being carried out in three phases. With the completion of Link-1 from Machhu-2 reservoir of Morbi to Und-1 reservoir of Jamnagar, the work of filling the lakes in Morbi and Rajkot districts started from May 21. In other areas of the Saurashtra-Kutch region, lakes, reservoirs, and check dams will be soon filled in phases through three other link canals under SAUNI Yojana. The first phase of the project is complete while phase 2 is nearing completion and phase 3 is in progress, the official said. Kumar added that apart from ensuring an adequate supply of water for irrigation, this project will also solve the problem of potable water for the citizens and the cattle during the summer season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saurashtra-to-get-narmada-water/articleshow/75926712.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Business||4 crack RBI teams keep financial system up & running in lockdown||NEW DELHI: Since the national lockdown was announced in late March, a team of more than 200 personnel from the Reserve Bank of India and services providers are holed up in four locations to ensure that the financial markets and the system across the country works uninterrupted and provides glitch free service to users. Top RBI officials went into a huddle immediately after the lockdown was announced and a team was set up to ensure that services are provided 24x7 without any interruptions including payments and settlements. A team of officers and technical experts was moved into a hotel in Mumbai and another team was stationed in Khargar on the outskirts of Mumbai to work remotely and ensure that the wheels of the economy keep moving. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates"Now we have a team of 200 including service providers from some of the top tech and telecom companies. There are four teams which are responsible for smooth functioning of the financial system including payments. Apart from the teams in Khargar and Mumbai and there are two more in Nagpur and Hyderabad," said a source. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageHe said that the team includes some senior officers from RBI and the 200 members of the four teams have been away from their families since the lockdown was announced."It was voluntary. In fact people were asked whether they want to go home after 25-days and all of them said they would like to continue to ensure that there is no interruption in the function of the financial system. This speaks highly of the commitment of the teams," the source said, adding that they are working with some of the best technology available to keep the systems on despite the strict lockdown measures. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news "They are keeping a close watch and take turns in the 24x7 cycle. This kind of an experience is unprecedented for all of them and they making sure that operations are smooth," said the source. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has spoken twice with the teams and complimented them for their commitment to their jobs and national duty. In the monetary policy statement on Friday he mentioned the contribution of the team which is keeping the nation's financial system alive. " A special word of praise for our team of over 200 officers, staff and service providers who are working unstinted 24X7 in isolation in order to keep essential RBI services available to the nation," said Das in his statement. Watch How RBI keeps financial system up & running in lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-rbi-crack-teams-in-isolation-keeping-financial-system-working/articleshow/75931153.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||24 die in city on Saturday||Ahmedabad: A six months old baby was among the 24 deaths reported because of Covid-19 on Saturday in Ahmedabad city. The baby belonged to Bapunagar and struggled for 12 days at SVP Hospital before succumbing. No new deaths were reported from the western part of the city. Of the 24 who died, 10 had no co-morbid conditions. Twenty-two were above 50 years, and only one was a 30 years old male, who had an alcoholic liver condition. A majority of those dead of Covid, 11 of them, belonged to the North zone — in areas like Naroda, Kubernagar, Thakkarbapanagar, and Bapunagar areas. At least five deaths were reported from Civil Hospital at Asarwa, four deaths were reported from Sola civil hospital, two deaths from SVP Hospital, nine deaths from GCRI Hospital and one death each from Saviour and Tapan hospital in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24-die-in-city-on-saturday/articleshow/75926740.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Jitendra Nath Pande, famed ex-AIIMS doctor, dies of Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Dr Jitendra Nath Pande (79), eminent pulmonologist and former head of the department of medicine at AIIMS Delhi, who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week, died at his residence on Saturday. Dr Pande and his wife tested positive on Tuesday with mild symptoms and decided to remain in home isolation, said AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria. His wife was shifted to AIIMS on Saturday. "We were following up and he said he was improving. On Friday after going to bed, he passed away in sleep, possibly because of an acute cardiac event," Guleria said. Pande had co-morbid conditions. ‘Pande’s death great loss to medical fraternity’Knowledge and humility can co-exist and Dr Pande was an epitome of that. He was an excellent human being and it is a great loss to the medical fraternity. AIIMS family will miss him the most because he joined AIIMS as an MBBS student and retired as the head of the department of medicine,” Guleria said. Pande, who had authored hundreds of papers on respiratory medicine, had treated various famous personalities, including the President of India. After retirement from AIIMS, he was practising at Sitaram Bharatia Research Institute. Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis C-Doc, said Pande was a great teacher, pulmonologist, biostatistician, and great diagnostician. Deeply saddened to hear that today @covid19 claimed it's most illustrious victim Dr. J.N Pande Director & Prof of P… https://t.co/8nUoTSYNoj— Dr. Sangita Reddy (@drsangitareddy) 1590224994000“Deeply saddened to hear that today @covid19 claimed it’s most illustrious victim Dr J.N Pande Director & Prof of Pulmonology@aiims_newdelhi. A stalwart of the medical world his work in pulmonology will continue to ensure better health for many. My Condolences to his family,” tweeted Sangita Reddy, joint managing director, Apollo hospitals group. "Heartfelt condolences to Dr Pande's family. He retired from AIIMS after a long career of service but continued to work in another hospital until his unfortunate demise this week due to Corona. Delhi salutes you sir. RIP," Kejriwal tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-jitendra-nath-pande-famed-ex-aiims-doctor-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75931166.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Covid beds running out in Delhi private hospitals||NEW DELHI: About 80% of beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients in eight city private hospitals are already taken, with 507 of a total of 631 occupied. Top hospitals like Apollo (Sarita Vihar), Max Smart (Saket), Fortis (Shalimar Bagh) and Sir Ganga Ram City and Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet in Pusa Road are almost full . A senior doctor at Apollo hospital said they have around 80 beds for Covid-19 patients. "All of them are full. We have a few additional beds for suspected cases and one or two patients have tested positive there too," he said.  A spokesperson at Max Hospital, Saket, said they had earmarked 160 beds for Covid cases. "Because the demand was higher and over 90% beds were running full, we added 34 more beds on Saturday." There’re still enough beds in 6 designated govt hospitalsThe demand for admission is very high. But we are only admitting patients with serious illnesses," Dr D S Rana, chairman, board of management at Sir Ganga Ram hospital (SGRH) said. Two hospitals, Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet and Sir Ganga Ram City, have been designated for Covid-19 treatment. Both have 79% occupancy. "At this rate, we don't know how are we going to adjust our own healthcare workers who test positive for the disease. There is a serious crisis of ICU beds as well," said a doctor at one of the Covid-19 designated hospitals, who did not want to be identified. An official at Fortis Shalimar Bagh said all the ICU and other beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at their hospital are full. Some hospitals that have lower occupancy rate include Maa Durga Charitable Trust (80%), Batra (48%) and Cygnus (20%). They were designated for Covid-19 recently and, on Saturday, Cygnus hospital witnessed a fire incident after which many some of the Covid-19 patients had to be shifted. Delhi has a total of 14 hospitals that have been designated for Covid-19. Of this, two are state-run, four are centre-run and eight are private hospitals. These hospitals have enough beds available. For example, Lok Nayak hospital, which is run by Delhi government, has close to 2,000 beds, of which about 27% are occupied at present by Covid-19 positive cases. Some other beds at the hospitals have suspected cases. Similarly, AIIMS (Delhi and Jhajjar) have 407 Covid-19 positive patients admitted at present, though their combined capacity is much higher. "Delhi is a high income state. Many people do not want to go to government hospitals. They are willing to pay but, unfortunately, there aren't enough beds available. The government should do something about it to prevent a crisis situation," said Alok Mathur, whose family members were diagnosed with Covid-19 recently. After Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, Delhi is the fourth most affected state due to Covid-19. Epidemiologists say the situation may get worse in the coming days as the epidemic curve is still on the ascendant. "Elderly, and those with co-morbidities must stay at home. They should take extra care to prevent the infection," doctors say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-beds-running-out-in-delhi-private-hospitals/articleshow/75931285.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 24, 2020||India||Cong releases video of Rahul with migrants||NEW DELHI: A week after Rahul Gandhi hit the street interacting with migrant workers walking the highways to know about their compulsions to undertake the hazardous journey, Congress on Saturday released a short documentary in which the group of migrants detailed the oppression they faced in their adopted cities before deciding to leave for their faraway native villages. The 16-minute documentary ends with the former Congress president asking for justice for migrants and laying the demand that 13 crore needy families be given Rs 7,500 per month for six months through direct benefit transfers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-releases-video-of-rahul-with-migrants/articleshow/75931327.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab MSMEs incurred loss of over Rs 4,169 crore||CHANDIGARH: Hit hard by disruption of activities caused by restrictions imposed to curb the spread of novel coronavirus, the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Punjab have suffered an estimated loss of Rs 4,169 crore since middle of March. Punjab’s department of industries and commerce assessed the loss caused by the novel coronavirus pandemic by taking feedback from the industry. The 2.8 lakh MSME units in the state faced heavy loss on account of wages, interest burden on capital, advance to labour and personal income loss to the owners. The average loss per unit in Ludhiana, the industrial hub of Punjab, has been pegged at Rs 1.9 lakh. Of the 2.8 lakh MSMEs in the state, only about 1.47 lakh have been able to commence their operations, that too, at low capacity utilisation of up to 40% due to disruption in the labour supply, unavailability of raw material. Punjab lists steps Centre’s stimulus package missedBased on the feedback of the industry, the department of industries and commerce has compiled a list of measures which have not been included in the stimulus package announced by the central government and are required for injecting new lease of life to industry in Punjab. As the industrial units are not in position to repay existing loans due to financial crunch, Punjab has suggested to the central government that bank interest on the existing loans may be waived for a minimum of six months. The state warned that if relief is not provided to the industrial units, they will have to borrow more money to repay the existing loans, which will result in many non-performing assets (NPAs) in the future. The Union government had announced making contribution towards ESI and EPF for industrial units with less than 100 workers wherein 90% workers are up to the wage level of Rs 14,999. The state has suggested to give relief to the whole industrial sector by doing away with both the clauses. Punjab contended that by putting the cap, central government was discouraging employment of more people. The state also proposed to the Centre that employees insured under ESI should be treated as sick and the epidemic period be treated as sickness period and ESI should pay salaries during this period. Other suggestions include option to defer tax payments by six months and also permission for delayed Good and Services Tax (GST) payments, without levy of interest, or late fees or penalties; additional benefits over for export oriented unit; and interest subvention for agriculture and food processing industry on their working capital requirement of at least 3%, for a period of 24 months. Sibin C, director, industries and commerce, Punjab, said based on the feedback received from the industry, the department compiled a list of measures which need to be taken for revival of industry in Punjab. “These suggestions will be sent to the Government of India through CM Amaninder Singh,” said Sibin C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-msmes-incurred-loss-of-over-rs-4169-crore/articleshow/75931357.cms||Vinod Kumar
May 24, 2020||World||Afghan Taliban announce three-day Eid ceasefire||KABUL: The Taliban announced a three-day ceasefire during the Eid al-Fitr holiday starting Sunday in a surprise move following months of bloody fighting with Afghan forces after the group signed a landmark agreement with the United States. President Ashraf Ghani swiftly welcomed the insurgents' offer and ordered his forces to also comply, while the US envoy to Afghanistan hailed the deal as a "momentous opportunity." Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said in a statement posted on social media that the group's "leadership instructs all the mujahideen of the Islamic Emirate to take special measures for security of the countrymen, and conduct no offensive operation against the enemy anywhere." The statement, which announced a halt to hostilities "during the three days of Eid," instructed Taliban fighters to refrain from entering government areas and also said that Kabul forces were not allowed to enter territories under their control. Since the US invasion in 2001 there has only been one other pause in the fighting - a surprise three-day ceasefire between the Taliban and Kabul marking the religious festival of Eid in 2018. That ceasefire call was given by Ghani, which the insurgents had accepted. During the brief lull in fighting at that time, Afghans responded joyfully, with Taliban fighters, security forces and civilians hugging, sharing ice creams and posing for selfies in previously unimaginable scenes. Ghani was quick to accept the Taliban ceasefire offer Saturday. "I welcome the ceasefire announcement by the Taliban," he said on Twitter. "As commander-in-chief I have instructed ANDSF (Afghan National Defence Security Force) to comply with the three-day truce and to defend only if attacked." The announcement comes just days after the Taliban's leader Haibatullah Akhundzada urged Washington "not to waste" the opportunity offered by the deal the militants signed with the United States in February that set the stage for the withdrawal of foreign troops from the country. "The Islamic Emirate is committed to the agreement... and urges the other side to honour its own commitments and not allow this critical opportunity to go to waste," Akhundzada said in a statement, using the Taliban's name for Afghanistan. The signing of the deal between the United States and Taliban was preceded by a so-called "reduction in violence" but not an official ceasefire. US Special Representative to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad, who brokered the deal, said on Twitter Saturday that the United States welcomed "the Taliban's decision to observe a ceasefire during Eid, as well as the Afghan government announcement reciprocating and announcing its own ceasefire." He urged the Taliban to continue to abide by the agreement, calling the halt in violence "a momentous opportunity that should not be missed" while pledging that the United States would "do its part to help." NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg also welcomed the ceasefire, urging all parties to "seize this opportunity for peace, for the benefit of all Afghans." The US-Taliban deal is aimed at paving the way for the insurgents to hold direct peace talks with Kabul. US President Donald Trump's administration has made it a priority to end the war in Afghanistan, and in a bid to pull out foreign forces US officials have been pushing the Taliban and government leaders to hold peace talks. Analysts however say the Taliban have been emboldened by the deal with the US, and Afghan government officials have reported more than 3,800 attacks since it was signed, killing 420 civilians and wounding 906. But Khalilzad has maintained that the insurgents have kept up their end of the bargain -- even if recent violence violated the spirit of the accord. "The Taliban have implemented their agreement not to attack the coalition forces," he said earlier this month. The remarks come after a horrific attack against a maternity hospital in Kabul that killed dozens -- including mothers and infants -- and a suicide bombing at a funeral. The Taliban denied involvement in the attacks, but President Ghani blamed them and the Islamic State (IS) group for the bloodshed. Following that attack and another suicide bombing in the country's east the government ordered security forces to switch to an "offensive" posture against the Taliban. The Taliban responded by vowing to increase attacks against government forces. The group has carried out regular attacks against Afghan forces in recent days, and earlier this week even tried to enter the northern city of Kunduz. Afghan forces, however, managed to repel the Taliban attack on Kunduz, a city which had fallen to the insurgents twice before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/afghan-taliban-announce-three-day-eid-ceasefire/articleshow/75931369.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: RWAs can’t ban entry of domestic staff||GHAZIABAD: Clearing the air on the rules governing entry of domestic and service staff, the Ghaziabad administration on Saturday said RWAs are not arbiters on the subject. They cannot ban the entry of service providers but only act as facilitators of service. “I want to reiterate — the district administration had not issued any order on the entry of domestic staff, drivers, plumbers and electricians earlier as it had left it to the RWAs. But for the sake of clarity, we issued a specific order on Saturday ... RWAs will act as advisors whose job is limited to ensuring residents can access services and facilities with safety norms in place,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. The order stated that the entry and engagement of domestic staff, plumbers, electricians, newspaper delivery personnel and daily service staff is up to residents. It is “between service providers and those seeking the services”. RWAs can act as overseeing bodies or take on an advisory role to ensure that social distancing and hygiene norms are followed. For residents, it’s a welcome relief. Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Vartalok Apartment in Vasundhara, said his mother is 70 years old and has special medical needs. “She is dependent on caregiving staff, who had been denied entry. It had been very difficult.” RWAs said they appreciate the “clarity”. Vinay Mittal, president of Kaushambi area RWA, said, “The district administration has in hindsight come up with clear guidelines. When this came up earlier, it conveniently remained silent and allowed RWAs to come up with its own rules. I am glad they offered clarity now.” Sanjay Jha, secretary, Gaur Global Village RWA in Crossings Republik, said this settles the matter once and for all. “On our part, we will conduct thermal screening of every domestic worker entering the society. We are also compiling a list of residents who want their domestic staff to resume work.” The Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association, an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, said some resident bodies — GC Grand, Ashiyana Upvan, Cloud 9 — had barred the entry of domestic staff into societies. “ATS Society had asked residents to sign an undertaking before allowing workers in. But with the DM’s order, that should stop. We have no knowledge of anyone challenging the order but everyone will fall in line now,” said Alok Kumar, founder of FedAOA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/rwas-wont-take-call-on-domestic-staff-residents-will/articleshow/75927287.cms||Abhijay Jha
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Ready & willing: Coronavirus makes even young draw up their wills||NEW DELHI: The inevitability of death, security of one's family or an anticipated wrangling over inheritance has never got an average Indian worried enough to start thinking about writing a will till one is in the late 50s. Covid-19 has changed that. A 29-year-old interior designer, a 32-year-old corporate executive and a restaurant owner in his early 40s are among people who are rushing to their lawyers to draft a will. The steadily mounting cases and uncertainty over treatment and development of a vaccine for coronavirus has led to an increase in anxiety. The prolonged lockdown has provided a fertile ground for worries to grow. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates Lawyers are reporting a sudden surge in the demand for drawing up a will. Young professionals, entrepreneurs and even those in family businesses are leaving nothing to chance, painfully aware about the randomness in the way corona targets an individual and their vulnerability in the absence of a vaccine. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThe pandemic has not only stopped the country in its tracks but also shattered the confidence of people, says advocate Neoma Vasdev. More assets leading youngsters to make wills, say lawyersShe says she was taken aback when many people in the 30-45 age-group approached her for a will. “We are witnessing a rush for drafting wills, triggered by a growing awareness among people that lockdown or no lockdown, one has to be prepared for the inevitable perils of this disease. Undoubtedly, this is very unnatural because with medical advancement, one does not anticipate people below 55 to come for a will,” she observes. “Almost all my clients are going for mutual wills where one spouse is protected by the other by willing them everything after which it goes to the next generation.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news With disposable incomes having gone up in the past decade when both spouses work, young professionals amass considerable assets in property and shares by the time they reach the 40s. It is the need to secure these assets that appears to have spurred people to get their wills made. Advocate Virender Goswami agrees. “ We usually receive queries on estate management and preparing of wills from senior people, if they are suffering from some ailment or are about to undergo some difficult medical procedure. But during the current lockdown, we have got more such requests from otherwise healthy, young persons, perhaps jittery over the uncertainty of the present times,” he adds. Advocate Gaurang Kanth says one reason this trend has caught on is because getting a will made is not a long-drawn legal process. “It is a good idea to register a will but that isn’t mandatory, making it a less complicated exercise. The document can be made by anyone with two witnesses, who may be family members but are not beneficiaries of the will. They need to be present at the time of signing of the will by its maker though they need not be aware of its contents,” Kanth explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ready-willing-corona-makes-even-young-draw-up-their-wills/articleshow/75931375.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 24, 2020||Delhi||First buy, then try: Covid concern takes all the fun out of shopping in Delhi||NEW DELHI: You can still window-shop, but the days of trying without buying are over. Whether it’s shoes or textiles, you are not welcome to get tactile. As the city’s markets stagger to their feet after the long lockdown, early shoppers are returning underwhelmed. When Kriti Gupta (name changed) went to Connaught Place on Saturday to buy formals, the salesman told her she would need to pay the price of the dress before trying it on. To prevent contamination of goods, they weren’t letting shoppers touch dress material, shoes and even bags, she said. As stores try to keep both shoppers and staff safe from the coronavirus, finding the right colour, cut, size and fit has become a test of your judgment and imagination. If shopping is your idea of post-lockdown therapy, it might leave you cold. Cautionary signs are everywhere. You need to await your turn if five shoppers are inside a store. At the door, greeters ask you to wear a mask, and at some places they press disposable gloves into your hands. Whether it’s South Extension or Connaught Place, Kamla Nagar or Preet Vihar, the leisurely, air-conditioned shopping experience is history, TOI found. With no trial rooms or AC, shopping feels like a choreA Preet Vihar store for clothes and accessories was letting customers in only after thermal scanning. They had to sanitise their hands and wear plastic gloves. “I came here because I desperately need summer clothes for my daughter,” said Shalini Jain, who lives nearby. “But with the air conditioner turned down, the store was so humid that choosing clothes was no pleasure. Since only a few trial rooms were open, we decided to take them anyway.” Another shop for women’s clothing and shoes nearby was following the same rules. The lift and escalators were not working and customers had to await their turn in a covered parking area. They gave tokens at the entrance and also took down personal details of the shoppers after sanitising their hands. But inside, the atmosphere was drab. New arrivals weren’t showcased. Shopping felt like a chore. There was more freedom at a foreign brand’s store in South Extension. You could feel the clothes, the aircon was working, the new stuff was on display, and cash wasn’t a no-no. “But what about social distancing?” said a worried shopper, “they are not regulating the number of people allowed inside at a time.” However, Vijay Kumar, a South Extension trader, said their showrooms cover 2,500-8,000 sqft, so allowing only 5-6 customers at a time would be impractical. “We take all precautions. Even disposable masks are provided to people for safety, because we don't want our shops to close again. Also, I think, customers are more than alert now,” Kumar said. At a men’s store in Kamla Nagar, the restrooms and trial rooms were closed. They were giving customers a 30-day exchange window instead. There were no water bottles for customers at the counter, and digital payments were preferred. “Trial rooms are closed for the safety of customers,” said a salesman. “If everyone starts trying on clothes, not only the trial rooms but also the apparel would need to be sanitised again, which is impractical.” “We don’t want to dissuade customers, but they should get used to shopping like this because this crisis is not going to get over soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-buy-then-try-covid-concern-takes-all-the-fun-out-of-shopping-in-delhi/articleshow/75931374.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mahim girl waits 70 days for mom who left on four-day trip to Dubai||MUMBAI: A 13-year-old girl from Mahim has been relegated to the care of her domestic help since the lockdown. The schoolgirl's mother, who had left on a four-day business trip to Dubai, has been caught up there for nearly 70 days now after the lockdown was imposed. Desperate to get back home to her child, the mother, Ruchira Varma, a single parent, has been pulling out all stops to return, but nothing has helped so far. "The day I was supposed to fly out of Dubai, the lockdown started," Varma told TOI on phone. With no family or close friends there, she has been putting up at a hotel for more than two months "The only hotel open here is The Taj. I ran out of money and have had to borrow," said Varma. "I just want to get back home to my daughter." She said that Nationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule did reach out to her on Twitter to offer help. "But no international flights are touching down in Mumbai currently. Even when they resume, preference will be given to the elderly, the ailing... So, this means my kid will continue to be home alone, unless I am given some preference." Back home, her daughter Shyla, a class 9 student of Poddar School, Santacruz, said she hopes the wait ends has started her online classes and is also attending tuitions online. Ruchira said she had left a smartphone for her daughter and this has now come handy for her. The girl said she is learning to manage. "But I'm just waiting for mom to return. Can't wait to hug her."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mahim-girl-waits-70-days-for-mom-who-left-on-four-day-trip-to-dubai/articleshow/75931596.cms||Alex Fernandes
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TikTok clip helps kids track down disabled dad after 2 years in Punjab||HYDERABAD: A TikTok video has reunited a 60-year-old hearing and speech impaired man, who had gone missing two years ago, with his family in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Roddam Venkateshwarlu was noticed in a video where he was being given food during the Covid-19 lockdown in Punjab. "We do not know how he went there, but we are glad we found him," Venkateshwarlu's daughter Kanakadurga said. Venkateshwarlu was born with the two handicaps and was a daily-wage earner. On April 27, 2018, he went to work as usual, came home for lunch and left again. But he never returned that day. "We searched for him everywhere we could," Kanakadurga recalled, saying they had also made a complaint with the Burgampahad police. Now, two years later on May 21, the family had a pleasant surprise. Kanakadurga was shown the video by some villagers while her brother Peddiraju, who works in Hyderabad, also got the video. They recognised their father, who had literally turned a beggar. He was wearing old clothes, was unkempt, using a walker to balance himself. Burgampahad sub-inspector (SI) Balakrishna then worked on locating the person who had posted the video on TikTok. Bhadradri Kothagudem SP Sunil Dutt told TOI that it was a head constable in Ludhiana who had made a video of the social service he was doing and shared it on social media. The video was put up on his handle 'goldypp99' and had 1.8 million views. Video call done for verificationThe Burgumpahad SI contacted the head constable of Punjab police. After confirmation, a video call was made to verify it was Venkateshwarlu in the video,” the SP said. Peddiraju is now on his way to Ludhiana to meet his father. “It is a great feeling to find him when we practically gave up our hopes,” he said. Peddiraju was provided a pass by the district police and they hired a car to travel to Punjab. He began his journey on May 22. “We want to thank all who helped my father and bring him back,” said Peddiraju, who is likely to start the journey back to Telangana on Sunday. Watch TikTok video reunites a family||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-tiktok-clip-helps-kids-track-down-disabled-dad-after-2-years-in-punjab/articleshow/75931601.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh to test all flyers for Covid-19, put them under home quarantine||VIJAYAWADA: With domestic flight services set to resume from May 25, the state government has decided to test all passengers for Covid-19 and send them on home quarantine. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy cleared this proposal made by officials during a review meeting on health initiatives at the CM’s camp office on Saturday. Officials informed that samples will be collected from every single passenger when they arrive at airports after which they will be put in home quarantine. Later, on the basis of test results, those found negative will be relieved. Further, the state government has also decided to fill all vacant posts in the health department, especially in the Covid-19 dedicated hospitals in districts. In the first phase, the government has decided to fill vacancies for doctors and nursing staff at hospitals in East and West Godavari districts, Visakhapatnam and Chittoor. This would then be extended to Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Ananthapur districts. Beds, ventilators and other infrastructure in hospitals will also be enhanced. During the meeting, the chief minister reiterated his decision to launch an extensive campaign against Covid-19 and create awareness about the disease among people. He emphasised upon the need to dispel the stigma surrounding the virus. A campaign titled ‘Hate the virus not the patient’ is likely to be launched by the state government once the lockdown is lifted. ‘Virus attack is not a crime’ is likely to be the slogan of said campaign. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to allot toll-free numbers 104, 14410 and 1902 for people to contact their nearest hospitals. The chief minister directed officials to accept Covid-related complaints on 104 (ambulance), 14410 (tele-medicine) and 1902 (feedback) toll-free numbers. The CM further asked officials to upgrade the primary health centres (PHCs) across the state so that preliminary Covid-19 tests can be conducted in them. These PHCs would be supplemented with village clinics that will be set up by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-test-all-flyers-for-covid-19-put-them-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/75925505.cms||Gopi Dara
May 24, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC tells Air India to keep middle seats vacant on international flights||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has in an interim order directed that Air India enforce a March 23 circular which required a vacant seat between passengers, on international flights to lift stranded Indians from abroad after observing that a latest May 22 circular by DGCA which drops the requirement, drops it, prima facie, only for domestic operations that are to begin on May 25. The HC directed that for domestic flights there was no requirement to have a vacant-seat between two passengers. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on May 22 issued a circular which superseded the March 23 social distancing requirement. "A cursory glance of the said Circular dated 22.5.2020 indicates that the said new Circular applies only to domestic operations and not to international operations,’’ said a bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja on Friday. The detailed order was uploaded Saturday. Air India pilot Deven Kanani had petitioned the HC for enforcement of the circular by AI on its flights including the Vande Bharat mission flights and his lawyer Abhilash Panickar argued it was a public health and safety requirement during the covid-19 pandemic contending that it was not complied with when returning with Indians stranded abroad. The HC bench via a video-conference hearing on Friday heard the matter twice. After the first hearing only on the March 23 circular the HC said the "measures of social distancing'' in the circular intended "reasonable caution'' for "safe and healthy travel...without any differentiation of category of passengers'' and involved right to life guaranteed for citizens undertaking the travel.  It also observed, that the March circular "cannot be interpreted to apply differently to the passengers who are travelling from abroad and the domestic passengers.'' It initially directed that the middle-seat vacant be enforced "while lifting Indians from abroad and for non-scheduled commercial flights". It also agreeing with Panickar's submission that stranded Indians lifted from US and UK may be covid-19 positive slammed AI and said, “In our prima facie view, Air India has violated Circular dated 23rd March, 2020 by not keeping one seat between two seats empty while allocation of the seat at the time of check-in.’’ The bench directed AI and AI express to file detailed affidavit as to whether the circular was complied with and to state “number of seats occupied by passengers in each of the non-scheduled flights’’ during the repatriation flights since March 23 and the seating capacity of the air craft.  Two hours later, the AI lawyer Abhinav Chandrachud pointed out that DGCA had on friday itself while announcing recommencement of domestic operations from May 25, issued the fresh circular with new comprehensive guidelines that no longer required a seat-vacant between passengers. The May 22 circular superceding the earlier one. But the HC observed,“it is not the case of AI and Air India Express that the May 22 circular applies to International operations or to non-scheduled flights’’ The HC, modifying the order, said its earlier direction would remain but with a “rider that Circular dated 23.3.2020, shall be read with Circular dated 22.5.2020 to the extent that the Circular dated 23.3.2020 stands superceded in so far as domestic flights are concerned.’’ In the first hearing,Chandrachud had submitted that even if one seat is kept vacant between twoseats, even then criteria of social distancing prescribed by the Government ofIndia would not be satisfied. To his other argument,the HC observed, “prima facie, we are unable to accept the submission’’ of theAI counsel “that social distancing measures …would apply only to scheduled and not to non-scheduled commercial flights or only to domestic operation and notto International. If these arguments are accepted, the whole purpose ofpreventing spread of Covid-19 by prescribed measures would be defeated.’’ The HC will hear the matter next on June 2. The HC has sought an affidavit in reply from the DGCA too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-tells-air-india-to-keep-middle-seats-vacant-on-international-flights/articleshow/75931600.cms||Swati Deshpande
May 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: ‘Not enough food at quarantine centre’||VISAKHAPATNAM: Migrant labourers put up at a quarantine centre at AP Residential School in Gummakota alleged on Saturday that the administration is not providing them adequate food and that the menu issued by the government is not being followed here. Around 252 people, including six pregnant women and 22 children have been housed at this quarantine centre since May 13. The people at the quarantine centre, who have threatened to stage a protest, said that till date they haven’t been provided soap, sufficient rice or dal. These workers are tribals from interior villages in Ananthagiri mandal, near Araku, who had gone to Kolluru in Guntur district to work in brick kilns. The lockdown put them in trouble as the brick kiln supervisors refused to make payments and they faced a lot of trouble attempting to make their way home. The workers in quarantine at the Gummakota quarantine centre are still 22kms away from their home mandal. Jammi Polayya, one of the people putting up at the quarantine centre said, “The authorities are providing only 2kg dal and 500 grams of tamarind for 252 people. Is this sufficient? No officer has taken care of us.” He further alleged that while authorities are supposed to provide cooked food at quarantine centres, here the people have to cook their own food with scarce supplies. “We have 22 children at the centre aged between two years to five years. How do we take care of them? We don’t even have buckets or mugs to take a bath with. After one week, the gas got over and we had to bring firewood from Kondapalli area ourselves to cook,” said Kiran, another worker staying at the centre. Former MPTC of Ananthagiri mandal, D Ganga Raju has requested the tehsildar to provide food and other necessary facilities to workers put up at Gummakota, Piramid Dyana Kendra and Chilakalagedda Sivalingapuram. Joint collector, M Venugopal Reddy, upon being contacted, said that he has given instructions to all tehsildars to provide cooked food. “I will verify this with the sub-collector of Paderu and arrange facilities. We will definitely take up the issue and resolve it by Sunday afternoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/not-enough-food-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75925531.cms||Siva G
May 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 positive cop and wife celebrate wedding anniversary in hospital||MUMBAI: Love can bloom anywhere, anytime, despite all odds. Police constable Prasad Ware and his wife Varsha celebrated their third wedding anniversary in their twin room at a hospital in Bandra (east) on Saturday. Prasad and Varsha, Saki Naka residents, have recently tested positive for Covid-19. The couple was in high spirits despite the gloom one generally associates with hospitals and illness. For the past two weeks, Varsha had been scouting for the "perfect cake recipe" for the D-day, and Prasad was scheduled to have Saturday off. "With cake shops shut due to the lockdown, I thought I would bake one at home," Varsha told TOI on phone from her hospital room. Far from what they had imagined, their wedding anniversary ended up taking place in a hospital, after they tested positive on May 21. They were then moved to a hospital in Bandra (E). So there was no cake or the usual merriment they would have had. "We cut fruits instead of cake, and fed one another," a gushing Prasad told TOI. The last two anniversaries were celebrated with their families, he said. "This anniversary will be memorable. It may not have turned out the way we imagined it, but you know, we are together and have all the time in the world for each other," the constable said. On Saturday evening, the two got ready and chatted with their family members, who wished them through video calls. The only one they missed terribly is their two-year-old son, who has been entrusted to the care of his ailing grandmother. Prasad, who was involved in the investigation of a heist, had been staying at a hotel for the last few weeks. Two people arrested in the case tested positive. "I kept away from home to avoid the risk of infecting my family, but my wife fell sick a few days ago," said Prasad. He has been exercising regularly, as he is preparing to give the police sub inspector exams. The Ware couple are optimistic about beating the virus. "We are in this together," said Varsha, adding, "We will surely beat it together." The only worry on their mind is for their son and Prasad's mother, who were both tested as well. Their reports are expected on Sunday. "Once their reports are negative, we will be stress-free and recover faster," said Varsha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-19-positive-cop-and-wife-celebrate-wedding-anniversary-in-hospital/articleshow/75931607.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 18-20 students in 1 classroom for SSLC exam||Only 18-20 students would be seated in each classroom for the SSLC examination next month, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said on Saturday. "If any student is found suffering from cold or cough, he or she will be made to sit in a separate designated classroom," he said. "Health officials will be deployed at exam centres to check every child and all classrooms will be sanitised before each exam." On SSLC students residing in containment zones, the minister said there would be no exam centres in such zones. Warning over admissionsMinister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar said: “If any region is declared a containment zone later, exams will be cancelled in such areas.” He cautioned private schools against starting admissions before the government issues an order on reopening of schools. “It’s shocking that some schools are preparing to conduct online classes even for kindergarten. No institution should start admissions until the state government’s official notification,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-18-20-students-in-1-classroom-for-sslc-exam/articleshow/75931611.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai youth arrested for bomb threat to UP CM Yogi Adityanath||MUMBAI: Maharashtra ATS on Saturday detained a 25-year-old unemployed youth from Chunabhatti for sending a WhatsApp message threatening to kill UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath with a bomb. Kamran Khan will be produced before a Mumbai court on Sunday and handed over to a UP special task-force team that arrived here. Khan, who was a watchman at a security firm but was jobless for a year, was picked up from his residence on Saturday evening. He admitted he sent the message during interrogation. “The suspect sent it to the social media helpdesk of Lucknow police at 12.32am on Saturday. Social media monitors in UP informed agencies concerned and an FIR was registered at Gomti Nagar police station against an unidentified person. The sender was booked for criminal intimidation. Adityanath is one of 14 VVIPs to have round-the-clock NSG cover. UP STF was told to probe the matter. “We are probing why he had sent the message. He is active on other social media platforms and his interrogation is on,” said an ATS officer. ATS is scanning his social media accounts and phone to see if he had terror links.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-youth-arrested-for-bomb-threat-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/75931612.cms||Mateen Hafeez
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||6 Delhi returnees now working as cooks in Koderma isolation centre||Ranchi: Thirty-five-year-old Pintu Pandey of Satgawan block in Koderma district was struggling to make ends meet after a prominent eatery in New Delhi, where he worked as a cook, shut down in March because of the lockdown. Pandey has now come back to his native place in March end and completed 14 days in institutional quarantine along with his five colleagues. Fortunately for Pandey and his co-workers, they are now making decent money by cooking for the inmates at the quarantine centre. Of the six, two are employed as cooks while the rest are working as their helpers. All thanks to the district administration’s unique move to utilise their skills. Koderma DC Gholap said the administration is paying Rs 800 each per day to the cooks and Rs 500 daily to the helpers. “We have named the kitchen as ‘Shramik Samman Kitchen’ where these migrants are catering to the inmates of the quarantine centre in the district.” Talking to TOI, Pandey said he and his friends are earning almost the same as they were when they worked in Delhi before the lockdown came into force. He said, “On an average, we are cooking lunch and dinner for about 400 inmates daily. For lunch, we cook rice, sabji and a curry and for dinner, it is puri or chapattis and a curry. We now don’t want to go back to Delhi or any other place to earn a living. We want to settle here and live with our families.” When asked how they bagged the job, Pandey said, “Once our quarantine period got over, we were in a fix regarding our next move. We then approached the driver of the local block development officer (BDO) with an offer to cook food for the inmates at the quarantine centre. He got us in touch with the BDO, who later spoke to the deputy commissioner.” His friend Subodh Pandey, who is also a cook, said they don’t intend to go back to Delhi or other places once the lockdown is over. He added, “We don’t want to go back for work. We are planning to work here as long as the administration runs the quarantine centre. We will request the district administration to absorb us in some government-run kitchens or may set up our own small eatery here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-delhi-returnees-now-working-as-cooks-in-koderma-isolation-centre/articleshow/75926135.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||H’bag, Ramgarh dists appeal people to celebrate Eid indoors||Hazaraibag/Ramgarh: The district administration of Hazaribag and Ramgarh on Saturday requested people to celebrate Eid by staying indoors and deployed additional forces in select pockets of the districts to deter overcrowding. The move came after Hazaribag recorded a total of 40 cases of Covid-19 while Ramgarh posted six, including a 12-year-old girl. On Saturday, Hazaribag DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh and SP Karthik S took to the streets to inspect security arrangements and appealed to the people to stay indoors and celebrate Eid. Kartik said, “We have pressed in additional forces by drawing personnel from RAF, district police and others in sensitive areas to ensure that the lockdown is not violated and to ensure a peaceful Eid.” Singh said, “We appeal people to celebrate Eid by staying indoors in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases in the district, mostly because of the influx of migrants. We are trying our best to ensure that every migrant is scanned properly to prevent any infection.” Singh added, “We have identified 40 people who returned to the district, but didn’t inform the authorities. We are trying to trace them for their medical check-up.” In Ramgarh district, deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh and SP Prabhat Kumar issued a joint order asking people to refrain from crowding at mosques for namaz. Officials said additional security forces will be deployed soon across the district to ensure a peaceful Eid. Talking to TOI, Kumar said, “Additional security forces are being deployed in sensitive places in the wake of protests in other parts of the state. We have conveyed the government’s orders to all religious outfits and imams of mosques and asked them to avoid gatherings. All police stations have been directed to keep a close vigil during Eid. Prominent personalities of the Muslim community in Ramgarh have assured cooperation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hbag-ramgarh-dists-appeal-people-to-celebrate-eid-indoors/articleshow/75926206.cms||Abhijit Sen
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Measures for safe and hygiene travel in Chakradharpur rail division||JAMSHEDPUR: With resumption of over-the-counter ticket bookings for four regular long-distance trains scheduled from June 1, the Chakradharpur railway division has rolled out multiple measures for safe and hygienic travels. The division has procured eight foot-operated fogging machines and surface cleaners and is in the process of obtaining UV sanitizer machines for installation at important stations where footfalls are higher. It has also announced to install hi-tech automated hand sanitizer machines at every entry and exit points of the stations. Talking to TOI, senior Chakradharpur divisional commercial manager, Manish Kumar Pathak, said, “Four long-distance trains will start running through our division from June 1 and we are expecting the number of trains to increase. We have started our preparations for safe travel during the pandemic.” He said posters of two different sizes displaying do’s and don’ts for passengers will be put up at platforms, parking lots and booking counters. “The posters will have informative messages on how passengers can protect themselves from Covid-19 and prevent inadvertent infection spread during travels. We have planned 30 posters for each station and will print more, if required,” Pathak said. He also said the railway police force (RPF) personnel along with the sanitation staff will ensure that all standard operating protocols (SOPs) like maintaining social distancing and thermal screening of passengers among others will be followed. “In future when the trains start running with full capacity, we may have to hire other agencies to man the stations,” Pathak added. Currently, booking for trains — Tata-Danapur Express, Howrah-Mumbai Mail, Howrah-Ahmedabad Express, New Delhi-Puri Purushottam Express and Howrah-Barbil Janshatabdi Express besides the existing New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Rajdhani — is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/measures-for-safe-and-hygiene-travel-in-chakradharpur-rail-div/articleshow/75926057.cms||B Sridhar
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Flight operations in Kolkata likely to start on May 30||KOLKATA: Domestic flight operations look unlikely to commence at Kolkata airport from Monday with CM Mamata Banerjee saying the state, that was in the midst of salvage and relief operations in cyclone-affected areas, required time till at least May 28. Sources said flights may resume operations in Kolkata on May 30 while operations at Bagdogra airport may start two days earlier on May 28. Among the services that the state needs to provide at the airport include city commute options for flyers. “I have heard that domestic flights will start from May 25. Had the operations started on May 30, we would have got some more time. But we need time till at least May 28,” the CM said at the state secretariat on Saturday. With five other states saying arriving passengers will be put in quarantine despite indication from civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri’s assurance that quarantine would not be required in domestic travel, there is already a cloud over Covid-era flight resumption. Himachal Pradesh has further said that only passengers with valid proof that they were residents of the state would be allowed. Travel agents feel the confusion could have been avoided had the Centre held consultations with state governments before declaring a date to resume flights. “There are a lot of contradictory reports coming from Maharashtra as well. Most of my clients are either flying to Mumbai or flying back to the city from there. If no flights operate till May 28, will the money be refunded by airlines or will they reschedule the flights?” wondered Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) eastern region chairman Anil Punjabi. Kolkata airport officials said the facility was ready for flights. On Saturday, too, four charter flights used Kolkata airport to transport ONGC employees. “Amphan is behind us. We are ready to handle flights,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flight-ops-in-kolkata-likely-to-start-on-may-30/articleshow/75928452.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Army-state joint operation to clear Kolkata road logjam||KOLKATA/KAKDWIP: Army and National Disaster Response Force personnel joined forces with state and civic agencies to get Kolkata back on its feet on Saturday after a state government appeal for help from central agencies. The first signs of a joint central-state agency response to get Kolkata out of the mess created by Cyclone Amphan came barely a few hours after a state home department tweet. Five columns of the Kumaon Regiment were deployed with road-clearing equipment like payloaders and bulldozers on Southern Avenue and in Tollygunge, Ballygunge, Rajarhat, New Town and Behala, all places where Amphan’s lashing uprooted thousands of huge trees and blocked entire roads. “Army support has been called for; NDRF and State Disaster Response Force teams deployed; Rly, Port & private sector, too, requested to supply teams and equipment,” the state home department tweeted on Saturday after saying it was “mobilising maximum strength in unified command mode on 24×7 basis for immediate restoration of essential infrastructure and services ASAP”. The appeal and the quickened response followed protests in several city pockets over Friday and Saturday against the continuing power blackout, which also resulted in dry taps, especially in south Kolkata and the city’s northern and southern fringes. Utilities have repeatedly stressed the need to first get the felled trees out of the way for restoration of power and other communication channels. CM Mamata Banerjee, sensing the mood in the city, stepped in to soothe frayed tempers and appealed to people to bear with state agencies for a few days. “Behead me if you want. But try to appreciate the difficulties. We are not sitting idle. A total of 225 teams are working in Kolkata. I understand your problem. I have spoken to CESC’s Sanjiv Goenka. It is a private organisation and not under us. It is suffering a manpower shortage because of the lockdown. They need skilled manpower, not just workers,” she said at Nabanna before going to the CESC headquarters to speak to Goenka. All state agencies were working with a huge manpower shortage, she said, adding: “All offices are working with reduced manpower because of the lockdown. We don’t have enough people to cut trees. I have told KMC and Kolkata Police to engage locals.”Amphan had affected 6 crore out of Bengal’s 10 crore people, Banerjee said in Kakdwip earlier on Saturday, stressing that the Rs-1,000 crore central “advance assistance” was “too little” compared to the extent of damage that was “much more than a national disaster”. Amphan had affected 6 crore out of Bengal’s 10 crore population, Banerjee said in Kakdwip earlier on Saturday, stressing that the Rs-1,000 crore central “advance assistance” was “too little” compared to the extent of damage that was “much more than a national disaster”. “Our normal monthly income is Rs 6,000 crore but there has been no income for the last three months. Nothing from the centre has reached us till date. The Rs-1000 crore central advance assistance is too little compared to the damage,” she said while distributing Rs-2.5 lakh cheques to each of the 13 victims’ families in South 24 Parganas. More than 73 lakh people were affected in South 24 Parganas alone, the district where the cyclone made landfall on Wednesday, Banerjee added. She added two more challenges to the two that PM Narendra Modi mentioned after Friday’s Basirhat administrative meeting. “We have been fighting corona, lockdown, bringing back migrants and now this disaster,” Banerjee said. The CM sent out a strong message to food department officials and public representatives over distribution of rations. “If ration shops are marooned, arrange for ration distribution from temporary centres. No one should be deprived. I have come to know that you are running community kitchens. We have also got in touch with the Bharat Sevashram Sangha; it will be running a community kitchen for 25,000 people in North 24 Parganas. I would urge the district magistrate to get in touch with the Sangha and open community kitchens under its supervision. The government will provide them rice and vegetables. The Sangha will distribute the food to the affected,” Banerjee said. Watch Cyclone Amphan: Army joins relief operation in Kolkata||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/army-state-joint-op-to-clear-city-road-logjam/articleshow/75928713.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||As Ranchi turns orange from red, admin plans to reduce containment area in Hindpiri||Ranchi: The Ranchi district administration is likely to reduce the area of the city’s only containment zone, Hindpiri, once the Eid celebrations are over as the district has now been downgraded from red to orange zone. On Saturday, Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “As we have fulfilled all parameters set by the Union ministry of health and family welfare for orange zone, Ranchi is longer in the red zone.” He added, “We are conducting a health survey in various parts of Hindpiri to check prevalence of the viral infection, following which the administration will take a call on reducing the radius of the containment area in Hindpiri locality.” Hindpiri had been sealed off completely since April 11 soon after locking it down partially when the state’s first Covid-19 patient was reported from the localithy on March 31. Ray said, “We are conducting the survey in areas where no primary and secondary contacts of positive patients have been detected and based on the findings, we will take a few measures to unseal some areas.” A district administration source confirmed that more than 4,000 households have been surveyed and the administration is planning to free some areas from the containment zone once the Eid celebrations are over. “A total of 4,000 families residing at Purani Ranchi, Lake Road, Chhota Talab, Noor Nagar, Mali Tola and parts of Nizam Nagar might be taken out of containment zone after the celebrations. Around 23 samples have been already collected from symptomatic patients from these areas and the administration may announce an order in a day or two over releasing the areas from the containment zone,” the source added. So far, Ranchi fared well on all five parameters set by the Union health ministry to cross over to the orange zone. The parameters are based on total active cases, active cases per lakh population, doubling rate in the last seven days, patient fatality rate, testing ratio and sample positivity rate. Ray said till Saturday, Ranchi had detected a total of 112 cases of which 97 have been cured and discharged and 15 cases are active. He, however, added that 600 samples are yet to be tested from the city and the health authorities have been asked to expedite the process. SSP Anish Gupta said people should be cautious and should not think that restrictions in the ongoing Lockdown 4.0 will be relaxed. He said, “We have received inputs on people assembling at various places in clear violation of the norms. I appeal to them to follow the rules and stay safe by staying indoors.” Gupta added, “I request everyone to refrain from posting objectionable posts on social media as police have already registered 20 cases against several people and the offenders will be dealt with as per the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/as-ranchi-turns-orange-from-red-admin-plans-to-reduce-containment-area-in-hindpiri/articleshow/75926027.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 24, 2020||Ranchi||No liquor and only 50 people allowed at marriage venue: Bokaro admin||Bokaro: In a world where social distancing and restriction on gathering of people are the new normal, tying the nuptial knot will no longer be the same and likely to remain so even after the lockdown. Keeping these global changes in mind, the Bokaro district administration on Saturday announced that it will allow marriages in the district, but with a lot of riders. Families of brides, grooms and guests have to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) once they get permission to solemnise a marriage, the administration officials said. Explaining the SOP, DC Mukesh Kumar said the number of people cannot exceed 50 people at a marriage venue and masks are a must for everyone, including the bride and the groom. There is a complete ban on serving liquor, paan or tobacco. The entrance gates should have thermal scanners compulsorily and no DJs or music will be allowed after 10pm. Social distancing should be maintained and video footages of the event should be submitted to the administration. Moreover, baraatis coming from outside the state must take special permission, he added. Kumar said the guidelines are set up ahead of the marriage season. “One has to seek permission by submitting a formal requisition along with invitation cards with details of the bride and the groom to the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and the additional collector. These are guidelines for the safety of everyone.” The marriage season formally begins on Saturday and continue till June 30. With many marriages postpone since imposition of lockdown in March, many residents in the district are not keen to delay it further. They are likely to take permission to solemnise the events on the nearly eight auspicious days during season. A businessman, Gopal Murarka, said the marriage of his son, Saurabh, is fixed on June 18. He said, “We welcome the administration’s move, but there is a confusion over booking the venue as the owners are not ready rent it out due to lack of clarity on number of people allowed to attend. It is not clear if the specified 50 people are inclusive of caterers or guests. Let’s see how it goes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-liquor-and-only-50-people-allowed-at-marriage-venue-bokaro-admin/articleshow/75926168.cms||Divy Khare
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||KMC lacked plan to buffer Amphan impact: Sovan||Kolkata: Former mayor Sovan Chatterjee on Saturday said he was “pained” to see the performance of Kolkata Municipal Corporation in the aftermath of a supercyclone, a remark that has upset veterans in the Trinamool Congress. “Treatment started only after the patient was on ventilator,” Chatterjee told a private television channel to underline his belief of “serious gaps” in KMC preparedness. “I say this not to embarrass or belittle anyone. Everyone was aware of Amphan. Weathermen had been predicting the cyclone for six-seven days. I believe the KMC couldn’t gauge the gravity of the situation,” he said. Speaking from his experience of handling the Aila in 2009, the former mayor underscored the lack of a plan to buffer the impact of Amphan. “I was stunned to see Southern Avenue waterlogged for hours and refuse to believe that Kolkata doesn’t have the wherewithal to flush out the water. It pained me to know from the media that 12-14 pumping stations in the city out of a total 74 didn’t operate. The KMC should have opened all the gates because Ganga went on low tide after 8pm that day.” Chatterjee also refused to buy the KMC argument for delay in clearing uprooted trees. “The KMC says its men who could handle electric saws had gone back to their home states, but there are agencies that can handle such a situation. The fire department has means. So, does the disaster management wing of Kolkata Police and the NDRF. There are contractors too... Worse, the KMC doesn’t have a clue about the total number of trees felled by the storm. It says 2,000 today and 5,000 the next day.” The former mayor took a dig at the administration over power disruptions too. “I don’t agree uprooted trees and waterlogging have hit power supply in the city. The CESC caters to 70% of its consumers through underground cables. Yes, there are chances of tripping during a supercyclone. It is the KMC’s duty to help CESC navigate the problem with adequate information,” he said, paving the way for a fresh debate on civic performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-lacked-plan-to-buffer-amphan-impact-sovan/articleshow/75928451.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Didi lays out roadmap to get S 24 Parganas back on its feet||Kakdwip (South 24 Parganas): The Bengal government has ordered a joint damage assessment survey by departments in sectors like agriculture, irrigation, fisheries, animal husbandry, power, forest and environment. Three major arterial roads in South 24 Parganas, namely Baruipur-Canning Road, Sonarpur-Kheyadah Road and Fatehpur-Falta Road, are yet to come back to normal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked departments to submit a comprehensive report within a week. “Make a detailed report to the central teams when they come to Bengal for damage assessment,” the CM told South 24 Parganas district magistrate P Ulaganathan. Trinamool MLA from Gosaba Jayanta Naskar gave a slice of the devastation at the South 24 Parganas administrative meeting presided over by the CM. Naskar pointed out that vast stretches of the embankment along the Raimangal river have been wiped out spread over four gram panchayats, namely Amtali, Chhoto Mollakhali, Lahiripur and Rangabelia. “Villages are under saline water. Women can’t cook, neither can they bathe. They have no drinking water. Dead fishes are floating in the ponds spreading bad smell in the localities. These areas need 40 tube wells to provide sweet water,” Naskar said. Trinamool MLA from Canning Purba Saokat Molla asked for tarpaulins because 96% of people in his assembly segment are living in the open. The CM urged the district administration to take up reconstruction work on a war footing. “You have done a commendable job by rescuing three lakh people in the district. That is why the death toll in the district is 13. The second part is reconstruction. The administration should take up reconstruction of the 10 lakh damaged houses on a priority basis. We have granted 1.4 lakh projects under the Bangla Abas Yojana. I don’t want to hear complaints on individual house building. I have asked the public health engineering department to distribute drinking water pouches in the localities till things come back to normal,” she said. According to primary estimates, as many as 41,667 electric poles have been uprooted only in South 24 Parganas and 51 power substations have been damaged. The CM advised the administration to hire generators and provide drinking water to households for some time. “I say this because such huge number of electric poles can’t be transported due to lockdown. Yet, I would urge the transport department to run buses so that people can join the reconstruction work. The administration should engage locals others those enrolled MNREGS to carry the poles, or digging the ground to instal the light posts as part of convergence,” Banerjee said. The CM then harped on embankment repair because 56 kilometres of embankment in this riverine stretch have been wiped out, affecting 310 gram panchayats under 29 blocks. “I would urge you to spend money judiciously. Set up a common pool of funds with the money from departments, zilla parishad, panchayat samitis to ensure that agencies work under a common plan. There is no need of taking up big projects. Take up small projects like repair of embankments, laying of village roads, restoring electricity. WBSEB officials have a major role to play. We have to finish the work before the onset of monsoons. See to it that we don’t have to undertake repairs after the rains,” the CM said at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-lays-out-roadmap-to-get-s-24-parganas-back-on-its-feet/articleshow/75928443.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After Covid, cyclone Amphan derails hospital operations||KOLKATA: Hospitals in the city are now facing a massive second wave of disruption — courtesy the 165-kmph monster that hit Bengal on Wednesday — after being laid low by Covid-19. And, in an irony of sorts, the patients hit hardest by Amphan’s after-effect are those laid low by the novel coronavirus. Cyclone Amphan has had a devastating effect on internet connectivity and cellphone services, dealing a body blow to Covid patients’ treatment across private hospitals in Kolkata. Other than consultation with doctors, which have been largely dependent on remote access, hospitals have been struggling to contact Covid patients’ families for treatment consent. Covid test reports, which are usually sent via the e-route (e-mail or WhatsApp), have also not reached hospitals since the cyclone struck on Wednesday, stalling Covid suspects’ treatment as well as non-Covid patients’ surgeries. Partial restoration of internet and cell phones allowed some hospitals to resume communication on Saturday but the disruption has been a crippling blow, say hospital managements. All interaction between Covid hospitals and patients’ families have been restricted to phone and internet for the last two months. The current disruption has left patients marooned and hospitals groping in the dark. Peerless Hospital, which has 19 Covid patients, has not been able to communicate with their families to apprise them of treatment or seek consent for future action. “Almost all family members are quarantined and cannot visit us. They depend on phones to know about patients’ condition. Phone services are now down but, since treatment cannot wait, we are being forced to go ahead without consent,” Peerless medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra said. As many as 12 patients lined up for surgery at Peerless have been asked to wait since their Covid reports have not arrived. The hospital has its own lab but has run out of kits, forcing it to depend on private laboratories that have mostly shut after the cyclone. AMRI Hospitals, which has 65 Covid patients across three units, has not received any Covid report since the cyclone. Here, too, several surgeries have been put on hold because of the pending reports even as the hospital is desperately trying to get in touch with patients’ families. AMRI labs at its Salt Lake and Dhakuria units have run out of kits as well. “With internet down, private labs are not being able to send the reports. This has held back surgeries and delayed confirmation of Covid suspects. We expect fresh kits to arrive at our labs now and that will at least revive the flow of reports,” AMRI CEO Rupak Barua said. He added that the hospital had decided to go ahead with Covid treatment without waiting for patients’ families’ approval. The delay in reports has “temporarily set back treatment of Covid suspects at RN Tagore Internartional Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), leading to anxiety for the patients and their families”. “But treatment has been continued, depending on the clinical presentation of the patient as well as all other lab and diagnostic parameters,” zonal director R Venkatesh said. “Some of our partner labs, which have been supporting us with Covid reports, have suffered major destruction to their physical infrastructure as well as network capabilities. They have been facing challenges in reporting and dispatching Covid tests. But they have somehow resumed operations now and are dispatching pending reports. Teir response has been commendable,” Venkatesh added. All surgeries at Ruby General Hospital were cancelled on Wednesday and Thursday even as the hospital struggled to establish contact with patients’ families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-covid-amphan-derails-hospital-ops/articleshow/75928722.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: IIEST boy found dead at home in Midnapore, cops seek clues||MIDNAPORE: A second-year student of IIEST, Shibpur, died under questionable circumstances at his Midnapore town home on Saturday. Family members found Debdeep Metya, 20, lying without clothes and “unresponsive” on the floor of his room. He was rushed to Midnapore Medical College and Hospital (MMCH), where doctors declared him “dead on arrival”. The body has been sent for autopsy and police have registered an unnatural death case. Elder brother Suvankarsaid Debdeep began his studies at IIEST in 2018. He had returned home since the lockdown began on March 25. Their father Chanchal said Debdeep went up to his room after dinner on Friday and bolted the door from inside, which was unusual. Kotwali IC Partha Sarathi Paul and DSP Sabyasachi Sengupta inspected the room. “We will examine the youth’s phone and laptop to find a possible explanation for his death,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iiest-boy-found-dead-at-home-cops-seek-clues/articleshow/75928466.cms||Sujay Khanra
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal will not allow Shramik Specials till May 26||KOLKATA: The Bengal government will not receive Shramik Specials till May 26, CM Mamata Banerjee announced at state secretariat Nabanna on Saturday. With Amphan leaving a trail of severe devastation across eight districts, the state would “need these days for relief work to take people back home from railway stations”, the CM said. “We are not allowing Shramik Specials to the state till May 26. We require these two days to clear trees from village roads before we take them back home from railway stations. We will be taking trains from May 27,” she said, adding that the government won’t shift migrant workers coming from other states and those coming by flight to quarantine centres. The government, instead, wants them to give an undertaking that they will stay in home quarantine for 14 days. “I am hearing that domestic flights will be on from May 25. Those coming from other states may stay at home because that is the best quarantine centre. The government is not setting up quarantine centres for them because we don’t have the infrastructure following the devastations all around. Even school buildings are not safe. They have developed cracks. From now, home is your quarantine centre,” the CM said. “Home quarantine is the best. We will ask you to give an undertaking stating that you will stay at home for the prescribed period. The state health department will keep a watch on them by tracking cell phone towers to ensure that they don’t step out of their homes,” she added. The CM said Bengal migrants coming from other states won’t have to wait for hours for health screening before they can go home. “It takes at least five to 10 minutes to take swab samples. The process takes hours if thousands of migrants come at a time. People run out of patience. We have decided to let them go home after checking their body temperatures with thermal guns. Districts will do their health screening after they reach home,” she said. The CM lauded the model adopted in some villages to keep people in quarantine. “In some villages, locals have identified a place for these people. They stay there while their families carry home-cooked food to them. Nothing can be better than this. Don’t mix with people, eat home-cooked food,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-will-not-allow-shramik-spls-till-may-26/articleshow/75928450.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Record jump of 216 cases in Karnataka takes tally near 2,000||BENGALURU: For the first time since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of fresh infections in the state in 24 hours crossed the 200-mark, as 216 cases were reported on Saturday. With this, the number of infections in the state has touched 1,959. The previous record jump in cases was 149, reported on May 19. Of the cases reported on Saturday, 195 patients — or 90% — have returned from other states recently. Of this group, 88% or 187 patients, had travelled to Maharashtra, which is among the states worst-hit by the pandemic. The total cases include two returnees each from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and New Delhi and one each from Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan. The disease also claimed its youngest victim in the state: a 32 year-old-man from Bengaluru, suffering from multiple comorbidities including pneumonia and breathing difficulty. He was also extremely weak and died due to cardiac arrest on Saturday. With this, the total number of Covid deaths in the state is 42; two other infected people died of other reasons. The highest number of cases was reported from Yadgir (72), followed by 40 in Raichur, Mandya (28), Chikkaballapur (26), Gadag (15), and four each from Bengaluru and Hassan among the major contributing districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/record-jump-of-216-cases-in-karnataka-takes-tally-near-2000/articleshow/75931668.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 60 days of lockdown over, but Covid-19 stigma still roaming free||HYDERABAD: The stigma of being a Covid-19 patient has not withered away even as India completes two months in lockdown. Social media has many videos of neighbours applauding those who have recovered from the virus attack and returned home. But these images hide the painful fact that hundreds of others must learn to live with being treated as pariahs even after being cured. Sniggered at by neighbours, they are often looked down upon or shunned whenever they step out to buy groceries or essential items. A 58-eight-year-old man, who was discharged from Gandhi Hospital in early May, says it has been a bitter two weeks ever since he has come back home. “No one in my colony even says hello to me. I am shunned wherever I go. Some of the residents even asked our watchman to not step out when I pass by. Is it a crime to be a Covid patient?” he sought to know. A 43-year-old man feels the same. A resident of Suryapet market area where a large number of coronavirus cases were reported, he is unable to digest the way society treats him. “I finished my home quarantine recently after treatment. To my shock, a local corporator along with two officials came knocking my door and asked me to vacate my home. They insisted I stay in some other place or go to Hyderabad. They said they will make arrangements. I am wondering why I was discharged,” he said. Man removed from job on testing positiveHe said he is healthy like any other person and was discharged only after he tested negative twice. “But, society, gripped in unknown fears, is not ready to accept this fact,” he rued. Ramesh (name changed), who hails from Bihar but resides in Hyderabad’s Old City, lost his job once it became known that he was Covid-19 positive. He was working in a milk booth. His employer removed him and did not pay him his April salary. “It’s ok. But, I had to shift to a new locality because of people’s behaviour towards me. I am now searching for a new job,” he said. Several other patients feel they have been wronged by society. A 36-year-old man from Khammam says he sees fear in the eyes of people. “Life for others during the lockdown is normal, but I have to live with the stigma that I am a coronavirus patient. Why can’t people accept it like any other disease,” he wondered. More than 1,000 people have been discharged in Telangana after undergoing the treatment for coronavirus. Some of them have created their own chat group to stay in touch and support one another. “When we were in the hospital, we created this group. Now, we enquire about one another’s health,” Akhil (24) of Warangal Urban district said. A 35-year-old resident of Jiyaguda in the Old City sounds optimistic after contracting the virus. Recently, she is back home. “Hum ko darna ki kya baat hai (Why should we be afraid). Why should I worry about society? I stand firm and nothing can rattle me,” she told STOI. Nine members in her family, including her two young sons, had contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-60-days-of-lockdown-over-but-covid-19-stigma-still-roaming-free/articleshow/75931790.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Property registration picks up pace, Rs 253 crore in government kitty since April 24||BENGALURU: Karnataka's retail real estate market is slowly emerging from the Covid-19 slump, going by the revenue generated from property transactions in one month of operations during the lockdown.  Officials said the government has mopped up Rs 253 crore since all sub-registrar offices, barring three, resumed registration of properties from April 24 amid various restrictions. Till May 21, a total of 68,000 documents have been registered of which 60% are related to property. The average revenue generated in the period, officials said, works out to Rs 15 crore a day. In peak season, it averages at Rs 40 crore - Rs 45 crore a day.  About 60% of the registrations are in Bengaluru and neighbouring districts, officials said. With home loan EMIs set to turn cheaper after RBI's rate cut, the government is expecting revenue from registrations to go up to Rs 20 crore per day by May-end and Rs 25 crore in June. "The data suggests that some buoyancy may be returning to the real estate market. We may end up collecting more revenue than the target estimated in the budget,"said KP Mohan Raj, inspector general of registrations and commissioner of stamps. Property registration helps K’taka earn Rs 15 cr every day’The state government has set a revenue collection target of Rs 12,655 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal year, which is about Rs 35 crore per day from stamps and registrations. Officials said Karnataka has been doing better than its neighbours so far: “While we are netting average revenue of Rs 15 crore per day, Tamil Nadu and Telangana have been earning Rs 10 crore and Rs 6 crore, respectively. The sub-registrar offices opened at the same time as ours in these states.” Across Karnataka, 242 sub-registrar offices are functional. “Over 70% of revenue is generated through sale of flats and plots while 30% of the documents are gift deeds or related to marriages, partition, and mortgage,” said an official of the stamps and registration department. “The current sales after partial easing is 20% of normal. Our completed projects are seeing greater traction. Construction schedules will get affected though we are confident of maintaining RERA timelines for our projects. The impact of labourers going back is still unknown,” said Rajendra Joshi, CEO (residential) of Brigade Enterprises. “The government can help us by reducing stamp duty and allowing developers to pay only a nominal part of fees at the time of approvals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-property-registration-picks-up-pace-rs-253-crore-in-government-kitty-since-apr-24/articleshow/75931857.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
May 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Six new areas made containment zones||NEW DELHI: The number of novel coronavirus containment zones in the capital rose to 92 with six new localities being sealed on Saturday. House No. 23 to 156, House No. 15 to 191 and House No. 230 to 233 of southeast Delhi's Sunlight Colony were declared as one containment zone on Saturday. In the North district, Block E2 and EE in Jahangirpuri were converted into containment zones, while House No. 690 Lalbagh in Azadpur and N-116 JJ Camp in Badli were designated as containment zones.  In northwest Delhi, House No. 92 to 212 of Naharpur Village and Block C of Mangolpuri were declared as two separate containment zones. "From each containment zone, more than three Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. All the areas have been sealed and the entry and exit points blocked to ensure that no person violates containment plans," said an official.  Delhi government has, so far, de-sealed 34 containment zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-six-new-areas-made-containment-zones/articleshow/75931860.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court: Right to freedom of religion subject to public order and health||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that the imposition of restrictions on opening of religious institutions constitutes “paternalistic act” and such restrictions are in collective interest of the society. The high court also made it clear that the right to freedom of religion is subject to public order, morality and public health. “It is an extraordinary situation. In order to safeguard the health of the society, restrictions have been imposed by closing down all the places of worship for public, including holding of religious congregations/gatherings. The restrictions imposed are reasonable based on objectivity and do not amount to interference in the religious affairs of any community,” the HC held. Petition had challenged curbs on opening of religious institutionsIt also observed that relaxations in restrictions in certain areas cannot be a ground to relax the same qua religious places of worship. The discretion not to permit opening of all the places of worship for public and prohibiting holding of religious congregations/ gatherings has been exercised judiciously. The division bench, comprising Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Ajay Tewari, has passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by Mubeen Farooqi, president, Muslim Federation of Punjab, Malerkotla. The petition was against the restrictions on opening of religious institutions during the lockdown. It was averred that Ramzan is the most sacred month of the year for Islamic culture. Muslims observe the month of Ramzan to mark that Allah or God gave the first chapter of the Quran to the Prophet Muhammad in 610. According to the petitioner, mosque/idgah is the best place to offer prayer during Ramzan and the period can be restricted to one hour for offering jamaat/ namaz of Eid-ul-fitr and dua. The petition averred that the places of worship i.e mosques/idgahs, gurdwaras and temples, can also be opened since shops and markets have been permitted to open by maintaining social distancing. He also claimed that the closure of religious institutions violated his fundamental rights and prayed that all the religious places be ordered open. Vehemently opposing the petition, the counsel for the Union government and the Punjab government submitted that there is no violation of fundamental rights of the petitioner and the restrictions have been imposed in larger public interest. “The restrictions imposed by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) do not violate any fundamental or legal right of the petitioner or the similarly situated persons. The endeavour of the MHA is to break the cycle by maintaining social distancing. We will not substitute our wisdom for the wisdom of the executive decision, which has been taken in the larger public interest,” the high court said while dismissing plea against closure of religious institutions during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-right-to-freedom-of-religion-subject-to-public-order-and-health/articleshow/75931861.cms||Ajay Sura
May 24, 2020||Shimla||HP CM Jai Ram Thakur sees Covid-19 potential, moots ‘tourism in quarantine’||SHIMLA: Amid the latest Covid-19 spike in the hill state, Himachal Pradesh (HP) chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has mooted the idea of developing the state as a destination for ‘tourism in quarantine’. Explaining the rationale, he said as the virus spread wanes, people who are advised 14-15 days quarantine could come to HP. While interacting with media, Thakur said the tourism industry in the state – an international tourism destination --has taken a big hit in the pandemic and the losses are not likely to be made up soon. Apart from this, he said the tourism industry is major employment generator in the state, and the government is looking for ways to improve the situation. In line with this, the government is working on the concept of projecting HP as destination for quarantine as this would boost the tourism sector. He said even now many people wish to come to Himachal due to low coronavirus count. Referring to the quarantine set-up in the state, he said those coming to HP from other states are being quarantined, those from green zones are being home quarantined and people coming from red zones are being institutional quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-cm-jai-ram-thakur-sees-covid-19-potential-moots-tourism-in-quarantine/articleshow/75931868.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: R S Bharathi arrested, gets bail in hours||CHENNAI: DMK organisational secretary and Rajya Sabha member R S Bharathi was let off on interim bail till June 1 by the principal sessions court, hours after city police arrested him on Saturday. Condemning the arrest, DMK president M K Stalin said the party could not be cowed by such intimidations. "The AIADMK government has taken up a case after 100 days (after his speech) under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The government has arrested him after he had given an explanation and apologised for what he had spoken. Neither can the chief minister nor the ringmasters remote controlling him divert the DMK's work to uplift SC/STs and social justice," said Stalin. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, however, denied the allegation and said there was no political intention or interference in Bharathi's arrest. "He has been arrested for his inflammatory speech about a Madras high court judge and it's a police action based on an individual's complaint," he said. A team of central crime branch personnel picked up Bharathi up from his residence in the early hours of Saturday, in connection with a speech he had delivered at an indoor meeting. He had reportedly remarked that it was due to the Dravidian rule that many from oppressed sections became judges. Soon after his arrest, a battery of DMK lawyers, including senior counsel P Wilson and N R Elango, who themselves are Rajya Sabha members of the party, rushed to principal sessions judge Selvakumar's residence to pre-empt remanding of Bharathi in judicial custody. "Though the case was originally registered at the Teynampet police station on May 22, it was transferred to Chennai CCB later. The investigating officer arrested Bharathi immediately without any further probe," they submitted. Bharathi has already approached the Madras HC offering to surrender before the special court for MPs and MLAs if the usual direction to the trial court to consider his bail application on the same day was issued, they added. Countering the arguments, state public prosecutor A Natarajan said since the case falls under the SC/ST Act, the complainant has to be heard and no order can be passed without hearing him. Recording the submissions, the sessions judge said a remand could be refused only when there is no prima facie case from the prosecution records. Remanding him till June 5, the judge granted the interim relief with a direction that Bharathi surrender before the court on June 1. The relief was granted on two grounds - pending petition of Bharathi in the HC to quash the FIR, and the fact that his family members are doctors involved in Covid-19 work and therefore, sending him to jail would put other inmates at the risk of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-r-s-bharathi-arrested-gets-bail-in-hours/articleshow/75931934.cms||Sureshkumar
May 24, 2020||Noida||For Rs 3k, packed trucks are sneaking migrant workers out of Noida||Noida: The desperation of migrant workers has spawned an illegal transportation industry in Noida. For anything between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000, those driving trucks, loaders and private buses are smuggling workers home. Social distancing is not even a possibility in the cramped spaces at the back of the trucks or overloaded buses. Just this month, Noida police have seized 30 trucks and loaders and arrested their owners for attempting to carry migrants without passes to their home districts in UP and home state in Bihar. Taking the Mahamaya flyover, the trucks and loaders go past the Sector 62 crossing, Chilla border, Sector 51, Phase II and Pari Chowk. Inside, at first glance, the trucks appear to be transporting goods under tarpaulin and cloth covers, tightly packed. But somewhere beneath the covers are found migrant workers. “In one truck seized on Sunday, 10 migrant workers were hiding beneath packed goods. They were from UP and Bihar. We booked the driver for lockdown violation,” station house officer of the Sector 39 police station, Shailesh Tomar, told TOI. Then on Tuesday, a mini truck was found transporting 10 labourers to Bihar from central Noida, DCP (central Noida) Harish Chander said. Then there are private buses that try and transport workers home without passes. On Wednesday night, a bus carrying 54 workers to Bihar was caught on the way. “In the bus, too, no social distancing norm was being followed. About Rs 1 lakh was seized, money that had been collected from the passengers,” a police officer said. DCP Chander said the driver, conductor and another accomplice was arrested. The migrant workers were sent to a shelter home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/for-rs-3k-packed-trucks-are-sneaking-migrant-workers-out-of-noida/articleshow/75928044.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 patient gives birth through c-section in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: A Covid-19 patient gave birth to a baby girl through Caesarean section at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Saturday — the first such case in the city. “Our team was initially tense, but as soon as the delivery was done, we were all smiles,” said Dr Navneet Takkar, the operating surgeon from the department of gynaecology at GMCH. GMCH’s first case of coronavirus was reported in a health worker deployed in an operation theatre on April 24. For the 27-year-old mother, it was not easy to hold back her tears when she was not allowed to hold her newborn. “The mother belongs to Bapu Dham Colony and has tested positive two days back. This is her second baby. The first was also delivered in our hospital,” said the gynaecologist. The baby will be tested for Covid-19 after two days. Unlike the routine C section, the surgery took three hours as compared to 1-hour non-Covid-19 C section operation. “Donning and doffing of the personal protection equipment kits and working with these gears take a lot of time,” said Dr Takkar. The baby is kept in isolation and will be fed with milk from the milk bank in the hospital. “We cannot allow the mother to breastfeed until she is tested negative,” said Dr Takkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-patient-gives-birth-through-c-section-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75931956.cms||Shimona Kanwar
May 24, 2020||India||Delhi govt suspends officer over Sikkim gaffe||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Saturday suspended an officer of the Directorate of Civil Defence headquarters after an advertisement disrespecting the territorial integrity of the union of India triggered a controversy. The advertisement was issued for enrolment of volunteers for civil defence corps where one of the eligibility criteria was that the person should be a "citizen of India or a subject of Sikkim or of Bhutan or of Nepal and a resident of Delhi." Over it, the chief secretary of Sikkim wrote a letter to the Delhi chief secretary stating that the advertisement is immensely hurtful to the people of Sikkim who take pride in being the citizens of our great country. In the letter written to Vijay Dev, S C Gupta demanded withdrawal of the advertisement and a suitable communique to assuage the feelings of the people of Sikkim. Delhi government has withdrawn the advertisement, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday evening. "Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and action taken against the officer concerned," said the CM. Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and act… https://t.co/Jq6gKI1YKu— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1590244396000Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal took to Twitter to state: "A senior officer of Directorate of Civil Defence (HQ) has been suspended with immediate effect for publishing an advertisement which disrespects the territorial integrity of India by making incorrect reference to Sikkim on the same lines as some neighbouring countries." The LG added in another tweet: "Zero tolerance for such gross misconduct! Direction has also been given immediately to withdraw the offensive advertisement." The piece of advertisement was issued by the Directorate of Civil Defence of Delhi government. This advertisement that triggered the controversyHours after it appeared, several BJP and Congress functionaries objected to the controversial advertisement. Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said that Sikkim has been described as a separate country in the advertisement and asked if Delhi government does not remember that Sikkim is also an integral state of India. Tiwari added that "Sikkim is a state of India and the people of Sikkim are citizens of India." A Delhi government functionary accepted that it was a human error. "The official concerned directly copied from the Civil Defence Regulations, 1968 (amended in 1971 and 1973) issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, which talks about the eligibility criteria for appointment to the Civil Defence Corps. We have suspended him," the government functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-govt-suspends-officer-over-sikkim-gaffe/articleshow/75931878.cms||Alok K N Mishra
May 24, 2020||Chandigarh||With relaxations, air quality starts deteriorating in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The air quality has deteriorated since the UT administration announced relaxations in the fourth leg of the lockdown. From air quality index (AQI) at a good level during lockdown 2 and 3, the quality has now entered the moderate category. The AQI on Saturday was recorded at 135, which falls under moderate category. The air had improved a lot during the restrictions and, at 4pm on March 27, it was cleanest in the country, with the index at 17. After April 14, the city’s air quality fell from good to satisfactory level. The city’s air quality index was at a good level between March 24, when the curfew was imposed in the city, to April 13. But since April 14, the city’s air quality has started deteriorating and had crossed the level of 50 and the AQI was between 56 and 80. National Clean Air Programme will help the UT have two more air monitoring stations—in sectors 26 and 50. On July 16, 2019, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore inaugurated the PU station that measures air on eight parameters. AQI can be termed as the numerical scale used to assess air quality with regard to human health and the environment. It is used by to assess the quality of air in a particular region on a daily basis. The main focus of AQI is to calculate the effects of air in a particular region to the health of the people breathing it. AQI mainly looks for major pollution-causing factors in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-relaxations-air-quality-starts-deteriorating-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75932115.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 24, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu suffered Rs 35,000 crore loss due to lockdown: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||SALEM: Tamil Nadu has suffered an estimated Rs 35,000 crore GST revenue loss during the ongoing lockdown period, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Speaking to reporters, the chief minister said the government has been taking various austerity measures to tide over the crisis. However, development schemes won't be affected from these steps, he said. During the last week of March, besides April and the lockdown, the state has suffered an estimated Rs 35,000 crore GST revenue loss, he said quoting the Finance Department. A total of 3.85 lakh people has been tested across the state for Covid-19 till date, he said. He said 14,853 people tested positive in the state and of them 7, 524 were getting treatment at government hospitals . The CM came to Salem as part of his two-day tour on Friday evening. He chaired a meeting with the district administration officials at the collectorate on Saturday. Palaniswami said the state has 67 testing centers, including 27 private, which is highest in the country when compared with other states. "The health department is testing nearly 13,000 people arriving from other states daily," he said. The CM gave permission to almost all the industries and factories to run across the state. He assured that there will not be any issues for agricultural related activities and farmers could function as usual in the state.He said the central government has not allotted the amount demanded by the state government. "At the same time, they were allotting in a phase manner," he said. He refused to answer to a question whether lockdown would be extended . He said he will take a decision based on the central government's decision. Palaniswami said Class 10 board examinations will be conducted as per central government's directions from June 15. "All the facilities will be provided to students," he said, adding that, academic year will be started only after the board results are out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-suffered-rs-35000-crore-loss-due-to-lockdown-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami/articleshow/75932125.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Villagers pray to 'Coronamma' to leave||HUBBALLI: While scientists and researchers are toiling to develop a vaccine and potentially, a cure, for Covid-19, villagers in North Karnataka are turning to an ancient ruse to ward the disease from their vicinity. Like Plegamma and Maramma- goddesses of plague and chicken pox respectively - who were thrown out of village limits by their fathers and grandfathers, villagers last week did the honours for 'Coronamma'.  "It's like an online challenge," explained T Onkarappa, a farmer and PhD student in Hulikere village of Kudligi taluk in Ballari. "Residents of the village adjoining us transferred the goddess to ours. We then took it forward, performed puja and sent the goddess to the next village, Saklapurada Hatti. Village elders decide on an auspicious time for the procession and drummers pass the word around. All residents clean their houses, prepare sweets to offer to the goddess and gather at a given place. We then pray to the goddess to go away from us and take her to the next village. Many villages are part of such rituals. When chikungunya was haunting people, villagers sent Kuntamma (goddess of laming) out of the village."  Anjanappa HK, a resident of Chikka Kumbalagunte, said his village too is planning to hold such a puja soon. "Such send-offs are given during healthcare emergencies. We also celebrate 'holigemma' (after holige, a sweet dish) to welcome rains every year." Rituals can create awareness among villagers, says expertA run Joladkudligi, a postdoctoral fellow at Kannada University, Hampi, said coronavirus was only the latest pathogen to be identified with a mother-goddess who could be pacified to bestow health on people. “All such deities are female, in keeping with the Shakta cult of Dravidian culture. In a state of panic, people turn to a mother figure to shelter them and keep them safe.” “Such practices are an attempt to reassure communities to mitigate the anxiety and panic created during a natural disaster. Healthcare workers can use such occasions to create awareness among villagers,” said psychiatrist Dr Shivanand Hiremath. Dr Ravindra Vaidya, an ayurveda practitioner, said such rituals foster awareness at one level. “Villagers use neem leaves to carry the statue of the goddess. Neem has antiseptic and antiviral properties. And Ayurveda says neem’s bitter slop is a sanitiser. Tamarind, another main component of such rituals, also has anti-viral properties. So they do realise the importance of disinfection and sanitising. People usually make nutritious delicacies using jaggery as the main ingredient which helps boost immunity. Godhi Huggi (wheat payasam) also helps increase protein intake,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-villagers-pray-to-coronamma-to-leave/articleshow/75932145.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Migrants stranded as UP train gets diverted to NCR||BENGALURU: When the UP-bound Shramik Special carrying 1,450 workers from Bengaluru on Thursday reached its destination, the passengers thought they were home. But the train was in Ghaziabad, abutting Delhi, and not Basti as scheduled. Stranded without food for more than 20 hours, the workers said they have no clue when they will be home. The train to Basti left Chikkabanavara station in Bengaluru at 6.45pm on Thursday. The workers were to reach home on Saturday night, at the end of a 2,456km journey for which they shelled out Rs 1,020 (Rs 875 train fare plus Rs 145 bus fare). The scheduled route: Secunderabad, Nagpur, Itarsi (MP), Jhansi, Kanpur and Lucknow. The journey takes 45 hours. However, the train was diverted from Jhansi and reached Ghaziabad, passengers said around 7pm on Saturday. Railway Board chairman VK Yadav said 80% of Shramik trains go to UP and Bihar, leading to congestion, necessitating diversion. ‘They haven’t eaten for 20 hrs’Passengers said they weren’t told about the change. “We haven’t eaten since the train crossed Nagpur station on Friday night,” said Akhilesh Chauhan, a passenger. “People living close to the railway tracks have been bringing us water in buckets to drink. We were supposed to reach by Saturday night.” Many passengers sent photographs and videos to STOI, showing tired travellers sitting in huddles, wondering what to do. Basti is still about 14 hours and nearly 700km away. Narendra Kumar, who helped arrange tickets for around 50 migrants, said: “I received a call saying the train is being diverted. They haven’t eaten for 20 hours and don’t know whether the train will reach the destination.” After STOI informed Bengaluru divisional railway manager Ashok Kumar Verma, he spoke to his counterpart and food and water were arranged for the passengers. Sources said several trains are being diverted due to heavy congestion in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-migrants-stranded-as-up-train-gets-diverted-to-ncr/articleshow/75931864.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Two months into lockdown, Tamil Nadu cases zoom past 15,000; toll 103||CHENNAI: With one day to go for the state to complete two months of lockdown, Tamil Nadu on Saturday breached the 15,000-mark to record 15,512 Covid-19 cases. Chennai swas 11 cases short of 10,000. Five more deaths, all in Chennai, took the state toll to 103. While the state recorded 759 new cases, Chennai recorded one of its highest single-day increases of 624 cases, taking its tally to 9,989. The spillover continued in adjoining districts — Chengalpet logged 39 cases, Tiruvallur had 17 and Kancheepuram reported 13. Seven people who returned from London and five from Philippines tested positive, besides 37 others from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The remaining 17 cases were in other districts. In the Covid-19 control room, health experts and officials said were preparing for a likely surge in Covid-19 count in the coming days. “We are preparing for the worstcase scenario that has predicted over lakh cases of hospitalisation. We don’t know if we will see that many cases. But we want to be prepared,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. TN sees 13K cases, 76 deaths in MayAll government hospitals, health secretary Beela Rajesh said, will be able to offer elective surgeries and other services without hindrance when the lockdown is relaxed. “We too will learn to treat with Covid,” she said. It took nearly two months for the state to get to the first 5,000 cases, but in the next 16 days it added 10,000 cases. In May, the state recorded 13,313 cases and 76 deaths. Yet, it managed to bring down the mortality rate drastically. “That’s the silver lining. We have mortality of around 0.6% and it’s the lowest in the country. Our recovery rate is climbing to nearly 50% now. On Sunday, our team proudly shared our treatment protocol with several states on directions from the Centre,” she said. The state has been able to detect cases quickly, bring them to hospitals when they are still presymptomatic, bring comorbidities under control while they are treated. Before sending patients for home isolation, doctors ensure a battery of tests is conducted though they are asymptomatic, says Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi. The state’s tertiary hospital has treated more than 2,200 patients —more than 600 had comorbidities where the mortality rate is 1.5%. “We have helped patients with dual transplants, cancer and renal failure recover because of intense monitoring,” she said. Most hospitals have made minimum use of ventilators and, instead, used high flow oxygen and prone nursing (asking people to sleep on their stomach to increase oxygen levels). Nearly 85% of the 103 deaths occurred within the first week of hospitalisation. “ Most patients had advanced stages of chronic ailments, uncontrolled diabetes or hypertension. Many of them were critical and did not live for more than an hour,” said a senior doctor. While 35 patients died with one day, 25 more died within the next 48 hours. Of the 103 patients, 87 of them died within a week. The mortality was also high among the elderly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-months-into-lockdown-tamil-nadu-cases-zoom-past-15000-toll-103/articleshow/75932156.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 24, 2020||Chennai||Niece seeks AIADMK cadres' help to stake claim to J Jayalalithaa's house in Chennai||CHENNAI: J Jayalalithaa's niece Deepa Jayakumar has opposed the Tamil Nadu government's ordinance to take over the late chief minister's residence 'Veda Nilayam' at Poes Garden in Chennai and sought the support of AIADMK cadres to stop the move. Talking to TOI on Saturday, she wondered why the government was attempting to convert 'Veda Nilayam' into a memorial, when one was being constructed on the Marina. "Nobody is aware what is available inside 'Veda Nilayam' and it would be justice on part of the government to hand over the property to the legal heirs, who are my brother and I. We will maintain it very well," she said. Pointing out that the issue is sub-judice, Jayalalithaa's niece asked, "What is the urgency to promulgate an ordinance when the country is crippled by the coronavirus crisis." In a strongly worded statement later, she appealed to AIADMK cadres to "Help me to fight for my legitimate rights and get us our 'Veda Nilayam' house back and ensure that nobody, Edappadi K Palaniswami or O Paneerselvam or any bureaucrat, touches a single stone or any object in the house that belonged to my aunt." Jayalalithaa's clothes, jewellery, books, furniture, valuables and cars at Poes Garden should be kept intact until the legal heirs are allowed to inspect the house with a court order, Deepa Jayakumar said. Her remarks come a day after governor Banwarilal Purohit promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of 'Veda Nilayam' and movable items, besides establishing a foundation to convert the house into a memorial. While the chief minister would be chairperson of the foundation, the deputy chief minister and minister for information would its members. "I am also filing a petition to the governor soon to consider our hardships and hand over possession of Jayalalithaa's property to legal heirs," she said. Deepa Jayakumar's father was Jayalalithaa brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/niece-seeks-aiadmk-cadres-help-to-stake-claim-to-j-jayalalithaas-house-in-chennai/articleshow/75932195.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone ravages hub of urban wildlife and birding||Kolkata: Cyclone Amphan has taken its toll on one of the key urban biodiversity hubs of south Kolkata. Popularly known as Koyaler Bagan among birders, wildlife biologists and field researchers, the Chintamani Kar Bird Sanctuary — located in Narendrapur — has lost trees spread over more than half of its area on Wednesday night, when cyclone Amphan had struck the city. Senior foresters said trees spread over more than eight acres — the sanctuary spans over 16.5 acres — were damaged. This is, however, only a fraction of the 1,600 sq kilometres damaged within the sanctuary and forest areas of South and North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and East Midnapore after the cyclone. “We are yet to assess the exact number of trees lost at Chintamani Kar Sanctuary, but the loss is huge. More than half of the entire sanctuary area has suffered damage,” said chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha, adding that the sanctuary — originally an orchard — comprises mostly mango and banyan trees. According to conservationist Arjan Basu Roy of Nature Mates-Nature Club, the sanctuary houses more than 114 species of birds and over 80 species of butterflies. “Acquired by the forest department in 2003 from the Koyals, the erstwhile owners of the orchard, it was named Chintamani Kar Bird Sanctuary after the renowned sculptor, who fought, along with others, for its sanctuary status,” said Basu Roy, adding that he is associated with the place — considered to be the cradle of urban wildlife photography and research — for more than 35 years. According to Basu Roy, predominantly a mango orchard, the sanctuary also houses trees like banyan, litchi, longan (anshphal), roseapple and jackfruit. “Some of the trees are 70-100 years old. It also houses bamboo groves,” added Basu Roy. City-based birders have rued the loss. According to Siddhartha Dey of birding group LensnWings: “It’s a huge habitat loss, particularly for the resident birds in this nesting season.” The place also houses various species of snakes, including checkered keelback, striped keelback, common bronze back, painted bronze back and common wolf snake, among others. The venomous species found here include monocled cobra, common krait and Russell’s viper. It’s also home to golden jackal, grey mongoose, jungle cat, Asian palm civet and water monitor lizard. Sighting of Bengal monitor lizard has also been reported from here. Basu Roy added that presence of many species of frogs also makes it a biodiversity hotspot. Among the key species of frogs found here are painted frog, Microhyla or narrow-mouthed frog, pond frog and common toad. Sinha said they would try to revive some of the trees, else take up a fresh plantation drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-ravages-hub-of-urban-wildlife-and-birding/articleshow/75926468.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Mumbai youth held for threatening to kill Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Joint teams of the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UPSTF) and the Maharashtra Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) arrested 25-year-old Kamran Ameen, a private security guard, on Saturday for allegedly sending a threat message to 'bomb UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath'. Ameen was arrested from from his house on Swadeshi Mill Compound of New Mahada Colony under Chunabhati police station area of Mumbai on Saturday evening. The UP STF will seek his remand from court on Sunday to bring him back to UP. A message, threatening to attack chief minister Yogi Adityanath with a bomb, was received on the WhatsApp number of UP police control room on Friday night. An FIR was registered at Gomtinagar police station by the station house officer, Gomtinagar, Dheeraj Kumar against unidentified person, on the charges of causing fear or alarm in the public, to commit an offence against the state or against public tranquillity, threat to cause death and using anonymous communication for issuing threat. Ameen was hiding in red plus zoneIn the FIR, Kumar had also stated that “The message was received at UP 112 WhatsApp service (7570000100) at 12.32am on Friday. On Saturday, Inspector General of police, UPSTF, Amitabh Yash said that based on the surveillance the number was traced to Mumbai, Maharashtra. “We also traced the person from local contacts and then got in touch with the Maharashtra ATS as the matter was sensitive. The unit gave us logistic assistance and also details of the accused,” said the IG. STF sources say that Ameen worked as a private security guard in Zaveri Bazaar and has studied till class V. He is also reportedly a drug-addict. His father Ameen, who was a taxi driver, passed away two months ago, while his elder brother Imran works at a mobile repair shop and his mother Shirin is a housewife. She used to teach Urdu. Ameen’s younger sister Zareen is learning Mehndi designing, said the IG STF. STF officers also said that Ameen was hiding in a red plus zone area to evade arrest. “We are yet to interrogate the accused and know his motive,” said the IG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-mumbai-youth-held-for-threatening-to-kill-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/75932357.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Patients can't use mobile in UP's Covid-19 hospitals||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh medical education department banned the use of cell phones by patients in level-2 and level-3 Covid-19 hospitals in the state. Issued by director general medical education, Dr KK Gupta, the order was sent to all institutions and medical colleges across the state. Referring to the use of cellphones by patients in Covid-19 hospitals of the state, the order said: "Patients admitted to level-2 and level-3 Covid hospitals in state will not be allowed to carry their cell phones in the ward as it involves risk of spreading the infection." 2 phones will be provided to in chargeThe order, however, said two dedicated cell phones will be provided to each centre in charge for communication purposes. The move comes about a week after a report in the British Medical Journal questioning the use of cell phones in hospital setting amid Covid-19. Written by a group of doctors from AIIMS Raipur, it said: “Mobile phone surfaces are a peculiar ‘high-risk’ surface, which can directly come in contact with the face or mouth, even if hands are properly washed and one study indicates that some healthcare workers use phones every 15 minutes to two hours.” In wake of the same, they recommended restrictions on use of mobile phones in healthcare institutions besides warning that such devices can be a potential carrier of the virus. Health experts, however, have questione the move. “I don’t find the move logical. Many patients feel stressed and even phobic to the idea of isolation. Cell phone keeps them engaged and diverted. If there is any proven risk, the authorities may recommend sanitizing the device or recommending the use of head phones etc,” said Dr Ashok Mishra, former CMO, UP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patients-cant-use-mobile-in-ups-covid-19-hospitals/articleshow/75932358.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Dasara gift: 1 lakh 2-BHK houses for poor in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The dream of becoming owners of ‘dignified housing’ will come true for 50,000 families by August. In all, one lakh families will have housing by Dasara this October. The government has sped up the construction of 2-BHK housing units, a flagship project of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Officials and contractors have taken it up as a challenge to complete construction of one lakh 2-BHK units in and around Greater Hyderabad by Dasara in tune with the announcement made by municipal minister KT Rama Rao. Though there is a shortage labourers, the municipal administration department, on the directions of KTR, has given a free hand to the contractors to bring labourers from districts and other states by arranging special buses and through trains. The government will provide passes by talking to state governments. What’s more, KTR has also promised the working agencies (contractors) that their problems pertaining to the supply and rising prices of steel, cement and sand would be solved and directed the officials of municipal administration and housing to convene a special meeting with the working agencies. About one lakh double bedroom housing units are under final stages of construction in and around the city under the supervision of GHMC. Also, the TRS government has loosened its purse strings to ensure that the 2-BHK project is completed at the earliest. As much as ₹11,917 crore was allocated to the housing department in the 2020-21budget. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar said efforts are being made to complete works on a war footing and deliver the houses by Dasara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dasara-gift-1-lakh-2-bhk-houses-for-poor-in-hyderabad/articleshow/75932360.cms||Roushan Ali
May 24, 2020||Mumbai||Two from Mumbai top Maharashtra CET, but scores see a dip||MUMBAI: Thirty-four-year old Shashank Prabhu, chief mentor at a coaching institute, and Ankit Thakker (24), a chemical engineer, bagged the top two positions in the MBA/MMS CET conducted by the state for admission to business schools, reports Yogita Rao. The state’s CET cell announced the results on Saturday amidst the lockdown, after a delay of almost two months. Around 1.1 lakh students had appeared for the test this March—7,000 more than last year. The number of students who scored between 151 and 175 dropped to four this year from 20 last year. There has been a 40% drop in students scoring between 126 and 150 too, from 677 to 392. State no. 2 in CET studied on his ownMany found the paper lengthy, said Ankit. While Shashank scored 159 out of 200, Ankit stood second in the state with 155. The percentile of both was 99.99, though. A total of 16 students scored 99.99. It was Ankit’s second attempt. The Chembur boy cleared his chemical engineering from the Institute of Chemical Technology in 2018, worked for a year before focusing on the entrance exam. JBIMS is his top choice among institutes, he told TOI. He studied on his own and relied on mock tests for practice, he said. For Shashank, cracking CET with the top score is not a new accomplishment—he has done it twice before. This year, he scored 99.99 percentile for the sixth time. Shashank said mathematics was slightly easy, while the visual reasoning section was slightly difficult. Usually, the results are announced by March-end. The CET cell is yet to announce the schedule for the admission process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-from-mumbai-top-maharashtra-cet-but-scores-see-a-dip/articleshow/75932361.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Donations to Ram Temple Trust account cross Rs 20 crore||AYODHYA: Opened just 20 days before the lockdown was clamped, and now 53 days into the pandemic-triggered shutdown, the bank account in the name of Ram Temple Trust has witnessed a dramatic rise in donations, touching Rs 20 crore till Saturday. Sources in the Ram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust confirmed to TOI, the Rs 20 crore credit balance in the Ayodhya branch of the State Bank of India, which was opened in the Trust's name on March 5. The lockdown was no deterrence in the rapid flow of donations to the account, said a Trust official.  The Trust has two accounts in SBI, Ayodhya branch, and all donations were credited through electronic transfer, said sources in the bank.  The new accounts of the Trust have overtaken the 27-year-old account in SBI's Faizabad branch, which was opened soon after the Babri demolition to cater to donations by pilgrims to Ram Lalla. ‘Rs 10 crore from former receiver’s a/c’Next Friend of Ram Lalla, Triloki Nath Pandey, who’s also decree holder of Ram Janambhoomi after the Ayodhya verdict, said, “We received Rs 10 crore from the former receiver’s account, which was opened by Ayodhya commissioner in February 1993 after he was made receiver by the Supreme Court. Now, in just three months, we received another Rs 10crore from the faithful, who are all rich and famous people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-donations-to-ram-temple-trust-account-cross-rs-20-crore/articleshow/75932374.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh allows sale of liquor in AC malls & supermarkets||LUCKNOW: It will now be possible to purchase premium brands of liquor from the comforts of an air conditioned mall in UP. The UP cabinet has cleared "The Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licenses for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020 which will now allow the sale of certain categories of liquors in malls within the state. Liquor can be sold in stand alone shops or in multiproduct chains and supermarkets, as are available in airports or many other states. The government has also reduced the permissible loss in re-distillation of liquor from the earlier 2-2.5% to now 0.5-1%. This has been done keeping in mind improved technology in which re-distillations losses have reduced significantly. As the government charges excise duty above the permissible limit, the move will help in collection of higher revenue. Principal secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that there was no provision to sell foreign liquor in malls till now. "Licences in form FL-4-C will be granted for retail sale of foreign liquor in sealed bottles in malls. These vends will be in addition to existing shops. Licences can be obtained by any eligible person, company, partnership firm, proprietary firm or society," said Bhoosreddy. The mall in which such vends can be opened should have a minimum plinth area of 10,000 sqft and include departmental stores, super markets or hybrid hyper markets. The vend, on the other hand, should have a carpet area at least 500sqft. It should be a walk-in shop with no provision for consumption on site. The products should be displayed on shelves under a systematic plan so that all brands are visible clearly. The shop should also be air conditioned. Among the varieties of liquor that can be sold in such shops, as authorised by the excise commissioner, are imported foreign liquor brands, Indian Made Foreign Liquor brands of Scotch and categories above that, all categories of brandy, gin and wines, brands of vodka and rum with a maximum retail price of Rs 700 and above and brands of beer with an MRP of more than Rs 160 per can of 500 ml or equivalent. "Keeping in view the increasing trend of shopping in malls, the rules have been framed to allow sale of premium brands of liquor in malls. These vends will provide access to a wide variety of liquor brands," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-allows-sale-of-liquor-in-ac-malls-supermarkets/articleshow/75932376.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only registered workers to get benefit, says Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: Amid heightened controversy over non-payment of fares for returning migrant workers, the Gujarat government has committed to pay its share of fare for 7,512 out of total 22.5 lakh migrant workers from other states, as per the note filed by the state in Gujarat high court. After going through the government’s note, the HC in its order on Saturday said, “The travel charges levied for the transportation of the migrant workers by the railway authorities is borne by a few host states, NGOs, employers and voluntary associations. This is not done. We direct the railway authorities to waive off one-way charges of these migrant labourers or in the alternative, for the state government to bear such charges.” In not paying for others, the state government has cited the Interstate Migrant Workers Act 1979 and claimed that this law is applicable to only registered migrant workers and they are only 7,512 such workers. The government’s statement reads, “The provisions of the Interstate Migrant Workers Act 1979 are applicable to the registered migrant workers under the said Act. There are 7,512 workers registered under the Act. Based on the available data, there are around 22.5 lakh migrant workers across the state. Most of them have come on their own and provisions for payment of travelling allowance and displacement allowance as required by Sections 14 and 15. Destination states paying faresThe government further stated that the state’s share for most workers is borne by their native states and not by Gujarat, which claimed to have arranged for transportation facilities. “Further, the states of UP, Odisha and Tamil Nadu have said that they will deposit the payment for travelling charges to the railways directly. No migrant worker has been denied travel on account of nonpayment of travel charges,” the government’s note reads. The government has claimed before the HC that its labour department has made 18,314 private employers to pay Rs 538.39 crore to approximately 3,98,334 employees against wages for the month of March. Similarly, 378 establishments paid Rs 66.57 crore to approximately 29,244 workers towards April salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-registered-workers-to-get-benefit-says-gujarat-hc/articleshow/75932208.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Indore||3,500 small industries resume operations in Indore||INDORE: As many as 3,500 small-scale industries, spread in small pockets of the city, have resumed operations amid relaxed lockdown norms, giving a boost to economic revival in the region. Most industries located at Sanwer Road, Palda, Polo Ground, Nemawar Road and Bardari have resumed operations with skeletal staff and limited capacity utilisation. A small step, but big on hope. Relaxations allowed by the district administration - especially withdrawing the condition for stay arrangements for workers - helped many industries resume operations. According to the Association of Industries Madhya Pradesh (AIMP), most small and medium scale factories in the industry belts of Indore city have resumed operations at 30% to 40% capacity. Industry players said relaxed norms, logistics support and extended working hours will give a much-needed boost. Anil Joshi, manufacturer of copper components on Sanwer Road, said, "Small-scale industries have many constraints. One was limited space within the premises to make stay arrangements for workers. Once this is relaxed, many units came forward to resume operations." Some industrial belts in the city, such as Kila Maidan and Rambali Nagar, are still awaiting permission to resume work. Pramod Dafaria, president of AIMP, said, "We have requested the local administration to let all industries function with proper safety measures in order to get back on track. Industries have suffered irreparable damage in the last two months and this needs to be addressed." In the wake of worker shortage in some units, the association has sought permission from the administration to send transportation for their workers to bring back to the city. "Many workers have migrated to their native villages and this is leading to shortage of workers in factories. Looking at this problem, the association, after discussing with its members, has decided to send transportation for workers who are willing to come back," Dafaria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/3500-small-industries-resume-operations-in-indore/articleshow/75932386.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Resumed flights give wings to their wishes||LUCKNOW: For Aiman, it was nothing less than a godsend gift on Eid. Every year, her family and relatives used to gather at ancestral house in Jaipur for celebrations on the festival. Owing to lockdown, she had lost all hope of a get-together this year, her last at her grandparents' house before her marriage in October. But things changed dramatically with resumption of domestic flights from May 25. The 23-year-old lost no time in booking tickets for day 1. Like Aiman, who lives in Lucknow with her parents, many in the city who either wished to reunite with families or had been working here and stuck for the past 60 days, are now looking forward fulfill their wishes. Similarly, Lucknow residents stuck in other parts of the country would be flying back to their hometown. "As lockdown appeared never ending, we planned a 'virtual' Eid celebration, but the thought of not being able to meet grandparents was constantly troubling me. And, then God heard my prayers," said Aiman. "As there was no connecting flight to Jaipur, it was quickly decided that all relatives will assemble in Delhi on May 26 at my uncle's place," said Aiman who would be flying with her parents on Monday. "The celebrations, this time, would be with "masks and distancing," she added with a chuckle. Tour operators said maximum bookings are from the students stuck in Lucknow and those who wish to travel for Eid. "Most bookings are for and from Delhi and Mumbai followed by Bengaluru and Hyderabad," said Hina Shiraz, a travel operator. Mayank Saxena (36), who works in a bank in the city, will fly home in Ahmedabad on May 30. "I not only missed wife and two kids all this while, but also 8th marriage anniversary," he said. Mayank lived as a paying guest in Indiranagar but felt lonely with no family around after the lockdown began, he shifted to cousin's place in Aliganj. "I video-called family every day, but now I will actually see them. The only fear, however, is of being quarantined for 14 days" he added. Natives of Lucknow city will also be returning after a long gap. Ayedid Khan, who works in Mumbai, is flying in to meet family on May 27. "There's a bit of travel anxiety and fear now as the pandemic has changed the world as we knew it." ‘Was waiting to come home since March’Advertising professional, Ratan S (31), a native of Lucknow, lived in Mumbai with his wife and one-andhalf-year old son. In March, his wife along with son went to visit her parents in Punjab and from there she came to Lucknow to be with Ratan’s parents. Ratan was due to arrive in Lucknow towards March end, but then lockdown began. “I rescheduled flight for April 20 thinking lockdown is for a few days, but it prolonged. Now as soon as the announcement to resume domestic flights was made, I immediately went and booked a ticket for June 1,” he said. Ayedid Khan, who works in Mumbai, is looking forward to flying in to his home state to meet his family on May 27. “There’s a bit of travel anxiety and fear now as the pandemic has changed the world as we knew it,” he said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-resumed-flights-give-wings-to-their-wishes/articleshow/75932544.cms||Aditi Singh
May 24, 2020||Bhopal||276 test positive, MP coronavirus count 6646; recovery rate 51 per cent||BHOPAL/INDORE: The Covid-19 curve continues to soar, with a whopping 276 people testing positive on Saturday - Indore, which reported 158 new cases, accounted for 57% of the day's count. Indore shot past the 3,000 mark, notching up a Covid count of 3,008. Only eight states have gone past 3k -- a pointer to how widespread the infection is in Indore. MP's corona count has risen to 6,446, still in sixth place in the country. At a review meeting with CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan in the evening, officials said that MP's recovery rate had gone up to 51%. Saturday's health directorate bulletin reported 201 new cases and nine deaths. Indore administration's bulletin, which came just before midnight, added 75 more cases and three deaths. MP's death toll from Coronavirus has gone up to 284. Five deaths were reported in Indore on Saturday, taking its toll to 114. Two each were in Bhopal and Burhanpur districts, and one each in Khandwa, Dhar and Sagar. New cases were reported from 22 of the 49 districts that are on MP's corona map. Bhopal was second with 38 new patients, and Ujjain third with 27. Khandwa (8), Dewas (7) and Jabalpur (5) had a relatively better day, but they continue to be spots of bother for the government. As per the state health bulletin, 178 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the cure count to 3,267. This is more than the number of active patients (2,898). So far, 1.32 lakh samples have been tested in the state and around 5% have tested positive. In Indore, the deaths were reported from Choithram, MTH and SAIMS. A 43-year-old man from Sindhu Nagar died on May 23, 20 days after being admitted to hospital upon testing Covid-positive. He had diabetes and hypertension. A 63-year-old man from Saptasanginagar died on May 21, eight days after being admitted to hospital. He had diabetes, hypertension and CKD. Another victim is a 72-year-old woman of Dhar Road, who died on May 22. She had asthma. There are 2,660 persons under quarantine in Indore. Across the state, 772 localities in 49 districts have been declared containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/276-test-positive-mp-coronavirus-count-6646-recovery-rate-51-per-cent/articleshow/75932546.cms||---
May 24, 2020||Indore||276 test positive, MP coronavirus count 6646; recovery rate 51 per cent||BHOPAL/INDORE: The Covid-19 curve continues to soar, with a whopping 276 people testing positive on Saturday - Indore, which reported 158 new cases, accounted for 57% of the day's count. Indore shot past the 3,000 mark, notching up a Covid count of 3,008. Only eight states have gone past 3k -- a pointer to how widespread the infection is in Indore. MP's corona count has risen to 6,446, still in sixth place in the country. At a review meeting with CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan in the evening, officials said that MP's recovery rate had gone up to 51%. Saturday's health directorate bulletin reported 201 new cases and nine deaths. Indore administration's bulletin, which came just before midnight, added 75 more cases and three deaths. MP's death toll from Coronavirus has gone up to 284. Five deaths were reported in Indore on Saturday, taking its toll to 114. Two each were in Bhopal and Burhanpur districts, and one each in Khandwa, Dhar and Sagar. New cases were reported from 22 of the 49 districts that are on MP's corona map. Bhopal was second with 38 new patients, and Ujjain third with 27. Khandwa (8), Dewas (7) and Jabalpur (5) had a relatively better day, but they continue to be spots of bother for the government. As per the state health bulletin, 178 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the cure count to 3,267. This is more than the number of active patients (2,898). So far, 1.32 lakh samples have been tested in the state and around 5% have tested positive. In Indore, the deaths were reported from Choithram, MTH and SAIMS. A 43-year-old man from Sindhu Nagar died on May 23, 20 days after being admitted to hospital upon testing Covid-positive. He had diabetes and hypertension. A 63-year-old man from Saptasanginagar died on May 21, eight days after being admitted to hospital. He had diabetes, hypertension and CKD. Another victim is a 72-year-old woman of Dhar Road, who died on May 22. She had asthma. There are 2,660 persons under quarantine in Indore. Across the state, 772 localities in 49 districts have been declared containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/276-test-positive-mp-coronavirus-count-6646-recovery-rate-51-per-cent/articleshow/75932554.cms||---
