May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||House help resume work in apartments amid strict safety protocols||Among the many relaxations listed out for lockdown 4.0, is that of allowing domestic help to resume work at homes. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has asked Resident Welfare Associations to allow them, but provided certain protocols are in place, such as verifying whether they reside in a green, orange or red zone, in addition to regular lockdown protocol like mandatory temperature checks and the use of masks, gloves and sanitizer. Choice is left to residentsChaitali Bhattacharya, an IT professional and member of the Resident Welfare Association of an apartment complex, says that their apartment has allowed domestic help and is following the guidelines laid out by the BBMP. "We are following up on their health condition, conducting temperature checks, sanitising their hands regularly and even verifying their residential address to ensure they are not traveling from a red or orange zone. But whether residents wish to call them back to work or not, is left up to them," says Chaitali, who herself, has chosen not to wait a while longer before asking her house help to resume work. Pointing out that thare are still considerable risks that need to be taken into account is Raghav Sharma*, who has chosen not to ask his house help to resume work. "I understand that they are eager to resume work, but we have managed for so long without them and I do not mind waiting for some more time. We do not know who they have interacted with in the past few days, where they have been, whose houses they work at, etc. It's still risky," he explains.Taking extra precautionsMeanwhile, those who have called in their house help, are being extra careful. "My maid is very careful and clean too. She doesn't use public transport and instead, gets dropped by her husband or son. I have kept a sanitizer bottle outside the house which she uses and only then enters our home. She washes her hands, feet and face and changes into a set of clothes, that I have kept for her. She washes that outfit daily. Though she wears a mask whenever she's outside, inside the house she doesn't, because it becomes a little difficult for her. She also doesn't go too close to my daughter, who's still quite small. Though a sense of paranoia still lingers, we trust her and have informed her that she needs to inform us immediately if she is unwell," says Swati Madgaonkar, a resident living in an apartment complex. Apartment federation does its bitThe apartment federation is doing their bit to ensure there are no hindrances for house help who have been called back to work. K Arun Kumar, vice president, Bangalore Apartments’ Federation says, "We are asking apartments to allow domestic help to come back to work, even if just one person in the apartment has requested. But yes, perimeter controls have to be in place, including temperature checks on entry and exit. They are also asked to observe the curfew hours." He adds that different apartments are formulating their own advisory that is in line with the situation in their zone and the federation regularly sends them bulletins and guidelines.BBMP stand"We have taken the decision to allow maids in apartment complexes and had a video conference with Resident Welfare Associations and Bangalore Apartments Federation regarding this. However, the protocols laid out need to be followed strictly and apartments need to provide masks, gloves and hand sanitisers and ensure that it is followed when the maid is going from their apartment to another apartment. Also, those living in cluster zones cannot enter apartments."- BH Anil Kumar, BBMP commissionerExtra measures taken by apartments...- Credentials of all house help (including , drivers, nannies, cooks, car cleaners) and details of their health status, medical and pre-medical conditions and from where they are coming, are checked - House help advised not work in a home where anyone is sick||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/house-help-resume-work-in-apartments-amid-strict-safety-protocols/articleshow/75951355.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
May 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Crossdresser held, set free by police||PATNA: Putting a human face, police on Saturday set a crossdresser free after arresting him on charges of duping people after seeking lift from them. The 26-year-old man, Sunny Kumar (name changed), was released after he told the policemen that he had adopted illegal means to earn money after his earnings from orchestra had stopped due to lockdown. Sunny was arrested from Digha Haat on Friday. SHO of Digha police station Manoj Kumar said Sunny used to dress up as girl and take lift from people on the pretext of going to a hospital. “He used to introduce himself as a hospital staff to hoodwink people. After reaching the hospital in their vehicles, he used to take Rs 500-Rs 1,000 from them on the pretext of treatment of his ailing mother,” the SHO added. Kumar said Sunny was allowed to go home on a personal bond with condition that he would appear at the police station twice a week. The SHO said he talked to the mukhiya of the panchayat where Sunny lived and asked him to provide food and other necessary items to the latter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crossdresser-arrested-set-free-by-police/articleshow/75952853.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 25, 2020||Guwahati||It will be a long wait at Guwahati airport on arrival: Himanta Biswa Sarma||GUWAHATI: Every air traveler arriving in Assam will be quarantined except those who declare their intentions to go back on the same day, pilots, flight crew members and maintenance staff and people on government duties as domestic air services resume from Monday. “But, it is going to be long wait at the airport for the other passengers after arrival before they can proceed to their designated institutional quarantine centres,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. “It will take 10 minutes for doctors to screen each passenger, collect their history and their swab samples for tests. We will try to provide as much comfort as possible and I apologize for this long wait in advance but, I cannot allow anyone to contaminate the state and wash away all our hard work to keep the pandemic spreading out form quarantine centres,” Sarma said. A second category of travelers, who are exempted from institutional quarantine but not from 14 days home quarantine are pregnant women, people above 75 years of age, physically challenged, people with children below 10 years of age, people who have come to visit their parents or immediate family members who are in hospitals and people coming to attend the last rites of their parents or immediate family members. Those who have returned from abroad to any Indian city and have already completed their quarantine period there and those who have tested negative in a RT-PCR Covid-19 test and not by rapid test in last 72 hours before their arrival here also do not need to repeat institutional quarantine but have to compulsory complete their home quarantine period.  “People intending to return on same day have to submit a declaration at the airport on arrival and any found violating it will be jailed immediately,” Sarma said while announcing the SOP for incoming air travelers. “From Monday our next big challenge will start. There is still uncertainty but 20 to 32 flights will land daily at Guwahati and assuming that every flight of 180 capacity is full, there will be at least 2000 passengers disembarking here every day as the flights would have passengers for onward journeys to Imphal and Agartala,” Sarma added. “Every air traveler have to spend seven days in institutional quarantine and next seven days in home quarantine after their tests results are negative. But one may have to spend few more days in institutional quarantine even if they have tested negative if doctors advise,” Sarma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/it-will-be-a-long-wait-at-guwahati-airport-on-arrival-himanta-biswa-sarma/articleshow/75955491.cms||Prabin Kalita
May 25, 2020||India||Govt infra departments writing performance report of contractors, identifying habitual litigants||NEW DELHI: Now all government departments dealing with infrastructure have started preparing performance appraisal report (PAR) of all contractors engaged by them. This will pave way for giving works to better performers in the next few years, sources said. The assessment of contractors’ performance is being done on criteria including speedy execution, quality of work, tendency towards raising disputes, financial soundness and attitude towards man, machine and material. While performance of railway contractors who have executed works between April 2016 and March 2020 having original cost of each project of at least Rs 10 crore will be assessed in the first phase and will be completed by June 30, NHAI has been rating contractors, consultants and concessionaires on similar parameters. “We have been assessing them from the date they get works. It’s a good exercise to find out which all contractors are not delivering even when condition precedents are fulfilled by the government agencies,” said an NHAI official. TOI on November 13 had first reported how Prime Minister Narendra Modi had directed all infrastructure departments to compile list of contractors, habitual litigants or claimants, under-performers and beneficiaries of arbitration. He had even observed that officials of government departments could be party to the growing number of litigations and claims by contractors in the recent years. The directions were issued during a meeting chaired by PM which was attended by of heads of infrastructure ministries. In a recent communication to all departments and zones, the railway board has said contractors will be put in three categories. Contractors scoring 75 marks and more will be rated as ‘A’ category, 50 plus score will get ‘B’ and those with less than 50 score will be categorised as ‘C’. The appraisal reports of contractors for each project will be written by officials concerned after physical completion of work. NHAI officials they are not creating any category. “We are only giving scores for each project executed by a contractor,” the NHAI official said. Some of the officials told TOI that while the exercise is good, what is more important is to take a decision whether the performance of contractors will be a consideration when fresh tenders are bid out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-infra-departments-to-write-performance-report-of-contractors-identify-habitual-litigants/articleshow/75955554.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to pay Rs 4 lakh ex gratia for kin of Covid-19 deceased||PATNA: In Bihar, the kin or dependent of a person who died because of Covid-19 will now be paid a financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh from the chief minister relief fund. Till date, altogether 13 people have died of Covid-19 in the state. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday ordered payment of financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh to the next kin of each of 13 Covid-19 victims from the CM relief fund. “CM on Sunday asked the officials to ensure immediate payment of Rs 4 lakh to the next kin of the rest 12 Covid-19 victims. Dependent of one Covid-19 victim has already been paid Rs 4 lakh from the CM relief fund,” a communiqué issued from the CM office said. So far, Bihar has reported 2,574 positive cases of Covid-19. Of the total, 702 cases recovered and 13 people died. There are more than 1,850 active positive cases in the state. The State reported altogether 180 new positive cases on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-to-pay-rs-4-lakh-as-assistance-to-kin-of-those-of-died-of-covid-19/articleshow/75955994.cms||Madan Kumar
May 25, 2020||India||Domestic flights from today: Only asymtomatic passengers can fly, govt says||NEW DELHI: As Indian skies prepare to open up for domestic flights from Monday after the long pandemic-induced lockdown, the Centre has once again clarified that only passengers without Covid-19 symptoms will be allowed to fly and on arrival will have to self-monitor their health for 14 days. If passengers develop any Covid-like symptoms after travel, they will need to inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre, say the guidelines for domestic travel by air, train and inter-state bus issued on Sunday by the Union health ministry. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesFor international arrivals, the guidelines mandate that all travellers, before boarding the aircraft to India, “shall give an undertaking that they will undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days — seven-day paid institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days’ isolation at home with self monitoring of health.” Read AlsoFlights take to skies after 2 months, but face air pockets in some statesMany Passengers Will Be Left With Cancelled TicketsA 14-day home quarantine may be permitted only in exceptional cases like “human distress, pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness and parent(s) accompanied by children below 10 years” by receiving states. Such passengers will mandatorily need to use the Aarogya Setu app. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The Centre, however, has allowed states to develop their own isolation and quarantine protocols. This allows different states to have different entry protocols, which passengers must individually check before getting on a train, plane or bus. Travellers have also been advised to download the Aarogya Setu app, but it is not mandatory for them, except for those going for 14-day home quarantine upon return from abroad. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageAviation minister H S Puri tweeted: “Latest guidelines on domestic & international travel have been issued by the Union health ministry. I hope travellers strictly follow these self-regulatory norms and strengthen India’s hands in this fight against Covid-19. Remember, each one of us is a soldier against the pandemic.” Latest guidelines on domestic & international travel have been issued by @MoHFW_INDIA. I hope travellers strictly… https://t.co/Wf4g4Vp2gO— Hardeep Singh Puri (@HardeepSPuri) 1590310487000The guidelines for domestic travellers say: “Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility. They will be assessed for clinical severity at the health facility. Those having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated Covid health facilities and managed accordingly. Those having mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or isolated in the Covid care centre.” “If positive, they will continue in Covid care centre and will be managed as per clinical protocol. If negative, the passenger may be allowed to go home, isolate himself/herself for a further 7 days. In case, any symptoms develop they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/ national call centre,” the guidelines added. Watch Domestic flights resume from today across India, except Andhra and West Bengal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/only-asymtomatic-passengers-can-fly-gov/articleshow/75955922.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Business||Flights take to skies after 2 months, but face air pockets in some states||NEW DELHI: The Centre's plan to restart domestic flights from Monday after a gap of two months owing to the Covid-induced lockdown ran into last-minute turbulence caused by opposition from states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. After much persuasion, Mumbai airport agreed to allow only 50 flights on day one - less than a fourth of what India's second-busiest airport was to see. Air India has decided to deploy wide-body aircraft on the Delhi-Mumbai route to accommodate as many passengers as possible. West Bengal said a reduced number of flights would be allowed to operate from Kolkata and Bagdogra from May 28 as the state was suffering the after-effects of the devastating Cyclone Amphan. Vijaywada and Visakhapatnam will allow scheduled flights from May 26. Chennai and Hyderabad are learned to have decided on capping the number of flights. Late on Sunday, aviation minister H S Puri tweeted: "It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state governments to recommence civil aviation operations in the country..." It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state govts to recommence civil aviation operations in the… https://t.co/89bXEUoCJ1— Hardeep Singh Puri (@HardeepSPuri) 1590336897000Thousands to be hit due to cancellationsAirlines were asked to submit a majorly truncated schedule to DGCA by 10pm on Sunday. "We will be working all of Sunday night. Once the further truncated schedule (of the one-third that was to resume) is finalised, passengers will need to be informed of flight cancellations and flight-time changes. The restarting could not have been planned in a worse possible way," said an airline official. Instead of the 8,216 schedule flights that ply in Indian skies per week (over 1,170 daily), the first few days starting Monday may see close to only half of that frequency at about 600. As a result, thousands of travellers will be left with tickets of cancelled flights and will have to wait till the numbers pick up. With airlines keeping the booking amount to be used for future travel, many will be "forced" to hold the tickets. Sunday saw aviation secretary P S Kharola in hectic parleys with states for the resumption of at least one-third of flights from Monday and also ensure some uniformity in arrival protocols to reduce confusion among passengers. While the Centre's guidelines for arriving domestic travellers require them to self-monitor their health for 14 days, states have been given a free hand to develop their own protocol for quarantine and isolation for incoming passengers. So now, going to different states will be akin to going to different countries and checking the entry protocols of each of them individually. "After secretary Kharola's e-meetings with states ended Sunday night and the reduced numbers of flights for Mumbai and delayed start at some other airports was finalised, the changes were communicated to the DGCA. The regulator will then proportionately reduce flights to and from Mumbai. A similar word is expected from Chennai," Reducing Mumbai flights has hit the expected schedule a lot in terms of mounting flights by crew rostering and aircraft movement," aviation sources said. The last-minute flight changes will be communicated to passengers and many stranded people who were hoping to fly on Monday will either be told that their flight is cancelled or that the timing has changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flights-take-to-skies-after-2-months-but-face-air-pockets-in-some-states/articleshow/75957392.cms||Saurabh Sinha
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||#AmphanEffect: Green warriors pledge to restore Kolkata’s lungs||A conservative estimate pegs the total number of trees felled by the monstrous super cyclone Amphan at 5,500 in Kolkata. Most of them being mature trees – including the 270-year-old Great Banyan Tree at Botanical Gardens – experts have warned of serious impact on the city’s micro climate, biodiversity and oxygen cover. While the uprooted trunks have destroyed homes and public amenities, cutting off electricity and water supply, it is heartening to see committed green warriors roll up their sleeves and get into action. They have started the long and arduous process of planting new trees, restore fallen ones, and have pledged to do whatever they can to restore the city’s green shield. Some of them have urged city planners to reconsider trees with shallow roots such as Kadam. Veteran environmentalist Biswajit Roy Chowdhury said: “Thousands of Kadam trees had been planted in Kolkata, but the tree has a very shallow root and cannot sustain powerful winds. Same with Gulmohar,” he added. Even then, there is hope. “It might take time, but Kolkata will get back its green cover and we all will work until we achieve that,” said environmentalist Somenath Pal Das. The lungs of Kolkata destroyed All major clubs – Tollygunge Club, Royal Calcutta Golf Club (RCGC) and Royal Calcutta Turf Club (RCTC) – considered as the lungs of the city have sustained massive damages. Anil Mukherjee, CEO of Tollygunge Club, said that more than 73 century-old trees were destroyed at the club. At RCTC, more than 50 trees have fallen. “Thankfully, no human or animals were hurt. But it’s irreversible damage,” said Kanchan Jana, secretary. Both clubs have started the inspection process and are hopeful at least some of these old trees will be restored. “Some old Gulmohar (Royal Poinciana) and Jacaranda trees were uprooted. But we will not rest until we restore at least some of them,” said Anil. Joggers’ paradise turned hell At Rabindra Sarobar Lake and Eco Park respectively, 220 and 400 trees were uprooted by Amphan. Sarobar activist Mudar Patherya has also started working on replanting the fallen trees. “After Cyclone Aila in 2009, we replanted six trees and they all survived Amphan. We are planning to do the same this time, even though the damages are far worse,” he said, adding that from today a census of Sarobar will be conducted and a strategy put in place accordingly. Debasis Sen, chairman, HIDCO, said that on Saturday they restored and replanted around 100 trees in the New Town area. For the upcoming plantation drive, “Trees with deeper root structure and lesser leaves will be given high priority,” he added. Lone Warriors Even as the government, the army and larger private organisations stay focused on restoring infrastructure, there are individuals who are already doing their bit for the trees. Somenath Pal Das (in pic below), an environmentalist, started planting trees on Saturday in his locality. “I am carefully cutting a small brunch and replanting it at any available spot. Besides, I am also collecting seeds from fallen trees so that when the space is cleared out,” he added. Replantation -- inexpensive, effective Environmentalists say that the fastest way to restore the green cover is replantation because a 100-year-old tree works as an independent ecosystem. If it is replaced by a sapling it will take another 100 years to achieve that ecosystem. Chandan Ghosh, a replantation expert, said that he has been getting numerous calls after Amphan and it is possible to replant trees. “If the root structure is even partly intact, the trees can be replanted,” he added. According to estimates, replanting six trees would cost Rs 12,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphaneffect-green-warriors-pledge-to-restore-kolkatas-lungs/articleshow/75950439.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
May 25, 2020||India||UP govt to put quarantine posters outside houses of returnees||AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government has reiterated its May 1 order directing all district administrative officials to ensure that quarantine posters are put outside the houses of all new entrants into the state, including the 23 lakh migrant workers who have returned in the past few weeks. Officials revealed that while many districts, including Kanpur (urban), Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Muzaffarnagar and Mainpuri had not even got the notices printed, some others, like Aligarh, Bareilly, Hapur, Chitrakoot, Ghazipur, Etah, Gonda, Mathura, Lalitpur, Varanasi and Pratapgarh, had not covered all the houses and merely completed the task for less than 40% of such households. An official said that special attention needs to be given to rural areas as the system in remote areas is not robust. Mainpuri DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh said that 1,500 posters have been pasted in a day and the process is on. “Around 5,000 migrant workers have returned to the district till now and all gram panchayats have been informed about it. Their homes, where they are quarantined, will also be painted with a (+) mark for easy identification,” he said. “Gram Nigrani Samiti (village monitoring committee) has been given the responsibility to monitor the houses where migrant returnees have been quarantined,” said Aligarh DM CB Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-govt-to-put-quarantine-posters-outside-houses-of-returnee/articleshow/75957669.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 25, 2020||India||SOPs revised for flights to bring Indians home||NEW DELHI: The Union home ministry on Sunday revised its standard operating procedures for special flights ferrying Indian nationals stranded abroad as also persons stranded in India who wish to travel abroad. For international arrivals and quarantine arrangements, guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday will be applicable. As per SOP for movement of Indian nationals stranded abroad as well as Indian nationals who need to visit India for emergencies, the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine and Aarogya Setu download by passengers prescribed by the May 5 SOPs have been done away with. The health ministry guidelines issued on Sunday recommend only a seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven days of isolation at home with self-monitoring of health. Stranded Indians will continue to be required to register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded. Watch Government revises SOPs for flights to bring Indians home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sops-revised-for-flights-to-bring-indians-home/articleshow/75957953.cms||Bharti Jain
May 25, 2020||India||Air travel 'godsend' for some, a no-fly zone for many||Faridabad- based engineer Neeraj Gupta spent the whole of Friday trying to do something he would normally spend barely five minutes on: web check-in for the first flight home from Indore on Monday. He finally got his e-boarding pass on Saturday evening - after multiple tries, requests to customer care and complaints on the airline's Twitter handle.  "I am hoping there are no more hitches. I just want to go home," Neeraj said on Sunday. As domestic airlines line up for a rather complicated post-Covid take-off after being grounded for more than two months, the sense of anticipation in the air has been tempered by apprehensions among flyers about last-minute cancellations because of some states either refusing to allow airport operations to resume or limiting the number of flights. State-specific quarantine and the middle-seat quandary have added to the uncertainty.  For Sunetra Mitra, a professor from Kolkata stranded in Shimla, getting to Delhi to catch her scheduled flight amid the lockdown had been her primary concern until Bengal announced late on Sunday that flights would be allowed only from May 28. Aiman in Lucknow can't stop talking about how the opportunity to visit her native Jaipur on Eid is "a godsend" amid the lockdown gloom. Down south, Hyderabad-based techie Kamalika Sinha had been counting the hours and praying nothing goes wrong till her scheduled morning flight on Monday lands in Kolkata.  For every person eager to board the first flight out of a city, there are scores of others who need to travel but are wary of doing so for various reasons. Stuck in Mumbai, Deepak Rao is eager to return to his workplace Bengaluru and get to work so that his start-up goes live soon. But after being forced to postpone travel six times, he would rather wait some more time. "I don't want to go into institutional quarantine, I will be travelling back only when the government allows home quarantine," he said.  (With inputs from Delhi, Pune, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kochi & Kolkata)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/air-travel-godsend-for-some-a-no-fly-zone-for-many/articleshow/75958384.cms||---
May 25, 2020||India||Covid-19: Positivity rate per 100 tests rises to 5% in last 2 weeks||NEW DELHI: The countrywide positivity rate of coronavirus cases per 100 tests has increased to 5% if tests in the last two weeks (between May 7 and May 21) are taken into account. The figure was 4% for tests conducted from February till May 21.  However, some states like MP, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh have done better, bringing down the positivity rate and containing the pandemic. At least seven states and Union Territories have reported much higher positivity rates. These include Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Telangana, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar, each placed between 5% and 18%, the highest being Maharashtra.  Madhya Pradesh, which had struggled in the face of a surge in cases in Indore and Bhopal, has improved from 5% to 4% in the last two weeks (between May 7 and May 21). Other states with similar performances include West Bengal, which has brought down the positivity rate from 3% to 2%; Punjab, from 4% to 2%; Andhra Pradesh, from 0.9% to 0.6% and J&K and Haryana at 1%. There are, however, some questions on West Bengal with regard to testing. States like Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand have a static positivity rate, below 1%. Kerala, so far the best performing state, has kept the positivity rate at 1%. The recovery rate of Kerala is 65% as against MP's 51%.  The positivity rate is one of the parameters employed by governments to assess whether a state is fit to be opened for normal economic activities or should continue to remain under lockdown. Case fatality and recovery rate, the latter read as a ratio with active cases, are other indicators.  High mortality and positivity rates are indicative that a state is only testing the sickest and not screening enough people for Covid-19 symptoms. Sufficient testing is key to containment of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/positivity-rate-per-100-tests-rises-to-5-in-last-2-weeks/articleshow/75958512.cms||Pradeep Thakur
May 25, 2020||India||87 on Mumbai to Haridwar Shramik Special test Covid positive||DEHRADUN: Besides the 55 passengers who were found positive on Saturday, 32 more passengers of the MumbaiHaridwar ‘Shramik Special’, were found Covid-19-positive on Sunday. Health department officials confirmed that cases may double in the next couple of days as reports of over 3,000 samples are pending in four different labs across the state. Officials said around 1,500 passengers of Mumbai-Haridwar ‘Shramik Special’ had de-boarded at Haridwar railway station on May 20 and were sent to various districts in around 15 different buses. The passengers who tested positive were from the buses bound for Almora, Nainital and Bageshwar. Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary (health), said, “As many as 32 more positive cases from Shramik Special were reported on Sunday and till now total 87 have been found positive. We are awaiting more reports in the next couple of days.” Haridwar DM C Ravishankar said over 450 samples of passengers of the same train were collected in Haridwar itself on May 20 and the department has got some reports while many are still pending. Meanwhile, overburdened with around 1,000 new samples collected between May 20 and 23, AIIMS Rishikesh has stopped taking more samples on Sunday. Rakesh Thapliyal, PRO of AIIMS Rishikesh, confirmed that the institution is working on clearing the pending cases which are over 1,000. Chief secretary Utpal Kumar, sharing the new treatment guidelines of Covid-19 patients, said all new positive patients would be under surveillance for the next 10 days and if they don’t develop any critical symptoms between the 7th and 10th day, they would be discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/87-on-mumbai-to-haridwar-shramik-special-test-covid-positive/articleshow/75958633.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 25, 2020||India||At 30%, pvt Covid labs lag govt units, test just 17% of samples||NEW DELHI: Even as almost one-third of total Covid testing labs are in the private sector, merely 12-18% of the samples are tested in such labs, raising concerns over participation of the private sector in efforts to combat the pandemic.  Private labs in states like Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and West Bengal are testing fewer samples as compared to government labs. The lower testing in private labs can be explained in part by costs, even if capped, as compared to the government set-up. In cities where private labs have a better presence, like Mumbai and Delhi, the testing is higher.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), of the total 607 labs allowed to carry out Covid-19 testing, 180 labs are in the private sector - accounting for almost 30% of approved labs across the country. But when it comes to testing samples, less than five lakh have been tested in private sector so far against more than 25 lakh in government labs, said an official.  In Tamil Nadu, 27 private labs, the second highest after Maharashtra with 31, tested 48,457 samples which is merely 13% of the total 3.47 lakh samples tested in the state. Similarly, in Telangana, private labs tested only 3,835 samples so far, against 27,750 tested by public sector labs. In Karnataka, which has 23 private and 34 government labs, 24,570 samples have been tested in the private sector as against 1.9 lakh by public labs.  The low testing by private sector labs has raised concern as the country is now gradually exiting the lockdown. The movement of migrant workers to smaller cities and villages along with government's plans to gradually open up domestic and international travel is likely to result in an increase in testing.  "The idea behind allowing the private sector was to increase access and availability of testing facility and capacity. Private sector participation is crucial to tackle such crisis. Some of these labs have wide network, mainly that of collection centres. But we are disappointed with their response so far," an official said, pointing out that many of the approved labs did not have the wherewithal to collect samples or logistics to transfer them to labs. Moreover, private labs were expecting the government ones to divert samples to them.  However, testing by the private sector is seen on a much larger scale in Maharashtra and Delhi. Till Sunday, over 29.43 lakh samples were tested for Covid across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-30-pvt-covid-labs-lag-govt-units-test-just-17-of-samples/articleshow/75958732.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt brings down institutional quarantine from 21 to 7 days||BHUBANESWAR: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise, the state government on Sunday revised the quarantine norms for returnees, reducing the period of institutional quarantine from 21 to seven days with another week in home isolation. “Returnees in rural areas will undergo seven days of mandatory institutional quarantine, after which asymptomatic persons will be discharged to undergo home quarantine for a further period of seven days,” the government said in an official statement. “If local authorities find it necessary to extend the period of institutional quarantine for reasons related to containment of Covid-19 and to prevent spread of infection, they may do so,” the statement added. In case the person in quarantine develops symptoms requiring medical attention, the person may be shifted to a Covid care centre, the government informed. The revised guidelines have been sent to all district collectors. The new norms will allow more than 1.50 lakh people, who returned to the state a week back, to head home if they do not show symptoms. As many as 1,51,065 people have returned to the state till May 17. As per earlier norms, these people would have had to stay in institutional quarantine for 21 days. They will now vacate the centres for new returnees. P K Mohapatra, additional chief secretary of the heath and family welfare department, said, “We have aligned our quarantine guidelines with that of the Centre to 14 days of quarantine. The quarantine period of 21 and 28 days, as prescribed by the state government, was creating confusion among the people.” In urban areas, each person on return from outside Odisha will have to stay in home quarantine for a period of 14 days, observing Covid-19 guidelines. If the returnee does not have a proper quarantine facility at home, he or she may stay in institutional or paid quarantine for a period as directed by the local authorities, the government added. Former director of AIIMS, Bhubaneswar and vice-chancellor of SOA University, Dr Ashok Mohaptra said, “The World Health Organisation (WHO) has recommended 14 days quarantine and the Centre, too, has said that positive cases can be treated in home isolation. So, the state did nothing wrong in reducing the quarantine period.” However, he said there was no urgent need to reduce the period of institutional quarantine as the state has developed good infrastructure to fight the increasing number of positive cases. Asked about the government move, Dr E Venkata Rao, a professor in community medicine, said, “The healthcare infrastructure in the country is not able to handle the number of positive cases increasing by the day. People need to be cautious and take preventive measures to keep the virus at bay and check transmission. This move could have been to reduce the burden on institutional quarantine centres.” The state, meanwhile, has decided that government officials, professionals, businessmen or any other person travelling to Odisha on work and intending to exit within 72 hours of arrival or any returnee who has already undergone prescribed isolation, are exempted from mandatory quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-brings-down-institutional-quarantine-from-21-to-7-days/articleshow/75953424.cms||Minati Singha
May 25, 2020||Surat||GDWU demands Rs 10,000 cash dole for jobless diamond artisans||Surat: The Gujarat Diamond Workers’ Union (GDWU) has urged the state government should pay Rs 10,000 cash dole to each of the diamond worker rendered jobless for the last two months due to the extended lockdown.Barring few thousand workers who are employed in big diamond companies, majority of the artisans in the small and medium units are jobless and have not been paid lockdown wages by their employers. Over four lakh diamond workers have already left the city for their natives in Saurashtra and North Gujarat in the last one month.The diamond industry employs about five lakh diamond workers in 4,000 units.GDWU office-bearers said that they had represented the workers’ issue to the Gujarat governor too. The governor’s office directed them to send a representation to the labour and employment department of the state government for the relief package and other demands.A detailed representation has been sent to the department on behalf of the artisans.GDWU president, Ranmal Jilariya told TOI: “The diamond industry is reeling under recession for a long time now and the pandemic has only increased the uncertainity. Apart from the relief package, we want the government to provide Rs 10,000 cash dole to each of the jobless worker to sustain their livelihood.”Chandu Sheta, a diamond unit owner in Varachha told TOIm "We are doing job work for big units and it is not possible for us to pay wages to workers without any work."President of Surat Diamond Association (SDA) Babu Kathiriya said, "Majority of the diamond units have paid wages for the month of March. There are big diamond companies who have paid March and April wages too. Small units can't afford to pay as they had no business at all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gdwu-demands-rs-10000-cash-dole-for-jobless-diamond-artisans/articleshow/75954231.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Business||JioMart goes live in 200 cities after Mumbai pilot||Bengaluru: Reliance’s JioMart has gone live in 200 cities over the weekend, including in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Kolkata as well as tier-2 towns in Rajasthan and Odisha. This comes after the company’s pilot test in the Mumbai suburbs of Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan and Dombivli. Though an app is not yet available, consumers can place orders through its website, which claims to be offering products at a minimum discount of 5% on the maximum retail price (MRP). Orders through WhatsApp are also likely to be rolled out across the country, taking a cue from its pilot in Mumbai region. The platform is currently selling essential products like grocery, fruits and vegetables. “Big town or small, JioMart delivers in over 200 towns, starting today!” Reliance Retail CEO (grocery retail) Damodar Mall tweeted on Saturday, announcing the move. A Jio spokesperson did not respond to TOI’s emailed query till the time of going to press. Currently, JioMart is charging a delivery fee of Rs 25 for orders less than Rs 750. For order value above that, delivery is free. In central Bengaluru, it is offering a delivery timeline of up to two days. In its May 4 edition, TOI had reported JioMart ramping up kirana stores on its platforms with enhanced credit limits, store managers and consumer incentives to acquire users in the middle of a pandemic, when more customers are placing orders online. JioMart plans to leverage WhatsApp’s user base of 400 million in India, a key differentiator compared to its rivals — horizontal e-tailers like Amazon and Flipkart, or e-grocers like Bigbasket and Grofers. This partnership is one of the key elements of Facebook’s $5.7-billion investment in Jio Platforms in April. Since then, Jio has raised $10.3 billion from a clutch of top-tier investors like KKR, General Atlantic, Vista and Silver Lake. JioMart’s entry in online grocery retail has already caused reactions from rivals like Amazon India. The local arm of the Seattle-based e-tailer said it had on-boarded 5,000 local shops on its platform and wants to scale it up further. JioMart is expected to rely largely on Reliance’s own retail network to source most of the products, including its private brands, whether it’s sold by them (Reliance) or kirana stores on the platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jiomart-goes-live-in-200-cities-after-mumbai-pilot/articleshow/75955843.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Business||Essel Infra defaults on Rs 616cr NCDs held by Franklin MF||Mumbai: Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund on Saturday said that Essel Infrastructure has defaulted on two bonds, worth Rs 616 crore in aggregate, which were held by four of its six debt schemes facing closure. However, there is no impact on these schemes that hold these bonds since these papers were valued at Rs 92 crore — just 15% of their maturity value. The defaults happened on May 22 and the fund house is taking legal recourse to recover the money. Interestingly, in early 2019, around 10 fund houses were holding NCDs issued by Essel Group and since then they have recovered their investments. Essel Group’s chairman Subhash Chandra had written a mail to exchanges in January 2019 about the tight liquidity condition it faced and that it would be difficult to pay all lenders on time. The four Franklin Templeton schemes affected by Essel Group’s defaults are Short Term Income Plan, Dynamic Accrual Fund, Low Duration Fund and Credit Risk Fund. These debt schemes “are invested in 0% Essel Infra Series I 22 May 2020 and 0% Essel Infra Series II 22 May 2020 NCDs issued by Essel Infraprojects. At maturity, the issuer was unable to meet the maturity obligation,” the fund house said. “The NCDs are backed by a pledge of listed shares of Zee Entertainment Enterprises, Dish TV, unlisted shares of Essel Infraprojects, personal guarantee of Subhash Chandra and corporate guarantee,” the fund house said. A spokesperson for Essel Group declined to comment on the development. According to Franklin Templeton MF, the default does not have any impact on the NAV of the schemes. “This only reflects the realisable value basis the current share cover and does not indicate any reduction or write-off of the amount repayable by Essel Infrastructure,” the fund house said. The value of shares held as collateral is greater than the current valuation of bonds, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/essel-infra-defaults-on-rs-616cr-ncds-held-by-franklin-mf/articleshow/75955697.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Student killed, widow raped, petro station looted||PATNA: A 17-year-old Class X student was killed in Supaul while a man raped a widow in a Rohtas village and criminals looted Rs 60,000 from a petrol station in Muzaffarpur district on Sunday. Unidentified miscreants strangled 17-year-old Rajesh Kumar when he had gone for morning stroll on Sunday. His body was recovered from Bhawanipur Harabund canal. His father Birbal Yadav told the police that Rajesh had left home around 5am. Some passersby spotted the body and informed the family. Local blocked the Bhawanipur-Supaul road and disrupted vehicular traffic for an hour. Additional SP Ramanand Kaushal pacified the protesters. SHO Rajnish Kumar Kesari said the victim had strangulation mark on his neck. “The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained,” he said. In Rohtas, a widow was raped by a man in his early 40s under Agrer police station when the victim was alone in her house. On hearing an alarm raised by her, local residents caught hold of the accused and handed him over to the police. SHO Sarita Suman said accused Ajmer Ansari was sent to jail. The victim was sent to Sasaram Sadar hospital for medical examination. In Muzaffarpur, unidentified armed criminals looted Rs60,000 from a petrol pump on Motipur-Sahebganj road under Baruraj police station around 11am. They also thrashed an employee of the outlet when he offered resistance. Two held in Buxar rape case: Two persons — Lalu Yadav (30) and Bachcha Lal Yadav (42) -- were arrested from Tilak Raj Ka Haata police outpost area and sent to jail for alleged gang-rape of a newly married woman in Buxar district. The victim was found in a drunken state in Gurudev Nagar diara and subsequently admitted to Buxar Sadar hospital on Saturday. The survivor told the police that she was kidnapped by six people when she had gone to buy medicines from a shop at Adarsh Nagar on Thursday evening. The kidnappers forced her to consume liquor at gunpoint and then raped her for two days in a hut. Dumraon SDPO K K Singh said on Sunday the woman’s medical examination was conducted under the supervision of a medical team. Her statement would be recorded in a court, he said, adding raids were on to nab the remaining accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/student-killed-widow-raped-petro-stn-looted/articleshow/75952721.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar cop suspended for molesting woman at quarantine centre||Rudrapur: An Udham Singh Nagar police official was suspended on Sunday for allegedly molesting and misbehaving with a woman at a quarantine centre in Kichha town of the district. The accused constable Jagdish Kumar has also been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Constable Jagdish was suspended after district’s senior superintendent of police Barinderjit Singh took cognisance of the crime. Sources in the police department told TOI that a newly married couple, who returned to Rameshwarpur village from Delhi on Saturday, was quarantined at Pulbhatta’s Surajmal College. Reportedly, the accused constable Jagdish told them that men and women were to be kept separately. The victim woman told TOI, “The constable was in an inebriated state and while guiding me to my room, he not only misbehaved with me but also tore my clothes and tried to molest me. Somehow, I managed to escape.” A departmental inquiry has been ordered against the constable, who is on the loose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-cop-suspended-for-molesting-woman-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75953255.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 25, 2020||Patna||Patna to celebrate Eid today amid lockdown||PATNA: Hundreds of people gathered at marketplaces in the city on ‘Chand Raat’, the eve of Eid, for the last-minute shopping on Sunday. The bustling Sabzibagh market areas were illuminated with colourful lights. However, shops in the locality which used to remain open throughout the night on the eve of Eid earlier, downed their shutters at 6pm following the directives of the district administration in view of coronavirus-induced lockdown. SHO of Pirbahore police station Rizwan Khan said the shops were closed at 6pm and the police personnel deployed in the locality to ensure adherence of the government’s directives by the traders. Mohd Shafi Khan, who owns a grocery store at Sabzibagh, said it was an unusual Eid eve this year because of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. “This year, we have sold only local ‘lachcha’ and ‘seviyan’. Due to the lockdown, ‘seviyan’ from Dehi and Kolkata, which find many takers, could not reach the city,” he said. Like Khan, other traders were quite worried with the poor sales. Imran Ahmed, another local trader, many customers returned empty-handed as their turns did not come. “We allowed only six people at a time to maintain social distancing norms. As a result, many customers left the market without buying goods,” he said. For some, it was like winning a war when they finally managed to buy essential items for the festival. Saquib Zeya, a resident of Naya Tola, said, “There was a mad rush of people to buy the ‘seviyan’, dry fruits, ‘naan-roti’ and ‘bakarkhani’. It took me nearly four hours to buy these items. Like me, many other people waited for hours in queue under the scorching sun for their turn to buy necessary items,” Zeya added. Saman Mirza, a resident of Shah Ganj, said the district administration should have opened all shops at least for a day in view of Eid celebrations. “I could not buy anything this year due to the lockdown. We usually buy new clothes and home décor articles on the eve of Eid. However, as the shops were closed, we were left dejected this year,” Mirza added. No special prayers at mosques today: Islamic bodies have announced that special Eid prayers will not be conducted at mosques or ‘khanqahs’ on Monday. Maulana Shibli Qasmi, general secretary of Imarat-e-Shariah, said the mosques would remain closed for the pubic or congregational prayer services. “People should offer Eid namaz at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-to-celebrate-eid-today-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75953166.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Decision on payment of revised UGC pay arrears soon, says Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: The ‘controversial’ notification of the state education department regarding a moratorium on the payment of arrears of revised UGC pay to the university and college teachers in Bihar is likely to be withdrawn soon. The matter is being examined by the state finance department and a decision would be taken soon, said deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi. Modi, who is also the finance minister, said on Sunday that the file relating to the payment of arrears is likely to be placed before him on Wednesday. He would consider the genuine demand of teachers sympathetically before taking a decision, he said. The deputy CM pointed out that the state government is sympathetic towards teachers and that’s why the government ordered for payment of arrears of revised pay from January 2016 to March 2019 and also released necessary funds to the universities even amid nationwide lockdown. However, maybe due to some confusion, the education department linked the payment of arrears with the authentication of revised pay (in the 7th payscale) by its Pay Verification Cell (PVC). He said there is no need of verification of teachers’ pay revised in the seventh scale if it has already been authenticated by the PVC in the sixth scale. The state education department on May 18 issued a notification directing the universities not to pay the arrears of revised pay to the teachers until their revised pay in the seventh scale is authenticated by the PVC and pay entitlement letter is issued to individual teachers. Surprisingly enough, this notification was issued at a time when all the university teachers had already started getting revised payscales and many of them had also been paid their arrears. This notification led to a strong protest by teachers’ representatives (as reported in this newspaper on Wednesday) from every nook and corner. When asked about the agitation launched by the non-teaching staff of colleges and universities due to the government notification regarding deduction of 25% of salary of those employees whose pay had not been verified by the PVC till date, Modi said this step was initiated as thousands of employees did not submit their papers for verification despite repeated reminders of the education department. There would not be any deduction of pay of employees who have already submitted their required documents for verification by the PVC, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decision-on-payment-of-revised-ugc-pay-arrears-soon-dy-cm/articleshow/75952632.cms||B K Mishra
May 25, 2020||Varanasi||Migrant inflow continues in east UP dists||Varanasi: Despite reduced frequency of Shramik Express trains in comparison to past three-four days, the high inflow of migrants continued in east UP districts on Sunday also. Number of trains arriving at Varanasi and other neighbouring districts reduced but pressure at DDU junction in Chandauli continued like Saturday. When TOI tried to take stock of the arrival of migrants from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi and other states, the east central railway’s divisional railway manager (Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya division) Pankaj Saxena said, “We had to ensure movement of 112 trains including 60 Shramik Express trains, which came with migrants from different states on Saturday. Of them six reached at DDU junction while other passed through it. Similar figures were recorded on Sunday.” The trains arriving or passing through DDU junction brought over 15,000 migrants on Saturday and again on Sunday, said Saxena. Regarding incidents like bid of looting water bottles by some migrants at DDU junction, he said, “We are ensuring distribution of 45,000 bottles of water and 30,000 food packets with the help of volunteers of scouts and guides. Despite all these efforts passengers coming from some trains are creating problem, which is unfortunate.” The inflow of trains was low in Varanasi as only one Shramik Express arrived here on Sunday while 12 passed through it, disclosed additional DRM Varanasi division of northern railway Ravi Chaturvedi. ADM City Varanasi VK Singh said that in comparison to very high frequency of Shramik Express trains and massive load of migrants witnessed in past five days the load was comparatively very low on Sunday. The arrival of Shramik Express mainly from Gujarat and Punjab, which terminated at Ghazipur, Mau, Ballia and other railway stations of North Eastern Railway continued. The officials said that on the demand of the officials of local administration many trains are also being originated from DDU junction, Varanasi junction and stations of NER to take the migrants reaching from other states, up to their destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrant-inflow-continues-in-east-up-dists/articleshow/75952147.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Surat||14-day home quarantine made must for flyers||Surat: Air passengers or other people arriving in the city by road or railway will have to follow 14-day home quarantine rule. "Domestic flights from city begin from Monday and many passengers will be coming from Covid-19 red zones like New Delhi and Mumbai. Hence, passengers arriving in the city will have to follow 14-day home quarantine rule,'' municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. He said ever since the state government relaxed lockdown restrictions, people have started coming to Surat via road and railway and now air. "In order to control spread of coronavirus, it is necessary that people coming to the city follow social distancing norms and quarantine rules and also wear mask. I request everyone to wear mask to prevent spread of Covid-19 in the city,'' Pani said. Meanwhile, Surat city recorded 34 more Covid-19 cases which took total number of cases to 1,279. Limbayat zone continues to be Covid-19 hotspot. Seven more cases were reported from this zone on Sunday. Till now, a total of 481 cases have been reported from this zone alone. A woman identified as Kaushalya Rana, a resident of Gopipura, succumbed to the virus on Sunday, taking the toll to 60. At the same time, 39 Covid-19 patients were discharged in the city. Twelve patients were discharged from Covid Care Centre and 27 from New Civil Hospital, sources said. FIRE DEPT UPGRADED AFTER TAKSHASHILA ARCADE TRAGEDY Surat: Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani paid tributes to those who died in the fire tragedy at Takshashila Arcade here on May 24 last year. He said after the tragic incident, civic body's fire department was upgraded with induction of new technology and modern machines. Over 24,000 shops were issued notices for not following fire safety norms even as 13 new fire stations were opened and new refilling stations set up in the city in one year, he informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/14-day-home-quarantine-made-must-for-flyers/articleshow/75954082.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Nurse among four booked for Sidhi doctor’s suicide||BHOPAL: More than a year after a 29-year-old doctor killed himself, four people, including a nurse, were booked for abetment to suicide in Sidhi district. On January 27, 2019, Shivam Mishra, who was posted at a community health centre in Churhat in Sidhi district, was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his room. Mishra was provided accommodation in the Doctors’ Colony by the government and he was found hanging there. Sources said that a couple of months before he committed suicide, a complaint under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was made against him by a staff nurse. A complaint was registered at Churhat police station and police started investigating. It was only after a year that cases were registered against four people — including the staff nurse. SP Sidhi R S Belwanshi said, “A case for abetment to suicide has been registered against four people, including a staff nurse at Churhat police station”. Sources said that apart from the staff nurse, cases have also been registered against a health department personnel and two others. It is alleged that the nurse used to blackmail the deceased with the help of others, leading to the tragic incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nurse-among-4-booked-for-sidhi-docs-suicide/articleshow/75955938.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Escaping CCTVs to flout Covid-19 rules also gets tougher||SURAT: Those managing to escape the watchful CCTV eyes to flout social distancing or avoiding masks will find it difficult to get away now! An artificial intelligence-based software designed by a 21-year-old techno-savvy computer student from the city can help authorities track compliance of Covid-19 guidelines at public places more effectively. Ankush Chaudhari, who is pursuing computer science from Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), has designed this social distancing analyzer that can be deployed on the CCTV surveillance system to get the analytics of the areas in real time. Ankush’s model which can measure the separation between people going on foot and in public areas. The software can secretly identify and label the persons keeping safe distances, while highlighting cases in red boxes where the social distancing is disregarded. This AI software could be very useful during the current times when the government has relaxed lockdown rules and that people are back to their normal lives. As a result many shops, malls and other public places have opened, but it’s a daunting task to keep tab on the individuals not following social distancing and roaming around without wearing face masks. “I was sitting idle at home for last two months due to lockdown. I thought of developing the AI software for social distancing with real-time analytics. Starting from the prototype, I have developed three latest versions of the software to help shop owners to regulate customers, companies to monitor employees at workplaces and help police to ensure people are following social distancing protocols and wearing face masks,” Ankush told TOI. According to Ankush, the AI software can generate real-time analytics such as number of people in a particular area or shop, number of people at high-risk due to social distancing violation, extent of risk to a person, automatic masked and non-masked face detection etc. Ankush added, “This software doesn’t collect any data of a particular person. It stores and analyses the video output for review and can been deployed on CCTV cameras and drones.” Ankush said, “I am in talks with the Maharashtra government to deploy the software on the CCTV surveillance system in Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/escaping-cctvs-to-flout-covid-19-rules-also-gets-tougher/articleshow/75954002.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
May 25, 2020||Surat||Summer vacation in educational institues of UTs extended till June 7||SURAT: The summer vacation in the private and government-aided schools, colleges, coaching classes, training institutes in union rerritories of Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) and Diu has extended till June 7. A notification to this effect was issued on Friday by the directorate of education of Daman, DNH and Diu. Earlier, the UT had declared summer vacation in the schools from April 15 to May 16. However, due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in bordering Gujarat state, the administration decided to extend the it till June 7. UT has been successful in keeping the coronavirus pandemic at bay. A lone case of Covid-19 was reported from Silvassa in DNH and that the patient was later discharged after she tested negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/summer-vacation-in-edu-institues-of-uts-extended-till-june-7/articleshow/75954179.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Covid-19 patient's parents test positive in Vapi town||SURAT: Parents of a 31-year-old Covid-19 positive patient tested positive for the virus in Vapi town of Valsad district on Sunday. District health officials said a 55-year-old man and his 54-year-old wife, residents of Satadhar Society in Vapi town, tested positive for coronavirus. "The got infected by their son who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 19. The couple was shifted to a quarantine facility at Atgam village after their son tested positive. However, the couple developed Covid-19 symptoms and was shifted to Civil Hospital in Valsad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-patients-parents-test-positive-in-vapi-town/articleshow/75954141.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Varanasi||Eunuchs get ‘Eidee’ on festival eve||Varanasi: On the eve of Eid festival, the members of kinnar (eunuch) community were given ‘Eidee’ packets by the Anaaj Bank run by an NGO Vishal Bharat Sansthan at Lamahi on Sunday. VBS founder Rajiv Strivastava said DM Kaushal Raj Sharma arranged 100 packets for distribution. The programme was inaugurated online by the executive member of RSS Indresh Kumar. The in-charge of Varanasi Masonic Lodge KK Gupta provided food grains to Anaaj Bank for the purpose. AMD (finance & revenue) Satish Pal attended the programme. Indresh Kumar said that the Anaaj Bank has made a significant initiative for the socialization of kinnar community. VBS founder Rajiv Srivastava said that the 200 kinnars would be given ‘Eidee’ packets. The programme was conducted by Archana Bharatvanshi and Nazma Parveen. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/eunuchs-get-eidee-on-festival-eve/articleshow/75952060.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Vadodara||Animals too don’t go hungry in this containment zone||Vadodara: Every morning a pick-up van carrying vegetables, fruits and milk reaches the entry gate of Covid-19 containment zone in Naswadi taluka of Chhota Udepur district so that the quarantined families can buy the essentials. Right behind this pick-up van, drives in a tractor loaded with grass and fodder which is left at the entry gate.In every containment zone in the state, district administrations have been providing essential items, but Tadviwaas in Naswadi is probably the first such zone where food for animals is also being provided.After unloading the fodder at the gate, an announcement of its arrival is made. The residents stand in a queue at a distance from each other to collect the fodder, just like they maintain discipline while buying vegetables and milk.Tadviwaas was sealed on May 19 as a 28-year-old man who had come from Vadodara to meet his pregnant wife had tested positive. Following all protocols, 22 families in the locality were informed that they would get food and milk in a pick-up van every morning. But as the locality was sealed, the families were puzzled over taking their goats out for grazing as there was no open ground. Every family owns three to four goats. Before the area was sealed, one person from any of the families used to take around 80 goats out in nearby hillocks for grazing On the first day, the goats were left hungry but by second morning they started bleating. “We started getting complaints from the owners of livestock, so we immediately got into action. The owners told us what kind of fodder is consumed by goats and we managed to source them,” said deputy collector Umesh Shah. The local gram panchayat and Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL) helped in getting the fodder. Later, the grass was also provided from the sites where work under MGNREGA scheme was going on. “Now, it has been four days since the truck-load of fodder too is provided daily along with food essentials,” Shah added.“While fighting against coronavirus, we must think and take care of all living beings,” Shah told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/animals-too-dont-go-hungry-in-this-containment-zone/articleshow/75953177.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 25, 2020||Surat||Home, shop burgled during lockdown hours||Surat: While the city police are on their toes enforcing strict lockdown between 7pm and 7am, burglars are finding the people-free roads a big advantage to carry out their nocturnal activities. In two separate thefts reported in the city on Saturday, valuables worth thousands were allegedly stolen from a residence and a shop.Valuables worth Rs 53,500 were stolen from the residence of Ankita Tripathi during the early hours on Saturday between 2am and 6.30am, said Dindoli police. They added that Tripathi claimed that the burglar gained entry through the back door and decamped with cash, mobile phone and a laptop.Investigation revealed that the backside of the house has no grilles, and has a farm located just behind it. “The complainant said that the family keeps the back door open for ventilation during night time. The valuables were stolen from the room in which the family was sleeping,” said cops, adding that burglars may have used the farm route to enter and exit the house.In the other theft case, valuables worth Rs 49,286 were stolen from a shop in Dayalji Baug, formerly known as Dutch Garden, during the early hours on Friday. Burglars entered GNFC’s Neem Shop by breaking a wooden window, said Nita Gamit, an employee at the shop who lodged a complaint on Saturday in Athwalines police station. The shop was closed at 8pm and when staff returned at 8.30am next day morning they found it burgled.The shop that is located on a busy road which houses several government offices as well, sells various products including neem-based hand sanitizers, liquid soap, neem oil and other products that enjoy high demand in the current times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/home-shop-burgled-during-lockdown-hours/articleshow/75954365.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Indore||Indore: SI succumbs to Covid-19, two more policemen test positive||INDORE: A sub-inspector posted in RPF police station in Khandwa district, who was admitted at a hospital in Indore, lost his life battling Covid-19 on Sunday. Officials said that sub-inspector Ramapati Pandey and his son’s samples were collected on May 18 in which the son was tested positive whereas Pandey’s report was yet to arrive. While the son was kept in isolation ward in district hospital, the SI was not admitted. It was only after his condition started deteriorating that he was admitted to hospital in Khandwa on Saturday and was rushed to Indore, where he succumbed on Sunday. RPF inspector Mahendra Khoja said that SI Pandey had taken leave on May 13 after he faced breathing difficulties. His oxygen saturation in blood was 40% when he was brought to Indore and after being kept on BiPAP, it increased to 80% but he couldn’t survive, said doctors. Meanwhile, two police officials were tested positive at GRP station in Indore. They were among a dozen other police officials who were tested recently. “We had over 150 officials tested of which two including a constable and an ASI were tested positive. After the Indore-Rewa special train was started, we had a feeling that there must have been some spread and so to be cautious, the tests were conducted,” said Gayatri Soni, GRP inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/si-succumbs-to-covid-19-two-more-policemen-test-positive/articleshow/75955950.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Business||Permit input tax credit on donations, say experts||Lubna Kably | TNN Mumbai: Responding to the coronavirus pandemic, India Inc has opened its heart and purse strings. Donations and grants in cash — whether to PM Cares, or state government funds or even local hospitals — will not typically attract the goods and services tax (GST). But challenges arise when a company donates goods. Companies carrying on diverse operations — be it cell phone manufacturers, or those engaged in heavy industry and infrastructure, to give a few examples — have donated N95 masks, surgical masks, ventilators or personal protective equipment (PPE). Several such companies have approached their tax consultants to determine the GST implications. “In the past, in similar situations, GST authorities have denied input tax credit (ITC) claims, especially when the company was not distributing its own products. We fear this will continue,” says the tax head of a Mumbai-based company. Under section 17(5)(h) of the Central GST Act, ITC on goods supplied as a gift or free sample is not available. Thus, a company procuring masks for donations is not able to offset the ITC on such purchase against its final GST liability. There is a need to distinguish gifts or free samples — such as distribution of branded material — from what is given under corporate social responsibility (such as donation of masks, PPEs, etc). “It is important that these aspects are clarified,” says Utkarsh Sanghvi, indirect tax partner at EY-India. An advance ruling, which has a persuasive value in assessment of similar cases, is also available. The Kerala bench had denied ITC on goods such as switches, cables, fans, etc, that had been donated during the floods in the state. Thus, a benevolent clarification at the earliest is needed, say tax experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/permit-input-tax-credit-on-donations-say-experts/articleshow/75955747.cms||Lubna Kably
May 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1.25 lakh migrants from 10 states return by 89 trains||PATNA: Nearly 1.25 lakh migrant workers from 10 states, including Delhi, returned by 89 Shramik special trains on Sunday. The East Central Railway (ECR) has received 887 Shramik special trains with about 11 lakh migrant workers since May 2. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said 18 special trains from Surat, Udhna, Ankleshwar, Gandhidham and Ahmedabad in Gujarat carrying about 25,000 migrant workers reached Nawada, Jehanabad, Banka, Siwan, Motihari, Danapur, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur, Biharsharif, Bettiah, Purnea, Ara, Buxar and Sasaram on Sunday. Besides, 15 special trains from Aurangabad, Bhiwandi, Kolhapur, Miraj, Satara, Thane, Bandra, Vasai Road and Palghar in Maharashtra carrying about 21,000 stranded people reached Nawada, Araria, Motihari, Madhubani, Gaya, Bettiah, Katihar, Darbhanga, Danapur, Muzaffarpur and Biharsharif, he said. Similarly, 10 Shramik special trains from Delhi with 15,000 on board reached Sitamarhi and Purnea while 12 other special trains from Dadri, Kosi Kalan, Karamnasa and Jalalpur in Uttar Pradesh reached Katihar, Araria, Danapur, Madhubani and Saharsa. At least six Shramik special trains from Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala reached Saharsa, Bhagalpur, Hajipur, Anugrah Narayan Road Station and Katihar, he said, adding three trains from Rewari, Ambala and Rohtak in Haryana brought stranded people back to Purnea, Barauni and Bhagalpur. Special trains from Udaipur, Jaipur, Sawai Madhopur and Jodhpur in Rajasthan with about 8,000 stranded people reached Gopalganj, Khagaria, Bhagalpur and Purnea while one train from Dimapur in Nagaland arrived at Motihari, the CPRO said. At least 16 special trains originating from Danapur, Bettiah, Supaul, Madhubani, Barauni, Gaya, Buxar and Gopalganj ferried thousands of migrant workers to other parts of the state to facilitate them reach their native places on Sunday. Besides, railways is running additional two pairs of dedicated special trains daily between Buxar and Danapur for migrant workers stuck up on the UP-Bihar border after their arrival by road, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-25-lakh-migrants-from-10-states-return-by-89-trains/articleshow/75953750.cms||Kumod Verma
May 25, 2020||Patna||Patna airport registers 11.4% increase in flyers in 2019-20||PATNA: The Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport has registered 11.4% growth in passenger traffic in fiscal 2019-20 compared to 2018-19. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) figures released recently stated that Patna airport handled 45,25,765 passengers between April and March (2019-20) against 40,61,990 in fiscal 2018-19. In terms of monthly passenger movement, Patna airport witnessed 9.8% decline in March this year compared to the same month in 2019. In terms of flyers, the city airport has ranked 14th in India in 2019-20. The airport handled 3,02,525 passengers in March 2020 against 3,35,293 in the same month last year. According to private airlines, the passenger footfall was low after as the airlines witnessed cancellation of tickets due to coronavirus. The number of flights from city airport witnessed 10.2% rise with 30,953 flights in 2019-20, compared to 28,087 in 2018-19. Patna airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said the number of flights to be operational from May 25 has been reduced to one- third of what the airport was handling before the lockdown. The airport’s assistant general manager (air traffic management), Santosh Kumar, said they were expecting over 5 million passengers in 2020-21. However, the footfall will be less as flight operations remained suspended for two months due to the lockdown. In April, the airport handled only six flights, which was 99.7% less compared to 2,211 this month last year. “The movement of flights would remain low for quite sometime. However, few flights will be added to the provisional schedule released by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. Besides, the extension of the terminal building is in progress. It would have been complete had the construction work not been stopped due to lockdown,” said Santosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-airport-registers-11-4-increase-in-flyers-in-2019-20/articleshow/75952343.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 25, 2020||Patna||Rail ticket racket busted, 2 arrested in Patna||PATNA: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has arrested two touts engaged in selling illegally booked e-tickets to passengers wishing to travel in special AC trains amid lockdown. The RPF personnel carried out raids at two separate locations in Patna on May 20 and May 22 and recovered illegally booked e-tickets worth more than Rs 2.68 lakh. The tickets were meant for travel of 138 passengers on Patna-Delhi and other routes. The touts had collected hefty amount from these passengers. RPF IG S Mayank said efforts were being made to stop illegal sale of rail tickets. “RPF deputy commandants have been authorised to act against the touts,” he said. Patna Junction RPF SHO V K Singh said they were asked by RPF DG Arun Kumar on May 20 to remain alert. “We later received a list containing names of some suspects. The DG asked us to take action as per information shared by technical experts of IRCTC,” he said, adding more raids would be conducted soon. Singh said the RPF men raided the office of Pooja Travels, which was functioning from the basement of a multi-storied hotel near Patna Junction, on May 20. “Altogether 24 e-tickets worth Rs 2.5 lakh were seized. These tickets were meant for 119 passengers who were scheduled to travel on May 27. Owner of the travel agency, Manoj Kumar, was arrested,” he said. He said one Shyam Kumar of Sohsarai in Biharsharif was the mastermind of the racket. “Shyam was also arrested from gate number 10 of Gandhi Maidan on Friday. E-tickets worth Rs 18,000 was seized from his possession,” he said. He said Shyam, accused in at least five cases, had come to Patna to meet lawyers for seeking anticipatory bail after he was made an accused along with Manoj in connection with the ticket racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rail-ticket-racket-busted-2-arrested/articleshow/75952198.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 132 back from Muscat by special flight, pledge to follow rules||GAYA: A group of 132 persons stranded in Muscat (Oman) landed at Gaya international airport by the Air India special flight (0974) on Sunday. They included 16 residents of neighbouring Jharkhand state. According to Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, those from Bihar have been put under institutional quarantine at Bodh Gaya, while those from Jharkhand have been sent to Ranchi with proper physical distancing arrangements and other precautions as per the Covid-19 protocol. Pledging full compliance of the quarantine protocol, the returnee Biharis deposited their passports at the airport to guarantee good conduct during the 14-day-long mandatory quarantine. The passports are to be properly indexed flight-wise as per PNR numbers, returnable to the passport holders at the end of the quarantine period. In a humanitarian gesture, three Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries—the Bangladesh monastery, the Burmese monastery and the International Meditation Centre— offered free accommodation to economically distressed returnees, particularly those who have lost their jobs post Covid-19 situation. The paid quarantine in hotels and guest houses costs between Rs 7,000 to 22,400. Burmese monastery deputy chief Bhikku Chullu said that 49 of the foreign returnees have been provided accommodation. Bangladesh monastery deputy chief Bhikku Karuna Jyoti said that he has offered 20 rooms to the returnees. Earlier, International Buddhist Council, the organisation representing the foreign monasteries, protested against the move to quarantine returnees in monasteries as it violated the sanctity of the religious institutions. Defying International Buddhist Council, International Meditation Centre, too, has offered free accommodation to the returnees. Asked about the procedure for safe keeping of the passports, Gaya Airport director Dilip Kumar said that he was only concerned with the operational part of the special flight that brought the stranded people back under ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and everything else was under the jurisdiction of the administrative officials. The group of Sunday returnees comprised mostly workers engaged in low paid semi-skilled jobs in the Middle East. Air India flight number 0974, a narrow body airbus ferried the returnees. Wide body planes, it may be recalled, cannot land at the Gaya airport on account of its shorter runway. The present length of the runway is 2,286 meters and another 500 meter runway length is required to make it compatible with widebody planes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/132-back-from-muscat-by-spl-flight-pledge-to-follow-rules/articleshow/75952613.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 25, 2020||Business||Pharma shrinks 12% in April, worst in 3 years||MUMBAI: The national lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic has led to one of the sharpest falls in three years in the domestic pharma retail market, with growth declining by 12% in April. This is the first year-on-year (YoY) decline since GST’s implementation in July 2017. Production at pharmaceutical units continues to be impacted due to the lockdown-driven disruption, with companies facing challenges in distribution, manufacturing and logistics. The market was pulled down by acute therapies, with demand for these medicines collapsing by nearly 21% in April YoY. With prescriptions for anti-infectives down, sales of pain, gastro and vitamins — usually prescribed together — were also impacted, an industry expert said, adding that these four together comprise around 40% of the overall market (see graphic). Acute therapies were worst hit in April with anti-infectives (-31% YoY), pain (-22% YoY) and gastro (-16% YoY) seeing big declines. Among the therapies, chronic saw low single-digit growth of around 5%, helped by pre-buying from patients in cardiac and diabetes categories, according to data from market research firm IQVIA. In this chronic therapy category, cardiac (13% YoY) and diabetes (10% YoY) segments managed growth. On a trailing 12-month basis, seasonal segments such as respiratory (13.5% YoY) and anti-infectives (9.8% YoY) were main drivers of the 10.6% YoY growth in the acute segment. In FY21, IQVIA expects the domestic market to grow at 1-5%, one of the lowest rates in recent years, with a muted 4-8% YoY growth for major companies. Earlier, the pharma market — valued at around Rs 1.49 lakh crore ($20 billion) — typically recorded strong YoY growth of 10-12%. The decline in pharma growth over March, when the lockdown had just started, stood at 7%, while trailing 12-month growth stood at 8.6% YoY. Pricing has driven nearly 60% of growth for the industry on the trailing 12-month basis, with volume growth attributing an insignificant 0.7 percentage point and contribution from new launches at 2.8 percentage points. Cadila Health, Cipla and Dr Reddy’s — those with a substantial exposure to the acute therapy — underperformed the market during the month. Ipca and Torrent Pharma were the only companies with positive growth in April, according to a note by brokerage firm CLSA. Interestingly, Ipca saw yet another strong month with nine of its top 10 therapies growing in double digits. Its anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, considered a potential treatment for Covid-19 in certain countries, registered 19% YoY growth. Overall, other than the two chronic therapies of cardiac and anti-diabetic, all the top 10 therapies, especially acute, saw big declines on a YoY basis. Chronic therapy brands had strong sales growth — Mixtard (under diabetes, 19%), Lantus (diabetes, 30%), Levipil (CNS, 24%), Thyronorm (thyroid, 10%), and Telma (cardiac, 23%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-shrinks-12-in-apr-worst-in-3-yrs/articleshow/75955636.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
May 25, 2020||Business||Armed forces’ CSD to resume sale of non-essentials||MUMBAI: After two months of stocking only essential products, the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) — which has around 3,700 outlets serving the armed forces in all corners of the country — will start placing orders for non-essential products next week. By June second week, CSD expects its unit-run canteens to be well stocked after it starts receiving the orders from suppliers. Goods at the unit-run canteens are sold at concessional rates to defence personnel from the army, navy and air force. The latest move could possibly spur growth for some sectors since CSD, which clocks an annual turnover of around Rs 18,000 crore, accounts for 5-7% sales of certain consumer products companies. In some categories, like luggage, the contribution is even higher, reaching double-digits. CSD operates in seven categories — toiletries, household items, watches, durables, liquor, luggage and packaged foods. During the Covid-19-driven lockdown, it was largely sourcing hand sanitisers and other essential items. It had also drastically reduced and modified its orders to focus on what was required by each of its 34 depots, based on consumer needs. Major general Alok Raj, the chairman of CSD’s board of administration, told TOI, “We are working on placing orders with our suppliers and this process should get accomplished by May end. Stores will start receiving stocks by the first or second week of June.” Raj said the situation is gradually returning to normal. “Through the efforts of our employees across depots, and in consonance with government guidelines, we have ensured that the supply chain is least disrupted. The supply of essentials has been maintained wherever possible. We have followed due protocols for every zone. During this phase, we did not source all products from our suppliers, restricting supplies to essential items. Now, we have begun the process of placing orders for all products that we normally stock,” he added. CSD staff have been working all through the lockdown, although in red zones and places like Mumbai where the headquarters is located, there were challenges faced by employees in coming to work. CSD is also contemplating the use of technology to get products to jawans, although the idea is still in the works and no decision has been taken yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/armed-forces-csd-to-sell-non-essentials/articleshow/75955802.cms||Namrata Singh
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Four Kodagu cops who came in contact with Covid-19 constable quarantined||MADIKERI: Identified as primary contacts of a confirmed Covid-19 patient, four police constables from Kodagu have been shifted to the Kodagu district’s designated hospital in Madikeri. The cops had been primary contacts with a constable from Hassan district. Meanwhile, as many as 14 others, identified as secondary contacts of the Covid-19 patient, have now been shifted to an institutional quarantine facility. A team from Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) from Hassan had arrived in Madikeri to beef up security for the lockdown on Sunday. The team reached Madikeri on Saturday. Samples of one of the constables, who was in Kodagu tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday. “This was not intentional. Officials across districts are testing samples of cops as a precautionary measure. The constable who tested positive was asymptomatic. As a precautionary measure, we have shifted to primary and secondary contacts to quarantine,” said Ananya Kumar, who is in-charge of the Kodagu SDRF team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-kodagu-cops-who-came-in-contact-with-covid-19-constable-quarantined/articleshow/75954335.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Mother, son return home after a two-and-a-half-year long pilgrimage on scooter||MYSURU: Nearly two years and four months after travelling 56,027km through four countries, including Nepal, with his mother, Mysurean Dakshina Murthy Krishna Kumar has returned to Karnataka. On Saturday evening they entered the state from Andhra Pradesh, and are now staying at Ramakrishna Ashram in Teggihalli village in Madhugiri taluk. Krishna Kumar had taken his 71-year-old mother Chudarathna on a pilgrimage, and visited temples on a two-wheeler. “I decided to engage myself in spirituality. In this ashram, I have found a place to engage in reading, to serve my mother and practice spirituality,” he said. “We don’t have any immediate plans to return to Mysuru,” he said. “I learnt a few important life lessons. In my journey for over two years, I didn’t face any problem anywhere. We didn’t have to sleep on an empty stomach anywhere, throughout our journey. The people gave us such a wonderful reception,” he said. Chudarathna said it was her luck to give birth to a son like Krishna Kumar. “I didn’t know anything beyond the four walls of the kitchen, but today my son took me to every nook and corner of Bharatha Khanda. I am really happy. It was a great pilgrimage,” she said. “I had a special feeling when we entered our state. I feel great. For the time-being, we have decided to stay in the ashram,” she said. He started his pilgrimage ‘Matru Seva Sankalpa Yatra,’ with his mother on a scooter, on January 2018. He visited almost all the temples across Karnataka and India, besides visiting several temples in Nepal, Myanmar, and Bhutan. He uses a 19-year-old scooter. Krishna Kumar is a bachelor, and has dedicated his life to serving his mother. Major places visited include Shakti Peethas, Char Dham, Parshuram Khund, Varanasi, Haridwar, Bhadrachalam, Kalighat, Kamakhya Temple, various monasteries in Arunachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mother-son-return-home-after-a-two-and-a-half-year-long-pilgrimage-on-scooter/articleshow/75952564.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Surat||‘Atmanirbhar’ SVNIT ready to fight Covid-19||SURAT: Much before Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a clarion call for Atmanirbhar Bharat, the prestigious Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) had already taken several initiatives towards self-reliance in fighting Covid-19 pandemic. In two months, SVNIT has developed a series of products that can help the institute stay infection-free when the lockdown is completely lifted and academic activities resume. The institute not only conceptualised but developed the products in-house with locally available material and basic manufacturing facility and started using them, reports YAGNESH MEHTA 3d printed face-shield, tap opener and door handle At first it started by printing 3D face-shields, which it then distributed to all staff members of the institute, police and health workers in the city. A team led by Harshit Dave, a faculty, comprising researchers Ashish Prajapati, Swapnil Vyavahare, Ravi Teja Karumuri, Rahul Narkhede and Labh Chand Dharkar from the mechanical department developed a design that can easily replace the front shield in case of damage. Thereafter, they made further R&D of possible ‘super spreaders’ like water taps and door handles and made newer openers for these utilities using 3D printing. The new devices allow a user to open taps with the elbow, and carry a personal door opener in the pocket. “We developed these products in-house with our own infrastructure,” said Shailendra Kumar, HoD, SVNIT. Youven sanitization box After finding out that contamination can also spread through vegetables, groceries and even mobile phones, researchers Akshay Jariwala and Vipul Kheraj of the department of applied physics came out with a sanitization box that can sanitize uneven surfaces too. Their yoUVen sanitization box, unlike the UV-based sterilizer box already available in the market, not only uses UV radiation but also hot air to sanitize every type of surface. It can sanitize bundle of currency notes as well. Foot-operated dispenser and wash basin Under the supervision of Professor Ravi Kant, SVNIT's workshop staff Gajendra Panchal, with the support of research scholars Puneet Kumar and Himanshu Prajapati, developed a foot-operated hand sanitizer dispenser and a wash basin from the available waste material in the institute’s workshop to reduce spread of infection. These are now being used at the health centre and administrative building of the institute. Sardar automated trolley Researcher Parth Shah in guidance of professor S A Channiwala, developed an automated trolley for use in Covid-19 wards and donated it to the SMIMER Hospital. The trolley which can be remotely operated from a mobile phone is useful in dispatching food packets, medicines and other material to the positive patients. It also has speakers installed in it to make announcements. The trolley has been manufactured in SVNIT workshop by its staff Gajendra Panchal, Gav Master and Shivdas. Vehicle sanitization tunnel To ensure that no outside vehicle enters the institute’s premises without being sanitized, a sanitization tunnel was developed by the institute’s research scholars Kalpak Sagar and Nishant Shah immediately after the virus spread was reported in city. Under the guidance of Dr Hemant Mehta, the tunnel was manufactured in the institute’s workshop itself. Research projects While the students of the institute’s electronics engineering department designed a home quarantine tracking and alert message generation system, another group of students developed a software that uses AI and deep learning to analyse chest X-ray of positive patients. The chemical engineering department manufactured an alcohol-based hand sanitiser that has been distributed to all staff and departments. The institute also got around 10,000 cloth masks made by women in villages under Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, which were distributed to students, staff and also in the institute’s adopted villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/atmanirbhar-svnit-ready-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75953975.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||Covid positive pregnant woman dies at Doon Hospital||DEHRADUN: A 30-year-old woman, who was seven-month pregnant, died at Doon Hospital on Saturday. The deceased, a resident of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, was found Covid-19-positive on Sunday. Doctors at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), however, claim that the victim died due to refractory status epileptic with turerculoma. The patient was brought to the hospital last week. She was cremated in Dehradun as her kin didn't get the nod to take the body to Shamli. This is the third death of a Covid-19 positive patient in the state. In the earlier two cases as well, the doctors had said that the patients didn't die because of coronavirus. On the day, 73 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Uttarakhand taking the state’s tally to 317. The new cases were reported from Nainital (32), Dehradun (12), Udham Singh Nagar (9), Chamoli (8), Almora (3), Bageshwar (2), Tehri (3), Champawat (1), and Pauri (1). Two other positive patients, found in Uttarakhand, migrated to other states. “After spike in Covid-19 cases in all 13 districts of Uttarakhand, the entire state has now been placed in the orange zone,” said additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant. Meanwhile, two more positive cases recovered fully from the disease on Tuesday. With this, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state has dropped to 4.18 days and the recovery rate has dipped below 18%. The state, at present, has 257 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-ve-pregnant-woman-dies-at-doon-hosp/articleshow/75953340.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 25, 2020||Varanasi||Flights to resume from Kashi today||Varanasi: Passengers will be finally able to travel by air as flights will resume from Varanasi to Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Bengaluru from Monday. As many as 19 flights from these cities will land at LBS International Airport here, while similar number of flights will depart to same destinations. The airport spokesman said on Sunday, “Apart from Air India, SpiceJet, IndiGo, Go Air and Vistara will operate their flights from Monday. “All passengers have already been issued guidelines. Installation of updated version of Aarogya Setu app in mobile phones is must for entering the airport,” he added. Except an Air India flight, which brought 82 passengers from London on May 18, the LBS International Airport has not witnessed operations of any commercial flight since March 23 due to lockdown. During past two months of lockdown period, large scale preparations were done at the airport to meet the challenges in reopening amidst Covid-19 crisis. The sanitisation of airport was conducted multiple times while rehearsals to disinfect passengers and their baggage were also carried out, the spokesman said. Queue managers and stickers are placed to ensure safe distance among passengers, he said adding, check-in and immigration counters have been modified to prevent direct contact. Sensor-based sanitizer dispensers have been placed at entry points, check-in and arrival areas, he said. The airport is prepared to provide safe operation and environment to its staff and passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/flights-to-resume-from-kashi-today/articleshow/75952216.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||SEC flounders on SOPs, and Goa CM endorses the goof||PANAJI: On Saturday when the state executive committee announced a set of extremely diluted protocols for domestic travellers, promptly tweeted by chief minister Pramod Sawant, it left Goans wondering if the state had floundered when it really mattered. The SOPs that the SEC proposed and was endorsed by Sawant was in complete contrast to the protocol followed by the state and in variance with health minister Vishwajit Rane’s proposal for an antibody testing. “We are throwing away our efforts of the past two months. Majority of the travellers who tested positive for the virus are domestic travellers,” said senior officials privy to the discussions. The SEC has continuously toed the line drawn by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in following SOPs, even as the states are free to strengthen its testing mechanism without diluting its guidelines. In fact, the SEC took a different stand from that of Rane, who has been insisting that all passengers should be tested. Within an hour of Rane’s tweet on Saturday, health secretary Nila Mohanan announced that air passengers will be given an option to choose home quarantine of 14 days or produce a Covid negative certificate. One of the senior officials said the state can manage screening of air passengers with TrueNat as well and logistic can be arranged. “But there has to be a will on the part of the government,” he said. With Goa seeing its highest single day spike of 11 cases, all domestic travellers, the government came under a barrage of criticism from all quarters. In a hurriedly convened press briefing late on Sunday evening, Sawant along with Rane tried to put up a joint front and came out with a fresh set of protocols. That the regular SEC briefing was cancelled, after the members realised late in the day that it was Sunday, left nothing much to guess that things didn’t go according to the script, said another official. “It will be difficult to manage the situation if the number of cases continue to rise at today’s rate,” said a senior doctor at Goa Medical College. “Already, 50 beds of the Covid-19 hospital are occupied and a jump in cases may be by 50 or even 100 will bring the state healthcare under tremendous strain. Where are we going to admit the patients if there is a community transmission and where are the doctors to treat them?” Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said there is a real danger of community transmission. “In times of crises, all differences should be kept aside to fight the virus,” he said. Kamat also said the BJP-led government has not taken the opposition into confidence over the fight against Covid-19. “Our last meeting with the chief minister on Covid-19 was on March 24, when the lockdown was announced. We have not been consulted since then,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sec-flounders-on-sops-and-sawant-endorses-the-goof/articleshow/75957561.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 25, 2020||Goa||Five Goa-based artists to get grant of Rs 30,000 to unleash creativity||Panaji: To stimulate local art infrastructure and support the artistic community of Goa during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Goa Open Arts has announced that it will award five artists Rs 30,000 each to produce a new work or an ongoing body of work. The duration of the grant is six months, at the end of which the artists’ work will be exhibited at the next Goa Open Arts public programme in 2021. Prashant Panjiar, co-founder, Goa Open Arts said that there is never anything for creative professionals in all the packages that are unveiled in times of crisis. “It is as if the arts don’t matter. And the bitter truth is that even in normal circumstances there is not much funding,” he said. Catalyst is a project-oriented grant for Goa-based artists working in any artistic medium, the grant aims to help artists stay engaged with their practice. Each grantee will receive mentorship from the organisers and will have the opportunity to engage with and receive feedback from senior artists . “We hope our small contribution will help in promoting art in Goa,” Panjiar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-goa-based-artists-to-get-grant-of-rs-30000-to-unleash-creativity/articleshow/75957547.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||Four poachers nabbed with fishes from Rajaji Tiger Reserve||Dehradun: Four poachers, all residents of Dehradun, were sent to jail on Sunday for illegally fishing in the restricted zone of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR). They were nabbed late on Saturday evening. The accused were held with several kilograms of fishes that they procured from the protected zone. Two of the accused — Hemant Thapa and Ravi Thapa — are migrant workers who had recently returned to the state from Goa. They used to work as chefs at a restaurant in Goa. RTR warden Komal Singh confirmed that a case has been registered against them as they entered into the reserve despite the ongoing ban on entry of outsiders due to Covid-19 threat. “A case has been lodged against the four accused — Sunil Thapa (25), Ravi Thapa (27), Hemant Thapa (29), and Vishal Thapa (16) — under sections 35, 27, and 51 of Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972,” said Singh. Incidentally, eight camera traps have already gone missing from RTR during lockdown and two separate cases of poaching were also recorded at the reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-poachers-nabbed-with-fishes-from-rajaji-tiger-reserve/articleshow/75953381.cms||Shivani Azad
May 25, 2020||Goa||Brahma Kumaris assist collector’s office, help police on duty||Panaji: From distributing immunity-boosting ayurvedic tea among policeman on duty to assisting office of the North Goa collector in packaging essential items for supply to the needy, Goa unit of the Brahma Kumaris said they jumped at the offer to extend their voluntary services during the lockdown, when the state government appealed for religious and spiritual organisations to lend a helping hand. “When the state government appealed, the Brahma Kumaris unit of Goa responded with full enthusiasm, providing their services during lockdown period from March 31 to May 3. A specially prepared ayurvedic tea was distributed to the police and health personnel. In order to increase immunity of the security forces and policemen deployed across Goa, the tea was made with lemongrass, tulsi, cardamom, cloves, jaggery,” said Shobha Behenji, Goa Zone director, Brahma Kumaris. The tea was also provided to other needy persons stuck in public places. “The sisters of Brahma Kumaris sewed masks in keeping with the medically approved design and distributed them at the district collector’s office and other government offices,” she said . “Fifteen students of Brahmakumaris worked hard every day to pack the essentials provided by the district collector’s office for the needy. While emphasising social distancing, a strong society is being created by the efforts of Brahma Kumaris by giving spiritual foundation to the new habits. The Brahma Kumaris unit has been receiving words of appreciation from people of all walks of life for the services being rendered at these critical times,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/brahma-kumaris-assist-collectors-office-help-police-on-duty/articleshow/75957598.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pinjra Tod members get bail, arrested again||NEW DELHI: Two members of Pinjra Tod, a students’ collective, were granted bail in a rioting case only to be arrested again by Delhi Police Crime Branch in another case lodged under the graver offences of murder and attempt to murder. They have been remanded to police custody for two days. In the rioting case, duty magistrate Ajeet Narayan said, “Prima facie the offence under IPC Section 353 is not maintainable. The accused were merely protesting against NRC and CAA and didn’t indulge in any violence.” The court, operating out of Mandoli Jail, added that Devangana Kalita (30) and Natasha Narwal (32) had strong roots in society and were well-educated. It granted them bail on certain conditions. “The accused shall not make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of this case,” it said. The activists were asked to furnish a personal bond of Rs 20,000 with one surety. Subsequently, the activists were arrested by Crime Branch and produced before the court, which allowed their interrogation for 15 minutes. Police then sought custody for 14 days. Advocates Adit S Pujari and Tusharika Matoo opposed the remand plea, but both women were sent to two days police custody with the direction to be produced again on May 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pinjra-tod-members-get-bail-arrested-again/articleshow/75984748.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Biodiversity Board chief inspects waterbody in Shivamogga||SHIVAMOGGA: State Biodiversity Board chief Anant Hegde Ashisar on Saturday inspected a tank at Vajpayee Layout here, which was allegedly encroached upon by the urban development authority. The traditional tank, spread over eight acres, belongs to the Shivamogga Wildlife Circle. Layouts developed near the tank had encroached upon the tank areas, it was alleged. Range forest officer Jayesh and environmentalist Ajay Kumar Sharma accessed documents to restore the old tank. After visiting the site, Ashisar promised to clear the encroachment and create a mini forest there. Environmentalist Ajay Kumar Sharma said on Friday that the world celebrated International Day For Biological Diversity, and on Saturday, some nature lovers and forest officials visited the tank, to ask the incumbent chairman of the Karnataka Biodiversity Board, to notify the area around the tank as a protected forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/biodiversity-board-chief-inspects-waterbody-in-shivamogga/articleshow/75953433.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||With 66 new cases, Odisha Covid-19 count touches 1,335||BHUBANESWAR: The number of persons infected with Covid-19 in the state touched 1,335 on Sunday with 66 new cases detected in the last 24 hours. The virus spread to another district, Nuapada, which reported its maiden case. This takes the total number of affected districts in the state to 27 out of 30. Amid the spurt in cases, the state government on Sunday revised the Covid-19 guidelines and lifted a few restrictions. Of the 66 fresh cases, sixty were from quarantine centres, four were of people in home quarantine and three were local residents. Of the new cases, 16 were from Puri, 13 from Nayagarh, seven each from Ganjam and Balangir, five from Angul, four each from Sundargarh and Kalahandi, three from Khurda, two each from Malkangiri, Cuttack and one each from Jagatsinghpur, Nuapada, Dhenkanal. Among the three cases reported in Khurda district, one was detected in Bhubaneswar. “With an increase in the number of tests, the number of positive cases will go up further. Among those who are in quarantine centres, the tests of elderly persons, pregnant women, children, persons with symptoms of comorbidities are being done on a priority basis. Around 30% to 40% returnees, who are in different quarantine centres, have been tested so far,” Dr Jayant Panda, technical spokesperson for health and family welfare department, said. Meanwhile, 53 more patients recovered from the infection taking the total number of cured persons to 550 in the state on Sunday. “Ganjam district has 30 recovered patients, followed by 18 in Jajpur, three in Khurda, two in Keonjhar,” health and family welfare department said. The death toll in the state is seven so far. Around 72 doctors from eight districts across the state successfully completed the Covid-19 critical care training that was conducted at SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/with-66-new-cases-state-covid-count-touches-1335/articleshow/75953486.cms||Minati Singha
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||90% of flora conservation in Uttarakhand is ex-situ: Report||NAINITAL: In a report published by the research wing of the Uttarakhand forest department on Sunday, it has been claimed that the state has covered 1,145 flora species through in-situ and ex-situ conservation techniques and that almost 90% of it has been done through ex-situ (or off-site) conservation method. The report adds that of the total species conserved, eight are critically endangered, 23 are endangered, and 14 are vulnerable. According to the report, the species conserved have widest possible diversity because plain areas of Uttarakhand fall in tropical zone, middle Himalayan areas are in temperate zone, and higher Himalayas come under the alpine zone. The officials of the forest department say that this report will be published each year with updates so that researchers can take stock of the ecological status of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/90-of-flora-conservation-in-ukhand-is-ex-situ-report/articleshow/75953406.cms||Prashant Jha
May 25, 2020||Goa||Ongoing pipeline work makes road bumpy, hinders traffic in Siolim||Saligao: The busy Marna stretch of the Siolim-Mapusa road has become a nightmare for both commuters and locals residing there. Work of laying of a second pipeline along this busy stretch has been going on since the past six months affecting the smooth flow of traffic and causing severe dust pollution. Work, which came to a halt temporarily after the Covid-19 lockdown was declared, has regained momentum. The new worry now is that it will not be completed before the onset of the monsoon, which could lead to further hardships. William Fernandes, the pancha who represents the six affected wards - Igrez vaddo, Cruz vado, Noronha vado, Valadares vado, Modlo vado, Chaudi, Soares vado and Voilo vado - said that the free flow of traffic is being affected due to the presence of heavy machinery on the roads. “People living in these areas, as well as commuters from the coastal belt of Pernem are facing problems. We can only hope that the work is completed by the end of May,” he said. Goa Forward Party’s Siolim MLA, Vinod Palyenkar, said that he has instructed the water resources department (WRD) and public works department (PWD) to expedite the work. “If it not completed by May-end, people will hold me responsible,” he said. Meanwhile, stating that work is almost complete, WRD’s executive engineer MK Prasad told TOI, “We are hopeful of finishing the work on the entire stretch by the end of this month.” PWD’s assistant engineer Pretesh Naik, too, assured that work is being carried out on a war footing and that it would be completed before the rains commence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ongoing-pipeline-work-makes-road-bumpy-hinders-traffic-in-siolim/articleshow/75957657.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||Ordeal on rails: Migrants’ train to UP takes 4 days instead of 28 hours||MUMBAI: Migrant workers would not have bargained for a Bharat darshan—that too in extremely trying conditions —when boarding trains that were to take them back home. A day after TOI front-paged a report in its Sunday edition about a Gorakhpur (UP)-bound train that left Vasai Thursday afternoon and arrived in Rourkela (Odisha) instead on Saturday morning, it transpired that passengers on another Shramik Special were put through an even longer ordeal. The train rolled out of Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai that same Thursday afternoon and finally reached Basti in UP at 7pm on Sunday – almost 12 hours after the train for Gorakhpur arrived at its destination. “We are in a hapless situation. It has become a long, arduous journey in hot weather. We hoped to reach in 28 hours, but it’s been four days now,” said Chembur resident Birendra Singh in the afternoon, when the train was yet to reach Basti. “This train was to go to Basti via Itarsi, Bhopal, Jhansi, Kanpur and Lucknow. But we have been taken via Agra, Gwalior, Haryana, Rajasthan and Ghaziabad. We crossed the UP border through Delhi and from there reached Lucknow.” Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav told journalists on Saturday, “Nearly 80% Shramik Special trains are terminating in UP and Bihar. This has resulted in congestion on the direct routes, necessitating diversions.” Railway officials say congestion at terminals too is to blame for the delays and diversions. Passengers of the LTT-Basti train claimed they were given food and water only once after the train left LTT. “We are on our own. Fortunately, wherever our train halted between stations, villagers were kind enough to give us drinking water,” Singh told TOI on phone while the train was on its journey. When TOI spoke to another passenger, Naseem Ali, a while later, he said, “At times, the train is halting in forests for hours on end. What can you find in a forest? There’s very little food with us. We buy food from stalls if the train stops at a station (an unscheduled halt), but that is rare. Also, not many of us can afford to buy food for so many days.” Ali, who lives at Cheeta Camp, said at the time, “There are children on the train, who are feeling restless. We haven’t had a bath in this weather for days.” The railways plans to operate 2,600 Shramik Specials in the next 10 days to ferry around 36 lakh migrant workers from the states where they work to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ordeal-on-rails-migrants-train-to-up-takes-4-days-instead-of-28-hrs/articleshow/75957687.cms||Manthank Mehta
May 25, 2020||Goa||Goa’s squash champ among 14 huddled on a ‘khatara’ from Mumbai||PANAJI: After a 75-day ordeal in Birmingham which has emerged as a coronavirus hotspot, Goa’s squash champion Yash Fadte thought his suffering would soon end as he boarded a flight to Mumbai on Saturday. Never did he imagine, though, that his ordeal, along with that of 13 other Goans on the same flight, had only just started. The Junior French Open squash champion landed in Mumbai at 4.30am on an Air India repatriation flight from London. An hour later when he picked up his luggage and headed to the transport desk, he was told that there was a Maharashtra government bus waiting for them outside. “The ST (state transport) bus was a khatara (rickety). I thought to myself, ‘how can anyone make a 14-hour journey in this bus?’ Believe me, it was in a terrible condition and I am not exaggerating,” Yash told TOI. As he stood outside the airport terminal, Yash wondered if the state government really didn’t care for them. The bus, according to another passenger, was dusty, rusty and unclean. “No fans, no air-condition and windows that didn't open,” said the passenger. And to top it all, they were asked to pay Rs 5,600 each for the journey to Goa. According to information made available to the passengers, and an inter-state permit issued by North Goa district collector R Menaka, they were all scheduled to travel in a Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) bus — GA 03 X 0556 — from Mumbai to Goa. “We called officials frantically early morning, but nobody was available. Finally, NRI Commissioner Narendra Sawaikar answered but didn’t know why the bus wasn’t around,” said Yash, Asia’s second-ranked junior player. Only after the passengers protested, a KTC bus was arranged at 8.30am. It didn’t move for a long time and seven hours after they landed in Mumbai and 15 hours since the flight had taken off from London, chaos continued to be the order of the day. “It was chaotic. The list that was prepared by the Goa NRI commission did not match the passengers who had boarded the bus. They were all Goans, but their names were missing. We had a WhatsApp group that was created by the Goa NRI commission but at the airport, we had to assemble ourselves. “Fourteen of us had got into the bus after so much of delay when we were told that there were seven others who would board along the way. These seven, we were told, had already undergone the mandatory quarantine period in Mumbai and now had to travel in the same bus as us, who were not tested for coronavirus,” said Yash. That wasn’t the end of everyone’s misery. Pictures from the bus – where they paid Rs 3,000 each -- showed at least four passengers occupying seats next to each other with social distancing going for a toss. The bus didn’t have air condition either, making the journey from Mumbai to Goa via Pune a forgettable one. "We didn't expect this kind of treatment from our own (government). The first bus we got was not sanitised, and the next bus didn't have air-conditioning. We were made to feel like they were doing us a huge favour by bringing us back to Goa. We have a 78-year-old woman with us who had to continuously alight from the bus at every checkpoint. She was not on the original list,” said Rishi Kawatra, an industrialist from Porvorim. The plight of Clancy Fernandes from Canacona was even worse. “Being pregnant, I had told them I won't be able to travel in a bus. I couldn’t even rest properly after a tiring 10-hour flight journey, and now in this non-AC bus,” said Clancy. Till the time of filing this report, the KTC bus had not stopped for meals. Passengers instead were told to pick up biscuits and oranges. “I have a sandwich from the flight. I’ll have to survive on that,” said Yash. (With inputs from Lisa Monteiro)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-squash-champ-among-14-huddled-on-a-khatara-from-mum/articleshow/75957649.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Maharashtra a big worry for Telangana as scores of Mumbai, Pune returnees test positive||HYDERABAD: Telangana has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases as several migrant workers who have returned to their native places in Telangana from Maharashtra, especially from Mumbai and Pune, were found to have been infected with coronavirus. With more than a 100 migrant workers who returned home from Maharashtra testing positive for the coronavirus, officials are a worried lot. Migrant labour of Odisha and other states wait for their train at Nampally railway station in Hyderabad on Saturday. Besides Maharashtra, several other migrant workers who were working in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, have also returned to the state, however, mostly workers coming from Mumbai and Pune have been found to be infected. Official sources told TOI that though the issuance of e-pass to those coming from states like Maharashtra has been restricted and even cancelled in some cases, authorities are under pressure from local politicians to allow migrant labourers from their districts to return to the state. “Many migrant workers have returned to Telangana in trains or on foot,” said a source. Among the migrants who returned home and have tested positive for Covid-19, many of them entered the state on foot or by private transport, said officials. With the people in rural areas well aware of the spread of Covid-19, authorities are being promptly informed about migrant workers returning home from other states and positive cases, if any. However, in some villages, these returnees are facing discrimination and are being told to leave by the villagers. In Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, authorities had recently convened a meeting with the district sarpanches and urged them to ensure that the workers are not harassed. Though Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district was Covid-19-free until recently, it now has the highest number of returnees who have tested positive, as many from the district work in Mumbai as daily-wage workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maha-a-big-worry-for-t-as-scores-of-mum-pune-returnees-test-ve/articleshow/75955250.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 25, 2020||Varanasi||Offer namaz of Eid at home, appeal admin, religious leaders||Varanasi: The district administration as well as religious authorities have appealed to the people to stay at home and offer namaz of Eid indoors on Monday in view of the lockdown. The festival of Eid will be celebrated in the district on Monday. District district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that district administration had made it very clear on May 21 that in view of rise in number of Covid-19 positive cases and also hotspot areas in the district ,saving lives of people is the first priority hence no mosque and idgahs will be opened for the offering of namaz by masses on the festival day. However, despite this clear directive issued during the meeting of officials with religious authorities and Muslim dignitaries, some local dailies published timings of the offering of namaz of Eid on Sunday. It brought the officials on their toes. Taking serious note of it, the DM reiterated his directive. Joint secretary of Anjuman Intejamia Masazid Varanasi SM Yasin also issued an appeal and asked the people of Muslim community not to get misled by any rumour and act as per the directive of administration. He said that number of people fixed for offering namaz at mosques with the beginning of lockdown has not been changed and people will offer namaz of Eid at their homes only. The officials of district administration and police along with heavy police force and RAF personnel carried out route marches especially in Muslim dominated and mixed populated localities. ADM City VK Singh and SP City Dinesh Kumar Singh led a march in Revaritalab area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/offer-namaz-of-eid-at-home-appeal-admin-religious-leaders/articleshow/75952287.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to quarantine all domestic flight passengers||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand government on Sunday announced that all inbound passengers arriving in the state via domestic flights will have to undergo compulsory paid institutional quarantine in designated hotels. Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA) issued detailed Standard Operation Procedures (SOPs) for passengers of domestic flights, which are to resume operations from May 25. According to the state government, "All inbound passengers shall be given a choice to select quarantine centre in the list of hotels on their own on payment basis. The rate contract will be fixed in advance, as per the state government guidelines." Meanwhile, the Jolly Grant airport, states biggest airport, is all set to restart domestic operations from Monday and the first flight to Dehradun is scheduled to arrive from Delhi at 8.05 am. DK Gautam, Jolly Grant airport director, told TOI, "We have done necessary arrangements to ensure social distancing is maintained. Provision of contactless screening of tickets will be provided to ensure no contact between staff and passengers." He added that flight schedules have been prepared in a way that only 100 passengers are there inside the airport every hour to avoid congestion. Besides, touch free sanitizer dispensers have been installed at the airport for the safety of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-quarantine-all-domestic-flight-passengers/articleshow/75953480.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 25, 2020||Cuttack||With 66 new cases, Odisha Covid-19 count touches 1,335||BHUBANESWAR: The number of persons infected with Covid-19 in the state touched 1,335 on Sunday with 66 new cases detected in the last 24 hours. The virus spread to another district, Nuapada, which reported its maiden case. This takes the total number of affected districts in the state to 27 out of 30. Amid the spurt in cases, the state government on Sunday revised the Covid-19 guidelines and lifted a few restrictions. Of the 66 fresh cases, sixty were from quarantine centres, four were of people in home quarantine and three were local residents. Of the new cases, 16 were from Puri, 13 from Nayagarh, seven each from Ganjam and Balangir, five from Angul, four each from Sundargarh and Kalahandi, three from Khurda, two each from Malkangiri, Cuttack and one each from Jagatsinghpur, Nuapada, Dhenkanal. Among the three cases reported in Khurda district, one was detected in Bhubaneswar. “With an increase in the number of tests, the number of positive cases will go up further. Among those who are in quarantine centres, the tests of elderly persons, pregnant women, children, persons with symptoms of comorbidities are being done on a priority basis. Around 30% to 40% returnees, who are in different quarantine centres, have been tested so far,” Dr Jayant Panda, technical spokesperson for health and family welfare department, said. Meanwhile, 53 more patients recovered from the infection taking the total number of cured persons to 550 in the state on Sunday. “Ganjam district has 30 recovered patients, followed by 18 in Jajpur, three in Khurda, two in Keonjhar,” health and family welfare department said. The death toll in the state is seven so far. Around 72 doctors from eight districts across the state successfully completed the Covid-19 critical care training that was conducted at SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/with-66-new-cases-state-covid-count-touches-1335/articleshow/75972053.cms||Minati Singha
May 25, 2020||Goa||Saligao locals gather to protest ‘illegal construction’||Saligao: More than 40 villagers from Saligao assembled at an open space on Sunday to oppose the allegedly illegal construction work being carried out at Sonarbhat. The villagers said that the owner of the plot had put up sheds without obtaining permissions from the Town and Country Planning (TCP) board and panchayat. The villagers said that they had made several complaints to the Saligao panchayat and also to the TCP board, informing them about the illegal construction, but no action was taken. Noel Fernandes, a Saligao resident, said that the owner had carried out the construction in the plot “without having a proper conversion sanad and without any licence from the TCP board or panchayat”. Saligao sarpanch Lafira Remedious Gomes rushed to the spot along with other panchayat members and requested the owner to stop the work, but the owner told them that he had all the required permissions. “The panchayat issued a stop-work order, but inspite of that, the owner continued with the work claiming that he had permission from the TCP,” the sarpanch told TOI. President of Save Saligao Abhiyan, Ramesh Ghadi, said, “ We request the panchayat to take stern action and immediately stop the illegal construction in our village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saligao-locals-gather-to-protest-illegal-construction/articleshow/75957681.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal deaths: Forensic doctors suspect victims were murdered||HYDERABAD: Forensic doctors from MGM Hospital in Warangal told the police on Sunday that they suspect the involvement of atleast one or more persons behind the death of nine persons, whose bodies were found in a well at Gorrekunta village in Warangal four days ago. With the inputs given by forensic experts, the case is now being probed by police as a suspected murder case. Four persons are currently being interrogated by Warangal police, who suspect the role of one Sanjay Kumar, an acquaintance of one of the deceased, Maqsood, the head of the six-member family from West Bengal who were among the nine dead. The forensic team, led by Dr Raza Malik, after gathering evidence at the crime scene, said that the victims were dragged in a bag, probably a gunny bag, before being pushed into the well. “We are waiting for the Forensic Science Laboratory authorities to confirm if any sedative was given to the nine persons, before they were pushed into the well. Once I get the lab report, I will give my final opinion,” Raza said. There is a possibility that the food or soft drink served to the victims was laced with a sedative drug, the doctors said. Officials said that there are other aspects that need to be investigated before experts and police arrive at a conclusion. Warangal police during interrogation found that one of the suspects was in a relationship with one of the deceased. Warangal police said it will conclude the case soon and reveal the cause of the deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-deaths-forensic-docs-suspect-victims-were-murdered/articleshow/75955269.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Three more areas sealed, total now 88||New Delhi: Three more areas in Delhi were converted into containment zones on Monday. The total number of containment zones stood at 88. RZ-95 (Gali No.2), Veer Nagar in West Sagarpur area was declared a containment zone in Southwest district, while in Southeast district, H.No 196 to 199 (Polygon) and H.No. 185 to 190 (Polygon-B) in Aliganj, Kotla Mubarakpur were listed as part of another containment zone. Police Colony in Ashok Vihar in Northwest district was converted into a containment zone too. “More than three Covid positive cases were reported from these areas after which the decision to convert them into containment zones was taken. Extensive contact tracing, sanitisation and screening operations will be launched in all these containment zones and testing will be done to identify the positive cases among those suspected,” said sources. As many as 44 containment zones have so far been de-sealed . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-more-areas-sealed-total-now-88/articleshow/75984766.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Varanasi||Policeman, 17 others test positive for Covid-19 in Kashi||Varanasi: On Sunday, 18 persons including a policeman were confirmed Covid-19 positive in Varanasi while Azamgarh and Chandauli also recorded an increase in their count of positive cases with the arrival of fresh reports. DM Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Reports of around 300 samples were received on Sunday of which 18 were found infected. Count of Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached to 147 of which 82 were discharged from DDU district and BHU hospitals by Sunday while four had died. Total active cases in the district are 61.” The police constable who was tested positive is the follower of circle officer Sadar, said the officials adding that now the total number of police personnel infected in the district has reached to 12. Other 17 are migrants including 16 returned from Mumbai and one from Ahmedabad. The new cases led to creation of 13 new hotspots in the district. Officials said that now there are 73 hotspots in the district. In Azamgarh total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached to 40 after detection of three new cases on Sunday. The report of a middle aged person of Atraulia area, who had died at district hospital on May 22 night, confirmed him infected, said CMO Azamgarh Dr AK Mishra. Other two cases are from Kaptanganj and Mehnagar areas, he said adding, nine patients have been cured and two had died, the total active cases here are 29. Meanwhile, in Chandauli district two new cases were found since Saturday late night. An employee of a mobile phone manufacturing company, whose sample was collected in Noida on May 16 after which he reached his home in Dharav village of Dhanapur area, was tested positive. DM Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal said that the CMO Noida alerted the Chandauli officials on Sunday. Earlier, a Gujarat returned youth of Jeguri village of Shahabganj area had also been tested positive. Total number of infected persons in Chandauli has reached to 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/policeman-17-others-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kashi/articleshow/75952514.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Vadodara||Bungalow burgled in Karelibaug||Vadodara: As Barodians have started sleeping on terraces, burglars are once again on the prowl targeting such houses at night. A businessman and his neighbour’s houses were broken into sometime between Saturday midnight and Sunday morning when the family was sleeping on their respective terraces. According to police, Geetesh Patel, who lives in Maneet Society in Karelibaug, learnt about burglary when he woke up around 6 am on Sunday and went on the first floor of his house. Patel noticed that the lock and latch on the main door on first floor was broken so he checked in the bedroom where the safes are kept. The safes were open and the valuables kept in it were all lying scattered. Thieves had stolen gold ornaments worth Rs 2.2 lakh which Patel’s wife had received as presents during their wedding. Along with ornaments, £3,000 lent by a relative living in London to Patel were also stolen. Police have valued £3,000 at Rs 2.7 lakh. When the information about burglary spread in the neighbourhood, it also came to light that thieves had stolen Rs 4,000 cash from the house of Bhavesh Bhatt, who lives in the same society, and had tried to break into the house of Bharat Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bungalow-burgled-in-karelibaug/articleshow/75953190.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi police chief interacts with 800 personnel through video call||NEW DELHI: Over 800 police personnel interacted with Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava through video conferencing on Sunday, who asked them to keep their morale high while on duty during the Covid-19 pandemic. The cops from around 200 police stations in Delhi were brought online through a platform created by National Informatics Centre to interact with the top cop for over an hour. Shrivastava also appreciated the personnel for helping pregnant women, senior citizens, feeding the needy and helping migrants on the road. During the exchange, many cops narrated what difficulties they were facing on the ground and were assured all help by Shrivastava. He said “We all have to be on duty but the same time, remember to protect ourselves. Utilise the Ayurvedic kit, wear the masks, keep the surrounding clean and ensure all interaction is done at a distance”. He also mentioned the several standard operating procedures, which have been issued. In order to ensure complete care of police officers, a nodal officer has been designated in every district. Senior officers will be part of WhatsApp groups where families of those tested positive can share their grievances. Shrivastava also directed the officers to keep a positive approach to get through these tough times. So far, around 300 police officers have tested positive for the corona virus while being the front warriors on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-chief-interacts-with-800-personnel-through-video-call/articleshow/75956211.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||Patients of other dists shouldn't be quarantined in Nainital, say local officials||Nainital: As the number of coronavirus cases continue to rise in the state and the medical facilities near saturation point, the Nainital district administration has raised the issue of other districts not quarantining their own patients which is leading to “undue burden on the medical facilities in the district”. Speaking to TOI, Nainital district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal said that he has raised the issue with the state government as even the asymptomatic coronavirus cases from districts like Almora and Bageshwar are being taken to Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital (STH) in Haldwani.“The medical facilities in Nainital district are limited and therefore, I have raised this issue with the state government that other districts should quarantine and hospitalise coronavirus positive cases with mild symptoms at their respective district hospitals or quarantine centres,” Bansal said. Notably, Nainital is a gateway to the other districts of Kumaon region and therefore, the trains or buses carrying migrants pass through the district. And though most of the people are from other districts, they are tested and quarantined in Nainital. The administration has argued that majority of the positive cases who returned in Shramik Special trains over Saturday and Sunday (May 22 and 23) belong to other districts of Kumaon. DM Bansal said that it is impossible for the district administration to test and quarantine every person coming from outside the district. “We are ramping up our capabilities and health infrastructure but it is impossible for us to test and quarantine every person coming from outside. STH is meant for treating people with severe and serious symptoms. Therefore, we have asked the state government to tell other districts to at least quarantine and treat their asymptomatic positive cases,” Bansal said. Meanwhile, STH officials told TOI that they have more than 100 active coronavirus cases, including 58 patients who have returned to the state in Shramik Special trains. “We have 34 ventilators, 85 ICU beds, and around 300 normal beds. Though the medical facilities are not overwhelmed yet, we fear that if the cases continue to rise like this we will not have enough facilities,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/patients-of-other-dists-shouldnt-be-quarantined-in-nainital-say-local-officials/articleshow/75953495.cms||Prashant Jha
May 25, 2020||Kanpur||Two Covid-19 patients die in city; five cured, discharged||Kanpur: Death toll due to Covid-19 in Kanpur climbed to 11 on Sunday after the reports of the two deceased, who died a few days back during treatment at LLR hospital, confirmed them to be positive. While one of the deceased was resident of Meerpur Cantt, other was a resident of Barra locality. According to the medical bulletin released by the health department, two more Corona positive cases were confirmed on Sunday while five patients were discharged after being cured. With the detection of new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city till Sunday reached to 328 of which 299 have been discharged so far. The total number of deaths till Sunday were 11 and the total number of active cases now is 18. Chief medical officer, Dr Ashok Shukla said that two more Corona patients have died. He said that the report for Covid-19 test came after the death of a woman which confirmed that she died due to coronavirus. Second patient was admitted to the ICU of Covid hospital. The last rites of the two deceased was conducted as per the Corona protocol. Meanwhile, five persons who had tested negative for the disease in two tests were discharged. The medical team on Sunday visited Tilak Nagar, Bhairavghat, Ranighat, Nawabganj areas. They made people aware about Coronavirus and precautions to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-covid-19-patients-die-in-city-five-cured-discharged/articleshow/75955925.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
May 25, 2020||Allahabad||RLVD system installed in Prayagraj; red signal violators to get e-challan on mobiles||Prayagraj: Once the lockdown gets over if one is caught on camera jumping a red ligh, he/she will get an e-challan on the violator’s registered mobile or the home address. After opening of the traffic signaling system during the fourth lockdown, the traffic police authorities have also chalked out a plan to teach strict lesson to traffic rules violators once the lockdown is over. SP (Traffic ) Kuldeep Singh said that traffic police authorities would take strict action against those jumping red lights. “After installation of ‘Red Light Violation Detector’ (RLVD) at 20 crossings of the city to identify commuters jumping traffic signals, an e-challan will be issued on the registered mobile of the violator or will be dispatched at his/her home address”, he added. Earlier, there was a proposal to make RLVD functional from March this year but could not be implemented due to lockdown. The SP said that Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities and traffic police have completed all preparations to get RLVD implemented once the lockdown was over. The RLVD machines have been installed at 20 crossings, which include Dhobi Ghat crossing, Rana Pratap crossing, Balson, UPPSC, and Johnstonganj crossings. A senior traffic cop said, “The step will ensure safe driving for all two and four wheeler riders, assisting pedestrians in crossing roads safely and ensuring compliance with road traffic rules.” According to experts, the RLVD system is a tool for mass surveillance and can automatically capture an image of any vehicle found violating traffic norms. The RLVD system will capture an image of the vehicle’s licence plate and then read the number after performing an optical character recognition. Once a traffic light turns red, the RLVD system’s camera will automatically capture an image of a vehicle which hovers over its sensors for less than the stipulated time. The system will encrypt and transfer the data collected to the police control room. The system would speed up generation of e-challans along with photo evidence, said an expert. Traffic police officials said there is more rush on streets from 7am to 10am and then from 5 pm to 8pm. The volume of vehicles plying on roads also increases between 1 pm and 2 pm when most of the schools get over. It is a fact is that majority of commuters jump the red traffic light to reach their destination early, and openly violate traffic norms. With RLVD system, traffic cops would be able to tighten the noose around traffic rules violators, said a traffic police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rlvd-system-installed-in-prayagraj-red-signal-violators-to-get-e-challan-on-mobiles/articleshow/75952645.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Stuck indoors, rozedaars brace for a different Eid this year||PRAYAGRAJ: For 52-year-old Rafi Mukrram, it would be the first time ever in his life that he would be offering the namaz on Eid at his home and not in a mosque. “My family and I prayed for relief from novel coronavirus throughout Ramzan. There won’t be any of the usual celebrations at home for Eid-ul-Fitr this year. We would be offering chast namaz at home,” said Mukrram, who is a pharmacist by profession. The lockdown enforced in the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) will change how Muslims in the city celebrate Eid this year. With restrictions on gatherings and public events, the devout have been forced to offer namaz at home. The Eid-ul-Fitr festival, which is also known as ‘meethi Eid’ because of the desserts prepared on the occasion, will be celebrated on Monday. Religious leaders and clerics have repeatedly urged people to stay home and offer prayers during Ramzan at home. Old City resident Amir Farooqui said, “This year marks the first time when we haven’t shopped for Eid-ul-Fitr or donated money to the poor and the needy during the month of Ramzan.” Ruing about the lack of festivities, Firoz said, “This Eid would be different. Ever since the lockdown was enforced, my family members have not stepped out of our home. We are all praying that these testing times the come to an end soon.” As most popular markets in the city were closed on Sunday, many buyers were spotted in shops in Katra, which is closed on Tuesday. Apart from Katra, most of the city streets wore a deserted look a day before the festival of Eid due to fourth phase of lockdown. Police swung into action in Old City after receiving information that some of the shops were open. However, when they reached the spot, they found them to be closed. Police and the district administration too have appealed to Muslim community to celebrate the festival at their homes. On Sunday, police intensified patrolling in the city streets, particularly in OId City, and urged citizens to practice social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/stuck-indoors-rozedaars-brace-for-a-different-eid-this-year/articleshow/75952590.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kanpur||Water coolers, special diet for animals’ comfort at Kanpur Zoo||Kanpur: Kanpur Zoological Park has installed water coolers and hay curtains along with a revised diet for animals to combat the sudden surge in the temperature in the city. “With the spurt in the heat, we have taken multiple precautions for the animals to protect them from the sweltering heat. We have installed water coolers for the carnivores, hay curtains for the birds, and rain guns for the herbivores. The hay curtains are regularly watered,” said Dilip Gupta, Kanpur zoo range officer. To facilitate the process, the authorities have also made changes to the diet of the animals and birds. “For carnivores, we have reduced their meat consumption since they do not need much energy at this time. As for the birds, we have reduced their protein intake and are feeding them a carbohydrate-based diet. Green vegetables are incorporated in herbivores’ diet while limiting the use of jaggery. We have started adding electrolytes, minerals, and vitamin ADH to the drinking water, for all animals and birds, to avoid dehydration and maintain the water balance. The water is changed on a regular basis as it gets warm due to the scorching heat,” said Dr R.K. Singh, Kanpur Zoo veterinarian. He also said that some of the animals such as bears and a few other herbivores enjoy eating fibre-rich fruits and vegetables such as melons and cucumber. The temperature has shot up beyond 40 degree Celsius in the region now. “During the initial phases of the lockdown, limited vehicles were operational. People were also not using air conditioners. Hence, the temperature remained low. But now, the cars are back on the road and the use of ACs have increased. Consequently, heat has also shot up to 43-44 degree Celsius. It will only rise in the coming days,” said Dr Nasir, a staff member of the medical team at Kanpur Zoo. ANI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/water-coolers-special-diet-for-animals-comfort-at-kanpur-zoo/articleshow/75955912.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: College group holds entrance test for Inter seats in lockdown||HYDERABAD: Violating lockdown rules, Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions is alleged to have held entrance test at various locations on Sunday for admission into Intermediate first-year courses. A probe has now been initiated by the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) authorities. “I have issued instructions to the district Intermediate education officers of Hyderabad, Medchal and Rangareddy to enquire into the issue, initiate action and submit an action taken report immediately,” Syed Omer Jaleel, secretary and commissioner, Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education, told TOI. While the institution denied holding the exams, student leaders filmed officials from the institute holding test at one of its many branches in Nizampet. “The college management did not even take any precautions while conducting the examination. They made students sit in a mess in a private building, the person, who was distributing question papers and OMR sheets, was not even wearing a mask,” National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) state president Venkat Balmoor said, adding that the exam was conducted for hundreds of students in other places. Apart from Miyapur, students along with their parents came from Sangareddy, Patancheru, Shadnagar among other places. With a coronavirus positive case detected from the area, Shadnagar is currently on high alert with the Rangareddy district authorities directing all business establishments in the commercial part of the town to shut down. Two different sets of question papers were used to conduct the exam. While one set had 30 multiple choice questions each from mathematics, physics, chemistry, and English —questions on verbal and logical reasoning, another set consisted of 50 multiple choices from mathematics and 25 each from physics and chemistry. Students were given two hours to complete the exam. ‘Management did not give instructions’Sri Chaitanya academic director Sushma Boppana, however, claimed the management did not give instructions to conduct any tests and denied holding any tests. “Health of the students is of utmost importance to us,” Sushma said. “All our branches are closed. Only the offices are open with 20% capacity to do essential work,” she added. NSUI state secretary D Ajay Kumar, who was the first person to reach the exam centre, said they got wind of the exam from one of the parents. “They shared the location of a well-known restaurant, which also has a branch in Nizampet. From there, candidates were given instructions over the phone on how to reach the exam centre — a private building. In a mess, there was Sri Chaitanya Hyder Nagar Zone banner and the exam was conducted in this location,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/college-group-holds-entrance-test-for-inter-seats-in-lockdown/articleshow/75956215.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 25, 2020||Goa||NIO scientists find rare Japanese seahorse species in the Mandovi||PANAJI: Camouflaged within the dense mangroves and estuarine stretches of the River Mandovi, researchers have found a rare species of seahorse just about the size of a human thumb. Nothing short of remarkable, the Japanese or Lemur-tail seahorse (Hippocampus mohnikei) has been sighted in Goa’s waters by the CSIR-National Institute of Oceanography (CSIR-NIO). The sighting of this small coastal seahorse species in Goan waters comes as a pleasant surprise to experts, considering it is known to inhabit the waters of Japan and Vietnam, with only a few stray sightings reported along the Indian sub-continent. Moreover, due to the suspected reduction in its population over the past 10 years due to exploitative fishing practices, the status of H. mohnikei in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species has been listed as ‘vulnerable’. “In the wake of the vulnerability of seahorse populations to threats such as habitat alteration and destruction, and fishing pressure globally, the present sighting of H. mohnikei in a bay-estuarine system of Goa is of considerable conservation and biogeographic significance,” said principal scientist R A Sreepada. The findings have been recently published in scientific journal PLOS ONE co-authored by researchers Sushant SanayeRakhee Khandeparker, Mamatha SS, Jayu Narvekar and others. Specimens found in Goa were caught as an incidental catch, tangled in bag nets fixed to the stakes operated in the Mandovi estuary. The H. mohnikei looks nothing like the other seahorses found along Goa’s coast. It is much smaller in comparison, dark-coloured and often unnoticeable in the murky coastal habitats besides having a cryptic and sedentary nature. These mysterious morphological characteristics make it further vulnerable, said Sreepada. Since its first suspected presence in the Chapora estuary in February 2017 was written about on social media, only four specimens have been collected from Goan waters till date. This indicates its rare occurrence in Goan waters, according to the CSIR-NIO. The confirmed occurrence supported both by morphological and molecular analyses of four sub-adult specimens in the Mandovi estuary could be a consequence of either long-distance dispersal from Southeast Asian countries or a ‘stepping-stone’ mediated dispersal as revealed by oceanic currents circulation in the Indo-Pacific region. Although there is no published evidence to show that H. mohnikei originated in Japan, the original type specimens studied were however from Japan and Vietnam. Further long-term interannual sampling and analyses are warranted to establish its origin and phylogeography, the paper states. “Predominantly, the estuarine stretches of the River Mandovi have dense mangrove coverage and extensive oyster beds, and patches of seagrass. These are the typical habitats where this species has been previously reported,” Sreepada said. Food availability also plays a role as the nutrient-rich waters of the Mandovi estuarine system sustain high primary productivity and abundance of zooplanktonic prey organisms such as copepods which are essential for the survival of seahorses. However, the colonisation of seahorse populations in these sheltered areas is rife with threats such as destruction and alteration of suitable habitats, anthropogenic inputs into the coastal marine waters and the changing climate among others. “Awareness amongst fisherfolk and stakeholders is important considering the occurrence of this species in a wide variety of habitats, including seagrass beds, estuaries, coral and rocky reefs and mangroves. There is also a need for the declaration of selected sheltered areas as ‘seahorse refuge’ or ‘seahorse parks’ and measures have to be adopted to prevent destruction of seahorse habitats,” Sreepada said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nio-scientists-find-rare-japanese-seahorse-species-in-the-mandovi/articleshow/75957686.cms||Nida Sayed
May 25, 2020||Goa||Cong, MGP’s disqualification plea to resume after lockdown||Panaji: The hearing in two different disqualification petitions filed by Congress and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) against their former MLAs is likely to commence after the lockdown is lifted. Lockdown 4.0 will continue till end of this month. A senior officer said that the last hearing could not take place due to the lockdown. The officer said that after the lockdown is lifted, speaker Rajesh Patnekar will take a decision on conducting the hearing based on the situation at the time. In May 2019, senior MGP leader and former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar filed a petition before the speaker of the Goa legislative assembly seeking disqualification of deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar, who quit MGP to join BJP in March 2019.  MGP challenged their claim that two-thirds of the MGP party has merged with BJP. MGP had three MLAs in the 40-member House, which has since reduced to one. Dhavalikar had said that the 10th schedule of the Constitution does not postulate such a merger by which members of the legislature party would meet at midnight and claim that a merger has taken place even of the original political party. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition against its 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined the BJP in July 2019. State Congress president Girish Chodankar, who has filed the petition before speaker, had sought that the 10 MLAs be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and holding constitutional posts till the case is decided by the speaker. On July 10, 2019, rebel Congress MLAs led by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar joined the BJP claiming that the Congress legislature party had split. The remaining nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred Dsa, Clafasio Dias, water resources minister Filipe Rodrigues and Antanasio Monserrate. Congress wanted its 10 MLAs to be disqualified under Article 191 (2) para 2, and the tenth schedule of the Constitution. “In the present case there is no merger of the Indian National Congress. The party still exists and is duly recognised and consequently there cannot be claim of valid merger as contemplated under tenth schedule,” Chodankar had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-mgps-disqualification-plea-to-resume-after-lockdown/articleshow/75957685.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses bail plea in cheating case||MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of a man who was arrested for cheating several people of money promising them jobs abroad. The petitioner, Karthick, was arrested by the Allinagaram police in Theni district in a case registered for offences under Section 406 and 420 of IPC in 2019. The petitioner, who was under judicial custody for more than 72 days, moved the Madurai bench of the high court seeking bail. The additional public prosecutor opposed to grant bail to the petitioner on the ground that the petitioner along with the second accused in the case had cheated the complainant and others to the tune of Rs 17lakh promising them jobs abroad. Hearing the plea, Justice G Jayachandran said that based on the confession given by the petitioner, two gold rings and Rs 20,000 have been recovered. Since the remaining amount could not be recovered due to lockdown, this court finds it is not appropriate to grant bail to the petitioner and therefore the judge dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-in-cheating-case/articleshow/75956178.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Madurai||Madras high court affirms conviction of duo in murder case||MADURAI: Madras high court has confirmed the conviction and sentence awarded by a lower court to two people for murdering a man who helped his friend marry a girl from another community in Trichy district in 2016. The victim, Gopinath was an MBA graduate and resident of Alagapuri village. His friend Ramachandran was in love with Brinda, a girl belonging to another community. Her parents however decided to marry her off to a relative called Chandru. However, Ramachandran eloped with Brinda and got married with the help of Gopinath on March 6, 2016. Soon after, they approached the police station seeking protection. Angered over this incident Chandru and Brinda’s brother Prathap went to Gopinath’s house and murdered him on March 22. The next day, the duo surrendered before the judicial magistrate II court at Kumbakonam. Police registered a case and the first additional district and sessions court at Trichy convicted and sentenced the duo to life imprisonment. Challenging the order, they moved the high court. On perusal of submissions from either side, a division bench observed that the most important circumstance against the accused is that after the murder, they had voluntarily surrendered before the JM II court in Kumbakonam and not before the jurisdictional magistrate at Thuraiyur in Trichy district which is relevant under the provisions of Evidence Act. The judges observed that this apart human blood was detected in the billhook which was recovered based on Prathap’s disclosure. Saying that the prosecution has proved the case beyond doubt, the judges confirmed the conviction .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-affirms-conviction-of-duo-in-murder-case/articleshow/75956196.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown stifles Eid festive business in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: Eid-ul-Fitr celebrations have turned out to be a low-key affair for local traders in Dehradun this year as the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown is preventing shoppers from venturing out and with the economy in doldrums, fewer people are willing to spend. Mohammad Yamin, a local trader who deals in wheat vermicelli, told TOI, “My sales have reduced to a mere 10% of what they used to be during Ramzan in previous years.” Traders of religious skull caps, prayer mats, prayer beads, vermicelli and other products, which enjoy good sales during Ramzan, have been severely hit due to the restrictions and the dip in the enthusiasm of shoppers. “I convert my eatery, near Inamullah Building, into a vermicelli shop every year during Ramzan but the supply from Delhi didn’t come this year, and I lost the opportunity to earn some profits from festive shopping,” said Yamin. City traders claimed that the festive business was further hit due to the several orders issued by the district administration regarding opening of businesses which “confused both the shoppers and the shopkeepers.” “For some time, there was confusion prevailing. We didn’t know on which day we are supposed to conduct business,” said a local perfume seller. Meanwhile, several Muslim residents have decided to celebrate this year’s Eid by helping the needy in the neighbourhood rather than shopping exorbitantly. “We have decided to distribute sanitisers, gloves, and face masks among our “Corona Warriors” like police personnel, sanitation workers, doctors, media workers, and others,” said Arif Khan, a local resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-stifles-eid-festive-biz-in-dehradun/articleshow/75953542.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 25, 2020||Goa||Learner’s licence expired? Pay again||Panaji: People whose learner’s licence has expired during the lockdown had breathed a sigh of relief when orders issued by the ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) stated the validity of certain documents would be extended till June. Some citizens however found themselves at sea when they were instructed by the regional transport office (RTO) to go for a fresh learners licence test by paying additional amount. Baby John said that his son that applied for learner’s licence in March prior to the lockdown and the requisite fee was paid. However, the practical test had to be suspended due to the lockdown. “The RTO is calling the candidates again to take the online test. Initially I thought of paying the fees and giving the exam again. But not only is it a financial loss for us but it is very dangerous to call people again during the Covid-19 lockdown,” John said.  RTO officials said that though there were guidelines from the Union ministry to extend the validity of documents like vehicle registration, drivers’ license and fitness certificate, there was nothing specified for the issuing a learners’ licence. However, as it causes inconvenience to candidates, RTOs are now awaiting orders from the government to extend the validity of the learners’ licence, as well. “The national informatics centre (NIC) has now revalidated these documents and it will be effective in some days. Learners’ licences that have expired during the lockdown period will therefore be revalidated soon. Unless the NIC acts on it, we’re helpless,” an RTO official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/learners-licence-expired-pay-again/articleshow/75957689.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Allahabad||4-year-old girl, 1 other test corona positive in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: With two more people, including daughter of a tehsildar who is a Covid-19 patient and undergoing treatment, testing positive on Sunday, the Prayagraj district tally reached 65. Moreover, a 22-year old youth from Handia, who had returned from Mumbai recently and was lodged at a quarantine centre in city, died although he had tested negative for Covid-19 on May 20. His body has been sent for postmortem to ascertain the cause of death. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr. Rishi Sahai said ,“Two more persons including four-year-old daughter of tehsildar posted at Soraon and a 55-year-old woman from Saraymamrez were tested positive on Sunday.” The 40-year-old tehsildar posted in Soraon had tested positive for infection on Saturday. The wife and son of the tehsildar tested negative for the infection. Dr. Sahai said, “Both the tehsildar and his daughter were admitted at SRN hospital for treatment. The condition of the tehsildar, who was earlier admitted at Covid Level One hospital and later shifted to SRN hospital on Sunday, was stated to be normal.” Till now, the district has a total of 38 active cases. While 24 patients have recovered and discharged from hospital, three patients have died of coronavirus infection. “The woman who tested positive for coronavrious infection on Sunday was in touch with a group of people who had arrived city from Mumbai on 17 in a village in trans-Ganga area,” said a senior health official adding, “The husband of the woman had tested positive for the infection last week,” he added. The department had collected a total of 112 samples on Saturday and two of them came out positive on Sunday. On Sunday, officials of health department also collected samples of a total of 150 migrants in trans-Ganga area. Majority of migrants had come from Mumabi. Dr. Sahai said, “We have launched a special campaign, ‘Operation city,’ to test migrants who have arrived in city limits from Mumbai and are staying in slums in city area. Under this project, the officials of health department have collected a total of 55 samples of migrants from Sultanpur Bhava and Sadar Bazaar localities on Sunday. All these 55 people are migrants and had arrived from Mumbai.” Besides, officials of health department have also uploaded the details of over 61,482 migrants on portal. Officials have also issued helpline number, 0532-2641577, 0532-2641578 and 7458825340.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/4-year-old-girl-1-other-test-corona-positive-in-prayagraj/articleshow/75952698.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Erode||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu count crosses 16,000, Chennai tally 10,000||CHENNAI: For the first time since May 1, the number of people cured of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu exceeded the number of those being treated on Sunday, even as Chennai’s count crossed 10,000 and the state’s 16,000. Eight more deaths were reported taking the state toll to 111. With the state reporting 765 fresh cases, 587 of them in Chennai, pushing up the state tally to 16,277, public health experts said the increase in the number of those cured indicated treatment was good, not a flattening of the epidemic curve. While 8,324 positive patients were discharged following treatment till Sunday, 7,839 were still under treatment. T Sundararaman, former dean of TISS’s School of Health System Studies, said flattening of the curve can happen when the number of new cases is steady. But there was a constant growth in new infections of between 500 and 800 a day in TN for almost a month now, he pointed out. "We tend to test for symptomatic cases only in hotspots and not in other areas and that is why we miss clusters unless they become very big. Kallakurichi, which reported a sharp increase, is an example," he added. Not a single case was reported in Kallakurichi for more than 15 days in April and only nine persons tested positive till May 1. But at present the district has 136 active cases, many of them returning home from other states. On Sunday, 15 returnees from Maharashtra tested positive in the district. Across the state on Sunday, 44 people who returned from other states, tested positive. Of them, 39 were from Maharashtra and two were from West Bengal. Others were from Delhi, Kerala and Karnataka. With more domestic and international flights expected to reach Chennai from Monday, the government is preparing to increase beds in its quarantine facilities and rope in more hotels. A revenue official from Tambaram said that most hotels in Chennai were charging Rs.2,500 a day and they were trying to find cheaper options. Chennai also has more than 1,500 people in home isolation and the number was expected to increase with the city’s case count touching 10,576. Industrial units in the city's suburbs too were reporting infections. Following 17 cases reported at Nokia Solutions and Network in Sriperumbudur, three employees from the nearby Hyundai plant tested positive on Sunday. On the positive side, Coimbatore continued to have zero cases for the 21st day and Erode, Nagapattinam, Salem and Sivaganga did not report any new cases for 48 hours or more. All eight deaths reported were from Chennai and its suburbs. The deceased were aged between 46 and 68 and had comorbidities, said the official release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-count-crosses-16k-chennai-tally-10k/articleshow/75968273.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||4 travellers among 6 test +ve in Chanda||Chandrapur: Six more patients were detected positive to Covid-19 in sample reports that came late on Saturday night and Sunday. Thus, Chandrapur’s tally of Covid positive patients has now gone up to 21. According to civil surgeon Dr CS Rathod, new positive patients include a 25-year-old youth from Varvat village, a 25-year-old woman from Ghugus, a 28-year-old person from Durgapur, and a 27-year-old male contact of a positive patient from Chiroli. Those from Varvat and Durgapur had returned from Mumbai, while Ghugus woman had came back from Pune. Two of them have been admitted to isolation ward in GMCH, while other two have been put into institutional quarantine. Two more patients tested positive on Sunday. They include a 24-year-old youth from Balaji Ward in city. He had returned from Pune and was under home quarantine. His samples were tested after he developed fever and he turned out to be positive. The other patient is mother of a positive patient from Visapur and she is likely to have contracted the infection from her son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-travellers-among-6-test-ve-in-chanda/articleshow/75956208.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu count crosses 16,000, Chennai tally 10,000||CHENNAI: For the first time since May 1, the number of people cured of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu exceeded the number of those being treated on Sunday, even as Chennai’s count crossed 10,000 and the state’s 16,000. Eight more deaths were reported taking the state toll to 111. With the state reporting 765 fresh cases, 587 of them in Chennai, pushing up the state tally to 16,277, public health experts said the increase in the number of those cured indicated treatment was good, not a flattening of the epidemic curve. While 8,324 positive patients were discharged following treatment till Sunday, 7,839 were still under treatment. T Sundararaman, former dean of TISS’s School of Health System Studies, said flattening of the curve can happen when the number of new cases is steady. But there was a constant growth in new infections of between 500 and 800 a day in TN for almost a month now, he pointed out. "We tend to test for symptomatic cases only in hotspots and not in other areas and that is why we miss clusters unless they become very big. Kallakurichi, which reported a sharp increase, is an example," he added. Not a single case was reported in Kallakurichi for more than 15 days in April and only nine persons tested positive till May 1. But at present the district has 136 active cases, many of them returning home from other states. On Sunday, 15 returnees from Maharashtra tested positive in the district. Across the state on Sunday, 44 people who returned from other states, tested positive. Of them, 39 were from Maharashtra and two were from West Bengal. Others were from Delhi, Kerala and Karnataka. With more domestic and international flights expected to reach Chennai from Monday, the government is preparing to increase beds in its quarantine facilities and rope in more hotels. A revenue official from Tambaram said that most hotels in Chennai were charging Rs.2,500 a day and they were trying to find cheaper options. Chennai also has more than 1,500 people in home isolation and the number was expected to increase with the city’s case count touching 10,576. Industrial units in the city's suburbs too were reporting infections. Following 17 cases reported at Nokia Solutions and Network in Sriperumbudur, three employees from the nearby Hyundai plant tested positive on Sunday. On the positive side, Coimbatore continued to have zero cases for the 21st day and Erode, Nagapattinam, Salem and Sivaganga did not report any new cases for 48 hours or more. All eight deaths reported were from Chennai and its suburbs. The deceased were aged between 46 and 68 and had comorbidities, said the official release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-count-crosses-16k-chennai-tally-10k/articleshow/75956190.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Forest dept encourages farmers to earn money through plantation||MYSURU: In order to encourage farmers to take up plantation in their fields, which will improve their economy as well as the ecology of the region, the forest department has decided to distribute nine lakh saplings of native species to the farming community in the district. As the farming community is in distress owing to Covid-19 lockdown and poor demand and marketing facilities for their produce, the forest department will provide them incentives to encourage raising trees in their private farms. Under the programme, the forest department will provide the seedlings of native species like teak, sandalwood, melia dubia (hebbevu), mahogany, honge, neem, bamboo and others. The nine lakh saplings, raised in the nursery of the forest department in Mysuru, T Narasipura, Nanjangud, HD Kote and Sarguru in the district, are ready for distribution to farmers. The farmers will be given an incentive of Rs 40 per sapling by the end of October. DCF (Mysuru division) KC Prashantkumar told TOI that the programme will improve the economic condition of farmers as well as increase the green cover. “Farmers have to get the saplings from the department’s nurseries and plant them in their agricultural fields. They have to provide details of the surviving trees in June. They will get Rs 30 per saplings in the first and second year and Rs 40 per sapling in the third year,” he said. DCF Prashantkumar also said that the department has taken up block plantation in 500 hectares of land, planting activity in around 50kms in the city and roadside planting. “These activities are taken up to increase green cover,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-dept-encourages-farmers-to-earn-money-through-plantation/articleshow/75953617.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh high court tells IPS officer not to hamper inquiry||HYDERABAD: Setting aside his suspension order, the Andhra Pradesh high court has cautioned former state intelligence chief AB Venkateswara Rao to not interfere with the investigation against him. In February, 2020, the state suspended ABV Rao after a report by DGP Gautam Sawang indicted the former for his alleged involvement in irregularities in the purchase of surveillance equipment from Israeli firm RT Inflatable Objects. The Central Administrative Tribunal upheld the suspension order before the HC set it aside on May 22 and directed the state to reinstate Rao. Terming his suspension as illegal HC directed the government to reinstate him. However, in the order, HC said, “A note of caution and a direction is also given to the petitioner not to interfere or hamper the process of enquiry, investigation. He should maintain a very strict distance from the investigation/inquiry and should not be in any way attempt to keep in touch with any of the witnesses proposed to be introduced or come in the way of the investigating/inquiry officers. It is made clear that if there is any infraction, the state is entitled to take appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-hc-tells-ips-officer-not-to-hamper-inquiry/articleshow/75955285.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 25, 2020||Goa||Man feared drowned in Bhironda||Valpoi: Shubham Patil, 23, a resident of Bicholim, has been feared drowned in a river at Bhironda in Sattari on Sunday. Valpoi police said that Patil, along with four others came for a picnic at the spot and added that they ventured into river along with locals to swim. “After they came out of the river, they found that Patil was missing. The locals then immediately alerted the Valpoi police and fire personnel,” police said. The fire personnel continued search for the missing man till late evening on Sunday but could not trace his body. Valpoi police said that Patil, along with four others came for a picnic at the spot and added that they ventured into river along with locals to swim||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-feared-drowned-in-bhironda/articleshow/75957693.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Recovery rate in Bhopal 63%, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Stating that recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is constantly improving in the state, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that in Bhopal it has crossed the 63% mark. This has been achieved by expanding testing, treatment and quarantine arrangement of Covid-19 in the state capital. During a review of Covid-19 status in the state with officials through video conference on Sunday, Chouhan said that despite the success being achieved in the efforts to control the Corona in the state, there is a need to persevere. Collectors should keep an eye on slums of district and conduct random tests and keep the fever clinics working effectively in all the districts. Chouhan said that it is necessary to ensure supply chain of essential commodities and undertake testing and tracing work. He obtained information on the state capital from Bhopal commissioner, collector, inspector general and DIG. It was informed in the meeting that multidisciplinary efforts have been made for disease control in Bhopal. This has led to success in disease control. Under the ICU arrangement in Bhopal district, facility was provided to 28 patients as against 156. A total of 492 patients are admitted in AIIMS, GMC, Chirayu Medical College and Covid Care Center in Bhopal. Currently 3 patients are on ventilator. In Bhopal district, 464 people were enrolled against the provision of 1030 people for Isolation. Commissioner Bhopal said that the condition of Corona control is also improving in the division, but all are active at the level of vigilance. Collector Bhopal Tarun Pithode informed that the district administration is getting better support from the residents and NGOs in contact tracing of suspects and providing essential items and food to the patients and those under quarantine. Additional chief secretary, public health and family welfare Mohammad Suleman informed that till May 24, 6,665 Corona cases have come up in the state, out of which 2,967 are active cases and 3,408 recoveries. The recovery rate of the state is 51.3% while in Bhopal this is 63%. The order of doubling in the state is now coming on the 20th day, which is better than other states. Despite 294 positive cases on May 24, 141 patients were discharged. In 25 such districts in the state where more than 10 cases have been found, 41,640 people have been quarantined in their homes and 2,109 have been institutionally quarantined. No positive cases have been reported in the last 21 days in some districts of the state like Harda, Chhindwara and Alirajpur. Chief Secretary Shri Iqbal Singh Bains and other officials were present in the video conference and the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recovery-rate-in-bhopal-63-says-cm/articleshow/75956220.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid Hospital nurse, 11 others test +ve; Amravati count 164||Amravati: A spike of 12 Covid positive cases on Sunday put the district administration on high alert which ordered for micro-planning in containment zones and listing of all chronic blood pressure and diabetes patients therein besides taking swabs of individuals down with fever for five or more days. With the hotspots continuing to throw up positive cases unbridled, guardian minister Yashomati Thakur held an urgent meeting with the administration, ordering micro-planning in containment zones while collector Shailesh Naval made a tour of all isolation centers in these zones and ordered for listing all BP and diabetes patients therein and providing medicines to them besides taking x-ray of symptomatic cases and swabs of persons with fever for five or more days. A 45-year-old nurse at Covid Hospital here and a five-year-old girl are among the 12 who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 164, according to an official release. The nurse, 11th corona warrior and the fourth from the hospital to contract the virus, had her swab taken when she was quarantined after putting in 10 days’ duty at Covid Hospital. Her swab tested positive today. A community health officer (a resident of Anant Nagar in Akola) of Covid Hospital tested positive on Saturday while two health workers (now recovered) had tested positive earlier. Besides the nurse, three members of a family from Habib Nagar, females aged 5 and 30 and a male aged 33, also tested positive this morning after they were put in institutional quarantine when a 32-year-old male in the family tested positive on May 21. The fifth case of the day is also from Habib Nagar, a female aged 65, an official said. With Habib Nagar reporting four cases today, its count has gone up to eight, including two recovered cases. In the evening, seven more tested positive. They included a 19-year-old from Masanganj, the hotspot’s 24th case; a man and a woman aged 30 and 65, respectively, from Shiv Nagar, which has earlier given three cases, an 11-year-old girl from Al Hilal Colony, which reported a death on Saturday, and males aged 22 and 54 and a female aged 36 from Habib Nagar no. 1 locality. The district’s count of 164 now includes 15 deaths, 76 recovered, 71 active cases and two referred to GMCH Nagpur. “We received 171 reports today and 159 of them tested negative while 12 positive,” said Naval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-hospital-nurse-11-others-test-ve-amravati-count-164/articleshow/75956225.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||Patients wait at least 12 hours to get ICU bed in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The ordeal of patients to find ICU beds in the city’s Covid hospitals seemed to continue despite the claim by civic and state officials that more beds have opened up in the private sector following the price capping and the circular to regulate them. A few ward officials have confirmed that there was still a minimum wait of 12 hours to get an ICU bed. Nearly 600 Covid-19 patients were in the ICU and 198 on ventilator as on Saturday. TOI on Sunday came across two instances in which there was a marked delay in finding beds. A Jogeshwari resident, for instance, spent 12 hours making frantic calls with several hospitals looking for an ICU bed for his 59-year-old mother. His quest ended late at night when he managed to shift her to a civic-run Kandivli hospital. In another case, a 59-year-old Covid patient died of a heart attack within an hour of being moved to a care facility in Mulund, unable to get a bed at Ghatkopar’s Rajawadi Hospital after waiting for nine hours. His family alleged that timely treatment in a hospital could have saved his life. In another emerging situation, moving critical patients— who are admitted in non-Covid hospitals, but test positive during the course of treatment and hence have to be moved to a designated Covid-19 centre—is proving to be a mammoth challenge for families. Doctors have told TOI that sometimes the time taken to move such patients to a Covid facility is stretching up to two days. Civic officials said 583 positive patients were in the ICU, while 198 were on ventilator till Saturday, but in the Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) put together, there were 5,392 patients. These centres are meant for moderately ill and critical patients. The BMC has said that another 3,658 patients were in the Covid Care Centres (CCC2) meant for positive patients without comorbidities. A senior administrator from a south Mumbai hospital said that nearly all hospitals have 8-10 patients on their ICU waiting list. “More beds have to open in the private sector. Currently, only a miniscule has been offered to the BMC,” the official said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, however, said that there is no shortage of ICU beds. He added that the dashboard for real-time tracking and allocation of private and public beds is ready and in use already. “People must understand that if they are asymptomatic and can isolate themselves at home, they should. For those who are breathless and have comorbid conditions, we have beds. They just have to call the 1916 helpline for the allocation,” he said, adding that they were left with ICU beds to spare on Saturday. As for beds in private hospitals, he said, as and when they discharge their existing patients, more beds will be available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/patients-wait-at-least12-hrs-to-get-icu-bed/articleshow/75957694.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 25, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses anticipatory bail plea of duo involved brewing illicit liquor||Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of two people who were involved in brewing 130 litres of illicit liquor during the lockdown period in Thanjavur district.Nadukaveri police have registered a case against petitioners Manimaran and Victor alias Lawrence Victor. As per the prosecution case, police conducted a raid and seized 130 litres of illicit liquor on April 25.The petitioners who apprehend arrest in the case moved the Madurai bench of the high court seeking anticipatory bail.The additional public prosecutor strongly opposed granting them anticipatory bail stating that during lockdown all the Tasmac outlets were closed and taking advantage of this situation, the petitioners and other accused were brewing illicit liquor. He submitted that the nature of the liquor brewed by the petitioners has to be tested in the laboratory.Hearing the plea, Justice G Jayachandran said that by considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this court is of the view that petitioners have to be arrested and interrogated. Hence, the judge dismissed the petition.In a similar case, Patteswaram police in Thanjavur district arrested two people who were involved in illicit liquor sale on April 28. Three others - Prakash, Veeramani and Ayyavu escaped from the spot.The trio who apprehend arrest in this case moved court seeking anticipatory bail. Justice G Jayachandran dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-duo-involved-brewing-illicit-liquor/articleshow/75956212.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress to KCR: Probe OU land encroachments||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday warned of serious consequences if even an inch of land belonging to Osmania University is allowed to be encroached upon by the government. Uttam, along with senior Congress leaders Bhatti Vikramarka, V Hanumantha Rao, Ponnam Prabhakar, Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy and S A Sampath Kumar among others on Sunday visited the university to inspect the land that is allegedly being encroached upon by private individuals. The Congress members interacted with OU students and teachers and assured them that the Congress would do all that is required to protect OU land.  “A high-level inquiry to probe into the alleged encroachments should be constituted and stern action should be taken against the offenders,” Uttam demanded. He called upon the OU students, teachers and staff to conduct joint agitation. The Congress said it will bring the issue to the notice of the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-to-kcr-probe-ou-land-encroachments/articleshow/75955313.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid positive teen longs for Eid biryani with her ‘hospital family’||PANAJI: It will be novel Eid without family and home-cooked delicacies for those who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus over the past week. In the adult ward of the Covid hospital in Margao, one of the youngest patients has been begging her parents to bring her some food for the occasion. “I asked my mother to donate biryani to the entire hospital, so that I get to eat some too,” she told TOI. “I also asked the doctors whether we would get any special food on Monday.” At the 200-bed hospital, outside food it not permitted, but she isn’t giving up hope. When she tested positive for Covid-19 upon arrival in Goa last week, she broke her Ramzan fast after 30 days. “I couldn’t stop crying when they told me,” she said. “With all the news and Whatsapp messages I read, I thought I was going to die. I thought I would be put on saline drips and my phone would be taken away.” But the doctors left her hopeful. “They (doctors) told me that I only had to be admitted because I could be a carrier of the virus, and assured me there was nothing wrong with me. After being treated, I realized the virus is not so dangerous.” The fever, headache and tiredness she experienced when she first arrived in Goa have all disappeared, and she has now been moved to another floor of the hospital reserved for asymptomatic patients. “I’m feeling better from the inside. I have more energy now. I will wear a nice traditional dress and put on some simple makeup for Eid,” she said. The teenager caught a glimpse of her mother only when she was getting into the ambulance from the quarantine centre to be taken to the Covid hospital, when she handed over home-made puri bhaji. This will not only be her first Eid spent in a hospital, but also her first experience being hospitalized. “I was very scared of syringes, blood and hospital corridors, but I want to become a doctor,” she says. In hospital, she spends her days preparing for the NEET, participating in online classes, completing assignments and watching movies on her phone. She says the other patients, doctors and nurses have all turned into family for her. “Our beds are two metres apart and we wear masks, but we laugh and joke together. The doctors and nurses are very kind and patient with us, unlike what I have seen in other government hospitals,” she said. How she got infected with the virus is still unclear. “I didn’t leave the house at all for 50 days. It’s still a mystery to me,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-ve-teen-longs-for-eid-biryani-with-her-hospital-family/articleshow/75957691.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||After releasing ‘Modi aarti’, Mussoorie BJP MLA now says will build temple with PM’s idol||DEHRADUN: After releasing an ‘aarti’ extolling PM Modi during an event to facilitate Covid-19 warriors a few days ago, BJP MLA from Mussoorie Ganesh Joshi said on Sunday that he sees the PM as a revered figure and is keen to build a temple in which he can place his idol. “I have kept his photo in my temple and office ever since he was the party’s general secretary in the 1990s. I am keen to build a temple some day dedicated to him,” he told TOI, adding that “people have also made temples for Rajinikanth and Sonia Gandhi because they love and respect them, so there is nothing wrong in it.” The MLA along with higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat had released the ‘Modiji ki aarti’ penned by a city-based college professor Renu Pant on Friday. Written on the lines of the Hanuman Chalisa, the aarti hails the Prime Minister for “fighting the Corona threat, making the opposition shiver, clearing the way for the Ram temple, abolishing Article 370 as well as hosting Trump in a grand manner and providing him with medicines.” Soon after the release of the aarti, opposition Congress launched an attack on the saffron party for “taking sycophancy to new heights.” Garima Dasauni, state Congress spokesperson said, “How can a human being be compared with gods and goddesses? It is the height of sycophancy by the BJP members who in their greed for power can go to any extent to please their masters.” Congress members also lodged a complaint against the BJP functionaries involved in the event at Nehru Colony policy station. Meanwhile, reacting to the issue, state BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat said, “The party hasn’t asked anyone to write the poem. It is just an expression of someone’s personal respect, love and faith in our PM. We cannot stop anyone from loving and respecting the PM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-releasing-modi-aarti-mussoorie-bjp-mla-now-says-will-build-temple-with-pms-idol/articleshow/75953599.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||South Central Railway runs record 43 Shramik trains in 12 hours||HYDERABAD: South Central Railway (SCR) on Sunday announced that a record 43 Shramik Special trains were run within a span of 12 hours from various railway stations on SCR’s jurisdiction from 4pm on Saturday until Sunday morning. Among them, 40 trains were operated from railway stations in the state with Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Kacheguda, Ghatkesar and Lingampalli mainly serving the purpose. In addition, Mahbubnagar and Kazipet stations also handled the operations. Destinations of these 40 trains include 10 trains to Bihar, six trains to Jharkhand, eight to Uttar Pradesh, 12 trains to Odisha and four to other states. In a simultaneous move, three Shramik special trains commenced journey with migrant workers from Nambur (1 train) and Kadapa stations (1 train) in Andhra Pradesh and Aurangabad station in Maharashtra, taking the tally of rail operations to 43 shramik special trains with a single day record total of around 40,000 workers availing the transport facility in the SCR zone. This apart, SCR also informed that it had operated 196 Shramik special trains from the zone carrying 2.40 lakh migrant labourers to their hometowns till date. Mallya also stated that SCR is ready to handle all the needs for special trains in co-ordination with state governments, in line with the plans spelt out by Railway Board chairman V K Yadav, who has targeted the run of 2600 Shramik special trains in next 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-runs-record-43-shramik-trains-in-12-hrs/articleshow/75955322.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kanpur||Mercury hits record high of 45 Celsius on Sunday||Kanpur: Kanpur recorded the day temperature as 45 degree Celcius on Sunday, making it the hottest day of the season so far. This was 4.7 degrees above normal value. According to Met department of CSA University, the last time mercury touched a high of 45 degree Celcius on May 24 was 2012. On May 30 last year, city had witnessed a record high day temperature of 45.6 degree Celsius. Also, Saturday night turned out to be the hottest night of the season so far with temperature soaring close to 30 degree Celsius. The night temperature was 3.7 degrees above normal value. On Friday night, the minimum temperature recorded was 28.2 degree Celcius, while on Thursday night, it was 23.4 degree Celcius. Therefore, the night temperature jumped by five degrees to breach the 28 degree mark. The day temperature on Friday was 43.8 degree Celsius. Extremely hot weather conditions have been prevailing for last three days. During the period between May 16 and May 21, both the day and night temperatures stood between 39 and 41 degree Celsius and did not touch the 44-45 degree mark. During the same period, the minimum temperature did not go beyond 24.6 degree Celcius. Dr Naushad Khan, agrometerologist at CSA University, stated that it was only in 2012 when mercury had hit the 45 degree mark on the same date. “In the coming days, the city will witness cloudy weather and hot gusty winds will blow across it, but there are no chances of rains. The weather will continue to remain dry,” he added. Meanwhile, not much traffic was seen on roads on Sunday despite the easing of restrictions. This is attributed to the extremely hot weather conditions due to which people preferred to remain indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mercury-hits-record-high-of-45-celsius-on-sunday/articleshow/75955942.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kanpur||Braving scorching heat, migrants walk to homes||Kanpur : Migrant workers seem to be unaffected in Kanpur even when the temperature rises to 45-degree Celsius on Sunday. Sharing the ordeal of his journey braving the scorching heat, Avlal Kumar, a migrant worker who started his journey from Chennai and has reached Kanpur, said: “I don't have a single penny in my pocket. We didn't have any other option but to reach home.” Govind Rao, another migrant worker who travelled back from home from Chennai, said that he had to cross the border through the forest and has reached Kanpur with the help of some truck drivers. Rajender, who has been offering food to migrant workers including Avlal, who haven’t had food since Saturday morning, has assured them that they’ll reach home safely. During the fourth phase of nationwide coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Centre has introduced certain relaxations including the reverse migration of workers. ANI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/braving-scorching-heat-migrants-walk-to-homes/articleshow/75955917.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Youth commits suicide by jumping off bridge in Karnataka||MANGALURU: A delivery executive of an online food delivery company allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the Nethravathi River, near the Panemangalore Old Bridge, at noon on Sunday. According to police, the victim is Nishanth, 28, who is a resident of Kalladka. The victim came near the bridge on his motorbike and jumped into the river, which was seen by youths present at the spot. They jumped into the river and brought him to the shore. They also tried to revive him, and later took him to hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. The reason for the youth taking the extreme step is not known. The video of the rescue operation has gone viral on social media. Shameer Mohammed, Moummu Tausif, Jaheed Jayi, Muktar and Arif tried to rescue Nishanth by jumping into the river, and were appreciated for their effort. A case has been registered at the Bantwal Town police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-commits-suicide-by-jumping-off-bridge/articleshow/75953720.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid scare brings fortune for astrologers||JAIPUR: The coronavirus pandemic has brought uncertainties in the life of people. Massive layoffs across various industries, dwindling economy and a bleak outlook have left many people worried. So, in quest for finding a solution to their problems, they are falling back on astrologers and tarot card readers through online sessions. Astrologer Pandit Purshottam Gaur from Jaipur said that people are contacting him from all over the state and world about issues related to coronavirus. “The number of queries, be it online or through phone, has gone up significantly. Many people want to know when this pandemic will come to an end and if they will be infected by it or not. Due to the lockdown people are facing financial problems. Many people are contacting to find advice of their business or future of their children in jobs,” said Gaur. Another astrologer Manav Jain said that people wanted to know if they will lose their jobs or not. Besides, they want to know when this problem will end, he said. Not just general public, doctors and health workers are contacting fortune tellers to know whether they will get infected by the virus. Seema Sablok, a tarot card reader from Jaipur, said that in lockdown, 30% calls are from doctors and health workers. “Doctors are in front-line fighting the disease. So they are worried about their safety. I charge Rs 100 per question. Being in this business for the last five years, my regular clients are approaching as well as new people. Majority youngsters are inclined towards tarot card reading and I am getting regular queries about the upcoming examinations or whether their CA examination will be held this year. Pandemic has created scare among people,” said Sablok. Many women and newly married couples are approaching to find solutions of marital issues that have surfaced during this lockdown period. Himani Agyani, another tarot card reader from Jaipur, said “I am dealing with clients facing domestic abuse or frequent fights between married couples. Many teenagers are booking online sessions to know if they or their family will get infected with the virus. There is significant increase in queries online during lockdown. These are tough times that are making people anxious,” Agyani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-scare-brings-fortune-for-astrologers/articleshow/75956222.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
May 25, 2020||Madurai||Barbers back in biz, lockdown locks, bushy beards cut to size||Madurai: G Senthil, a resident of Anna Nagar, has been keenly waiting for barber shops to open so that he could get rid of his unkempt hair which had overgrown in two months as the shops closed just before the day he was planning to have a cut. “My wife did offer to cut my hair, but I was not ready to take the risk. Shaving was not a problem as I have been doing it myself,” he said. A large number of people like Senthil hit salons in Madurai early on Sunday after the government relaxed restrictions for salons. The hairdressers disinfected the shops on Saturday itself and turned up in full strength on Sunday morning to make the most of it. M Velmurugan, human resource manager of Vinitas hair and makeup, said they are following all precautionary measures prescribed by the government. Customers are made to wait with mandatory social distancing, provided hand sanitizer and their temperature checked before being let inside. “We frequently disinfect the shop, ensure mask and gloves for hair stylists and customers are also made to wear mask. Disposable apron is provided to customers to ensure safety,” he said. N M Shanmugam, president of Madurai City Maruthuvar Association, said there are 2,000 barber shops in the corporation limits alone, employing more than 5,000 people. “I can tell you 99 % of barber shops in the city follow the government’s instructions and ensure safety of customers and hairstylists. It has been a tough two months with the shops shut. We had to provide salary and also pay rent without any income,” he said. He demanded that the state government expedite distribution of Rs 2,000 to every barber as lockdown relief. “We have been approaching various offices, but officials are clueless on the procedure to apply for it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/barbers-back-in-biz-lockdown-locks-bushy-beards-cut-to-size/articleshow/75956221.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||With 219 fresh cases, Madhya Pradesh corona count is 6,665||BHOPAL: With 219 cases, the state’s corona count reached 6,665 on Sunday. Nine deaths were also reported on Sunday, as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services, Madhya Pradesh. The districts where these deaths were reported from are Indore (3), Bhopal (3), Ujjain (2) and Neemuch (1). With this, the corona toll in the state reached 290. As per Madhya Pradesh health bulletin, new cases were reported from 22 districts — Burhanpur (58), Bhopal (50), Neemuch (30), Ujjain (22), Jabalpur (10), Sagar (9), Khandwa (6), Gwalior (6), Morena (4), Bhind (4), Betul (4), Chhatarpur (3), Khargone (2), Dhar (2), Mandsaur (2), Damoh (2), Vidisha (1), Satna (1), Datia (1), Shahdol (1) and Narsinghpur (1). Narsinghpur district got its first coronavirus patient on Sunday, making it the 50th district to be infected with coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, 141 patients who were tested positive recovered and were discharged from hospitals all over the state. The total number of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh has gone up to 3,408. This is less than the 2967 active patients who are admitted in hospitals all over the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-219-fresh-cases-mp-corona-count-is-6665/articleshow/75956227.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private teachers forced to take loans, pledge gold after being denied salaries||HYDERABAD: Apart from taking up odd jobs to feed their families, many private teachers have allegedly pledged their gold or taken hand loans to survive during the lockdown. Forty-five-year old G Chandrasekhar Rao, who is working as a high school Telugu teacher for the past 20 years, said that he borrowed Rs 40,000 against his wife’s gold chain. “I have three school-going kids and wife to take care of and the only way we could survive is pledging the gold,” said Rao, adding that his management paid only 15 days salary for March. Rao said that more than 80% of students have already cleared their fees dues, but management is not paying salaries. “I don’t know how we are going to survive. I have to pay three months’ rent and clear the gold loan,” said Rao, who is paid Rs 18,000 per month. Another teacher, K Bhaskar Rathod, said he had taken Rs 15,000 as a hand loan from a friend to buy essentials.  “I have made several calls to my management, but they did not even bother to answer my calls,” said Rathod, adding that his complaints to education department officials also went unanswered. To highlight the plight of private teachers and put pressure on the government to direct schools to pay their salaries, teachers, under aegis of Telangana Private Teachers Forum (TPTF) sat on relay hunger strike on Sunday. “There are three lakh teachers and two lakh supporting staff who are struggling to survive during lockdown. Neither the management nor the government is concerned about our well-being,” said Shabir Ali, president, TPTF, adding that all private teachers along with their family members participated in the protest from their residences from 10am to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-teachers-forced-to-take-loans-pledge-gold-after-being-denied-salaries/articleshow/75955344.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 25, 2020||Madurai||Containment zones shrink to 10 in Madurai city||Madurai: The number of containment zones in Madurai city has come down to 10, which was double on Thursday (May 21). The number of containment areas will be reduced further by this week as containment areas such as Mohammediyar Street and Abdul Rahman Street in Goripalayam and Sembaruthi Street Nagar in Vilangudi will complete 14 days of quarantine period on Tuesday. “The number of households in containment areas has come down to a fraction of what it was a couple of weeks ago. Earlier, houses in one-km radius was brought under containment area, but now, only the streets from where a positive case was reported is declared as containment area,” he said. The city corporation has traced source of the every single Covid-19 infections so far, which has helped contain spread of the disease. Most of the cases reported nowadays are from outside Madurai district. With people from other states started reaching their native places, the number of cases is going up. But local transmission has been under control, health officials said. Saraswathi Street in Mahatma Gandhi Nagar (ward 4), Seeman Nagar in Melamadai (ward 30), Income Tax Colony and Neduncheliyan Street in Vilangudi (23), Markandan Koil Street in Thirupparankundram (ward 94), Thathaneri Main Road in Barathi Nagar (ward 9) and Pulipandi Street in Jaihindpuram (91) would be the only seven containment areas from Wednesday onwards if there are no new positive cases in the city, officials said. “A help desk has been created for each of the containment area and a corporation employee is assigned for each desk. The employee will monitor disinfection activities and Covid-19 positive cases and their households. The person will ensure that the family gets required essential items,” a higher official from Madurai Corporation said. Officials said that various measures including decentralization of markets from the March end has helped in preventing the spread of Covid-19. At present, Madurai Corporation is concentrating on popularizing preventive medicines such as vitamin and zinc tablets, arsenicum album-30 and kabasura kudineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/containment-zones-shrink-to-10-in-madurai-city/articleshow/75956223.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Portuguese passport sought as few jobs in Goa: Class X paper||PANAJI: In a major goof-up that has left the Goa Board shamefaced, a sentence in Saturday’s Class X English language paper stated that Goans are opting for Portuguese passports as it is difficult to get a job in the state without use of influence or bribing. By Sunday evening, the question paper had gone viral online and many, including NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar, called for the paper setter and chief of paper-setters' panel to be debarred from all public exam work in the future. The 3-mark question 7D asks students to rephrase the given conversation using appropriate reporting verbs. In the conversation provided, Rayson asks a friend Kedan about his future plans and receives the response ‘I have applied for a Portuguese passport as there are few job opportunities in Goa’. To this Kedan responds with ‘You have taken the right decision. Without influence and money, it’s very difficult for Goans to get jobs in Goa’. The question paper received widespread criticism with Sawaikar calling for immediate disciplinary action against the paper setter, chief of paper-setters' panel and all others associated with the process of paper setting. He called it “an intentional attempt by the paper setter to influence young minds”. TimesViewIt is unpardonable that the Goa Board allowed a mischief monger to play havoc with the SSC English paper. It is a clear case of negligence by the authorities concerned that something as serious as a question paper for students was allowed to pass muster without scrutiny. The usual norm is that depending on the subject, five or more different question papers are set by a panel of paper-setters, after which one paper is chosen by the chief of the panel, who is responsible for vetting it. But what has been proved is that the question paper was not checked minutely as required, given that the chief is the only and final scrutiniser. It is the board’s responsibility to ensure that those chosen as paper setters have sufficient experience as evaluators and moderators. It is also the responsibility of the Goa Board chairman to ensure that the chief of the panel is an academic, who is without any biases and has good knowledge of all the subjects. As per the board’s rules, the final call is of the Goa Board chairman, who should have ensured that the chief of the panel is well-versed with the norms of paper setting. This mistake must not go unpunished.“In spite of the fact that the paper setter is employed in Goa and draws his salary from the taxes paid by Goans, is attempting to pollute the children. Such mindset should not be tolerated in the education, and more particularly, in the examination system,” Sawaikar said. This question in English paper of SSC examination is a reflection of current situation in Goa under @BJP4Goa. No jo… https://t.co/s7rtK7bxFW— Digambar Kamat (@digambarkamat) 1590327015000“We have taken note of it. We will inquire into it and take appropriate action as provided in Goa Board’s rules,” chairman of Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, Ramkrishna Samant said. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat also tweeted stating that the question paper “is a reflection of current situation in Goa”, under the BJP government. “No job opportunities here & then step-motherly treatment to those who go abroad for earning bread & butter & contribute to our economy. Hope @goacm takes note,” Kamat said, referring to complaints about facilities made by those returning by special flights from abroad during the pandemic. This contentious conversation wasn’t the only mistake in the question paper on May 23. In another six marks question, students were asked to answer ‘any of the following in 50 words’ and were provided five options, without stating how many of these have to be answered. Board chairman said that this matter has been reported to the scrutiny committee of the board. “Appropriate decision will be taken in the matter. It will be seen that there is no loss of marks to students due to a mistake in the question paper,” Samant said. The main papers for the Class X exams began on May 23 with over 19,000 students appearing. The exam was postponed by over a month to May due to the pandemic. NSUI president Ahraz Mulla wrote on Sunday to the Goa governor pointing to the goof-up over the Portuguese passport issue and said that it is insulting to India as a country. Mulla said that chief minister, who is also the education minister, should apologise to the public. “Students are the future of the country, their minds must be filled with love for the country and the democracy of the country. They must be taught to love the people and not give up Indian citizenship for a foreign country,” Mulla said. Chief of Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), Subhash Velingkar said that the state government should take action within seven days against the paper setter and the chief of the panel of paper setters, failing which “GSM will go to any extent to see that corrective measures are taken”, Velingkar said. “The paper setter does not seem to be mature enough and clearly has biases, which he has allowed to be reflected in the question paper. In another question in the same paper, students are asked to list pros and cons of attending tuition. Usually, such contentious topics are to be avoided,” an academic said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/portuguese-passport-sought-as-few-jobs-in-state-class-x-paper/articleshow/75957697.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Fauzia Khan: Ajmer’s ‘topchi’ who fires cannon during holy Ramzan||JAIPUR: Around the world, when millions of Muslims wait for the holy month of Ramzan, a 36-year-old woman living at Takiya Ghadar locality on a quaint hilltop overlooking the Ajmer dargah waits to fire her cannon. Known as the ‘Cannon Girl of Ajmer’ or topchi, Fauzia Khan is the eighth generation of her family to fire the cannon three times a day in the month of Ramzan and four times a day for every Friday’s namaz. “Ramzan is a busy month and I am not able to sleep properly. I wake up at 2am during Ramzan to fire the first shot at 2.30am to wake up people for sehri,” says Fauzia with pride. The next shot is fired at 4.15 am, signalling the end of sehri and then in the evening to mark iftaar. This practice of firing cannon was introduced by Mughal emperor Akbar in the 16th century who patronised the shrine. The cannon that Fauzia fires today is a small hand-held one which is kept at the Topkhana police station near Dargah. “There used to be a bigger 53kg cannon with wheels, but in 1947 the government confiscated it to prevent any mischief and allotted us this small one that weights 35kg. We have to register at the police station every Friday when we take out the cannon, except in Ramzan when it is issued out for the entire month,” explains Fauzia. According to the age-old tradition, sehri starts and ends after the sound of the cannon shot is heard by the Ajmer old city. “I was eight years old when I fired my first shot holding my father’s hands. I was brought up like a son. Being youngest of the five daughters and two brothers, I was pampered by my father who never discriminated against me and after his demise in 2008, I was given the responsibility to fire the cannon instead of my brothers. It is not a profession, but an emotion which is attached to this work and has now become my identity,” Fauzia adds. She is paid Rs 1,500 by the dargah committee as gun-powder expense which Fauzia says is only half the cost to operate the cannon for a month. But she bears other expense to keep this tradition alive. Two years ago, Fauzia’s uncle had objected to the custom of woman firing the cannon. As per the agreement between Fauzia’s grandfather and his brother, his brother was allowed to fire cannon for a year after every two years of Fauzia’s family. Fauzia says, “My grandfather called his brother who was living poorly in another city to provide some work to him and this agreement also gives our family a year off to travel when needed. They tried hard to keep me away from this work, but couldn’t succeed.” After the interference of the dargah committee, Fauzia’s stand was made clear and she resumed her work as per norms. Now, Fauzia is training her nieces and nephews to take this responsibility from her shoulders when they grow up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fauzia-khan-ajmers-topchi-who-fires-cannon-during-holy-ramzan/articleshow/75956237.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
May 25, 2020||Agra||Agra: Distressed farmers forced to sell wheat below support price||AGRA: As most government procurement centres for wheat remain closed in Agra region due to the extended Covid-19 lockdown, distressed farmers are now forced to sell their produce to private entities at much lower rates compared to the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,925/quintal fixed by the government. They alleged that the officials concerned have not taken any action in this regard despite repeated requests. Talking to TOI, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, "I will personally review the wheat procurement process. A meeting will be held with leaders of farmer organisations. Problems of the farmers will be addressed and resolved in a time-bound manner." There are 43 centres set up by the Agra district administration for direct procurement of wheat from the farmers. The purchase of wheat in the district started on April 15 and is scheduled to be completed by June 15. Kamal Mahura, a farmer in Khera Jat village of Fatehpur Sikri block, said, “The district administration is not concerned about our problems. For the past one week, I have been making rounds of the local purchase centre. Either it was closed or the staffers claimed that the sacks to store the wheat were not available. I have around 400 quintals of wheat lying in the fields. Due to the current financial crisis and lackadaisical approach of the officials, I am forced to sell the produce at a much lesser rate than the MSP.” Mohan Singh Chahar, regional president of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, said, “Farmers are among the worst-hit, mainly due to the lockdown. In the current situation owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, farmers have not been able to sell the stocks of vegetables and seasonal fruits. District administration is not allowing the supply of milk in the city areas. Besides, thousands of farmers are desperately waiting to get the MSP for wheat. Even after repeated requests, the authorities have failed to ensure proper functioning of the wheat procurement centres and money transfer to the farmers on time.” He added, “The state government had ordered to transfer the money after procurement of wheat within 72 hours to the farmers. However, the orders are not being followed. In different blocks, farmers are making rounds of the centres requesting payment for the wheat procured from them.” Additional district magistrate (civil supplies) Manikchand Dubey said, “Due to the ongoing lockdown, the supply of sacks for storing the wheat has been affected. Manufacturing units have remained non-operational. We are working towards making alternate arrangements. The procurement process will be completed by June 15.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/distressed-farmers-forced-to-sell-wheat-below-support-price/articleshow/75953723.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh government hikes liquor price by 10%||BHOPAL: In a desperate move to resolve the standoff with liquor traders, the state government on Sunday hiked the liquor price by 10% to compensate the loss to the traders. Traders had been defying government diktat to open liquor shops in the cities of the state and were demanding a cut in excise duty in wake of poor sales. Excise commissioner Rajeev Chandra Dube told TOI, “the liquor traders talked about decline in the volume of the sale of liquor, This hike will compensate it.” He said that the liquor price was increased with immediate effect through a “gazette notification” issued on Sunday. But the association of the liquor traders of the state termed it “a cosmetic step” and said this would not serve the purpose. The liquor business is hit by the coronavirus induced lockdown in the state. With almost Rs 13,000 crore excise duty at stake, the cash-starved government ordered the traders to start the shops. After the traders were “ forced” to open the shops on May 5, the liquor business never picked up after the initial euphoria. On May 19, the government also ordered to open the shops outside the municipal limits of Indore and Bhopal among other cities under red zone of the pandemic. But the traders defied the orders. On May 23, the government in a carrotand stick policy announced to offer some “rebates” including reduction of dry days from 4 to 3 days at some places. Later, seeing the defiance of the traders the government in a veiled threat talked about penal action against the traders including termination of licence and blacklisting besides recovery of government guarantee. The traders meanwhile is contemplating on keeping their establishment across the state closed on May 26 and 27 as a mark of protest. The government doesn’t seem to understand the root cause, said the liquor traders’ association, adding, “It is just taking cosmetic steps .” The sales went down by almost 60% as the paying capacity of the labour class was affected badly by the lockdown and joblessness. Instead of sales picking up after tyhe prolonged lockdown, it went down badly, said the association. Labourers and lower income group form the major chunk of the customers, said the association. We want the government to make the figures of the ware house liquor supply public as they (excise department personnel) are supplying the liquor sold by us from the government controlled warehouses every day. The consumption so far this year only can be compared with that a decade ago”, said Rahul Jaiswal, spokesman of the association while talking to the TOI. “ We just want 25% reduction in annual the excise duty which was enhanced this financial year. We committed 25 % extra before March 31 when the coronavirus crisis was not in the picture while estimating the sales figures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-hikes-liquor-price-by-10/articleshow/75956884.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||These corona warriors have delivered ration to over 10 lakh families||Jaipur: Corona warriors of the cooperative department, who have been playing a crucial role in delivering essentials at the doorstep, have so far distributed over food packets to over 10 lakh families. Across the state, around 1,000 personnel have been working tirelessly to deliver the essentials door-to-door using 326 vans. Since lockdown was imposed in the country from March 25, it was a challenging task to deliver food items at reasonable rates to residents. However, the cooperative department took the initiative to deliver quality materials at reasonable rates through cooperative consumer stores, said minister Udai Lal Anjana. The department coordinated with all the collectors and formed a joint team of more than 1,000 personnel of the department and cooperative institutions to distribute the food packets. The responsibility of providing food door-to-door was entrusted to 34 consumer stores operating in the state and CONFED in Jaipur. “The corona warriors of cooperatives offered their services, especially in the curfew-affected areas of the state. During the lockdown, the departments and institutions worked as a team to realise the spirit of ‘one for all - all for one’,” said principal secretary and registrar cooperative Nareshpal Gangwar. Firstly, 21 mobile vans were flagged off in Bhilwara district to deliver food to over 1.25 lakh families. Apart from this, over one lakh ration kits were distributed in the district. In order to provide relief to the people, the department introduced 326 mobile vans, including 33 in Ajmer division, 36 in Bharatpur division, 103 in Bikaner division, 22 in Jaipur division, 88 in Jodhpur division, 20 in Kota division and 24 in Udaipur division. As of today, over 10 lakh families have been provided ration at reasonable prices and on an average 23,000 families are being distributed food items every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/these-corona-warriors-have-delivered-ration-to-over-10-lakh-families/articleshow/75956231.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Severe heatwave alert for Telangana till May 28||HYDERABAD: There is no relief in sight from the searing heat for Telangana till May 28 as India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, has issued a severe heatwave warning over isolated pockets in the state. Some areas in the city recorded 44 degree Celsius, the highest this season, on Sunday. According to the IMD, heatwave conditions would continue to prevail over many districts such as Adilabad, Nizamabad, Jagtial, Karimnagar, Mahbubnagar among others till May 28. The maximum temperature is likely to soar up to 46-47 degree Celsius in many districts. “Cyclone Amphun has sucked away all the moisture from the air due to which Telangana is experiencing extremely dry weather conditions. Apart from this, north-westerly hot winds are blowing from the dessert area of Rajasthan which is resulting in rise in mercury levels,” said Raja Rao, meteorologist, IMD, Hyderabad. The highest temperature of 46.3 degree Celsius in the state was recorded at Bhoraj in Adilabad district, while BHEL at Ramchandrapuram in GHMC limits, recorded the highest temperature in the city, 44 degree Celsius. Following the heatwave conditions, thunderstorm activity accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (30 to 40 kmph) is likely to occur at isolated places over Telangana on May 28. Meteorologists forecast that after May 28, the mercury levels might log a slight dip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/severe-heatwave-alert-for-state-till-may-28/articleshow/75955329.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi sizzles at 45.6 degree Celsius, relief only by weekend||NEW DELHI: The capital continued to face the wrath of the heatwave on Sunday, with the mercury soaring to 45.6 degree Celsius at Ayanagar — five degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the season. Safdarjung — the city’s base station — recorded a maximum of 44.4 degrees Celsius, again five notches above the normal. A heatwave is declared in a region when the maximum temperature is more than 4 degrees above the normal. The India Meteorological Department had declared a red alert for Delhi, Chandigarh and Haryana for May 24 to May 26. On May 27, an orange alert is in place, while it has been further downgraded to yellow alert on May 28. Delhi had recorded its hottest day of the season on Saturday, when the mercury touched 46.2° Celsius at Ayanagar and 44.7° C at Safdarjung. Met officials said relief is unlikely over the next 72 hours, with conditions changing only after May 28. A thunderstorm, accompanied by light rain is meanwhile expected on Friday and Saturday, which is expected to bring temperatures back down again, officials added. “Dry north-westerly winds are currently prevailing over north-west India and NCR. This is aided by relatively clear skies,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. Other stations like Palam and Lodhi Road recorded similar heatwave with temperatures five notches above the normal. While the maximum at Palam was 45.4° C, it was 44.2° C at Lodhi Road. Last May, the highest temperature recorded at Safdarjung was 44.7 degrees. Until May 15 of this year, Delhi had already received four western disturbances, keeping the mercury well below normal. MeT officials said relief is again expected in the form a fresh western disturbance. “Conditions will change on the night of May 28 due to easterly winds and another western disturbance. Temperatures can drop to 38-39 degrees after a spell of rain. Gusty winds are also likely, ranging between 30 and 40 km/hr,” an official claimed. Forecast for Monday shows hot surface winds, ranging from 20-30 km/hr, during the day, with the mercury expected to touch 45 degrees at Safdarjung. It may touch 46 degrees by Tuesday, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-sizzles-at-45-6c-relief-only-by-weekend/articleshow/75956255.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Agra||UP man dies of heart attack after cop threatens to send him to jail||AGRA: A Samajwadi Party worker died of apparent heart failure on Sunday after a policeman threatened to send him to jail as he was found playing ludo with a group of friends outside his house in Aligarh. Asha, wife of the victim, Narayan Varshney, said, “The policeman, incharge of Jaiganj police chowki, clicked my husband’s photo and threatened to send him to jail for lockdown violation. He got scared and collapsed.” She added that her husband, a heart patient, used to often sit outside the house as he felt suffocated inside the house. According to police, the incident took place around 12:30 pm on Sunday. The policeman, who was on patrolling duty, asked the people not to violate lockdown rules following which Varshney stood up and immediately collapsed. Circle officer Vishal Pandey said that they have asked the family to get a post-mortem examination done to get a clear picture about the cause of death but they had refused. Pandey said that the policeman was just doing his duty. Pandey said no complaint has been filed by the victim’s family against the policeman. No FIR was registered till filling of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-dies-of-heart-attack-after-cop-threatens-to-send-him-to-jail/articleshow/75953757.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Agra||Mercury mayhem: Temp crosses 46 degrees in Prayagraj & Agra||AGRA/LUCKNOW: Heat wave gripped some parts of Uttar Pradesh making Sunday the hottest day of this summer so far. Maximum temperature touched 43-45 degrees Celsius in several districts of the state. No relief is expected till the weekend with the state Met office predicting further rise in mercury across the state by a degree or two in the coming days and warned about possibilities of 'severe heat wave' conditions in the Bundelkhand region. As dry hot winds from desert regions of Rajasthan swept the state, Agra sizzled at 46 degrees Celsius, while Prayagraj sweltered at 46.3 degrees Celsius maximum temperature, the highest in the state, followed by Banda and Jhansi with 45.6 and 45.7 degrees Celsius respectively. Orai and Kanpur were also simmering with maximum temperatures of 45.5 and 45 degrees Celsius respectively. The minimum temperature recorded in Agra was 29.5 degrees Celsius which is three degrees above normal. Humidity level went above 40%. According to the met department, the maximum temperature in Agra region will remain above 45 degrees Celsius for the next five days. Indicating the onset of harsh summers, Bareilly recorded 41.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees above the normal temperature. Rashi Varshney, a resident of Civil Lines in the city, said, “The sudden rise in temperature made Sunday afternoon unbearable. It was difficult to stay without AC.” Officer-in-charge of IMD Brij Mohan said, “The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded in Meerut on Sunday were 42.4 and 27.2 degrees Celsius respectively.” Met department data showed that most cities recorded Sunday as the hottest day of the season so far. In fact, both day and night temperatures were 2-5 degrees above normal. Heat wave condition was severe in the Bundelkhand and some parts of east and central UP. Areas bordering Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan were hotter than the rest of the state. State met director JP Gupta said that clear sky and dry hot northwesterly wind will continue to blow in some parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mercury-mayhem-temp-crosses-46-degrees-in-prayagraj-agra/articleshow/75953779.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Trains cancelled, migrants back at Navelim shelter||Margao: With the Northern Railway cancelling the service of New Delhi-Madgaon-New Delhi Rajdhani superfast special scheduled to arrive at Margao on Sunday there were no fresh arrivals of passengers at the railway station. Consequently, the Madgaon-New Delhi Rajdhani Superfast special scheduled to depart from Margao on Monday also stands cancelled, a notification by Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd stated. Meanwhile, at the shelter home at the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium at Navelim, over 3,000 migrant labourers created a ruckus on Sunday demanding that the authorities allow them to go home immediately. “They insisted that they would set out on their journey home walking, if the government is unable to make travel arrangements for them,” an official said. Incident commander for Covid task force, Ajit Panchwadkar pacified the restless labourers, assuring them that all their needs will be taken care of at the shelter home until their travel arrangements are made. A voluntary group has been regularly supplementing government’s efforts in providing meals to the migrants at the shelter home.“It’s indeed a moving sight at the shelter home. Despite the government’s best efforts, the food provided to them is not enough to feed them all properly. We are therefore coordinating with the officials at the shelter home to provide them with wholesome breakfast and lunch in addition to the meals provided by the government,” Vivek Naik, who has taken the initiative of bringing together like-minded individuals who contribute towards the meals supplied to the shelter home. The group has been supplying these meals to the migrants since April 16.Services of a caterer have been availed of for the purpose, Naik said. Sources among the shelter home management called for more charities to step forward to help the government provide adequate meals to the migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trains-cancelled-migrants-back-at-navelim-shelter/articleshow/75958401.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reels under heatwave, red alert for five districts||JAIPUR: Heatwave gripped Rajasthan on Sunday as majority of the places witnessed maximum temperature of 43°C or above. With mercury soaring, the meteorological department has issued red alert for Jaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Jodhpur and Bharatpur till Tuesday. Meanwhile, Churu remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 47.4°C was recorded. The meteorological department said that heatwave will further aggravate in the coming days. Attributing the continued rise in mercury to the active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, the Meteorological department said that majority of the places would witness rise in its temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to the hottest day of the season so far as a maximum temperature of 44.5°C, almost 4 degrees above the normal notch was recorded. In the morning, a minimum temperature of 31°C was recorded. Though clouds were witnessed around the city, it did not convert into rainfall. Ongoing spell of heatwave and some relaxation in the lockdown benefited public in getting their air-conditioners and coolers repaired and also get new ones. For Jaipur, the meteorological department predicted that it would continue to witness heatwave till Wednesday and maximum temperature might touch 45°C. Many places in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh witnessed heatwave. Ongoing spell of heatwave has also aggravated the drinking water supply in many districts. The PHED officials are working hard to meet the growing demand for potable water. Though till May 15, various places in the state witnessed disturbance in the weather conditions with the arrival of rainfall, hailstorm and dust storm, the weather remained dry thereafter. The meteorological department said that there would be no dust storm and hailstorm in coming days as temperatures will continue to rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-reels-under-heatwave-red-alert-for-five-districts/articleshow/75956246.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Madurai||Mahout trampled to death by elephant||Madurai: The temple elephant from Thiruparankundram Subramaniya Swamy temple, Deivanai, trampled its mahout Kalimuthu on Sunday. The incident took place when Kalimuthu took Deivanai for a bath on Sunday evening. He suffered severe injuries in the attack and was given first aid after which he was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital, where he died without responding to the treatment. Based on a complaint a case was registered with the Thiruparankundram police station. According to police sources, Deivanai, 14, has been violent at least a few times in the past leaving her mahouts injured. In an incident that took place in March 2018, Deivanai attacked mahouts Ganapathi Subramaniyam and Kanagasundaram. They were treated in a hospital. A few months later in the same year, Deivanai attacked another mahout, who escaped without any major injuries. Police sources said that the elephant was brought to the temple from Assam when she was seven-years-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mahout-trampled-to-death-by-elephant/articleshow/75956244.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wakf board asks Muslims to hold Eid namaz at home||Ahmedabad: As members of the Muslim community are celebrating the festival of Eid-ul-Fitr on Monday, the Gujarat State Wakf Board has appealed to the people not to assemble in mosques and offer the special Eid prayers at their homes only given the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Besides an appeal made to public at large, the board has also appealed to all the trusts and religious places across the state to ensure that people do not perform the namaz on Eid in mosques. The board has said that Muslims had been observing fasts and performing rituals during the Ramzan at their homes, which is really commendable. When the world is fighting the epidemic and governments have been putting in massive efforts to prevent transmission of the disease, it is the duty of each citizen to support the effort. Moreover, there is an imposition of Section 144 of the CrPC prohibiting gatherings at a public places. All citizens must obey the official orders, the board said. Following the board’s appeal, Siddhpur Eidgah Masjid Committee’s member Umardarz Chashmawala declared that the Eidgah in Siddhpur will not be open to public for special prayers. Only four persons will offer the namaz on the day. The appeals for offering Eid prayers at home came after Gujarat Chand Committee president Mufti Shabbir Ahmed requested the state government to allow Muslims to offer the special Eid prayers in mosques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wakf-board-asks-muslims-to-hold-eid-namaz-at-home/articleshow/75955494.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kanpur||Limited work in Kanpur Nagar courts from May 26||Kanpur: In compliance of the directives issued by Allahabad high court, the Kanpur Nagar district courts will begin limited judicial work from May 26 in the absence of clients and pairokars. According to district and sessions judge Ashok Kumar Singh, apart from his court , special courts such as SC/ST Act court, EC Act court, Posco Act court, Gangsters Act court, NDPS Act court and the courts of chief metropolitan magistrate and special chief judicial magistrate will perform judicial work through video conferencing. These courts would hear urgent matters like pending/fresh bail applications, anticipatory bails, judicial remand in respect of undertrials and disposal of police report/section 173CrPC , disposal of applications of investigation officers In different time slot, Singh said. General dates would be given in civil and criminal matters other than the mentioned matters. The hearing would take place through video conferencing and only those advocates would be allowed to enter the court premises whose matter has been listed for hearing. The entry of clerks and clients and pairokars would be restricted in the court premises till Kanpur Nagar is in the red zone, he added. Dedicated helplines have been established by the District Legal Service Authority which shall be manned by the paralegal volunteers. The urgent applications will be received on email Kanpurnagarcourtfiling@gmail.com which would be registered on CIS, the district judge said. Besides mail dedicated help line 9807168165and 9936094291would be available for legal support. The applications would be taken for hearing after 48 hours and information in this regard would be loaded on the website. The advocates , residing in hotspot areas, would not be allowed to enter the court premises and instead enter in the court through Shatabdi gate. The applications should be supported by an affidavit in which the contact number of litigants and their counsels would be mentioned. The advocates sitting at virtual court room would argue their cases turn by turn. The judicial officer, sitting in chamber, would be connected with advocates though video conferencing. The district judge will allocate time for all judges and given time slot, Singh said. Only ten percent court staff would be called to work in a court room. Wearing face mask and maintaining social distancing would be mandatory for advocates and the court staff, the district judge said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/limited-work-in-kanpur-nagar-courts-from-may-26/articleshow/75955962.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Over 50% of Rajasthan in grip of locust menace||JAIPUR: The locust menace has spread to 18 districts (over 50%) in its first month, making it difficult for the state to contain them. In the last season, which lasted for eight months, its movement was limited to 11 districts, mostly desert zones. The fresh wave of the locust attack, which started in the second week of April, has taken the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) by surprise. “Since there’s no standing crops, locusts are travelling to far-flung areas in search of food,” said LWO director K L Gurjar. The ‘flying terrorists’ have moved in all various directions from Ganganagar and Sikar in the North, Dholpur and Karauli in the East, Chittorgarh and Pratapgarh in South, Jaisalmer and Barmer in the West in addition to Jaipur and Ajmer in the centre of the state. The most worrying change is the movement of the pests in urban areas. Currently, its movement in urban areas of Jaipur, Dausa and Ajmer has sparked fear among residents. “Its movement in urban areas derails our containment operations. The chemical used in the sprinkler is not suitable for humans, which doesn’t allow us to operate until they reach an open uninhabited area,” said OM Prakash, commissioner, agriculture department. The arrival at the peak of summer has come with another set of problems for the LWO and the agricultural department. “The operation to contain them takes place during the night till the wee hours. Unlike in winters, they start flying in another direction early in the morning. While in winters, the moisture prevents them to fly around noon,” Prakash said. It has also crossed Rajasthan and registered its presence in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh after a gap of 12 years via Chittorgarh and Dholpur, respectively. Sensing the scale of the problem, the LWO has ordered Drone for sprinkling chemicals in order to kill the locust. So far, the sprinkling is being done from fire brigade bus, tractors and gipsies. “In the coming days, the Drones will arrive which will help us in hitting the locust effectively and efficiently,” said Gurjar. Taking the threat seriously, the state government has devised a three-layered monitoring collaboration with the Border Security Force and Locust Warning Organization (LWO). The BSF will tip off the state and LWO on the movement of locust the moment they cross the international border. The movement will help the state in alerting its respective districts to start the combat operation even before the locust entered into the urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-50-of-state-in-grip-of-locust-menace/articleshow/75956245.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Release Madhusudhan’s post-mortem video: Telangana BJP||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday alleged that the state government was hiding the true number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths. At a press conference on Sunday, he demanded the state medical and health department to release the post-mortem video of the dead Covid-19 victim Madhusudhan, whose wife had alleged he was missing, if it was true that Madhusudhan’s body was handed over to the GHMC as per the ICMR guidelines. “Madhusudhan’s wife Madhavi spoke to him over the phone on the day he was put on the ventilator, how can he speak over the phone if he is on ventilator?” he asked. Meanwhile, Madhavi, who was also present at the conference, said officials of Gandhi Hospital had told her that her husband is healthy and would be discharged soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-madhusudhans-pme-video-bjp/articleshow/75955339.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Agra||Paste posters outside houses of all quarantined migrant returnees: UP govt to DMs||AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government has reiterated its May 1 order directing all district administrative officials to ensure that quarantine posters are put outside the houses of all new entrants into the state, including the 23 lakh migrant workers who have returned in the past few weeks. Officials revealed that while many districts, including Kanpur (urban), Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Muzaffarnagar and Mainpuri had not even got the notices printed, some others, like Aligarh, Bareilly, Hapur, Chitrakoot, Ghazipur, Etah, Gonda, Mathura, Lalitpur, Varanasi and Pratapgarh, had not covered all the houses and merely completed the task for less than 40% of such households. When contacted, Agra divisional commissioner Anil Kumar said the quarantine posters were put earlier also in a few districts, but the government has now reiterated it in view of the influx of the migrants. A senior official said that this is the time when special attention needs be given to rural areas as the system in remote areas is not robust and strict observance of home quarantine is the key to curb the novel coronavirus infection. “Any negligence can prove costly as the infection may rise if it is not monitored closely,” said an official. Mainpuri DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh said that 1,500 posters have been pasted in a day and the process is on. “Around 5,000 migrant workers have returned to the district till now and all gram panchayats have been informed about it. Their homes, where they are quarantined, will also be painted with a (+) mark for easy identification.” Aligarh DM CB Singh said that he has directed his officials to ensure 100% compliance in pasting these posters within a week. The aim is to ensure strict home quarantine so the returnees from other states, which are around 17,000 in the district, observe strict adherence to the quarantine protocol. "Gram Nigrani Samiti (village monitoring committee), headed by the respective village head, has been given the responsibility to monitor the houses where migrant returnees have been quarantined,” said CB Singh, adding that medicines will be supplied to the quarantined persons. “If they need any medical help and if they develop any Covid-19 symptoms, they can inform Asha workers or the chief medical officer for treatment. They can also give a call to toll free number,” the Aligarh DM added. According to health officials in Mathura, over 2,500 migrant workers have returned to the district and posters have been pasted at almost every house. “Legal action can be taken if any of the family members are found violating the quarantine rules,” the poster read. It also added that none of the family members would go out during the quarantine period and no one should visit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/paste-posters-outside-houses-of-all-quarantined-migrant-returnees-up-govt-to-dms/articleshow/75953798.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Tortured in Saudi Arabia by employer, Telangana worker fears he may be killed||HYDERABAD: An Indian worker from Telangana has made a tearful plea to be rescued from his kafil (employer) in Saudi Arabia. In a video that went viral in social media on Sunday, the man showed his bleeding mouth and the marks of being attacked on his face. “Please save me. Otherwise I will be killed here,” the man said as he quickly switched off the recording saying that his employer whom he dreaded was coming to him again. “He is beating me badly. My nose is bleeding and there is blood oozing from my head. He is boxing me in the stomach. I will be killed,” he said, explaining his situation. Former Nizamabad MP K Kavitha also tweeted the video of the man identified as 31-year-old Ankamolla Ravi and urged external affairs minister S Jaishankar for help. “We have been trying to rescue him for the past one week with the help of our embassy. However, the abuse has reached the next level today and needs your immediate intervention. Kindly, help this man,” she said. Ravi hails from Chepoor village in Armoor mandal of Nizamabad district. According to Ravi’s wife Sujatha, her husband works in a date farm in Saudi Arabia. In a petition to the State Human Rights Commission in Hyderabad on May 15, she said her husband’s employer beat him up mercilessly on May 14 wand warned that he would kill him if he made any complaint against him with the embassy or Indian authorities. Ravi had been working with him for the last six years and the employer was also not sending him to India. She also wrote a letter to the state government and the Indian embassy in Saudi Arabia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tortured-in-saudi-by-employer-t-worker-fears-he-may-be-killed/articleshow/75955347.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 25, 2020||Madurai||Meat stalls reopen, see moderate Eid sales||Madurai: Madurai had a semblance of normalcy on Sunday for the first time in seven weeks as fish and meat stalls reopened to moderate sales bringing some relief to the traders. Sundays usually witness the highest number of goats being slaughtered in the city as well as district. “But, as the district administration did not give a public announcement that sales would be allowed this Sunday, we had only 50% of our normal sale,’’ said Madurai city mutton retail merchants association’s S Muthukrishnan There are 450 mutton stalls in Madurai city under the association which together sell about 2,000 goats. There are about 300 more unregistered shops which sell another 500 to 600 goats while hundreds of shops in villages are open only on Sundays. However, only the meat of 1,000 goats was sold on Sunday, which Muthukrishnan credits to Eid festival. Usually, they sell 2,000 more if Sunday comes close to the festival. All customers wore masks though the same could not be said for the shopkeeper. “It was a surprise for us to see shops open on Sunday. We had a good Sunday meal after purchasing a kg of mutton for Rs 1,000,’’ said Rani Devi of K K Nagar. Farmers markets which started functioning in the city for nearly a week now saw huge crowds, but there was only partial adherence to the social distancing squares drawn outside. Fish commission agent S K Kathiresan said there were good sales this Sunday, but it was the freshwater fish that was available more. “The major fish markets at Karimedu and Narimedu are yet to open, so we are not buying seafood in large quantities, as we have permission for sales only between 8 am to 12 noon,” he said. President of the Madurai district broiler traders association, J Shazuli Ibrahim said Madurai district had about 1,000 broiler shops and the 500 in the city alone used to sell not less than 75,000 to 80,000 kg of chicken on normal Sundays. This Sunday, it was half the usual sales, “But we hope it will go up tomorrow due to Eid,” he said. Live chicken was sold at Rs 140 per kg and Rs 250 to 300 per kg for the dressed variety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meat-stalls-reopen-see-moderate-eid-sales/articleshow/75956247.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Agra||Retired army man ‘thrashed by cops’||AGRA: A retired Naib Subedar of Army fell unconscious after being allegedly beaten up by some policemen following an "argument". The man sustained injury on his eye and continued to bleed on the road till his family came to the rescue. At 6 am on Sunday, son of the 56-year-old retired armyman Harish Chand, a resident of Naulakha locality under the Sadar police station limits, went to purchase sugar from a nearby shop. He was allegedly struck by a stick from behind by a policeman. Harish Chand then questioned the policeman. It resulted into an argument and he was allegedly beaten up by three policemen. Rachna Arya, daughter of Harish Chand said, “My father was badly beaten up by four policemen, including sub-inspector Aman Kumar and constable Arun Verma. I found him bleeding and lying on the road. He received multiple injuries and is in deep mental stress. I complained to the station house officer, but he didn’t take any action”. President of ex-servicemen society Bir Bahadur Singh said, “It is very upsetting that an ex-serviceman was mercilessly thrashed like a criminal. Senior officials should take cognizance of the matter and ensure suitable action so that such an incident does not happen again." Talking to TOI, station officer Kamlesh Kumar said, “The allegations of Harish and his family members are incorrect. He misbehaved and used force against a policeman on duty. A case has been registered against him for violating the lockdown and voluntarily hurting a policeman."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/retired-army-man-thrashed-by-cops/articleshow/75953821.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Slammed for ‘weak’ SOP, Goa issues another, but it’s not much stronger||PANAJI: The state government on Sunday issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) for travellers entering the state. As per the new terms, all entrants to the state, irrespective of mode of transport, will have the option of providing a Covid negative certificate from a laboratory approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to avoid being tested in the state. However, there is a narrow time limitation for this condition. “The test should be conducted 48 hours before arrival in the state, and (if the certificate is produced), the passenger will be allowed to go (to their accommodation),” said chief minister Pramod Sawant. The government’s new SOP on Sunday came after severe criticism over its procedure announced on Saturday, which was variously described as “weak” and “confused” and got harshly criticised on social media. However, the revised protocol is a case of new wine in an old bottle, as the rest of it remains the same. Those who do not possess a certificate from an ICMR-approved lab have the same two options as the previous protocol — pay Rs 2,000 and get a test done, or be sent to 14-day home quarantine. Explaining how this works, Sawant said, “After their samples are taken, they will be given a protocol which they will have to follow, including home quarantine, social distancing, and not mixing with people. If the sample tests positive, they will be admitted to the Covid hospital and their family members will be placed in facility quarantine.” He also said that passengers who refuse to get tested will be sent to 14-day home quarantine after a stamp is put on them. “Those home quarantined will be monitored by health officials and ward members of the local body (panchayat or municipality),” Sawant said. “If they are found moving out of the house, they will be placed in paid quarantine.” While pointing out that people have to make their own arrangements to stay, he said the government won’t encourage paid quarantine. The new SOP came after Sawant chaired a meeting of the state executive committee (SEC), which was attended by health minister Vishwajit Rane, chief secretary Parimal Rai and others. Meanwhile, Sawant admitted that most of those coming to Goa are those who have second homes in the state. “Some people have alleged that we want to do coronavirus tourism in Goa,” he said. “We are not fools to engage in Covid tourism. We have not called tourists to Goa. People coming to Goa are mainly those who have second homes and those coming to met their relatives. Anyone planning to stay in hotels shouldn’t come as hotels are not open. Those coming for business-related activities should stay at their company guest houses.” Sawant also said that “many Goans have called their relatives from outside the state and they’ve produced their residential addresses”. Sawant, reacting to cricitism, also said that domestic air travel has been started in all states, not just Goa. “We have raised concerns with the Union government over domestic air travel, but they pointed out that it has been started throughout the country,” he said. Sawant also said that his interventions with the Centre about trains led to the number of trains being reduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/slammed-for-weak-sop-state-issues-another-but-its-not-much-stronger/articleshow/75957700.cms||Murari Shetye
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Veggie prices crash 30% in May compared to last year||JAIPUR: With a drop in the demand and good local harvest, the prices of vegetables are almost 30% lower compared to May 2019. Whether wholesale or retail, the consumers are getting a good bargain for their vegetables. Wholesale traders at Muhana Mandi said that farmers had started coming to the Mandi in good numbers since there are many relaxations for them in the lockdown. “We have started getting the locally harvested vegetables from Bassi, Chomu, Tonk, Kanota and other farms in Jaipur. There is a sudden increase in the supply which is almost double than what we usually get. Thus, there has been a drop in the prices of the vegetables if we compare with May 2019. Not only that, the prices of onions which were sold at Rs 40-Rs 50 per kg in May last year are being sold at Rs 10 to Rs 20 this year,” Ramesh Kumar, a wholesale trader at Muhana Mandi told TOI. Ginger and lemon which are necessary items in every kitchen, especially in the summers, were sold at Rs 80 to Rs 120 per kg in May last year. However, their retail prices vary from Rs 40 to Rs 60 this year. Wholesale traders say there is a possibility of spike in the prices of vegetables from June onwards when the locally harvested vegetables would be exhausted. These days, tomatoes and onions are being sold at Rs 5 to Rs 10 in wholesale and at Rs 10 to Rs 20 in retail. “There is a bumper crop of tomatoes which has pushed the prices down,” said Mahesh Kumar, another wholesale trader at the Mandi. Initially, when the lockdown began on March 23, the prices of the vegetables were sky-rocketing. At that time, the ladyfinger was sold at Rs 120 to Rs 150 per kg due to poor availability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veggie-prices-crash-30-in-may-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/75956248.cms||---
May 25, 2020||India||Railways tries to give smooth passage to Shramik Specials||NEW DELHI: Amid reports of Shramik Special trains getting stalled on certain routes and diversion of some of these trains, the railway ministry on Sunday said route rationalisation order has been issued to avoid congestion on routes with heavy traffic.  In an official statement, it said few trains were diverted via Mathura in Uttar Pradessh and Jharsuguda in Odisha to ease the congestion. It said till Sunday 10 am more than 2,813 Shramik Special trains, carrying over 37 lakh passengers, were operated. "Nearly 60% of these trains originated from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Punjab and 80% of total Shramik Special trains are destined for various destinations in UP and Bihar. Most of the destinations in UP are around Lucknow-Gorakhpur sector and in Bihar around Patna. Of 565 trains on run since yesterday (Saturday), 266 were going to Bihar and 172 to UP," the statement said.  A maximum of 802 Shramik Specials have left from Gujarat followed by Maharashtra (513) and Punjab (308).  The ministry said convergence of trains to destinations in UP and Bihar caused congestion in the network and increased time taken in de-boarding of passengers due to the health and social distancing protocols at the stations. This further affects network congestion, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-tries-to-give-smooth-passage-to-shramik-specials/articleshow/75959063.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Forest dept wants illegal structures around Bandipur razed||MYSURU: The revenue department has identified as many as 16 illegal structures on the periphery of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BTR), within the area classified as eco-sensitive zone. The forest department has been intimated about these violations, and all the structures will be razed in order to conserve the biodiversity of the forests, and protect wildlife. Notice has been issued to Pratap Reddy, Aravind Venkatesh Reddy, Syed Tazim Aga and Nitish Narayana Reddy from Bengaluru, NM Naveen Kumar and Shaqib Ahmad of Mysuru, while the other owners of the illegal structures are from Gundlupet in Chamarajanagfar district. The forest department has directed the owners to reply to its notice and submit the required documents pertaining to the construction of the structures in question. As many as 123 villages around Bandipur have been classified as coming under ‘eco-sensitive’ zone by the central government. Commercial activities are prohibited throughout these areas. The gram panchayat and local administrative bodies in all the 123 villages are required to obtain permission from the forest department before allowing any construction. However, it has come to the notice of the revenue department that a few individuals have gone ahead with construction bypassing official channels and without obtaining approval from the local bodies. More than 30 separate agricultural plots within the purview of the Kundagere and Gopalaswamy betta forest ranges have been used for the construction of resorts and homestays, in violation of the norms. On receiving reports of a survey conducted by the forest department to identify these illegal structures, BTR director T Balachandra wrote to the Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner alerting him to the violations, and seeking permission to raze all of them. “Despite notice having been issued to the owners of these structures, they are continuing with construction in the eco-sensitive zone. The district administration must initiate action and demolish them to prevent incidence of human-animal conflict and ensure free movement of wild animals,” the letter read. The BTR director has also written to the officials of the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation, asking them not to supply power to these properties. The letter also highlights the fact that the tourism department is yet to greenlight such activities in villages that fall under the eco-sensitive zone. Gundlupet tahsildar M Nanjundaiah said that he had submitted a report to the Chamarajanagar DC about the particulars of the 16 illegal structures, which he said had been built without permission from the competent authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-dept-wants-illegal-structures-around-bandipur-razed/articleshow/75953891.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Health department gears up to tackle Covid-19 post lockdown||HYDERABAD: With the lockdown slotted to end soon, the state health department has come up with a strategy to control the spread of Covid-19 post the lockdown. Apart from increased surveillance and precautions, a lot of focus will be given on migrants returning from various other states and the high-risk population, which can have a high mortality in case of Covid-19 infection. The high-risk categories include people with diabetes, hypertension and tuberculosis patients. The state health department, in a bid to reduce their exposure to Covid-19, is planning to provide doorstep treatment to them. “All such persons, including elderly will be advised to stay indoors. We have placed order for procuring cloth masks, which will be provided (two for each patients) in all districts. Also checking of blood pressure, blood sugar levels etc and drugs for hypertension, diabetes and TB will be provided at the doorstep. We will be providing drugs for a month to each patient undergoing treatment at the government hospitals as these patients are the most vulnerable to Covid-19 infection,” the plan document states. While keeping an eye on the migrants, special focus will be being given to urban areas which are overcrowded and have unsafe drinking water and sanitation. Involving community leaders to spread awareness and surveillance will be continued. “Also all the Urban Public Health Centres (UPHC) and basti dawakhanas will be monitored daily to keep track of patients with fever and influenza like illnesses,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-gears-up-to-tackle-covid-post-lockdown/articleshow/75955372.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 25, 2020||Madurai||1,800 teachers in Madurai to evaluate board exam papers||Madurai: Around 1,800 teachers, at six evaluation centres in Madurai district, will start the evaluation of the answer sheets in few days, from the recently held Class XI and XII state board exams. Preventive measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19 are also in place at the centres and special arrangements for the teachers amid lockdown have also been made. Speaking to TOI, Madurai district chief education officer, R Swaminathan said that all necessary arrangements have been made at all the centres. “At all six centres, classrooms and toilet facilities have been kept ready. Usually around 24 teachers sit in a classroom for evaluation. But, now only eight teachers will be allowed in a room as per guidelines given to maintain social distancing. This means, we had to increase the number of classrooms used at these centres by three times this year,” he said. All teachers are also mandatorily required to wear masks while doing the evaluation. All the classrooms and toilets at the evaluation centres will be disinfected twice every day. Further, due to the lockdown, since public transport is yet to resume, buses have also been arranged to pick up and drop teachers to and from the evaluation centres. “As many as 39 buses have been kept ready for use. The buses will ply on several routes depending on the demand. Teachers do not have to worry about transportation. Only for food, they have to manage on their own,” said Swaminathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1800-teachers-in-madurai-to-evaluate-board-exam-papers/articleshow/75956250.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Madurai||Last Zamin of Singampatti dies at 92||Madurai: Murugadoss Theerthapathi, 92, who was the last Zamin of Singampatti in erstwhile Tirunelveli district, which is at present in Tenkasi district, died at his palace in Singampatti village on Sunday night. Murugadoss Theerthapathi served as a honorary wildlife warden of Tirunelveli district for nearly three terms from 2002 to 2005. A sharp shooter, Murugadoss is well known in wildlife circles as a renowned conservationist. He was ailing for sometime in his palace in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/last-zamin-of-singampatti-dies-at-92/articleshow/75956249.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Emotional reunion with son for 60-year-old||HYDERABAD: It was an emotional reunion with his son for a 60-year-old from Telangana who went missing and was found in Ludhiana, Punjab, when he was identified in a TikTok video. “My father broke down and wept when he saw me. I too was overcome with emotion,” R Peddiraju told TOI over phone from Ludhiana after meeting his father at 7.30 am. His father, Venkateshwarlu, who was born deaf and dumb, had gone missing on April 27, 2018. A Punjab police constable put up a video on TikTok, showing Venkateshwarlu being given food by Gurpreet, son of an ex-MLA. Driving back in a hired car, the two are likely to reach home in Burganpahad of Bhadradri Kothagudem district late on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/emotional-reunion-with-son-for-60-yr-old/articleshow/75955353.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Mayor inspects arterial city roads||Hyderabad: Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Rammohan inspected the link and slip roads that connect various main roads and ORR service roads, here on Sunday. The Mayor also inspected the link road from Malkam Cheruvu to Chitrapuri Colony spanning a length of nearly 500 metres to be developed at a cost of nearly Rs 4 crore. During his inspection, he held discussions with the local residents on avoiding hurdles. Further, he inspected the link road connecting Lanco Hills to ORR service road with a length of 1.2 km at a cost of Rs 8 crore. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayor-inspects-arterial-city-roads/articleshow/75955357.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Police van returning after rescuing ‘kidnapped’ girl overturns, three die||MEERUT: A police team returning after rescuing a minor girl and an accused from Ghaziabad met with an accident in Simbhaoli area of Hapur district during the early hours of Sunday. A constable, the accused and driver died in the accident while a sub-inspector, a woman constable and the girl sustained serious injuries, police said. They were returning to Lakhimpur Kheri when the accident occurred. The speeding police van ran over the divider and crashed on the wrong side of the road on National Highway 9. The deceased have been identified as constable Sachin, driver Mehraj Ali and the accused, Vinesh, police said. According to sources, the minor girl had gone missing from Dhaurehra police station area in Lakhimpur Kheri district in April. An FIR against the three identified persons was registered on May 11. Electronic surveillance traced the girl's location to Ghaziabad, following which the police team was sent to rescue the girl on May 23. "After losing control, the private van ran over the divider and rammed into another car on the wrong side of the National Highway 9 around 4 am on Sunday," said Sarvesh Mishra, additional superintendent of police (Hapur).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-van-returning-after-rescuing-kidnapped-girl-overturns-cop-accused-driver-killed/articleshow/75953908.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Youth shot dead, another critically injured in Budhana||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A youth was shot dead and another sustained bullet injury in Budhana area of Muzaffarnagar district. They were found at a farm field on Saturday. According to police, the deceased youth was identified as 26-year-old Parshant while the one with bullet injury is Sourabh Goti. Notably, a case of murder was earlier registered against Goti in Lucknow. Goti and his associate Anil had allegedly killed one Lavish, a resident of Baghpat. All three were living in Lucknow, and later, they reportedly buried parts of the body at a farmhouse in the city. A spade smeared with blood led the sleuths to recover the body and teams were sent to different districts to nab the culprits. On Saturday, Parshant's body was recovered from a field while Goti was found severely hurt. Police sent him to a hospital while the body of Parshant was sent for post-mortem. Deputy superintendent of Budhana, Girija Shankar Tripathi, said, "Initial probe revealed that the deceased youth was under pressure to make compromise in the murder case of Lavish in which the former was a complainant." A case under section 302 of IPC against Goti and Anil has been registered after the deceased's father filed a complaint at Budhana police station. Further investigation is currently underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-shot-dead-anothercritically-injured-in-budhana/articleshow/75953915.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Train brings east UP migrants to west, to travel 900 km by bus home||MEERUT: The ordeal of migrants, especially from UP and Bihar, seems to be never ending. Just getting on board Shramik trains is not enough -- for getting home is still a long way off. A case in point is the plight of migrant labourers who arrived at Saharanpur station from Goa on Sunday. A total of 964 passengers from Goa deboarded from a Shramik train. Out of the 964 passengers, only 40-odd were from Saharanpur while the remaining were from far-flung districts of east UP like Maharajganj, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Azamgarh -- some 800-900 km away at the other end of UP. "I received a message for a train to Azamgarh. When I reached Madgaon station, I was told the train I was supposed to board was full and was directed to board the train bound for Saharanpur. I was told I should first reach UP and then, the government will make arrangements for onward travel to my hometown," said Shiv Shankar Sahay, a resident of Azamgarh. He and other passengers learnt that after the strenuous journey of over 2,300 km from Goa, they would have to board non-AC buses of UPSRTC and head home by road. The journey would take another 22-24 hours in the scorching heat before they reached their respective home towns in east UP. Once the passengers deboarded at the railway station, they were screened and anyone found symptomatic was sent to quarantine Those who cleared the screening were handed over food packets, refreshments and water bottles and sent to their respective buses to head for home, said Akhilesh Singh, Saharanpur district magistrate. Senior officials claimed that some trains had been diverted and rerouted to avoid congestion in east UP and Bihar, where most of the Shramik trains are headed to. “This has led to inordinate delays stranding passengers without food and water for long hours,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/train-brings-east-up-migrants-to-west-to-travel-900-km-by-bus-home/articleshow/75953914.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu on vigil as cases double in 10 days||MADURAI: All check posts and authorities in the 10 southern districts are on vigil with hundreds of local people continuing to make their way home from other states. With as many as 517 Covid-19 cases reported in south Tamil Nadu from among those who returned from other states, the region’s total cases has doubled in just 10 days. If between March and May 13, only 603 cases were reported in the southern region, it has now seen 643 more cases between May 14 and 24. About 80% of the cases between May 14 and 24 were influx from other states. Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts remained the most affected with 180 and 107 influx cases respectively, followed by Madurai and Virudhunagar with 76 and 63. The rise in influx cases has raised concern among the authorities in the southern region, who are now trying to ensure that all those entering every district from other states are tested and quarantined. Districts like Tirunelveli and Madurai are seeing hundreds of migrants coming in every day. “We have a train coming from Mumbai on Monday and we can expect even more people returning to Tirunelveli. But, we are prepared, with quarantine facilities in every taluk to allow people from other states to stay until they are tested for Covid-19,” Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish told TOI. Officials at all districts are testing every person coming from other states as is the guideline. Accordingly, all those coming from other states, either by train or road, are taken to the nearest quarantine facility. It usually takes up to 24 hours for a person to get tested and get results. If the results return positive, they are admitted for treatment and if negative they will be under home quarantine for 14 days. “Even those who are asymptomatic need to be tested as we have seen that majority of Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic,” said a senior health official. It has also been a challenge for district health officials to ensure that everyone who tested negative followed home quarantine for 14 days. Though individual district authorities are alerted by other states regarding the migrants who are returning, there are also many who come in via road on their own and are caught at check posts. Though ideally, all those coming in illegally without passes are caught at Krishnagiri, some of them manage to reach their district. “All those entering the district from other states will be tested for Covid-19. Those without passes will be sent back but they are tested only once,” added the senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-on-vigil-as-cases-double-in-10-days/articleshow/75956251.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Man, mother arrested in dowry death case||BIJNOR: In a case of suspected dowry death, a 28-year-old woman was found hanging from a ceiling fan in her house in Bijnor’s Seohara area on Sunday morning. Her husband and mother-in-law were arrrsted on a complaint by the deceased's family. The deceased was identified as Ruchi Rani from Budheran village, under Seohara police station. She was married to Rohit Kumar 18 months ago. Since her wedding, she was being tortured by her in-laws for dowry, Ranl's family alleged. Sanjeev Tyagi, Bijnor superintendent of police, said the accused were arrested and a case was lodged against them. A probe is on in the matter, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-mom-arrested-in-dowry-death-case/articleshow/75953930.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana minister urges people to buy handloom||HYDERABAD: Telangana energy minister G Jagadish Reddy on Sunday said the state has initiated several measures to help weavers and the handloom sector in view of losses incurred during the lockdown. He also urged people to purchase handloom products to help the weavers during this pandemic. Reddy, accompanied by a few other elected representatives from Nalgonda district, visited Bhudhan Pochampally to shop handloom products to set an example for others. He said the relaxation given to withdraw thrift fund in advance would benefit a total of 26,500 weavers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-urges-people-to-buy-handloom/articleshow/75955358.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Flights back in the air in Mysuru, Belagavi from Monday||MYSURU: The lockdown had kept the Mysuru airport for two months, but flights will resume from the Heritage City from Monday. However, flights will be operated only to and from Bengaluru and Belagavi. Mysuru residents, while pleased with resumption of operations at the airport, appear to have reservations aplenty about inter-state flights. The schedule pointed to a change in the departure and arrival of the flight from Bengaluru. As against its operations in the afternoon, the flight will be operated in the evening. According to the revised timetable, the Mysuru-bound flight from Bengaluru will depart at 4.30pm, and reach its destination at 5.30pm, and will take off from Mysuru at 6.15pm. The flight will reach the state capital at 7.15pm. The schedule, however, is not applicable for Tuesday, when the Mysuru-bound flight will leave Bengaluru at4.30pm, and depart from Mysuru on its return journey at 6.15pm. The flight leaving Belagavi at 3.30pm will reach Mysuru at 4pm, and leave the Heritage City at 4.55pm and reach the border district at 6.15pm. Mysuru airport director R Manjunath said that they were still in the process of finalising schedules for other flights. Meanwhile, passengers can book tickets for flights between Mysuru and Kalaburagi from May 30, while tickets for journeys to and from Chennai can be reserved from May 27. People can also book tickets for flights between Mysuru and Hyderabad from May 28. President of Mysuru Travels’ Association BS Prashanth expressed concerns about flights resuming to cities that are Covid-19 hotspots. “Government must frame foolproof laws for passengers coming from these cities that are Covid-19 hotspots,” Prashanth. No flight to B’luru from Belagavi As the aviation sector recommences operations from Monday across the state, the first flight from Bengaluru will land in Belagavi at 8.40am at the Sambra Airport. Interestingly, no flights have been scheduled from Belagavi to the state capital. Sambra Airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya said that four private airlines – Star, TruJet, SpiceJet and Alliance Air – will operate flights between Belagavi and Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Mysuru. “IndiGo will resume operations at the Sambra Airport from Tuesday,” Maurya told TOI. He added that the staff had taken all necessary precautions to prevent transmission of Covid-19 at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/flights-back-in-the-air-in-mysuru-belagavi-from-monday/articleshow/75953969.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Residents stay indoors on Sunday due to curfew||MYSURU: After a week, residents went back to staying-at-home mode, as the authorities enforced a curfew on Sunday, across Mysuru region, as Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the area, mainly in Mandya and Hassan, while Mysuru and Kodagu have started to report positive cases after a long break. In Kodagu, even though Eid-ul-Fitr was celebrated across the district, major towns wore a deserted look. Police kept a strict vigil on vehicular movement, even as Mysuru-Bengaluru expressway was nearly empty. In Mysuru city, there was hardly any vehicular movement. The major circles of the city wore a deserted look. Even essential service providers closed their establishments in the afternoon, bringing the city to a stand-still. A few marriages were held under the strict vigil of officials. The organisers were asked to follow all the rules. The KSTRC city and rural service was cancelled. No autorickshaws plied on the roads. The Mysuru-Bengaluru national highway was almost empty., and only a few private vehicles were found plying on it. The situation was not different in other districts. In Kodagu, Eid-ul-Fitr was celebrated in residences. There was a huge demand for chicken and mutton. Strict police bandobast was done across the district. In Hassan and Mandya, the town areas wore a deserted look, following the news about more Covid-19 cases being reported. Police blocked all the district and state roads. The situation was not different in Chamarajanagar and Chikkamagaluru districts. In Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner M R Ravi and superintendent of police H D Anand Kumar carried out field visits. Following the news that people from Tamil Nadu are entering the district illegally, all the roads were blocked by setting up new check-posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/residents-stay-indoors-on-sunday-due-to-curfew/articleshow/75953683.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Vadodara||Assam, Manipur migrants not allowed to board train||Vadodara: The joy of being able to reach their natives was terribly short-lived for migrants, majority of them from Assam and Manipur, as they were not allowed to board the Shramik Special train at the Bharuch railway station on Saturday night despite having tickets. Around 139 migrants from Vadodara were taken in five buses to Bharuch to board the train and they reached there at around 9:15pm. When the train arrived post midnight, only 58 out of these 139 were allowed to board and the rest got stranded. An official from Vadodara collector office, who had accompanied them to Bharuch, said, “At 11.30pm, officials from Bharuch district administration sought Aadhar cards of all the 139 migrants. When we furnished Aadhar cards, they sought photocopies. We somehow managed to bring photocopies but only 58 could board while others were told that the train had left.” The issue was of top brass of Vadodara district administration and officials in Gandhinagar too. "They have been told that another train will be leaving in the next 2-3 days in which they will be accommodated," the official said on condition of anonymity. However, Vadodara collector and Bharuch sub-divisional magistrate, who was in-charge or coordination, were not available for their comments on the chaos. When the migrants inquired about the reason for not being allowed to board, no government officials had any answer. Ultimately, buses were arranged to take them back to Vadodara where they were kept in a primary school in Bhayli area. Gulzar, a native of Assam, who works at a restaurant in Vadodara, said, “Our formalities were completed at the Vadodara collector office on Saturday afternoon. We filled up forms, paid money and got the tickets. Many of the migrants from Assam boarded the train while we were left behind. We are clueless about the reason.” "We were not involved in verification of passengers who were to board the train," said Khemraj Meena, public relation officer, Vadodara railway division. Among these migrants, there were were also some students from Manipur studying in madrassa in Vadodara. "Twenty one students from our madrassa were also not allowed to board the train. They all had identity proofs but were not allowed to board,," said Aarif Falahi, principal of Darul Ulum, Tandalja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/assam-manipur-migrants-not-allowed-to-board-train/articleshow/75953216.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Four police stations in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts sealed after cops test +ve||MANGALURU/UDUPI: The coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada on Sunday recorded yet another big spike in Covid-19 cases, with 24 people testing positive, including 23 people from Udupi, on a day that a curfew was enforced. Ringing alarm bells for the two districts was the fact that 4 of those who tested positive were police personnel, due to which four police stations, including 3 in Udupi, were sealed for a mandatory 48-hour period. G Jagadeesha, deputy commissioner, Udupi, said 16 of the 23 positive cases reported are people who had come to the district from Maharashtra, and one each from those who returned from Telangana and Dubai, respectively. Three cases – those of policemen from Ajekar, Karkala Rural and Brahmawar police stations—are contacts of those in quarantine, and contacts of two patients, including a pregnant woman, are being traced, Jagadeesha said. Superintendent of police N Vishnuvardhan and his team, in accordance with the SOP laid down, with assistance from health department officials, have taken steps to sanitize the police stations and function with skeletal staff drawn from other police stations in Karkala Circle. The police personnel have been shifted to TMA Pai Hospital, he said. The process of tracing primary and secondary contacts of these policemen has been initiated, he said. The case of a woman nearing her full-term pregnancy testing positive, has baffled health authorities. “The woman is due to deliver in the next 10-15 days, and the source of her contracting the disease is not known. She has been shifted to the designated Covid hospital for treatment, and due care will be taken, given her present condition,” the DC said, adding all her primary and secondary contacts will be traced and quarantined to prevent further spread of the disease. The lone positive case from Dakshina Kannada was a police constable from Vittal police station, said SP B M Laxmi Prasad. Designated P-2023, he is a secondary contact of a P-1233, who had come from Maharashtra and had been briefly brought to the police station in an ambulance, en route to the quarantine centre. “All our personnel are issued fresh masks daily, and have been provided with face shields and hand sanitisers,” said the SP. With the day’s development, Dakshina Kannada has 34 active cases, including 32 residents of the district. In all, 26 patients have been discharged from the hospital after being treated. DC Sindhu B Rupesh has denotified Kakkebettu in Mangaluru taluk and Narikombu in Bantwal taluk as containment zones. Udupi has 72 active cases, and has recorded 1 death due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/four-police-stations-in-dk-udupi-districts-after-cops-test-ve/articleshow/75954630.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: 63KV transformer catches fire, hits supply to Bijnor villages||BIJNOR: Power supply to several villages was disrupted after a 63KV transformer caught fire in Bijnor’s Heempur Deepa area on Saturday night. According to officials, the district recorded above 40 degrees Celsius temperature on Saturday and that resulted in a quantum increase in the consumption of power and the load on the transformer increased beyond its capacity, which caused the fire. According to villagers, the transformer at Puttha village caught fire on Saturday night and later blasted, creating panic among villagers. They said that they informed power department officials about the incident. Junior engineer of Heempur area Gautam Kumar said the transformer was being replaced and the supply would be restored soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/63kv-transformer-catches-firehits-supply-to-bijnor-villages/articleshow/75953920.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Third Covid-19 case reported in Kodagu||MADIKERI: Kodagu district recorded its third Covid-19 case on Sunday. The patient is a 26-year-old who returned here from Mumbai, and hails from Hebbale. Three others who travelled with the youth have tested negative, but have been kept in the isolation ward as a precautionary measure. This is Kodagu’s second case is a week, after it had graduated to a green zone. The patient designated P-2003 returned to the district from Mumbai via Sampaje Gate on Wednesday. He was directly shifted to the designated Covid hospital in Madikeri. P-2003 is a bank employee in Mumbai, and he left the city on May 19 from Panvel Railway Station at 11 pm. He boarded the special train from Delhi to Trivandrum, and got off at Mangaluru Railway Station at 5pm on Wednesday. He booked a private taxi and travelled towards Kodagu with three other passengers. He reached Sampaje check-post at 9.15 pm on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/third-covid-19-case-reported-in-kodagu/articleshow/75954564.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘MLA took Rs 60 lakh bribe from water tanker owners’||NEW DELHI: More trouble seems to be brewing for Prakash Jarwal, the AAP MLA from Deoli, as probe suggests that he allegedly took around Rs 60 lakh in a month from water tanker owners. About 20 water tanker owners have come forward claiming that Jarwal had asked them for money. Four of them recorded their statements before a magistrate stating they paid him Rs 20,000 to clear their file and Rs 500 for each round of supply. As there were 60 tankers operating, the amount comes to Rs 60 lakh per month. It was also found that Dr Rajender Singh, who committed suicide at his house in Deoli, had paid Rs 10 lakh to Jarwal’s aide, Kapil. He had a falling out with Jarwal on his refusal to make further payments. The doctor’s family members have submitted the payment details before the magistrate. The owners claimed that if payments were not made on time, their tankers were de-listed from supplying water. They weren’t allowed to fill water from the DJB office either. Singh’s son, Hemant, told police that the MLA and his men were after his father for the past five years. He had paid Rs 50 lakh to keep his tanker enlisted with DJB, but more money was demanded from him. Two days before his death, Singh had paid Rs 60,000 to Jarwal. He was assured that none of his tankers would be de-listed, but Jarwal allegedly got them removed. When Singh and Hemant went to the DJB office in GK-II, they were told that Jarwal had got their payments stopped. Singh’s wife, Brahmwati, added that they took a loan against her jewellery to pay Rs one lakh after the elections to re-enlist the tanker, which was bought for Rs 10 lakh. They didn’t have money to pay the driver and cleaner. DJB officials whom Singh was in touch with will be questioned to find out whether they knew about the alleged racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mla-took-rs-60l-bribe-from-water-tanker-owners/articleshow/75956266.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru duo distribute 13,000 menstrual kits to migrant women||MYSURU: As the nationwide lockdown and its extension impacted access to menstrual hygiene products to millions of girls and women, two women from Mysuru took it upon themselves to do the needful. Apart from distributing over 13,000 sanitary napkins to migrant women in Mysuru, Pune, Mumbai and New Delhi, they also educated thousands of women about the importance of maintaining menstrual hygiene. Now they are working on solution to dispose of the used pads and they plan to install dustbins across Mysuru, where they have distributed 10,000 sanitary pads. Twenty-four-years-old Manasa Rao, a lawyer and development practitioner, who graduated from Symbiosis Law School, Pune and co-founded Reachout India in 2015 and 28-year-old Dr Sagarika Nithyanand who graduated from KS Hegde Medical Academy, Mangalore, are clearly on a mission. It was their living condition and lack of access to sanitary products during lockdown that motivated them to come to the rescue of the migrant women. Women empowerment wing of Reachout facilitated menstrual hygiene kits comprising of seven sanitary pads, body soap and hand sanitisers, approximately worth Rs 60 each, to women in different parts of Mysuru and three others cities. Reachout volunteers imparted basic knowledge to these women on how to use pad and subsequently dispose of the same. After the first round of distribution, the team found that a few daily wage labourers/ migrant workers were reusing disposable pads. “It was an eye-opener as it brought to light their abysmal living conditions and lack of attention to menstrual hygiene. Most of the slums didn’t have waste disposal mechanism and women often resorted to burning, burying or flushing down the used pads in toilets,” said Dr Sagarika. “We want to take this project forward and set up dustbins specifically for sanitary pads in different parts of Mysuru,” she added. The team is now planning to introduce a menstrual hygiene manual for local government schools as a part of their curriculum. “We started off with a goal of distributing about 1,000 kits in Mysuru but with the overwhelming support of the local community, our reach expanded,” she said. Their largest drive was at Bharatnagar slum where 2,080 kits were distributed. As many as 1,000 kits in Pune, 2,600 in Mumbai’s Dharavi slum and 500 in Delhi’s refuge camps have been distributed by Reachout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-duo-distribute-13k-menstrual-kits-to-migrant-women/articleshow/75953959.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Newborn stolen from KGMU||Lucknow: An unidentified woman allegedly stole the newborn of another woman undergoing treatment at Queen Mary’s hospital in King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Sunday. The baby was stolen around 5pm when the mother was taken to operation theatre (OT) for a minor procedure. The newborn’s father was standing in the lobby when doctors called him for some consultation. He requested a woman standing nearby to hold the baby and went to talk to doctors, but on returning found her and the newborn missing. He raised an alarm and searched for hours and then informed hospital administration, which called police. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said the woman, Mamta (30) of Hardoi was referred from district hospital due to heavy bleeding on May 13. She gave birth to a baby boy same day after a C-section. On Sunday, she developed some complication and was taken to operation theatre again for a minor procedure. SHO Chowk Vijender Pratap Singh said, “We have received application from the baby’s father Jagdeep. An FIR is being registered. We are scaning CCTV footage to identify the woman.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/newborn-stolen-from-kgmu/articleshow/75956265.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Gurus create ‘activity bank’ for students||AHMEDABAD: For 120-odd students at Nadisar village near Godhra, mornings become excruciatingly long when their parents’ mobile phones are not updated with the latest instalment of ‘Parivar no Malo — Salamat ane Humfalo’ (Nest of the family — safe and warm). As the PDF is downloaded, the students explore the day’s activities and games, listen to songs and stories and also get to learn a thing or two about the world around them. Gopal Patel, a teacher at Nadisar, said that what started off as an experiment has become a hit with the students. “The lockdown came as a challenge for students and teachers,” said Patel. “How to ensure that the students remain engaged and also continue to learn something new? That question was the origin of the initiative.” Patel frequently contributes stories and activities to the group. The initiative, reaching out to thousands of primary teachers in Gujarat, is supported by the Gujarat Council of Educational Research and Training (GCERT). T S Joshi, the GCERT director, said that they had laid down a few rules from the outset. “The activities should be age-appropriate, should be novel but at the same time implementable, should be done with the locally available material and limited means,” he said. “And above all, they should not be preachy or necessarily associated with something from the textbooks.” Thus, while some teachers have contributed games like blowing a paper cup on a thread to win a race, others engage the children in science experiments with minimal resources. “The feedback is encouraging.,” said Chirag Sailar from Surat DIET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gurus-create-activity-bank-for-students/articleshow/75955510.cms||Parth Shastri
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile outlets sealed for violating lockdown rules||Coimbatore: The district administration and revenue officials on Sunday sealed four textile outlets on Crosscut Road in Gandhipuram for violating lockdown norms.Of them, three were air-conditioned textile outlets with more than one floor. Another non-air-conditioned outlet was also sealed in the same area, as it failed to ensure social distancing among the customers .The district administration had allowed small commercial establishments to open on May 11. However, malls, commercial complexes, big jewelleries and textile shops that were air-conditioned were not allowed to function.A revenue official, who didn’t want to be named, said some big, air-conditioned shops had been functioning against the rules. “We got information that some shops on Crosscut Road were functioning and we conducted a raid. We sealed three big textile outlets with more than one floor. They were air-conditioned. The shops also didn’t ensure adherence to safety measures such as personal distancing by the customers. One of the shops has been carrying out business through the back door, while keeping the front shutter downed.” Pointing out that the fourth textile outlet that was sealed was a non-air-conditioned one, the official said the outlet had failed to ensure personal distancing among the customers. “We would report the issue to the district collector and police officials and ensure that they will be brought to justice.” Officials also conducted raids at Mettupalayam and sealed two air-conditioned textile outlets that were functioning against rules. “We have taken up the issue with police and lodged cases against them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-outlets-sealed-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75955379.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents stopped from selling baby for Rs 22,000||HYDERABAD: A two-month-old baby boy was rescued from his parents, who were trying to sell him for Rs 22,000 in Jeedimetla on Saturday. Officials said the family might have resorted to this extreme step due to severe financial stress. The baby’s parents, Madan Singh (32) and Saritha (28), from Warangal, are daily wage labourers in Jagathgirigutta.  “The family tried to sell the boy to their friend Shehu in Jeedimetla. After receiving information, the baby was rescued. The couple also has a seven-year-old son,” said a Jeedimetla inspector. According to chairperson of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), B Padmavathi, the family wanted to sell the baby and go back to their village. The baby was shifted to Shishu Vihar. “The husband is addicted to alcohol and is suspected to have taken this decision for the want of more money to buy alcohol,” added police. Police are yet to file a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-stopped-from-selling-baby-for-rs-22k/articleshow/75955384.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||GRP cop on migrants’ duty at Charbagh tests covid +ve||Lucknow: The city recorded its first case of a cop testing positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, when report of a 31-year-old Government Railway Police (GRP) constable deployed at Charbagh confirmed Covid-19 infection. He city’s overall tally to rose to 333.The constable apparently got infection while managing crowd at Charbagh railway station where migrants working in other states have been arriving by Shramik Special trains since May 3, said health officials,The cop reportedly had influenza like symptoms for past three days. A resident of Kanpur, the cop was deployed at platform number one of Charbagh railway station since May 2. He used to live in barracks and had meals at GRP mess.“His swab samples were collected during regular sampling of GRP personnel deployed on Covid-19 duty,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agrawal. While reports of others were negative, he tested positive and has been admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, he added. “His 15 coworkers who shared barrack with him or were in his direct contact are being tested and sent to home quarantine for 14 days. We have also sought the list of 250 people who are regular visitors of mess. We will test all of them,” the CMO said.SP, GRP, Lucknow, Saumitra Yadav said as soon as the report came, directions were issued to sanitise the barracks. Besides, guidelines have been issued to all the personnel to strictly follow the precautions while discharging duties, he said,.Meanwhile, two patients were discharged from SGPGIMS after testing negative, said Dr Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/grp-cop-on-migrants-duty-at-charbagh-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/75956268.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Masked gang assaults 75-yr-old bizman, robs him of Rs 16L, SUV||Coimbatore: A three-member gang broke into a house at Udumalpet in Tirupur and made away with Rs 16 lakh and a compact sports utility vehicle (SUV) after assaulting the 75-year-old homeowner in the early hours of Sunday. According to the Udumalpet police, three masked men entered the house of V Palanisamy on Dhali Road at Elaiyamuthur Pirivu around 2am on Sunday by breaking open the main door. Palanisamy and his wife, a police officer said, were sleeping in separate bedrooms on the ground floor of the house, while his son, daughter-in-law and three grandchildren were on the first floor. “The gang entered Palanisamy’s bedroom, assaulted him with a sickle and tied his hands. They took away Rs 16 lakh and digital video recorder of CCTV cameras and sped away in his compact SUV,” the officer said. Palanisamy, who owns a fertiliser shop named Senthil Murugan Agro Service at Udumalpet, managed to come out of his bedroom and alerted his wife and other family members, who called up the Udumalpet police. Deputy superintendent of police Jayachandran and team rushed to the spot and held inquiry with the family members. They also pressed a sniffer dog and forensic experts into service. Inspector general of police (west zone) K Periaiah, deputy inspector general (Coimbatore range) G Karthikeyan and district superintendent of police Disha Mittal also visited the crime scene. The Udumalpet police have registered a case and formed two special teams to nab the burglars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/masked-gang-assaults-75-yr-old-bizman-robs-him-of-rs-16l-suv/articleshow/75955386.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wait to cross the line gets longer||NEW DELHI: The queues of migrant workers, desperate to return home despite various economic activities getting a go-ahead in Lockdown 4.0, are only increasing with Delhi government demanding more Shramik Special trains from the Centre to send them back. According to an estimate, more than 4.5 lakh people have registered themselves on the government portal, but only 1.5 lakh have so far taken the train. CM Arvind Kejriwal last week asked the Centre to allot 262 trains to let Delhi government provide transport to all registered migrants. The government has so far got confirmation for just 130 trains, a source claimed. As per the protocol, the registered migrants get a message on their mobile phones about the date and time of the departure and are advised to report to the nearest screening centre that morning. After thermal screening, they are transported to the railway station. However, extraordinary rush and unavailability of trains are often resulting in endless wait for the migrants at screening centres. The capital’s 11 districts have 30 screening centres. “Though we send messages to as many applicants who can be accommodated on trains that are leaving on that particular day, the number of people who actually report at the screening centres are much higher,” said a government official. “Most migrants live in groups in congested localities. Sometimes, one or two persons who had applied online get the message, but several others also join them without having applied online. That’s one of the biggest reasons behind the huge, and sometimes unmanageable, rush,” said another official. While a limited number of people as per the availability of seats and trains are taken to the station in special DTC buses, the rest are moved to shelter homes. Some senior government officials have suggested that the railways should allow the migrants to book tickets directly with IRCTC, and even screen them. This, according to the officials, will not only assure the applicants of a seat in the train but also save Delhi government the hazard of running screening centres, which can become potential Covid hotspots. “We have limited numbers of toilet blocks at each centre while hundreds of people use them. If even one is infected, the virus can spread,” said an official. “We are sometimes forced to shift some migrants to shelter homes for the night and provide them trains the next day. Even if we manage to maintain social distancing while arranging their mattresses, they again use limited numbers of toilets the next day. This system should be done away with,” one of them said. Of the 1.5 lakh applicants who have gone home, over 1.3 lakh belonged to Bihar and UP, and the rest to West Bengal, Odisha, Chhatisgarh, MP, Rajasthan and Punjab. Delhi government has also sent a number of migrants, including students, to several states such as Manipur, Assam, Punjab and Ladakh by buses arranged by the respective governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wait-to-cross-the-line-gets-longer/articleshow/75956389.cms||Atul Mathur
May 25, 2020||Hubballi||Colleges forcing parents to pay II PU fees by May 30||HUBBALLI: The future of thousands of students who will go to II PU is at stake after their colleges sent messages to parents asking them to pay next year’s fee by May 31. With salary cuts, many losing jobs, and losses in business, it is difficult for them to pay fees. Though the department of pre university education (DPUE) is yet to decide on reopening colleges, many aided and unaided PU colleges across the state have started pestering parents to pay fees. Now, many parents feel it is not fair to compel parents hit by Covid-19 to pay fees. Some of the parents want their wards to complete second PUC next year once life returns to normalcy. Shivaleela Hiremath, a widow and a private school teacher, said her only son is pursuing PU in a reputed aided college in Hubballi. She got a message from the college asking her to pay Rs 40,000 by May 30. “I have not got salary for two months and am struggling to meet daily needs. Now we are tensed as the college has warned that if we fail to send NEFT receipt of the fees by May 30, his admission will be cancelled,” she said with tears. Joseph Lazarus, a parent in Kavuru, Mangaluru, said he lost his job as the Kerala-based company in which he was employed shut its branch. “Citing the Covid 19-lockdown, the college is not allowing us to meet the principal to request for time to pay my daughter’s fees. When called over the phone, they said they can’t even allow us to pay in instalments,” he said. Vinayak K, a parent who works in a private firm from Mysuru, said he complained to DPUE by email about this issue but got no reply. “DPUE officials are acting like they know nothing about this issue. The college where my daughter is studying is not generating a challan with a lesser amount. Such moves will make many students to drop their studies,” he feared. Poor response from officialsWhen contacted, Basavaraj Somannavar, Joint Director, R & G section, DPUE, Bengaluru, said he is unaware about the issue as he was appointed as Covid special officer in Bagalkot. He also suggested to contact the deputy director of pre university (DDPU) education of any district. Dharwad DDPU Sharada Kiresur said her department has not issued any circular to start admission for second PUC. “Education minister Suresh Kumar had instructed all colleges not to force parents to pay fees now. If we receive a specific complaint, we will forward it to Bengaluru for action. DDPUs don’t have power to act against private colleges,” she added. Minister Suresh Kumar did not respond to several calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/colleges-forcing-parents-to-pay-ii-pu-fees-by-may-30/articleshow/75953986.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 25, 2020||Goa||South Goa: Over 17,000 lockdown violations booked, nearly Rs 75 lakh netted in fines||MARGAO: The South Goa police has intensified its crackdown on people found moving about in public places without the mandatory face masks and those spitting in public places during the lockdown period. A total of 12,180 cases were booked against violators for not wearing mask until Saturday at all police stations and a further 5,213 persons were booked for spitting. A total of 393 cases have been booked so far under section 188 of the Cr PC for violating section 144, unlawful assembly, of the CrPc and an amount of nearly Rs 75 lakhs netted in by way of fines. South Goa has a total 17 police stations across five divisions - Margao, Quepem, Vasco, Ponda and Konkan Railway. At 1,485 cases, Vasco police station booked the maximum number of violators for failure to wear face masks, followed by Ponda with 1,353 cases and Verna with 1,324 cases. Mormugao police station topped the list for cases booked for spitting in public places - 1,334 - followed by Verna with 1,155 cases and Curchorem with 635 cases. The highest amount of fines – Rs 11.3 lakh - was collected by the Ponda police station, followed by Verna police station with Rs 8.8 lakh. Ponda police station recorded the highest number of arrests for violating lockdown rules with 137 people taken into custody under section 188 of Code of Criminal Procedure. Altogether, 833 people have been arrested across the district for violating the prohibitory orders. The Margao sub-division, consisting of Margao town, Maina Curtorim, Colva and Cuncolim police stations, topped the list with 157 cases booked during the lockdown period and 250 arrests. Further, 99 vehicles were seized and Rs 26 lakh collected as fines at all four police stations. Altogether 102 cases were booked by all four police stations coming under the jurisdiction of the Quepem sub-division, consisting of Quepem, Curchorem, Sanguem and Canacona police stations. A total of 193 people were arrested, 82 vehicles seized and fines worth Rs 13.1 lakh collected. At the Vasco sub-division consisting of Vasco, Verna, Mormugao, Vasco Railway and Dabolim airport police stations, 86 cases were booked, 239 people arrested, 74 vehicles seized and fines aggregating Rs 21.5 lakh collected at all the five police stations. At the Ponda and Collem police stations, coming under the Ponda sub division, 48 cases were booked, 151 people arrested, 23 vehicles seized and Rs 13.3 lakh collected as fines, data released by the South Goa police revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goa-over-17k-lockdown-violations-booked-nearly-rs-75l-netted-in-fines/articleshow/75958415.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Admissions to start from June 15 in colleges||AHMEDABAD: College admissions for all courses except those under the Admission Committee for Professional courses (ACPC) will begin from June 15. Currently, the admission process will be carried out for 90% of the available seats. The remaining 10% seats will be allocated after results of CBSE and other board exams are declared. Online forms for Class 12 science students who cleared Gujarat board exams will be available from May 26, according to a government notification. The process will be carried out online by varsities, it added. The new academic session will begin from June 21 for semesters 3, 5 and 7 students. Initially, the classes will be conducted online till the situation appears normal in view of Covid-19. The academic session for Semester-1 students for undergraduate and postgraduate courses will commence from August 1, according to the notification. This year, as many as 65% engineering seats are likely to go vacant. The reason is that only 26,287 students in Class XII Science (A group) have got 40% and above marks, said sources. Only students who have got 45% marks in science subjects (physics, chemistry and mathematics) are eligible for admission in engineering courses. The colleges and varsities had to shut down in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. As a result, the summer holidays for all universities and their affiliated colleges in the state, except for medical and dental courses, got extended till June 20. The government had earlier fixed summer vacations from April 25 to June 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/admissions-to-start-from-june-15-in-colleges/articleshow/75955390.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Farmer ends life as wife refuses to return||VADODARA: A 30-year-old farmer ended life at his house in Halol taluka of Panchmahal district in the wee hours of Sunday. Police said Sunil Nayak had heated arguments with his wife Ganga over a petty issue a fortnight ago at their home at Pratappura village. Following the fight, Ganga decided to go and live with her parents. A couple of days back, Sunil went to meet Ganga and tried convincing her to return with him. However, Ganga did not change her mind and asked Sunil to go home alone. In the wee hours of Sunday, when his parents were asleep, Sunil hanged himself from a ceiling hook in his room. “During questioning, the deceased’s parents said he was depressed as his wife had gone away and refused to come back. He had been feeling low since a few days so he decided to take the extreme step,” said a police official. A case of accidental death was registered at Halol Rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-ends-life-as-wife-refuses-to-return/articleshow/75953231.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Fitness equipment click with e-shoppers||LUCKNOW: From slaving away over rusty iron to power yoga session, building muscles was all about slogging at the gym for Vivek Arora. However, coronavirus left many fitness enthusiasts like Vivek confined to their homes after the government ordered closure of all non-essential businesses like gyms to control the spread of Covid-19. With the government allowing e-commerce giants to deliver non-essential items, fitness equipment like cycles, treadmills, badminton racquets, cricket bats and dumbbells have become “new essentials” figuring among top selling products online. Yoga and lounge pants, sports bras and T-shirts are also selling like hotcakes. With families also having different entertainment, professional and educational needs, multiple screens are also high in demand. “As social distancing has become the norm, consumers have turned their home spaces into gym to keep their fitness regime intact. Consumers are increasingly ordering athleisure wear and fitness equipment as they explore different stay-at-home exercises,” a Flipkart spokesperson said. “Importance of healthy lifestyle has led people look for products such as yoga and lounge pants, sports bras and T-shirts. Sports shoes are growing in popularity among consumers across the country. Men’s sportswear has seen an uptake in demand for shorts, track pants, T-shirts and caps,” he added. Within 24 hours of relaxation in lockdown curbs, sellers on Amazon.in saw a massive demand for fitness equipment. With helps still being denied entry in several houses, robotic vacuum cleaners are also in demand. Talking to TOI, a spokesperson for Amazon India said, “We saw 31 times growth in demand for robotic vacuum cleaners, 10 times for dumbbells and weights, 23 times for dishwashers, 12.5 times for bicycle trainers, 2.3 times for women’s flip flops, 3.5 times for innerwear, 3.9 times for guitars and 3.6 times for children’s books.” Kiran Dubey, a fitness freak, is finally able to resume her intensive workout session, which had taken a pause in March-end. “Working out in gym will never be the same again. So I converted our guest room into a mini-gym.” Decathlon India, one of the world’s biggest sports retailers, also saw a surge in orders related to home workouts. “People are mostly ordering bodybuilding and cross-training products besides cardio equipment. Cycles are also in demand,” an official at Decathlon India, in Gomtinagar, Lucknow, said. With homes turning into offices and online classes becoming the new normal, work from home and online school enablers such as laptops, books, headphones and computer accessories are high in demand. The e-commerce giants also witnessed pent up demand for “priority products” like electronics, kitchen and home appliances, smart devices, laptops, phone accessories and apparel. With mercury soaring, Flipkart sellers are seeing significant spike in demand for fans, air coolers and air-conditioners. While people continue to maintain social distancing, fashion choices have become more functional. Innerwear, lounge-wear and women’s sleepwear are seeing an increased demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fitness-equipment-click-with-e-shoppers/articleshow/75956294.cms||Ankur Tewari
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Five-year-old boy dies as TV falls on him||Coimbatore: A five- year-old boy died after a television set fell on him while trying to switch that on. According to the Annur police, the television set fell on Kelvin, son of M Jerry-Sona couple of Kunnathuranpalayam, around 6pm on Friday when he attempted to switch that on. A vegetable seller, Jerry was not home when the incident took place. A police officer said, “The boy sustained minor injuries. When Jerry came home, he took his son to the Annur government hospital, where doctors provided him first aid. When the boy told them that he was having severe stomach pain, they gave him a syrup and send them back home.” As the boy started to vomit, he was taken to the government hospital again around 10.30pm. This time too, doctors gave him some pills and send them back home. The officer said the boy was taken to the government hospital for the third time around 9am on Saturday as he started to vomit again. “He was referred to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared brought dead.” The couple has another son, who is aged seven. Based on Jerry’s complaint, the Annur police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-year-old-boy-dies-as-tv-falls-on-him/articleshow/75955434.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Now, Aavin products just a fingertip away||Coimbatore: Want to buy an Aavin product? Unlike earlier, you needn’t go all the distance to one of its outlets. All that you have to do is to login to Swiggy and the product of your choice will be delivered at your doorstep. Coimbatore on Sunday became the second district in the state after Chennai to commence online delivery of Aavin dairy products. The Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, which is popularly known as Aavin, had recently signed a memorandum of understand (MoU) with Swiggy to deliver the dairy products at the customers’ doorstep. Pointing out that online delivery of Aavin products had commenced in Chennai a couple of weeks ago, a source said other districts were expected to follow suit in the near future. R Ravikumar, general manager, Aavin, Coimbatore, said, “After lockdown, we have been receiving a lot of inquiries on home delivery of our products as public movement is restricted. While we have been doing it with the help of our agents, we could not do it round the clock as they were available only during morning and evening hours.” Aavin has close to 800 agents in the district. The tie-up with Swiggy, he said, would help them home deliver all their dairy products - ghee, butter, buttermilk, paneer, milkshakes, milk peda and other sweets. “However, milk is not delivered online for now.” K P Raju, chairman, Aavin, Coimbatore, said the products would be sold online at their maximum retail price, while they would pay a certain percentage to the online food aggregator for its service. K Kathirmathiyon, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the move would be beneficial both to the public and Aavin. “Until today, Aavin’s dairy products were by and large available only at its outlets. The online delivery would ensure easy availability of its products to the public. It will also help Aavin boost its sales.” Explaining that there is a difficulty in purchasing milk nowadays, he said there would be a lot of takers if Aavin were to deliver milk online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-aavin-products-just-a-fingertip-away/articleshow/75955409.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||After 60 days, flight operations to resume at Ahmedabad airport||AHMEDABAD: After 60 days, commercial flight operations will finally resume at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on Monday. In line with the notification issued by aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), flight operations to several destinations from Ahmedabad including Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Chandigarh, Indore, Kolkata and Jaipur, among others are set to begin from the city airport. It is learnt that approximately one-third of the total frequency of flight movements, as permitted under the summer schedule for 2020, will operate. Accordingly, some 80 flights are expected to resume operations from the city airport. Interestingly, flight movements are expected to begin from 4am. Since a curfew – restricting movement of people – from 7pm to 7am has been imposed across the state, passengers moving in and out of the airport might face difficulties. “Anyone who is going to drop or receive passengers landing at the airport before 7am or after 7pm will be allowed. No special permission needs to be taken for this,” said Vijay Patel, DCP – City Control. Wearing of masks and face shields will be mandatory before entering the airport terminal building and a kit comprising masks, shields as well as gloves will be provided to passengers at the screening counters, set up outside the terminal building. Web check-in has also been made mandatory for passengers travelling at the airport. Sources in the Airports Authority of India (AAI) confirmed that passengers will be required to maintain social distancing and therefore queues may be longer and it is advised that passengers report to the airport at least two hours prior to departure. The airport terminal building has also been prepared with toe markings on the floor and markings on the chairs kept in the waiting and security hold area, to ensure social distancing. Sources also confirmed that additional staffers will be deployed in washrooms to ensure cleaning after every single usage, so that necessary hygiene is maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-60-days-flight-ops-to-resume-at-city-airport/articleshow/75955429.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Recharge FASTag or face 100% penalty||HYDERABAD: In a bid to minimise human contact at the toll plazas and discourage those who don’t recharge their FASTag accounts, the Centre decided to penalise erring motorists. The latest directive from the union road transport and highways ministry states that drivers have to pay double toll tax if the FASTag is dysfunctional or if there is insufficient money in the account linked to FASTag. Till now only non-FASTag vehicles entering into lanes dedicated for FASTag holders had to pay double toll tax. Following complaints that many vehicle owners are not recharging their FASTag accounts, the Central government decided to impose a 100% penalty on them. The law-abiding citizens are being inconvenienced as the vehicles with dysfunctional FASTags are taking a lot to time at these dedicated lanes. The double toll tax order was issued on May 15. With coronavirus threat looming large, the ‘double toll tax penalty’ directive will discourage cash payment by minimizing human contact. “It is crucial to recharge the FASTag account and keep sufficient money in it. FASTag transaction will put an end to cash transaction. So 100% use of FASTag is crucial to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” an official said. “This is a win-win proposition for the motorists as well as the toll operators and the government,” the official added. National Highway Authorities of India’s regional officer Krishna Prasad told TOI that the double toll tax rule is being implemented at all the toll plazas in the country including the 18 toll centres in Telangana. “The very purpose of making FASTag mandatory gets defeated if motorists don’t recharge it and pay cash by entering dedicated lanes at toll plazas,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/recharge-fastag-or-face-100-penalty/articleshow/75955475.cms||Roushan Ali
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Pandhrabodi, Jawahar Nagar residents demand end to c-zone curbs||Nagpur: Around 40,000 residents of Pandhrabodi, most of them poor, are reeling under the sealing order of NMC following the death of a Covid-19 patient from the area on May 9. On Sunday, enraged residents protested the sealing as it entered 24th day on the road demanding immediate relaxation as most of them are running out of their savings and facing a livelihood crisis. This was the second time the residents of Pandhrabodhi came on the streets demanding relaxation of restrictions. Vilas Bhalekar, a local resident and a Congress activist, said the patient had died at Trust Layout and his family and others quarantined from the locality have already tested negative. “We cooperated with authorities for three weeks. If NMC wants to seal, let them do it with Trust Layout. Why impose restrictions on 40,000 people of Sudamnagari, Sanjay Nagar, Munje Layout, Verma Layout, Samta Nagar and adjoining places,” he asked. Shatrughan Mahato, another Congress worker, said people were running out of food and ration at home, several are sitting at home without income and many are forced to buy medicines and daily needs at higher prices within the containment zone. “After we protested, cops were unleashed on us and more forces were deployed,” he said. Congress MLA Vikas Thakre too joined the protest. He said NMC was considering some relaxations. Asst municipal commissioner, Dharampeth Zone, Prakash Warade, who also met the protesters along with Zonal DCP Vinita Shahu and MLA Thakre, said there would be curtailment in the containment zone but did not elaborate. “A containment zone is generally declared for 27 days but with some relaxations,” he said. Similar protest also took place at Jawahar Nagar in south Nagpur where BJP workers and leaders came out to protest the prolonged sealing orders. BJP MLA Mohan Mate had joined the protest after local leaders like the party’s city vice-president Parshu Thakur, his wife and corporator Rupali Thakur and others voiced the angst of the residents. NMC had cordoned off Jawahar Nagar, Old Subhedar Layout and LIG Colony after the death of a positive patient on May 10. The Jawahar Nagar residents too had submitted their memorandum to the Hanuman Nagar zone’s civic authorities protesting the continuation of containment zone order citing several problems faced by the senior citizens, ailing people and also the poor. Senior inspector RN Waghmare of Hudkeshwar police station then appealed to the crowd not to disturb the law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pandhrabodi-jawahar-nagar-residents-demand-end-to-c-zone-curbs/articleshow/75955504.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 25, 2020||Bareilly||Shramik Special departs for Bihar from Moradabad||Bareilly: A Shramik Special train carrying as many as 1,584 workers departed from Moradabad railway station, on Saturday afternoon, for Purnia district of Bihar. All passengers had undergone medical check-ups and provided with food packets while boarding the train. Railway authorities said that the train would halt at Danapur, Barauni and Katihar stations before terminating at Purnia in Bihar. Local administration said that some passengers created a ruckus after they were prevented from taking their bicycles with them. But, later they were allowed to do so. Among the passengers, there were a number of madrassa students and the district administration paid Rs 8.79 lakh to the Railways as train fare for all the travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/shramik-special-departs-for-bihar-from-moradabad/articleshow/75952082.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 25, 2020||Business||Birla Corp Q4 net jumps 52% to Rs 195 cr||Kolkata: M P Birla Group flagship Birla Corporation has witnessed 52% jump in net profit to Rs 195 crore in March quarter of previous fiscal. The company’s total income for the quarter was Rs 1,718 crore, down by 9.4% compared to the same period of the last fiscal. The company has explained that this is largely due to suspension in despatches following Covid 19 pandemic. Birla Corp’s net profit at Rs 505 crore for the whole year was 98% higher compared to the last fiscal. However, EBIDTA and cash profit for 2019-20 at Rs 1,421 crore and Rs 1,033 crore respectively. The company has explained that during the March quarter it has reaped the benefits of lower fuel cost and improved efficiency. The company board has also decided to pay a dividend of Rs 7.50 per share. Capacity utilisation during the March quarter declined to 93% from 98% from last fiscal. This was due to a 13% year-on-year drop in sales by volume to 3.3 million tonne. A company official said that despite muted market conditions, Birla Corporation was able to raise price realisation through judicious adjustment of geographic and product mix aimed at increasing the share of blended and premium cement within its brand portfolio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birla-corp-q4-net-jumps-52-to-rs-195-cr/articleshow/75955466.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sagar Ratna files police complaint over Covid rumours||NEW DELHI: Amid the novel coronavirus crisis, Sagar Ratna, a popular restaurant specialising in south Indian cuisine, has become a target of rumours and WhatsApp forwards. Sarvanand Shetty who is the manager of the restaurant in Defence Colony told TOI that he has filed a police complaint against the person who is spreading a rumour that 40 delivery boys of the outlet have been tested positive for the coronavirus. “Employees of Sagar Ratna have not tested positive. The restaurant does not even have 40 delivery boys. The condition (of restaurant industry) is already bad and on top of it such rumours are being spread,” said Shetty. “A WhatsApp group by name O block was at the centre of these rumours while there is no O-block in Defence Colony. I have no idea about this person who is spreading these rumours. I have filed a complaint with the Defence Colony police station. We want to assure our customers that we are serving fresh and hygienic food and there is no such issue,” added Shetty. The complaint filed by the restaurant states that the accused person is spreading rumours on a WhatsApp group named O block which has more than 200 participants. “It is a matter of fact that employees have not tested positive and these actions are causing panic among the customers of the chain and the residents of Defence Colony further hampering the reputation of the company,” it reads. Rajinder Malik, president of the Defence Colony market association, confirmed that mass infections haven’t happened and a complaint has been filed by the restaurant manager. President of the Defence Colony RWA, Maj (Retd) Ranjeet Singh said that police would trace down the originator who was probably not a resident of the colony. “There is no O-block as such in our colony. All these rumours were giving Defence Colony a bad name and hence we decided to file a complaint.” Sagar Ratna in Defence Colony was the first branch of the chain of restaurants started in 1986. Now, it has more than 90 restaurants across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eatery-files-police-complaint-over-covid-rumours/articleshow/75956377.cms||Paras Singh
May 25, 2020||Goa||Govt constitutes state council for welfare of elders||Panaji: The directorate of social welfare has constituted the state council of senior citizens to advise the government on effective implementation of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007 (Central Act 56 of 2007) and the Goa Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizen Rules, 2009, as well as to perform other functions related to senior citizens in the state. The council will be headed by the minister for social welfare as chairman and comprise others including the secretaries of social welfare, health, information and finance. Diogo M Da Costa, Dattaprasad Pawaskar, Venkatesh Ghode and Vinay Gaonkar will be members and the director, social welfare, will be an ex officio member. The tenure of the members other than ex officio will be for two years and the council will meet once every six months. The government also constituted the district committees of senior citizens for North and South Goa, to function at the district-level. Both committees will be chaired by the respective district collectors. The superintendent of police, director of health services, medical superintendent (administration) GMC, MD, Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd, director of transport and district welfare officer will all be ex officio members of the committee. Other members in the North Goa committee include Vishnu M Mahale and Gurudas Mapari and the South Goa panel includes Rajan Bhembre, Narayan Naik and Ramakant Bandekar. The council will be headed by the minister for social welfare, who will be chairman, and comprise others including the secretaries for social welfare, health, information and finance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-constitutes-state-council-for-welfare-of-elders/articleshow/75958481.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||5 killed in separate road accidents in 2 days||Coimbatore: Five people were killed in separate road accidents in the past two days in the district. In Sulur, 43-year-old P Ilangovan, a commercial inspector with Tangedco, was killed after a speeding truck hit his scooter near the L&T bypass-Pattanampudur road on Saturday night. Ilangovan suffered severe head injuries and died instantly. Police registered a case against truck driver Arockiyasamy. In Annur, a 39-year-old truck driver, A Velmurugan, died after he lost the control of his vehicle and rammed it into a tree on Annur-Coimbatore road on Saturday. The Thiruvannamalai resident suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. Annur police have registered a case. In Kinathukadavu, K Kuppal, 65, was killed after a motorcycle rammed her while she was walking on the Coimbatore-Pollachi main road near Arasampalayam Pirivu on Saturday. The woman suffered severe head injuries and died on the way to the hospital. Kinathukadavu police registered a case. In the fourth case, a 26-year-old private firm executive was killed after a truck hit his motorcycle on Pollachi-Valparai main road on Saturday. The deceased was identified as A Thirunavukarasu from Udumalpet in Tirupur. He suffered severe head injuries and died on the way to a hospital. In Chettipalayam, a 63-year-old pedestrian was killed after an unknown vehicle hit him on Podanur-Chettipalayam road on Friday night. A Sundararajan, 63, from Star Avenue in Chettipalayam, was walking on the road when the vehicle hit him causing grievous injuries. His body was handed over to his family members after a postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-2-days/articleshow/75955456.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority hopes of eco revival, launches five new projects||LUCKNOW: In spite of over 3,000 flats still lying unsold, the Lucknow Development Authority on Sunday allotted contracts for five development projects, including three housing, with around 1,000 flats. The cost of the five new projects is Rs 102 crore, including Rs 60 for housing. The other two projects costing Rs 40 crore include installation of four escalators each at Charbagh and Polytechnic footover bridges. “LDA launched three housing projects as it had invested Rs 75 crore in land acquisition and removal of encroachments. There will be 300-400 flats in each project,” said vice chairman Shivakant Dwivedi. “The housing projects are in Gomtinagar extension, Rae Bareli road and Sultanpur road. We anticipate revival of economy soon. Besides, these projects will provide employment,” he added. As of now, about 3,465 flats in five LDA housing projects are lying unsold for 2-3 years due to slump. It has announced 25% discount on the flats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-hopes-of-eco-revival-launches-five-new-projects/articleshow/75956338.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Leopard cubs reunited with mother||MYSURU: Forest department personnel reunited three leopard cubs with their mother on Saturday. The cubs were born about four to five days ago, and were found on the sugarcane field of farmer Honnappa in Kodanahalli on May 17. The villagers had put the cubs in a tray and informed the forest department of the same. Range forest officer M K Devaraju and deputy range forest officer Malegowda, left the cubs at the spot they were found, and kept an eye on them, by hiding at a distance, at 6.30pm on Saturday. Around 9.30 pm, the leopard took back her cubs, and her pug marks were found at the spot along with that of her cubs, confirmed the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-cubs-reunited-with-mother/articleshow/75954090.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Institutional qurantine shortened||AHMEDABAD: Gujaratis stranded in different countries, who are arriving back home on special flights, will now undergo compulsory institutional quarantine for 10 days instead of the earlier period of 14 days. They will have to undergo home quarantine for the remaining four days. A notification to this effect was issued by the health ministry on Sunday. Further relaxing the compulsory institutional quarantine rule for those arriving from abroad, persons in distress, pregnant women, serious illness patients, parents accompanied by children of less than 10 years or or those bereaved for a death in the family will be allowed home quarantine for the entire 14-day period, the circular said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/institutional-qurantine-shortened/articleshow/75955506.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rise in sales of agri produce amid lockdown||Gandhinagar: The state government on Sunday claimed that agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) have registered an increase in the sales of agri produce after APMCs were allowed to resume operation since April 15. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to CM, said, “Farmers have sold 66,49,254 quintals of grains till date in the APMCs. A large part of this consists of 19,37, 161 quintals of wheat, 14,66,492 quintals of castor, 3,53,182 quintals of cotton seeds, 1,83,794 quintals of tobacco and 2,85,197 quintals of gram.” The purchase of agri produce is done keeping in mind the necessary safety protocols. At the same time, everyone undergoes thermal screening as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rise-in-sales-of-agri-produce-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75955509.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: One needy got food every second, free grain in 2 secs||LUCKNOW: On an average, one needy person was delivered a food packet every second from community kitchens run by the government and government-supported agencies during two months of lockdown. According to data provided by the administration, between March 25 and May 23, at least one household with ration card got free food grain every two seconds from fair price shops and other government agencies. Similarly, retail giants, supermarkets and online food/grocery companies, on an average, delivered essential grocery to a house every three seconds. Covid-19 helplines by government hospitals and administration also received a call every 10 minutes. Non-Covid-19 helplines in hospitals and ‘hello doctor’ facility by district administration for medical advice also received an average of one call every minute. Every 30 minutes, a person sought psychological counselling at helplines run by Lucknow University and King George’s Medical University (KGMU) while average 32 households were provided medicines at their doorstep every hour. The figure includes at least one household in hotspot area per hour. On an average, at least one vehicle was booked or seized every minute under the Motor Vehicle Act for violation of lockdown and every two minutes, more than one call was received on UP 112 for food, emergency transport, resolution of dispute or crime. Simiarly, at least five FIRs were lodged daily for lockdown violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/one-needy-got-food-every-sec-free-grain-in-2-secs/articleshow/75956399.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 25, 2020||Bareilly||Septuagenarian who died of kidney failure days ago among eight new Covid-19 cases in Bareilly||Bareilly: District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam, on Sunday, said his department has received test reports of eight positive Covid-19 cases from the IVRI lab, including of a 70-year-old patient who had been suffering from kidney failure. He said the elderly patient had passed away on May 20, but his report, showing he was positive, arrived only on Sunday.Both health department and district administration of Bareilly were caught off-guard by the eight new cases in a single day on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 41, including two deaths and 10 recoveries. Most of the new cases are among migrant workers who have recently returned to the district.In Sambhal district, chief medical officer Dr Amita Singh said the district has recorded five new cases, all returning migrant workers, on Sunday. All of them have been placed under quarantine. Sambhal’s tally has reached 66, including 30 recoveries and two deaths.Three new cases were also reported from Moradabad. CMO Dr M C Garg said the district tally has reached 179, with 127 recoveries and nine fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/septuagenarian-who-died-of-kidney-failure-days-ago-among-eight-new-covid-19-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/75952110.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Five run sex racket at hotel, arrested||COIMBATORE: The city police arrested five people, including franchise partners of a renowned hotel aggregator, on Sunday night on charges of running a prostitution racket at Saravanampatti. The arrested comprise a 22-year-old woman from Ganapathipalayam in Tirupur and Sivakumar, 25, from Kandiyan Kovil in Tirupur, both franchise partners of the hotel aggregator at Saravanampatti, and their aides P Chandru alias Ranjith, 29, from Neelikonampalayam, H Faiz, 27, from Podanur and S Saddam Hussain, 29, from Kuniyamuthur. All of them were booked under sections 3(2)(a) and 4(2)(c) of the Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act. A woman from Chennai, who ran the sexual racket, is on the run. Police said the Tirupur-based woman and her business partner facilitated the prostitution racket at their hotel at Akkammal Garden in Chinna Mettupalayam in Saravanampatti while Chandru, Faiz and Saddam assisted them in bringing college students and women to the hotel after luring them on social media with promises of a quick buck. While hotels are not allowed to function during lockdown, this facility allegedly functioned for select guests. The prostitution racket was exposed when a four-member gang entered the hotel premises on Saturday afternoon and looted gold ornaments, cash and mobile phones from the couples staying there. They also damaged CCTV cameras and took away the digital video recorder. The gang had also attacked the hotel staff. The hotel staff filed a police complaint of robbery. During interrogation, police came to know that some couples were illegally staying in the hotel . Police interrogated Faiz and Saddam Hussain, who spilled the beans and admitted they were staying at hotel with their ‘lovers’.  The arrested persons will be produced before a judicial magistrate on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-run-sex-racket-at-hotel-arrested/articleshow/75955483.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bareilly||People throng markets ahead of Eid, keep Bareilly cops on toes||Bareilly: A day before Eid-ul-Fitr, people thronged markets in Bareilly in large numbers, keeping local police personnel on their toes on Sunday. Policemen donning masks could be spotted guarding public places, ensuring adherence to the social-distancing guidelines and maintaining uninterrupted traffic movement in the city. Several parts of the city such as Bara Bazaar, Qutubkhana, Koharapir and Quila experienced heavy footfall of customers buying groceries, confectioneries, clothes, etc, since morning. Although celebrations normally start two days before Eid, with the number of active Covid-19 cases increasing and the subsequent imposition of the lockdown 4.0, the district administration restricted family get-togethers and meetings at public and religious places during the festive period, fearing the further spread of infection. Bareilly senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Kumar Pandey told TOI, “Police personnel have been deputed across the city, especially in prominent city areas that experience heavy rush during festivities. They are monitoring locals and ensuring that people are wearing protective masks and maintaining social distancing. Additionally, the religious gathering is not allowed in the city and locals are being continually informed to offer Eid prayers at home. Except for caretakers (imams), only a few people are allowed to offer namaaz at prominent mosques, while strict instructions have been issued for the general public to abide by the social-distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/people-throng-markets-ahead-of-eid-keep-bareilly-cops-on-toes/articleshow/75952143.cms||Maria Khan
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court lawyer sends notice to aviation minister||AHMEDABAD: A Gujarat high court lawyer has issued legal notice to the civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to end the airlines’ no-refund policy and creating credit shell for the tickets that were booked prior to the lockdown. Advocate Utkarsh Dave has taken exception to the no-refund policy for the tickets purchased before lockdown and instead creating a separate vault with the money in the form of credit shell. He said that are thousands of people like him had booked tickets before the lockdown for summer vacation and business trips, but they could not travel because of the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic. Instead of refunding the ticket amount, the companies moved the money into a new vault called ‘credit shell’, which retains passengers’ money now. He claimed that this is unacceptable. In his notice, Dave said, “We have already lost immensely since our travels did not materialise. Kindly do not add insult to the injury by subjecting us to this new entrapments airline companies came up with in the form of credit shell, additional fares etc.” He has asked the minister to direct the airline companies that “money should be refunded to all those who do not want to or cannot travel now on tickets booked before the lockdown to travel during the period when there was a nationwide lockdown because of Covid-19.” He has claimed that the rationale behind creating credit shell and charging difference from the passengers for the tickets post-lockdown is to “benefit the aviation companies with no thought of passengers like us who sustain these very airline companies”. He has also demanded that there must not be any additional amount charged to those people who still want to travel on the bookings made before the lockdown. The lawyer has claimed that the airline companies have adopted this dubious measure to safeguard their financial well-being by not only “getting our travel plans messed up but also locking up our hard earned money in ways ethically unimaginable”. The lawyer cited the practice in US, Europe, UAE and China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-lawyer-sends-notice-to-aviation-minister/articleshow/75955511.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Eid under lockdown to be a low-key affair||Coimbatore: Due to restrictions on gatherings and mass prayers, the Muslim community is getting ready to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr, the festival of breaking the fast that marks the end of a month-long period of dawn-to-dusk fasting of Ramzan, on a subdued note on Monday. “Following the government rules, we have informed people to conduct prayers at their houses and not to gather at mosques. Imams will conduct special prayers at mosques,” said A Faizal, joint secretary of the Coimbatore District Sunnath Jamath Kolgai Kuttamaipu. “Once the call for the prayer is made, family members will gather together and pray at their houses.” Families and friends used to gather together and purchase dresses before the festival, Faizal said. “But due to the present economic situation, many members of the community had to abstain from shopping. Most of the people, including children, understand the gravity of the situation.” AR Basheer Ahamed, president of the Coimbatore District United Jamaat, said the focus is now on helping the poor. “Muslims will donate about 2.5% of their income to the needy people during Ramzan. We had delivered grocery kits at the doorstep of several needy people. Depending on their financial status, almost all members made contributions to the cause.” The Monday’s event will be a completely different one from the previous years in all aspects, except in terms of charity, said M Abdul Hakkim, secretary of the Jamaat e Islmai Hind. “We have been distributing biryani rice to poor families to ensure that they celebrate the festival. We have also decided to celebrate the festival along with the frontline workers of the pandemic, including health workers, sanitary workers and police officers by distributing biryani packets to them.” “Every year, we used to gather at mosques on the festival day. This year, we are going to pray with our family members. It will be a rare opportunity to pray together,” Hakkim added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eid-under-lockdown-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/75955508.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 25, 2020||Bareilly||Adolescent PTR tigress strays into farm field, risks getting poisoned||PILIBHIT: More than a month after Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) authorities had tranquilized a tiger which killed two villagers, they are now grappling with the problem of driving back into the forest a two-and-a-half-year old tigress living in the harvested wheat fields, within 200-metre radius of Mala range. H Rajamohan, field director of PTR, said the adolescent tigress is showing an inclination to remain outside the core forest area of Mala range. It has often been spotted in the fields of one Balveer Singh, he added What is worrying foresters is that the tigress is drinking the water the farmer has filled his field with in preparation for the next sowing season. It is risky as the water is mixed with chemical fertilizers. Drinking it can harm the big cat. The forest officials are now camping nearby to study the behaviour of the tigress and drive it back to the wild at regular intervals. The team comprises Dr RK Singh, a veterinary officer at Kanpur zoo The forest authorities believe that tigers are straying out of PTR, especially Mala range, as it is overpopulated with big cats. Experts have suggested that they be translocated to non-tiger zones. Rajamohan said PTR has over 50 tigers which needed over 2,500 square km area for free territories without any overlapping. Unfortunately, PTR's total area, comprising both core and buffer regions, is only 730 sq km, Rajamohan added. “In such a situation, at least half of PTR tigers urgently need to be translocated in non-tiger zones with climatic conditions similar to the Terai belt," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/adolescent-ptr-tigress-strays-into-farm-field-risks-getting-poisoned/articleshow/75952234.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Uncertainty after message of hope brings them to schools||NEW DELHI: Hope is a dangerous thing. And that is exactly what rose in migrant workers after they got an SMS asking them to turn up at the government school in East Vinod Nagar in east Delhi from where they would be taken to the railway station to board a train to their native places. However, sitting in the scorching heat, all they had been staring at was uncertainly. “We will sleep on the footpath till our turn comes. What is the point of registering online when we get messages but aren’t sent home?” asked one of the migrants. Chaos was prevalent outside the school as several buses were parked haphazardly leading to a traffic mess. Murli Dhar Sharma was seen struggling to make his two-and-a-half-year-old son wear a mask. He had run out of money as he wasn’t paid his salary. He had reached the school with the hope of being sent to Amethi, Uttar Pradesh. “I managed to register online with the help of a friend. I got the message last night. We locked our house and paid an auto driver Rs 1,000 to drop us at Anand Vihar. I have been asked to wait since then,” said Sharma, who lived in Rampura near Punjabi Bagh. While he was waiting, other migrants started to board around 50 buses so that they could catch a train to Basti in UP. Senior officials and civil defence volunteers faced difficulty in controlling them. A similar scenario existed outside the government school in West Vinod Nagar where migrants from Bihar were seen sitting on the footpath. When TOI visited the school, it was being cleaned as hundreds of migrants had left for the railway station some time ago. Some labourers said they were provided food by passersby, while they got water from the school. Sunil, who came from Maidan Garhi to go to Begusarai, said he had been waiting there since 10am. “The authorities first said they would take us inside the school in the evening. But later some people said tomorrow morning. We failed to register online, so just walked here. We will sleep on the footpath tonight so that we are the first ones to enter tomorrow morning,” he added. However, unlike what was seen outside the two schools in east Delhi, Shaheed Hemu Kalyani Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Lajpat Nagar showed a different picture. The process seemed streamlined and elaborate arrangements had been made for the migrants. Coolers had been placed in the huge ground and civil defence and other volunteers were seen calling out the names of the selected workers. Tanpreet Singh, secretary of a gurdwara in Krishna Market, could be seen making a queue of migrants move systematically. The workers were happy to be given packed food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uncertainty-after-message-of-hope-brings-them-to-schools/articleshow/75956477.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bareilly||Five labourers jump off Shramik Spl, detained & quarantined||BAREILLY: Exposing their life to serious danger, five labourers returning home from Punjab on Sitapur-bound Shramik Special jumped off when the train entered Roza railway station in Shahjahanpur district on Sunday. They were, however, detained by GRP in-charge Vinod Tiwari and his team, and taken to a quarantine centre. Their samples would be sent for Covid-19 tests. Luckily, no one sustained any injury. The Shramik Special carrying the migrant labourers from Ludhiana to Sitapur had slowed down while changing tracks as it was closing in on the railway station. This allowed the men from Allahaganj area of Shahjahanpur to jump off. One of the labourers said, “We had already spent a long time on the train. And it would have taken us another three hours to reach Sitapur and then would have reached Shahjahanpur by evening. So, we decided to jump off the train.” GRP in-charge Tiwari told TOI, “We stay on alert whenever any special train passes by. There is always a possibility that a passenger may jump off. It happened in the past as well. Five labourers jumped off the running train on Sunday and tried to flee, but we stopped them. They were all carrying valid tickets and no FIR has been registered against them. They were handed over to SHO of Roza police station.” SHO Ashok Pal said, “All the labourers were working at woollen factories in Ludhiana. Since they were coming from another state, we have sent them to quarantine centre.” A similar incident was reported at Roza railway station on May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-labourers-jump-off-shramik-spl-detained-quarantined/articleshow/75952188.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 25, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Three loan sharks booked for suicide abetment||RAJKOT: Three loan sharks were booked on Sunday for the alleged suicide abtment of a labourer who hanged himself to death in a factory on Kotharia Road in Rajkot on Thursday. Ashwin Makwana, the brother of suicide victim Praful Makwana (36), alleged due to the constant harassment caused by Vijay Mir, Govind Savalia and Dilip Kacha, his brother ended life. “The trio were allegedly harassing Praful for the recovery of interest on Rs 10 lakh loan he had taken from them. The accused had allegedly usurped Praful’s two-wheeler. Ashwin claims that Praful had paid the whole amount and yet, the accused were asking for more money,” said an official from Aji Dam police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-loan-sharks-booked-for-suicide-abetment/articleshow/75954191.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s peak power demand picks up, may touch record high in July||NEW DELHI: With the mercury rising and many establishments being allowed to operate in Lockdown 4.0, the city discoms are expecting the peak power demand to surpass last year’s record high in the coming months. While the demand may reach 7,380MW in June, it is expected to cross 7,500MW in July. In the past two decades, Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by over 250% — from 2,879MW in 2002 to an all-time high of 7,409MW on July 2, 2019. “With the lockdown being relaxed and the mercury on the rise, the power consumption is expected to go up again and is likely to cross even last year’s record in July,” a discom official said. In the first half of the lockdown, the capital saw up to 49% slump in the peak demand. “During the total lockdown, all commercial and industrial establishments were closed, leading to around 70-90% reduction in power demand for such activities. Hence, though residents were confined to home and using more electrical appliances, there was no impact on the domestic load, which is around 75% of Delhi’s total power load,” he said. Among the first 19 days of May, Delhi’s peak power demand in 2019 was 5,985MW on May 10. This year, it has so far been 4,195MW on May 18 — a 29% dip. At 3,501MW, the city witnessed the maximum slump of over 39% slump on May 2 compared to the same day last year when the peak touched 5,808MW. The commercial demand has already started to increase with the easing of restrictions and the increase in temperature is resulting in night peaks. “The demand is still lower then last year but it has started catching up. Since the end of Lockdown 3 on May 17, the peak demand gap between two years has started narrowing. The gaps on May 18 and 19 was around 3% and 8%, respectively, against the corresponding days last year,” the official said. The first 19 days of May has also seen more demand — over 24% — than the same period this April. While the highest peak power demand was 3,362 on April 1, the same was 4,195MW on May 19. According to the city discoms, arrangements have been made to source adequate electricity to meet the demand. “These include long-term power purchase agreements and banking arrangements with other states. In case of unforeseen contingencies because of low generation and outage in power plants, the discoms will purchase short-term power from the exchange,” a BSES spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-peak-power-demand-picks-up-may-touch-record-high-in-july/articleshow/75956451.cms||Ritam Halder
May 25, 2020||Mangaluru||DYFI demands free Covid-19 test in private labs for poor||MANGALURU: Democratic Youth Federation of India has urged the government to conduct Covid-19 testing free of cost for the poor in private labs too. The government should ensure that the introduction of more laboratories in private medical colleges should not lead to commercialisation of testing, said Muneer Katipalla, state president, DYFI. “Private labs are charging Rs 3,800 for each test. They also insist on admission of patients and other tests, which increases the burden of the common man. At a time when Covid-19 is spreading fast in Karnataka, the government should make tests free for the poor in all laboratories. Many people may voluntarily want to get their swab tests done to make sure that they are safe. However, the present rate is not affordable to them,” Muneer told TOI. When contacted, district health officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said private laboratories are bound to collect charges as per the price fixed by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA). “At present, the price fixed by the NPPA for each test is Rs 2,250. The district administration also pays the same amount for each test conducted in the private lab when samples are sent from Wenlock Hospital. However, private labs may be charging more because they use their vacutainer tubes to collect swabs. We send throat swabs collected in vacutainers supplied by the government and only tests are conducted in private lab. The government also supplies PPE kits to all designated Covid-19 hospitals. When people go directly to private labs, they may be including the charges for vacutainers and PPEs,” Dr Bairy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dyfi-demands-free-covid-19-test-in-pvt-labs-for-poor/articleshow/75954175.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||At 91, UP’s oldest patient beats Covid-19||LUCKNOW: A 91-year-old woman, who is the oldest Covid-19 patient in Uttar Pradesh, has defeated the infection after undergoing treatment for 23 days at the Rajdhani Covid-19 Hospital of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). Medical superintendent, SGPGI, Dr RK Singh said the patient was admitted to a private hospital and had developed fever, cough, expectoration and breathlessness on April 26. When her condition did not improve, she was shifted to SGPGI on April 30. The same day she tested positive to Covid-19. “Age is a risk factor. The elderly woman had history of hypertension. The main challenges in treating her included maintaining her organ functions at optimal level,” he said. “Prevention of organ dysfunction and avoiding ventilation were major challenges because removal from ventilator would have been very difficult,” he said. “The patient required oxygen support for prolonged period after which she achieved stability,” Dr Singh said. State surveillance officer Vikasendur Agarwal said: “The number of elderly taking ill in UP is very low. As on date, about 6% of the patients belong to 60-plus age group, but 90-plus is surely rare.” He added that the case exemplifies that timely medical intervention is crucial to saving one's life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/at-91-ups-oldest-patient-beats-covid/articleshow/75956484.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Senior lawyer urges govt to allow liquor sale from permit shops||AHMEDABAD: A senior lawyer in the Gujarat high court, Yatin Oza, has requested the chief secretary to allow selling of alcohol in permit shops across the state for people like him, who are medically prescribed to consume liquor. Advocate Oza, who is the president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association, said that the state of Gujarat permits liquor consumption only to those with permits given on recommendations by a panel of doctors. He cited the state government’s May 19 notification granting relaxations in the lockdown 4.0, and said that the notification “is absolutely silent on the issue of permit shops to be opened or closed. When a citizen requires consumption of alcohol, like me for medical purpose and specifically permit having been issued for the said purpose, there is absolutely no reason not to permit sales of alcohol by permit shops to the permit holders”. The lawyer requested the chief secretary to consider the issue and “permit the licensed hotels to sell alcohol to specified persons. namely permit holders”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/senior-lawyer-urges-govt-to-allow-liquor-sale-from-permit-shops/articleshow/75955514.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||46-yr-old ZP doctor posted at MLA Hostel QC among 6 +ve||Nagpur: A 46-year-old female doctor of Zilla Parishad (ZP) posted at MLA Hostel Institutional Quarantine Centre, who is a resident of Venuwan Society, Narendra Nagar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Five more persons from the city came positive, of which two are from Jawahar Nagar containment zone, one from Gaddigodam containment zone, and two new cases from Mominpura containment zone. Now, the district’s tally is 423. On Sunday, the number of samples tested in the district crossed 10,000, which took 75 days. Total 10,191 samples have been tested and positivity rate is 4.14%. NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “Female doctor was working under ZP’s Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) at Kamptee. She was posted at MLA Hostel. She was on leave since May 6 citing health problems. She resumed duty on Saturday but was feeling uneasy and also had throat problem. She gave swab samples at MLA Hostel. Her samples came positive on Sunday. She has been at home all these days, only visiting a private doctor at Congress Nagar once,” he said. Earlier, a homeopath doctor and NMC nurse had tested positive after contracting the illness from clinics. Till now, none of the medical staff working in Covid-19 services have tested positive in the district. NMC team led by assistant commissioner Kiran Bagde quarantined her family members. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe notified Venuwan Society in South-West Nagpur as containment zone. Houses of only two lanes are part of the containment zone. Dr Gantawar said, “We will test all contacts and area will be expanded in case any more cases come to fore.” This is seventh new area with Covid-19 case in last two days. The female doctor was admitted at AIIMS, increasing corona patients at this institute to three. A 22-year-old suspected patient from Butibori who returned from New Delhi on May 20 is also admitted here and his reports are awaited. Similarly, the civic body notified a small area of Habib Nagar, Teka Naka, in North Nagpur as containment zone. A pregnant woman from this area was admitted at IGGMCH and tested positive on Saturday. In a worry, new cases have continued to come from Mominpura despite the area being notified as containment zone since April 4. A 55-year-old man and 47-year-old woman were admitted at IGGMCH complaining of fever and breathing problems respectively, on Saturday, and tested positive. One is from Dobi Nagar and other one from Hansapuri, where mass quarantine was also done. The number of cases from Mominpura containment zone have increased to 222. A 35-year-old woman from Gaddigodam containment zone also tested positive, taking tally of this locality to 23. A 16-year-old man and 50-year-old female quarantined at Ravi Bhavan on May 10 also tested positive in their second samples, taking cases from this area to five. Samples of 48 persons, including 16 doctors and staff of IGGMCH tested negative. They were quarantined in connection with 16-year-old girl from Bajeria, who tested positive on May 21. One SRPF personnel and two policemen, who tested positive on May 16, were among five who got discharged from IGGMCH and GMCH taking total number of discharged persons to 337. With seven deaths, now active cases at IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS stand at 79.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/46-yr-old-zp-doctor-posted-at-mla-hostel-qc-among-6-ve/articleshow/75955521.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police seize IMFL, beer from car||Ahmedabad: Naroda police on Saturday night, seized 144 bottles of Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and 168 cans of beer from a car intercepted near Sardar Patel Ring Road Circle near Chiloda. A woman sitting in the car, Rinku Chara, was nabbed but the driver of the car managed to escape. Inspector J G Patel of Naroda police station said on a tip-off they had kept watch near SPR Ring Road Circle. “We saw the car coming and signaled it to stop, but the driver of the car drove at full speed towards Amardeep Residency in Nana Chiloda and fled after abandoning the car at the turning,” Patel said. On checking the car the cops found Rinku Chara sitting in the front seat of the car. “On questioning her we learnt that the driver who fled after abandoning the car was Ajay Kushwah and both were to deliver the stuff to Ritesh alias Andho Garange of Sardarnagar. “We are searching for Kushwah and Garange both,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-seize-imfl-beer-from-car/articleshow/75955516.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Four more deaths take toll in Telangana past 50, total cases at 1,854||HYDERABAD: Four more persons died from novel coronavirus on Sunday in Telangana, even as 41 new positive cases were detected with the state health department advising citizens to avoid unnecessary travel. While the death toll from Covid-19 rose to 53, the overall caseload stood at 1,854, of which 709 are active cases undergoing treatment at various designated hospitals in the state. “In case travel is unavoidable, ensure that all safety measures such as face masks, frequent handwash, use of sanitizers and social distancing norms are followed,” say an advisory. Of the four deaths reported, three are from the city, including a 48-year-old woman, who was suffering from leukaemia, a 60-year-old male and a 72-year-old female. The fourth death was reported from Jagityal district after a 75-year-old man passed away. Also, among the positive cases reported on Sunday, 23 are from greater Hyderabad, 11 migrant workers and six patients, who had returned from foreign destinations. Majority of the cases reported are from GHMC limits and Ranga Reddy district. Authorities said 24 other districts, including Karimnagar, Sircilla and neighbouring Medak have not reported any new case of Covid-19 over the last fortnight. Meanwhile, 24 patients who had recovered from the virus were discharged on Sunday. With these, 1,092 patients in the state have recovered from the Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-more-deaths-take-toll-in-t-past-50-total-cases-at-1854/articleshow/75956488.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Farmer rights leader files complaint against cops||RAJKOT: Farmer rights leader and chief of Kisan Congress, Pal Ambaliya, on Sunday lodged a complaint against assistant commissioner of police (ACP), police inspector (PI) and unidentified cops of Rajkot crime branch for the alleged custodial torture. In the complaint lodged with Pradyumannagar police station, Ambaliya named ACP JH Sarvaiya, PI H M Gadhvi and the cops of Rajkot crime branch, alleging that they had thrashed him with sticks on Wednesday night. “I was forced to hug a tree. Two constables pulled both of my hands from the other side of the tree and ACP Sarvaiya and PI Gadhvi whipped me with the sticks,” alleged Ambaliya in his complaint. “Sarvaiya and Gadhvi warned me against organizing any programme in Rajkot and threatened to bump me off in an encounter if I visited the city again,” he said in the complaint. Next day, on Thursday morning, Ambaliya was produced before the mamlatdar of Rajkot west zone, where he had alleged custodial torture. The mamlatdar ordered to admit Ambaliya to Rajkot Civil Hospital from where he was shifted to a private hospital. Ambaliya lodged the complaint after being discharged on Sunday. When contacted, city police commissioner Manoj Agarwal, said, “Two days back, an inquiry was given to DCP zone 2 to investigate in whole incident. We will soon be able to find out the truth. Action will be taken against anyone found guilty.” On Wednesday, Ambaliya had organized demonstration at the collectorate to protest against the wholesale traders’ decision to slash prices of onions and cotton produce purchased from farmers. Pradyumannagar police had detained Ambaliya and his four associates - Pravin Patodia, Devu Gadhvi, Girdhar Vaghela and Chetan Gadhia — and booked all of them under IPC sections 269 and 270 pertaining to negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. Later, all five were released. Later in the evening, Ambaliya and others were booked for unlawful assembly and again summoned to Pradyumannagar police station to take their finger prints. Then Ambaliya was allegedly taken to the crime branch office where he was beaten up in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-rights-leader-files-complaint-against-cops/articleshow/75954245.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bareilly||‘Denied admission’, pregnant woman dies outside pvt hosp in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A six months pregnant woman died outside a private hospital in Pilibhit on Saturday night after she was allegedly denied admission by several hospitals because her locality was sealed a few days ago upon return of migrant labourers in a large number. Taking cognisance of the woman’s death despite the fact that “private hospitals have been directed to admit and treat all emergency cases”, district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav said, “The case will be probed thoroughly and we will bring the culprits to book.” According to Shirazuddin, a resident of Feelkhana locality under Pilibhit kotwali, his six months pregnant wife Arshi, 28, had turned feeble and pale after fasting for three consecutive days during Ramzan. “As she was about to collapse on Saturday, we took her to several private hospitals one after another, but none of the hospitals admitted her. The hospital authorities said they were not accepting cases coming from the containment zone or sealed areas. They asked me to get a written permission from the DM for the admission of my wife,” Shirazuddin claimed. He alleged, “I kept begging before the doctors to save my wife’s life, but all my pleas fell on deaf ears and my wife died outside a private hospital in the absence of medical attention.” Asked about the matter, the owner of the private hospital in question said, “All private hospitals are functioning under immense fear of legal action from the district administration. If a patient tests positive for Covid-19 after we discharge him on the completion of his treatment, we will be brought under the legal ambit for no reason.” Chief medical officer Dr Seema Agrawal, meanwhile, said she would order an inquiry into the matter so that action could be taken action erring private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/denied-admission-pregnant-woman-dies-outside-pvt-hosp-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75952273.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Coimbatore||No plan to scrap free power scheme: P Thangamani||NAMAKKAL: The scheme of free power supply for farmers will not be scrapped at any cost, electricity minister P Thangamani said here on Sunday. Talking to reporters after inaugurating zonal offices of Tangedco at Pallipalayam, the minister denied reports in a section of media that metres are being installed for new applicants seeking connection for agriculture for assessment of power consumption and that they will be charged. Thangamani said the State government had introduced a tatkal scheme to obtain agriculture power connections and the metres were fixed for only tatkal connections. “Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy has instructed not to fix metres even for such connections,” he said. “Farmers need not worry in Tamil Nadu. The free electricity scheme brought by MGR will be continuously implemented. That is the policy of the state government and the wish of the chief minister.” There is another scheme under which farmers can upgrade the capacity of their pumps, the minister said. “There are farmers who wish to increase the capacity of their pumps as water table could have gone down. For upgradation of pumps, a nominal sum of 20,000 is charged. This is not compulsory and only those who require need to apply. Nobody is forced to pay the amount. Certain elements are spreading rumours that all farmers are being forced to pay Rs 20,000.” The minister also hit out at opposition leader M K Stalin, accusing him of peddling false information. “CM is doing an exemplary job in containing Covid-19 and TN has emerged as a model state in handling the pandemic. The opposition leader is unable to digest the goodwill earned by us and has been issuing statements everyday with false accusations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-plan-to-scrap-free-power-scheme-minister/articleshow/75955513.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Accused tells STF a ‘caller’ asked him to post message, retracts||Lucknow: Kamran Ameen (25), a private security guard who had threatened to attack UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath with bomb, told UP STF that an unidentified caller asked him to post the message on WhatsApp number of UP 112. The accused, however, retracted from the statement claiming he “could not recall anything”. The special task force on Sunday got four-day custody of Ameen. He will now be brought to Lucknow by Monday evening and grilled. A six-member STF team had arrested Ameen from Mumbai. Inspector general of police, STF, Amitabh Yash told TOI that Ameen initially disclosed that he had received a phone call from an unknown number and the caller asked him to post a message on the WhatsApp number of UP 112 threatening to attack the Uttar Pradesh CM with a bomb. “However, Ameen changed his statement saying ‘he does not remember’ if he sent the message at someone’s behest. The surveillance cell of STF is trying to trace the calls made to Ameen in last one month,” he said. STF officials privy to the investigation said Ameen’s links with any terror organization or a gang have not been established yet. Police also did not disclose any criminal record. Senior officials, however, said what made Ameen post the message and the motive behind the act would be probed once he reaches Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/accused-tells-stf-a-caller-asked-him-to-post-message-retracts/articleshow/75956542.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||ASI succumbs to Covid -19||Ahmedabad: ASI Girish Barot, 57, resident of Saraspur, died of Covid-19 on Sunday morning at SGVP hospital. Barot is the third policeman in the city to die of Covid-19. A guard of honour was given to Barot by police personnel and officials of the jurisdiction and he was cremated in Krishnanagar. DCP, Zone-4, Neeraj Badgujar said that as a decision was taken not to put policemen above the age of 55 in the field for implementation of lockdown, Barot had been shifted to duty at the police station from his earlier posting in PCR van patrolling. “On May 20 he developed some complications and was sent home, although he wanted to continue work. Later he was diagnosed as Covid-19 Positive and admitted to SGVP hospital. He died on Sunday morning and was cremated with full honours,” said Badgujar. Currently, there are about 84 active cases of Covid-19 in the police and other forces deployed in the city. “Of them, 62 are from police and the rest 22 are from other forces. About 251 police officers and personnel have been discharged after recovery from Covid-19,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asi-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/75955518.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Pinjra Tod activists in Crime Branch custody||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Crime Branch on Sunday took into custody Pinjra Tod activists—Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal. They were arrested a day before for leading a protest at the Jafrabad metro station in February. Meanwhile, teachers and students of JNU have come out with statements in support of the activists. The charges against Kalita and Narwal are false, claims the teachers' association. The two JNU students who were founding members of Pinjra Tod, organisation that was started against discriminatory hostel timings for girl students, were arrested under IPC sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). “Delhi Police is using the lockdown as a shield against dissent. It has continuously engaged in witchhunting of activists while allowing the real culprits of the Delhi riots to go scot free,” the JNU students’ union claimed. JNU Teachers’ Association expressed its “shock” at the arrest and asked for the release of the students. “A general atmosphere of intimidation is being created with several students from different universities being called for ‘questioning’,” JNUTA alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pinjra-tod-activists-in-crime-branch-custody/articleshow/75956530.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Opening day: Glass partitions, masks at IGI||NEW DELHI: In the past 24 hours, three Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel have tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection, taking the Delhi count for the paramilitary force to 39. One of these three personnel was on duty at the Delhi airport, while the other two were deployed with Delhi Metro. With domestic flight operations scheduled to resume from Monday, CISF said it would mostly go for “contactless” frisking of passengers and use glass partitions to check tickets to minimise the risk of the virus spread. All personnel coming in direct contact with flyers may also use PPE kits, an official said. Before entering the airport premises, a flyer will show the identity proof and the boarding ticket to a CISF staffer from a distance with a glass screen separating them. A camera will be attached to this screen, making the reading of the ticket easier. Inside, bar-code readers will be used to scan boarding passes and metal detectors will be used for contactless scanning of a passenger. “A physical check will be carried out only if the machine detects anything suspicious,” said a senior CISF officer at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA). CISF will initially go with masks and gloves, and face shields if needed, though personal protective equipment kits are also available with the force, the officer said. “Each person will complete an eight-hour shift, which is equivalent to the life of these protective items. But they will require to sanitise the items in between,” he added. Some personnel will also be deployed to ensure that people maintain social distancing in queues. Unlike earlier, bags will have to be sent for a UV screening even before a flyer enters the terminal. “No crowding will be allowed. People will have to maintain a gap and we will keep our distance from them to reduce any risk. Visual indicators are also present to avoid confusion for passengers,” said a CISF official. Among 39 Delhi cases, seven are from IGIA and 26 from the metro network. Six more CISF personnel have been tested positive at the CGBS facility in Mahipalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opening-day-glass-partitions-masks-at-igi/articleshow/75956547.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 25, 2020||Vadodara||Ticket refund at six stations from Monday||VADODARA: Western Railway (WR) has decided to start refund of fare to passenger reservation system (PRS) ticket holders from Monday onwards. One counter at each of the six railway stations falling under Vadodara railway division will be designated for facilitating refunds. These railway stations include Vadodara, Anand, Nadiad, Bharuch, Ankleshwar and Godhra. Regular train services have been cancelled till June 30 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The counters will be operated in two shifts on all regular days and one shift on Sunday. “A total of 125 tokens will be given in each shift at each location between 7.30 am and 2 pm on first cum first serve basis. Passengers having original PRS ticket can obtain refund of fare following all necessary precautions including wearing masks and maintaining social distance,” said Khemraj Meena, public relations officer of Vadodara railway division. “Refund can be claimed up to six month from the date of journey printed on the ticket,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ticket-refund-at-six-stations-from-today/articleshow/75953295.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||PI summoned by Joint CP to explain death of cop from Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: In a first, IGP (Joint commissioner of police) Sector-2 has summoned the inspector of a police station to clarify the delay in hospitalization of a head constable, after the cop died of Covid-19 on May 18. Sources said Bharatsinh Thakore had tested Covid-19 positive on May 16 but was admitted to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital on the next day, on May 17. He breathed his last on May 18. Police sources said when a policeman stands on the road to implement lockdown and is in direct threat of contracting Covid-19, it is the duty of seniors to look after his well-being and periodically ask him about health. In this case, Thakore was on duty as police station officer (PSO) of Krishnanagar police station till May 14. “He complained of deteriorating health on May 14 and was sent to Naroda urban health centre. He tested positive on May 16 and was admitted to Gandhinagar Civil hospital on May 17. Had he been admitted on May 16, when he’d tested positive, his life could have been saved,” said a police official on condition of anonymity. Sources said that after testing positive, Thakore had wanted to stay in home quarantine, but was rushed to hospital on May 17 when his condition worsened drastically. Joint commissioner of police, Sector-2, Nipuna Torwane, told TOI that she has asked inspector J K Rathod of Krishnanagar police station to clarify in writing why there was delay in hospitalizing Thakore. “Senior officers are always responsible for the well-being of subordinates. I have asked him to give the reasons for the delay,” said Torwane. She added that inspector Rathod had been first summoned on May 24, but as another policeman of the same police station, ASI Girish Barot died on Sunday morning from Covid-19, Rathod has been summoned to appear on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pi-summoned-by-jt-cp-to-explain-death-of-cop-from-covid/articleshow/75955525.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Govt to recognize work of policemen on frontline||Aurangabad: As a token of recognition for the work being done by the policemen on frontline and to boost morale of the force, the state home department is considering to reward them with medals. Authorities said that it is a rare feat for the state to come up with special medals to recognize policemen’s contribution during a pandemic. Home department is considering giving two different medals depending on the role played by each policeman during the frontline duties. State home minister Anil Deshmukh through deputy secretary (home) has sent a communication to the state director general of police chief Subodhkumar Jaiswal asking him to put forth a proposal in this regard. Authorities in the home department said that state home minister on Wednesday recorded remarks in this regard, following which deputy secretary Kailash Gaikwad on Friday shot an internal communication to the state police chief. The letter, a copy of which is with the TOI, reads, “Since March 2020, policemen from across the state are ceaselessly fighting the situation resulting from Covid-19 pandemic and ensuring peace, harmony in the society, and are keeping a check on law and order situation.” Appreciating the role played by middle and lower rung cops in handling the current situation, the communication states that policemen are risking their health and lives while some of them even lost their lives to Covid-19 after they got infected with the contagion while performing their duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-to-recognize-work-of-policemen-on-frontline/articleshow/75942198.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Police rescue kidnapped 4-year-old boy||HYDERABAD: South Zone police rescued a four-year-old boy on Sunday, who was kidnapped near a clinic at Falaknuma on Friday. A 45-year-old woman was booked by the police for kidnapping the boy. The complainant, Rafiya Sulthana of Farooqnagar, went to Gareeb Nawaz Hospital for a check-up along with her husband and three children on Friday. A little while later they realised that their second son Shaik Abdul Wahab (4) had gone missing. The family then lodged a missing complaint with the police. After investigating the case the police arrested Samreen Ali, a beggar from Dhoodbowli and rescued the boy. According to police, Samreen kidnapped the boy as she wanted to give him to her eldest daughter, who is not having children. On Friday, she noticed Wahab playing near the hospital. She lured the boy to play and kidnapped him. Acting on credible information, police raided her place and rescued the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-rescue-kidnapped-4-yr-old-boy/articleshow/75955527.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Distancing measures in place at airport, difficult on planes||Nagpur: Amid uncertainty till the last moment, Nagpur airport is ready to shift to hands-free mode from Monday, when domestic flights are set to begin. Touching will be avoided from the point where CISF personnel check tickets at the entrance till the security clearance area. Passengers will not be allowed to reach the airport more than 4 hours before the flight, though checking will start as usual 2 hours before flight departure. However, even if strict protocol is maintained at the airports, sources in some airlines said distancing will only depend on the load on the flight on a given day. “If the bookings are more, three passengers will be seated in a row, as usual. If not, then be enough spacing will be ensured,” said an official of a private carrier at Nagpur airport. Those arriving at Nagpur will have to be quarantined for 14 days if they are expected to stay for a longer duration, said sources. There will be no quarantine for those who can prove that they are on a short visit, said a state government official. The move to open flights has drawn flak from various quarters. State home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted — it’s extremely ill-advised to reopen airports in red zone. As part of new Covid protocol, departing passengers will now have to begin lining up from a little further, near the parking area. Foot marks have been pasted on the ground at a distance of five feet. The spacing will have to be maintained in the queue, said airport director Abid Ruhi. The entire area was sanitized on Sunday. Ruhi said the luggage will go through a sanitization channel placed near the gates. CISF personnel will check tickets and ID proof from across a transparent acrylic sheet. Before that, passengers will have to undergo thermal scanning themselves. “There will be no physical check-in and the boarding pass will have to be obtained online. Those not conversant with it will be helped out by airline staff. The passenger may have to either fill up the details on their phone or it may be done at the computers at the airline counters,” he said. Baggage will not be physically tagged by the airline staffers. Once left at the scanning belt, the luggage will straightaway go to the plane. Passengers will have to stick details like the flight and PNR number on the luggage, he said. The protocol for security check too has been changed. Flyers will have to put every belonging like specs, belt and shoes in a basket and pass through the metal detector. If it beeps then another round of checking will be done by hand-held detector, to which an extended rod will be attached, said Ruhi. Even arriving passengers will go through thermal scanning. Airport taxi services will be available and food outlets will be open too, said Ruhi. Four flights from today Nagpur airport director Abid Ruhi said four flights will operate from the city airport on Monday. The first will be Air India’s plane landing here from New Delhi at 8.10am. This will be followed by Indigo flights landing from Bangalore at 9.50am, at 10.40am from Mumbai, and Delhi at 11.45am. The last flight to land will be that of Indigo Airlines from Kolkata at 7.25pm. The flights will take off for the same destination after a halt of one or one-and-a-half hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/distancing-measures-in-place-at-airport-difficult-on-planes/articleshow/75956562.cms||Shishir Arya
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Police begin to return vehicles seized during lockdown||Nashik: City police have started the process of returning vehicles seized from errant motorists for violating the lockdown. Over 2,100 vehicles were confiscated by police with an aim to ensure that other motorists will take a cue from it and not drive around their vehicles without any valid reason. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil said, “Instructions have been given to all in-charge inspectors of the city police stations to return the seized vehicles. They have also taken up the process of returning the vehicles.” A senior police officer said people whose vehicles were seized can approach their respective police stations to get their vehicles back. Police inspector Kumar Chaudhary said, “We have so far given back 48 vehicles. The cases, however, would continue in the court. We have also retained certain documents of the vehicles from the motorists. Under section 102 of the CrPC, the concerned motorists will have to sign a bond undertaking to produce the vehicle before the court as and when required.” After lockdown was imposed across the country many motorists continued to unnecessarily move around the city. Subsequently, personnel of all the police stations started taking action against had cracked down on motorists and started seizing their vehicles. The police have set up a corona helpdesk for those who want to move around the city for medical emergencies. After making online applications and by attaching necessary documents to support their claim, police are issuing the online pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-begin-to-return-vehicles-seized-during-lockdown/articleshow/75952410.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 25, 2020||Rajkot||Groups clash over a bidi in Kutch, one dies||Rajkot: A man was stabbed to death in a clash that erupted between two groups over an issue such trivial as asking for a bidi in Gandhidham of Kutch district on Saturday night. Police said the deceased, Raju Rathod (26), was killed allegedly by Ramesh Gheda, Nikhil Vigora, Vishal Vigora, Jigar Matang and Naresh Seench. On the fateful night, Gheda and Nikhil asked Raju’s elder brother Kamlesh (28) for a bidi. When Kamlesh said he did not have any, Gheda asked Nikhil to frisk Kamlesh. This triggered off an altercation between them, after which Kamlesh left for home. “Later Gheda and co-accused launched an attack on Kamlesh’s house. They first pelted stones at the house. When Raju came out of the house, he was stabbed. Kamlesh, his father Mahesh and other family members were injured in stone pelting,” said K P Sagathia, inspector with Gandhidham A division police station. Kamlesh alleged before the media that his brother had been attacked in the presence of cops. Raju was rushed to a private hospital in Gandhidham where he succumbed to his injuries. His family members initially refused to claim his body, demanding the immediate arrest. Meanwhile, a cross complaint has been lodged by a friend of the accused in which Sunil Barot accused Kamlesh, Jitu and Deepak of attacking him with iron pipes and bats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/groups-clash-over-a-bidi-in-kutch-one-dies/articleshow/75954414.cms||---
May 25, 2020||India||LS Speaker seeks review of House panel system introduced in 1993||NEW DELHI: For the first time since they were introduced in 1993, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has asked for a comprehensive review of the committee system that examines Budget proposals and important government policies and sought an opinion whether there was a need for changes in the manner in which the panels operate.  The decision is important as the introduction of 17 department-related standing committees during the tenure of Congress's Shivraj Patil as Speaker was a significant innovation that increased parliamentary scrutiny and gave MPs a larger role in examining legislation and important decisions of the day. The committee system, however, has been affected by delays in preparing reports and worrying incidence of absenteeism, noted by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu in December.  "It was decided that constitution of all committees from historical perspective would be reviewed and examined if the overall system of committees of the Lok Sabha needs changes," a note prepared in the deliberations held by Birla said. The Speaker asked officials to examine the resolutions through which joint committees were constituted. He has also asked for a record of MPs who have accessed the library physically and digitally, noting the facility is a significant resource.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ls-speaker-seeks-review-of-house-panel-system-introduced-in-1993/articleshow/75959257.cms||Akhilesh Singh
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Accused in death of 85-year-old among those denied bail||NEW DELHI: Hundreds of bail pleas related to February’s northeast Delhi riots were taken up recently by city courts. One such case was related to 85-year-old Akbari Begum who had died of suffocation after a mob torched her house. The accused was denied bail. As it was a riot case, the corona decongestion guidelines of the high court was not applicable here and the accused, booked on serious charges, didn’t get bail. An analysis of 47 such orders shows that 28 bail applications were allowed while 19 were dismissed on serious grounds, including rioting, murder, possibility of influencing witnesses and loss of property. Akbari got trapped on an upper floor of her burning house and couldn’t be rescued by her family. Prakash Chand, however, claimed that he shared a “very good relation” with Akbari’s son and police had framed him instead of arresting the real culprits. His counsel, Chandan Mishra, also referred to the illness of Chand’s wife as a ground for seeking bail. The investigating officer and advocate Mehmood Pracha, the counsel of Akbari’s son, opposed the plea. A status report on the medical condition of Chand’s wife ruled out any serious ailment. Pracha also alleged that a proper investigation wasn’t carried out and senior police officers had been informed about it. The court said, “As the matter pertains to riots, as such the latest guidelines are not applicable to the present case. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, gravity of the offence, I am of the view that the applicant is not entitled to bail.” Pleas have mostly been granted on unlikelihood of an early trial or police’s inability to collect electronic evidence. Mohd Anwar, according to police, was “actively involved in rioting and burning a number of shops and instigating others”. But the court gave him bail considering the period of custody, non-requirement of custodial interrogation and the fact that he hadn’t been “convicted” earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/accused-in-death-of-85-yr-old-among-those-denied-bail/articleshow/75956612.cms||Aamir Khan
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: SOP issued for treatment of cops||AHMEDABAD: Even as Ahmedabad is turning out to an epicentre of Covid-19 pandemic with most number of cases and deaths in the state, DCP (control), Vijay Patel, under the instructions of police commissioner Ashish Bhatia has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for testing and treatment of policemen deployed for implementation of the lockdown. According to the SOP, if any Covid-19 symptoms such as dry cough, cold, high temperature and difficulty in breathing is seen in any of the policemen or police officer on duty, or any cop comes in close contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, an urgent report should be sent through WhatsApp to head constable Mahesh Amin’s mobile no. 9913881900 and deputy commissioner of police, control room’s mobile no. 99784 05093. The SOP mentions that after getting permission, the person should be sent to AMC’s command and control centre for Covid-19 near Tagore Hall at the NID Crossroads between 12 noon to 4pm. The result of the test will be sent to the respective officer by the AMC. The SOP mentions that when found Covid-19 positive, the cops should be admitted to the SVP Hospital immediately or should be home quarantined or kept in hotel isolation in the respective jurisdiction. The positive report should be sent to the police commissioner’s office in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sop-issued-for-treatment-of-cops/articleshow/75955531.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Heat wave may keep city on the simmer this week||Lucknow: The city recorded hottest day of the season so far on Sunday as mercury soared to 43 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. Brace for hotter days as the weather department has issued warning of a heat wave, with temperatures expected to increase further till the weekend before a thunderstorm may bring some relief. The soaring temperatures, along with high relative humidity 26%-78%, made conditions highly uncomfortable for people during the day. Night too had no relief with minimum temperature recorded at 28.5 degrees Celsius, 3.3 units above normal. Sultry conditions prevailed all day, making it difficult for people to venture out for Eid purchase. Sate Met director JP Gupta said that dry hot winds from Rajasthan are expected to lash Uttar Pradesh unabated for the next few days, resulting in gradual rise in temperatures. Heat wave may also take some parts of the state, including Lucknow in its grip, he warned. On Monday, sky would be clear, with maximum and minimum temperatures expected to be around 44 and 28 degrees Celsius. Similar conditions are expected to prevail till Friday. Excessive heat and change in the wind pattern may lead to thunderstorm on the weekend. The summers in the city were pleasant in the month of April and first two weeks of May. But mercury touched 40 degrees Celsius-mark on May 16 and has been rising gradually since then. When is heat wave declared A heat wave is declared in the plains when maximum temperature is four to five degrees above normal in summers or 45 degrees and above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/heat-wave-may-keep-city-on-the-simmer-this-week/articleshow/75956599.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: It’s Eid, but celebrations muted, hugs missing as coronavirus looms||HYDERABAD: EId-ul-Fitr 2020 will go down in history as a ‘no contact’ festival where the traditional hugs, embraces and handshakes are a strict no. Traditionally, no Eid or Muslim gathering is complete without shaking hands and hugging each other thrice and placing the right hand on heart. With social distancing being the norm to fight Covid-19, EId-ul-Fitr celebrations will now be limited to ‘distant greeting’ or a virtual ‘Eid Mubarak’. While there will be no public Eid prayers on Monday in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh due to lockdown, or Eid Milap functions in the week that follows, the spiritual charm and the spirit of charity will, however, remain the hallmark of the celebrations. Eid-ul-Fitr in Hyderabad and other parts of Telugu states this time is different from that of earlier years on more than one count. Idgahs and mosques are closed. The fasting month of Ramzan that preceded the Id did not witness any Iftar party. There were no community dinners and mass poor-feeding programmes. The Ramzan favourite dishes such as haleem, dahi bade, cooked chana dal and juicy Hyderabadi kababs were conspicuous by their absence. The traditional Sehriwala, who would go around streets beating duff and singing hymns to wake up Muslims for the Sehar or pre-dawn meal to begin the fast, was conspicuous by his absence due to the night curfew. He was taken over by a new breed of Muslims creating awareness about the importance of following the lockdown norms and avoiding crowded shopping, said Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan. Taking a cue from the advisory for safe Ramzan practices issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Muslim religious leaders in Hyderabad cutting across sectarian differences, have called on the community members to follow a strictly ‘no contact’ Eid this year. They have urged Muslims to greet each other from a distance. “Eid is not just a spiritual celebration. It is also beyond charity and alms-giving. In Hyderabad Eid-ul-Fitr and Ramzan have always been an occasion to bring people of all communities together. It’s all about nearness, get-togethers, embraces and sharing of love and affection. It’s all about human contact. But this Eid social distancing has snatched away the Hyderabadi Tehzeeb customarily linked to Ramzan for four centuries,” said Fazil Hussain Parvez, expert on Hyderabadi culture. Also, this Eid, everything temporal associated with celebrations, is missing. Apart from no shopping for new clothes and accessories, traditional seviyan (vermicelli) stalls on the roadside were not seen this time. The Lad Bazaar, near Charminar famous for its lac bangles and fashion accessories, that has remained the symbol of womanhood and wedlock (Suhag) for Hyderabadis for four centuries, remained closed for most part of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-eid-but-celebrations-muted-hugs-missing-as-corona-looms/articleshow/75956618.cms||Syed Akbar
May 25, 2020||Pune||17 flights from Pune today as domestic services resume||PUNE: Seventeen flights have been scheduled for departure on Day 1 of the resumption of air services from the city’s Lohegaon airport from Monday. Altogether 34 fight movements, including 17 aircraft reaching the city, have been cleared for the airport. The airport director released a schedule to this effect following a meeting between the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the state government officials in Mumbai on operation of flights from airports in Maharashtra. Seven of the 17 flights are to operate daily. Of the remaining 10, some flights will operate six days a week and some five days a week. The first flight will take off at 6.55am and the last at 11.40pm. “The flight schedule may change on Tuesday. We have made arrangements for public transport of passengers during the 7pm-to-7am night curfew hours, in coordination with the district administration. The district administration will be able to comment on the arrangement in a better way,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “The police have been told to consider e-boarding passes as the pass for the air ticket holders to reach the airport during the curfew hours. People can use their e-boarding pass reaching airport for an early morning or late evening flight. We have to allow such vehicles. Otherwise, it will be difficult to issue e-pass (issued by the police) for every such private vehicle. The e-boarding pass will act as the e-pass.” The passengers can also call the ‘Dial an Auto’ service, jointly run by the city police and a private agency, and book auto-rickshaws to and from the airport (see graphic). The Pune airport authorities tweeted, “In compliance with the state government’s guildelines, no app-based cab aggregators are available at Pune. The passengers have to travel t and from the airport either in their vehicles or they can make use of dial a rickshaw facility on mobile number 9859198591 (WhatsApp).” A travel agency representative told TOI, “The most number of bookings have been on the flights from Pune to Delhi. But a figure cannot be given at present. We too have been cautious all day towards booking tickets and were not forcing passengers to book due to the uncertainty which prevailed all day. However, many people are desperate to travel as they are stuck and have gone ahead and booked tickets.” Wakad resident Prabhupada Satapathy, who wants to travel to Odisha, said, “I am constantly checking my flight ticket scheduled for Monday. My flight to Delhi was in the late evening hours but now has been rescheduled for the morning. I am still worried about public transport.” Among the flights cleared for Monday, SG 275 from Pune to Kolkata might not be operational as West Bengal will open flight movements from March 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/17-flights-from-pune-today-as-domestic-services-resume/articleshow/75956575.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Curbs dampen glimmer, online Eid namaz today||LUCKNOW: The 'Chand Raat' (night before Eid) was bereft of any festivity as all roads led to the closed Chowk and Nakkhas markets. Aminabad, too, wore a deserted look with nobody thronging any food joint or doing shopping for Eid clothes this year. In normal times same markets would not have even an inch of space to move around. Eid, which falls on Monday, will be coloured in a different hue this year-- no embraces, no congregational namaz and no visits by close friends and relatives. For the first time, Muslims will not be offering 'namaz' behind 'imams' at mosques. As all mosques continue to remain closed, clerics have come up with a virtual approach for people's participation in Eid prayers. However, some clerics have observed that it cannot be termed an Eid namaz in the absence of conditions required for its fulfillment. Imam-e-Juma of Asafi mosque, Maulana Kalbe Jawad Naqvi said he would offer 'namaz' with few men at his home which would be telecast live on social media at 11am. “Eid 'namaz' is a lengthy process with long Quranic verses. A congregational prayer cannot take place without physical presence,” he said. Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahli said, “Four men will be led by me for Eid namaz at the Eidgah. For others at home, if four men are present, they can offer 'namaz'. Khutba, speech and dua will be live telecast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/curbs-dampen-glimmer-online-eid-namaz-today/articleshow/75956671.cms||Yusra Husain
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 may usher in ‘non-surgical’ post mortems||Nagpur: Covid-19 seems to be re-defining post mortem techniques too. Latest guidelines from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) indicate that minimum, partial or no dissection or non-surgery techniques may be the future of the forensic jurisprudence in the country. The measures are being explored to save the forensic experts and mortuary staffers from getting infected from dead bodies. In city, police have already issued instructions to waive post-mortems for natural deaths, whether at hospitals or homes, if there are no allegations or grounds for suspicion following a representation from forensic experts of city’s two government hospitals against the backdrop of Covid-19 outbreak. City police have also waived requirement of post mortems for unclaimed or unidentified bodies if there are no apparent injuries or suspected foul play unlike in the past when the medico-legal process was completed as per forensic rule book and Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) for such cases too. It is learnt that post mortems of the bodies with visible indications, like suicide by hanging, drowning, poisoning and so on are also being avoided following a mutual decision of the police personnel and medical officers certifying the cause of death. According to a source, the forensic experts are now awaiting orders from the director of health or home department based on the latest ICMR guidelines. “The guidelines stress on the minimum dissection in case of apparently visible injuries. The dissection is to be done at the affected part only and not the whole body as in the past for citing the cause of death. Though there is nothing called ‘partial dissection’ in forensic jurisprudence, Covid-19 seems to be redefining the concept now,” he said. A forensic expert said ICMR guidelines also indicated dissections should be avoided unless there is a need as per the complications of the case. “It is also suggested that the cause of the death can be furnished on the basis of the MRI and CT scan report along with inclusions of the medical history and details gathered from interviewing the relatives. This is because the body fluid of the deceased may also be a Covid-19 risk. A positive patient not being detected through tests is also not uncommon,” he said. The senior forensic expert also informed about two most advanced practices of the furnishing the cause of death are virtopsy and verbal autopsy which should be practised now in India too. “Virtopsy or virtual autopsy means giving post mortem reports or cause of deaths on the basis of MRI and CT scan along with the other medical history and police reports. Verbal autopsy means furnishing the cause of death on the basis of the family history, illness details, doctor and police report even without touching the body,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-may-usher-in-non-surgical-post-mortems/articleshow/75955539.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||In city, only 30% students have access to smartphone||Nagpur: At a time when there is talk of increased use of technology for online classes, some schools say we must not ignore the ground reality of many poor students who have no access to smartphones. Senior academicians from vernacular schools say that based on an internal survey, they found that just 30% of their students have smartphones. Ravindra Fadnavis, general secretary of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM) interacted with state education minister Varsha Gaikwad in a webinar held on Saturday where online teaching was being discussed. Fadnavis said, “We found out that in Nagpur, only 30% students have access to a smartphone, so how will the remaining 70% study? Another issue is online teaching. Who will monitor the progress of students? Many children in vernacular schools have working parents who are gone for long hours. If the child is alone at home, then who will check that studies have been done properly or not.” Fadnavis has decided to write to the education department citing the ground level challenges. “This week itself we will put our concerns in writing to the minister. The policies that they make must be aligned with what’s happening at the school level,” said Fadnavis. Zafar Khan, president of Urdu Schools Headmasters’ Association plus School Headmasters’ Charitable Association (SHCA), said the situation on the ground is always different. “Online teaching for vernacular schools is not possible as most of these students don’t have a smartphone. We are always thinking of students from big cities. But as more than 70% of our population lives in villages, the implementation will not be so easy,” said Khan. He added that in cities, this online mode could be promoted ‘because of the lockdown being in effect’. “Our traditional pattern of classroom teaching is the best format in the long term,” added Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-city-only-30-students-have-access-to-smartphone/articleshow/75956642.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Brawl over youth trying to escape mandatory medical screening leaves 3 injured||Muzaffarnagar: A migrant, who returned from Tamil Nadu and was quarantined at a primary school in Muzaffarnagar, escaped and sneaked into his village. When a family member confronted and told him to get himself medically examined, a clash broke out between two groups leaving three injured. The incident happened in Meerapur area’s Balipur village.On Friday, a group of eight migrants from Tamil Nadu reached the village and was told to stay at the school. The next morning, they were taken to local community health centre (CHC) for medical check-up. But, one of them fled and reached his home in the village.Back home, a family member asked the migrant to go back to CHC and get himself tested but he refused leading to the brawl. People from both the sides attacked each other with sticks. Three men were injured and taken to hospital.Later, a police team was rushed to the spot and the migrant was taken to CHC for medical check-up.According to the station house officer of Meerapur police station, HN Singh, “Both groups belong to one family. No complaint was filed into the matter and they made a compromise outside of the police station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/brawl-over-youth-trying-to-escape-mandatory-medical-screening-leaves-3-injured/articleshow/75950784.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 25, 2020||Mysuru||Third Covid-19 case reported in Kodagu||Madikeri: Kodagu district recorded its third Covid-19 case on Sunday. The patient is a 26-year-old who returned here from Mumbai, and hails from Hebbale. Three others who travelled with the youth have tested negative, but have been kept in the isolation ward as a precautionary measure. This is Kodagu’s second case is a week, after it had graduated to a green zone. The patient designated P-2003 returned to the district from Mumbai via Sampaje Gate on Wednesday. He was directly shifted to the designated Covid hospital in Madikeri. P-2003 is a bank employee in Mumbai, and he left the city on May 19 from Panvel Railway Station at 11 pm. He boarded the special train from Delhi to Trivandrum, and got off at Mangaluru Railway Station at 5pm on Wednesday. He booked a private taxi and travelled towards Kodagu with three other passengers. He reached Sampaje check-post at 9.15 pm on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/third-covid-19-case-reported-in-kodagu/articleshow/75954381.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Inquiry finds cops selling liquor at police station||AHMEDABAD: Two days after empty liquor bottles were found from a canal near Kadi police station in Mehsana district, an inquiry conducted by the Gandhinagar SP Mayur Chavda confirmed that the liquor was sold off and personally used by the cops. A complaint under prohibition act has been registered against the cops on Saturday. Gandhinagar range IG Mayanksinh Chavda ordered an inquiry headed by Gandhinagar SP. After conducting the probe SP found culpability of nine cops including Kadi PI OM Desai, two police sub-inspectors, four constables, one home guard and one Gujarat Rakshak Dal Jawan. Now the investigation of the case will be conducted by Deputy SP MJ Solanki about the quantity which was sold and who was benifiting from the illegal liquor sale from the Kadi police station. Sources in police said, “Kadi police inspector along with other cops sold liquor during lockdown which they had seized from last three years in different cases of prohibition. They might have consumed the liquor and when they knew that they might be exposed, they dumped the liquor bottles in a canal.” Police will also probe the angle of destruction of evidence in various cases of prohibition. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been deployed to fish out liquor bottles and as of now they have recovered around 150 empty bottles. Meanwhile, the accused PI is on run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inquiry-finds-cops-selling-liquor-at-police-station/articleshow/75955533.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||Welfare officers at each police station||PUNE: All unwell policemen and officers will get timely help and proper treatment in this Covid-19 situation. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham has appointed a ‘welfare officer’ at each police station. Along with help to the unwell policemen, these welfare officers have also been assigned the task of checking whether their colleagues on the field are taking precautionary measures like wearing masks, gloves and are taking vitamin tablets. Assistant commissioner of police Satish Govekar has been appointed as the nodal officer. About 22 police personnel from the Pune police have tested positive for the contagion. Two police constables have died due to Covid-19, so far. Moreover, some coronavirus positive policemen undergoing treatment had expressed their concern about the arrangements in some hospitals. Govekar told TOI that these welfare officers will contact the police personnel currently on sick leave. “They will talk to them about their health, the hospital where they are being treated and whether they face any difficulties,” he added. If they have been infected, the welfare officers will talk to them and with the hospital authorities where they are being treated and ensure they get proper treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/welfare-officers-at-each-police-station/articleshow/75956627.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Tertiary cases send officials on a wild goose chase in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Of 1,854 Covid-19 positive cases recorded in Telangana till Sunday, 15 were of tertiary contacts, indicating the extent of the infection spread. Tertiary contact cases started getting reported for the past few days, making things difficult for health officials to do contact tracing. Tertiary contact cases are those, who have two levels of people (secondary and primary) getting infected before them. In Moosapet area, a doctor had tested positive. He did not go to hospital after the lockdown kicked in and neither had travel history. The officials are unable to find his index patient (source of infection). In another case detected in Alwal, a person contracted Covid-19. During contact tracing, it was found that he had contracted the virus from his driver. As the driver was staying at a hostel, the officials had to further investigate to trace from whom the virus was spreading and how he got the infection. This contact chain is now increasing, sending officials in a tizzy. Another concern for the officials is reluctance on the part of Covid-19 positive people to reveal information of their primary and secondary contacts.  “There is still stigma around Covid-19. Patients and their contacts get bombarded with at least 50 calls from police, GHMC, health and district authorities, which makes them anxious. So, many are not revealing details, which makes contact tracing difficult,” a top official, who is closely associated with contact tracing, told TOI. The officials also said people were not divulging information if they had participated in a discreet celebration or a group gathering. “It is taking a lot of time for us to make them confess,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tertiary-cases-send-officials-on-a-wild-goose-chase-in-t/articleshow/75955552.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Sunday markets open again, cops keep crowds in check||Vijayawada: After a hiatus of four weeks, Sunday markets in Vijayawada reopened under the supervision of the city police and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) authorities. Stalls selling chicken, fish, prawns, and other non-vegetarian food received enthusiastic response from the buyers despite coronavirus fear. It was hence of little surprise that buyers were seen flouting social distancing. Fish stalls at BRTS Road were chock-a-block with buyers and police had to step in to manage the crowd. The rush of buyers were also witnessed at a few markets. Officials urged Muslims to celebrate the festival at their homes and refrain from holding gatherings. Special teams from VMC have been conducting random inspections at vegetable markets and city roads to impose fines on those seen without masks. Krishna district administration, which had imposed a ban on the sale of meat and other non-vegetarian food for the last four Sundays, has relaxed the rules. The decision was made after Covid-19 cases dipped in the city. The VMC has given permission to slaughterhouses situated at Vidhyadharapuram in view of Eid. Meanwhile, new Covid-19 cases continued to be reported on Sunday. Eleven new cases were registered in the district as per the official sources. Authorities who removed Machavaram from the list of containment zones issued a high alert at Gunadala after a new Covid-19 case was reported there on Saturday evening. A truck driver who returned from Kolkata tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sunday-markets-open-again-cops-keep-crowds-in-check/articleshow/75954525.cms||Venu Lanka
May 25, 2020||Pune||Puneites go online to connect with loved ones as Eid festivities begin||PUNE: Thousands of members from the Muslim community in the city spent the weekend cleaning their homes and cooking sumptuous food in preparation for Eid-ul-Fitr, which is the end of the holy month of Ramzan. Several of them said they were preparing for intimate celebrations at home on Monday, while virtually connecting with near and dear ones to exchange greetings. “This will be a unique Eid for us, which will begin with ‘kutbah’ (prayers) at home with family. We are going to have a virtual family get-together to exchange wishes,” Nafisa Lokhandwala, a resident of Raviwar Peth, said. “After taking ‘ghusl’ (bath), we will prepare ‘sheer kurma’. We are going to offer prayers at home and then distribute money to people in need,”Durfishan Shaikh, a resident of Pune Camp, said. A Kharadi resident Mehzabin Saiyed said sharing was the essence of Ramzan. “We spent the weekend reaching out to people in need with rations and trying to facilitate the return of people to their homes,”she said. Another Kharadi resident Sohel Saiyed said Eid namaz and the other grand celebrations had been cancelled. “We have contributed to local food banks at the mosque to feed the people in need,”he said. Mohammad Tauseef Qasmi, the Imam of Jama Masjid in Begnagar in Kharadi, has appealed to the community to offer prayers and celebrate the festival at home. “After spending the entire Ramzan month offering prayers at home, people must also offer Eid-ul-Fitr prayers at home. I appeal to members of the Muslim community to spend the money, which would otherwise be used for new clothes and others, for helping the people in need,” he said. A Bhavani Peth resident Zeba Sayed said, “Eid is usually incomplete without ‘Eidi’, so we have requested the elders to digitally transfer it to us.” Vegan EidMillion Dollar Vegan India has organized a vegan Eid for 2,000 persons in need in Kondhwa. The organization, in association with an NGO that has set up a community kitchen, will provide meals that will include vegan biryani, sweet sevaiya, vegan mock meat and soya dahi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-go-online-to-connect-with-loved-ones-as-eid-festivities-begin/articleshow/75956695.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: E-pass, home quarantine must for inbound flyers||CHENNAI: Domestic passengers who land at Chennai airport should have an e-pass issued by the Tamil Nadu government and will have to undergo 14 days home quarantine. A SOP (standard operating procedure) released by the state government on handling of domestic passengers said all inbound passengers shall undergo thermal screening for any symptoms of Covid-19 and not swab tests. “Asymptomatic people shall undergo home quarantine for 14 days. Passengers who do not have a home in Tamil Nadu and register for paid institutional quarantine (hotel) shall be sent for quarantine to designated hotels. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district call centre (1077) or report to the nearest government hospital or inform district nodal officer.” It is mandatory for all the domestic air passengers flying into Tamil Nadu to register their details online and obtain a TN e-pass through the e-pass portal. After booking the flight ticket, the passenger shall register his/ her details on https://tnepass.tnerga.org, duly selecting the airport of arrival in TN. It can be picked up from Chennai airport after arrival for the first few days. All the passengers will be stamped with ‘quarantine’ seal with date with indelible ink before they leave the airport. All domestic departure travellers shall undergo thermal screening as stipulated by the ministry of civil aviation and only those without symptoms will be allowed to fly. For the passengers leaving Tamil Nadu, the boarding pass will be used as an authorised document for movement from their home/place of stay to the airport. The comprehensive guidelines issued by the state health department on May 18 mandated testing of all people coming from other states. This has been waived in Sunday’s guidelines. Only symptomatic passengers will be isolated and subjected to RT-PCR test. Meanwhile, the TN government allowed operation of any number of outgoing flights from the state. “Flights to Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy can be operated. Due to high disease incidence, flights from Gujarat and Maharashtra may be kept at the barest minimum possible,” TN chief secretary Shanmugam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/e-pass-home-quarantine-must-for-inbound-flyers/articleshow/75955535.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 25, 2020||Nashik||City police demand re-starting of traffic signals in city||Nashik: With partial relaxation in lockdown rules in the city and a large number of offices, industries and other commercial establishments starting operations, the rush of vehicles has increased tremendously in the city, leading to traffic jams and accidents. Taking this into account, the city police have decided to write a letter to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) asking them to re-start traffic signals. The signals were put off after the lockdown was announced around two months back given that the flow of vehicles was almost negligible then. However, after partial relaxation in lockdown rules, the rush of vehicles in the city increased tremendously, leading to fatal accidents, traffic officials said. Senior officials at the police commissionerate said that apart from fatal accidents, many petty accidents go unreported. If the signals are put into operation, the vehicular traffic would be streamlined. The signals will ensure that there are no traffic jams in the city — not only at major junctions but also on important crossings in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-police-demand-re-starting-of-traffic-signals-in-city/articleshow/75952470.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cops reunite kids with kin ahead of Eid||NEW DELHI: Faizan (13) had come to Delhi a year ago and was residing and studying at a madrasa in East of Kailash area. He was all set to go to his hometown in Bihar around Ramzan, but the country went into the coronavirus-induced lockdown and he got stuck here. A pall of gloom descended at Masjid Madrasa Talimul Quran when a group of around 30 students from economically weaker families in Bihar realised it was almost impossible for them to reach home for Eid. Seeing children in tears and having lost all hopes, a teacher at the madrasa then approached the cops at the Amar Colony police station as the last resort. They turned out to be extremely helpful. Not only did the Station House Officer listen to him patiently, but promised all help too. And thanks to their efforts, the students will now be able to celebrate Eid with their families. “We contacted the local administration to arrange for permissions for their journey back home. A letter was drafted and rushed to the ADM, South-east Delhi. On priority, a bus was arranged and the kids were sent to Katihar in Bihar on Saturday,” said a cop who was coordinating the arrangements. The icing on the cake was the cops presenting a special hamper comprising food items, iftaar material, clothes, towels, slippers, first-aid kit and emergency medicines to each student while bidding them an emotional farewell. "It was a moment of happiness for all of us. One child hugged us saying it was the best thing that had ever happened to him. The others also thanked us and said goodbye with smiles on their faces," said the cop. “It was the combined efforts made by our Amar Colony staff, an advocate Anuradha Dutt, Lady Lawyers group and an NGO karwan-e- Mohabbat which resulted in these children reaching home before Eid,” said R P Meena, DCP (southeast). The children were to reach home by late Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-reunite-kids-with-kin-ahead-of-eid/articleshow/75956716.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Small traders chart new routes to earn a living||PUNE: From providing service at the doorstep to using social media platforms, micro-business entrepreneurs trying to recover from the effects of the prolonged lockdown are leaving no stone unturned to avoid bankruptcy. The recent relaxations in the lockdown have enabled the traders to try out new ideas to make up for lost business. Roadside cobbler Leelavati Chavan (58) and her husband Mahadeo, who operate in the vicinity of Ideal Colony on Paud road, have launched a ‘service at your doorstep’ initiative to woo reluctant customers. The couple has been operating a roadside cobbler unit for the last 35 years. Their son used to work as an electrician and contribute to the family kitty. They lost their daily earnings due to the lockdown and are now dipping deep into their savings. Moreover, they have to make a monthly payment of Rs4,000 to a money lender to pay off a loan. So, as soon as the lockdown was relaxed, the Chavans got back to business. Mahadeo said, “We thought we must reach out to people after we heard about restaurants and grocers taking a similar effort. Now, Leelavati looks after the outlet while I go with my son to various societies looking for people wanting to avail our service. We send messages to the housing societies through security guards. Those who want to repair their footwears send them to us through the guards. At the shop, Leelavati repairs and polishes them and later we make the home-delivery.” Leelavati added that before the lockdown they would earn around Rs300-400, per day. “On the first day, we could earn only Rs70 but now we earn about Rs100-200, per day.” Another micro entrepreneur Ashvini Pathak, who sells dress material, ready-to-wear garments and lingerie, has logged on to social media to move the wares. Pathak circulated messages on WhatsApp groups, hoping to promote her business among friends and acquaintances. In the message she shares over social media, Pathak explains the problems faced by entrepreneurs like herself. She has been collecting orders over WhatsApp and taking up home delivery of the goods with the help of her husband. Pathak said, “Because of Covid-19, the business had come to a standstill over the last two months. We thought that if the customers are unable to come to our shop, we should only reach to the customers with the help of social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/small-traders-chart-new-routes-to-earn-a-living/articleshow/75956656.cms||Shyam Sonar
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||100-year-old quarantine centre to be renovated in Mount Abu||JAIPUR: When the word ‘quarantine’ was heard by the elders in Mount Abu, Rajasthan’s only hill station, it caught their attention. They contacted the district administration, which was looking for a building to quarantine people, and told them that a dilapidated building just outside the town used to be a quarantine centre around a century ago. Officials went to inspect the premises which is now not suitable for habitation. After intense discussion with people and going through the records, it was found to be a government building . Mount Abu administration has now decided to renovate this structure of historical significance as a tourist facilitation centre. This century-old building is situated just a few metres away from the toll gate at the entrance of the town was used as a quarantine centre at the time of British. Arun Shamra, a local historian, explained that Mount Abu used to be a summer destination for British who imposed special restrictions on entry to the town during when tuberculosis outbreak took place. “When tuberculosis cases were multiplying every day, the British constructed a sanatorium, i.e. a health facility, for people suffering from chronic disease. It was situated on the foothills of Mount Abu and before letting anyone in the hill town, people were medically examined and sent there. If a person was found suffering from the disease in Mount Abu town, then that person was immediately transferred to this quarantine facility,” said Sharma. This facility was situated outside the town at a secluded spot to keep infected people away from the population. After Independence, the sanatorium was converted into police station but when police station was shifted to a new building, it slowly ceased to exist. The quarantine building, however, is still standing and the administration has prepared a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for its renovation. Sub-divisional magistrate of Mount Abu said, “The building cannot to be used as a quarantine centre and we already have better quarantine facilities in the town. We have prepared a plan to start construction early as in monsoon it gets difficult. So, either we will complete it by June 15 or after Diwali. In its current condition, only 20 people can be accommodated there but as per our plan we are trying to build it for 100 – 150 people. Its cost may vary from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. We will not amend the original structure and will keep it intact.” Around 350 people returned to Mount Abu after April 27 out of which four people were in institutional quarantine and others were home quarantined. There have been no positive cases in the town as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/100-year-old-quarantine-centre-to-be-renovated-in-mount-abu/articleshow/75956684.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
May 25, 2020||Bareilly||Six months pregnant women on way to WB delivers twins on bus in UP, both dead||BAREILLY: A six months pregnant woman from West Bengal, who was on her way back home with her husband and 40 other migrant workers in a private bus, delivered twin daughters while the bus was passing through Bareilly district on Sunday morning. Born premature, one of the babies died immediately after birth while the second one died on way to the district hospital. Doctors said that the woman has been quarantined and her swab samples would be sent for Covid-19 tests. The woman used to work at a brick kiln with her husband and had boarded the bus from Hapur on Saturday night. Her husband said that 42 passengers were on board and they had collectively paid Rs 1.2 lakh for their journey as the “government didn’t provide them with any assistance despite requests”. Fatima Bi, 24, and her husband Mithun Miyan, 26, are natives of Cooch Behar district of West Bengal and used to work at a brick kiln in Hapur district. Having lost their jobs during the lockdown, they applied online to return home with the assistance of the government but didn’t get any response. On Saturday night, the labourers stranded in Hapur booked a bus but Mithun and Fatima had to cut short their journey after Fatima’s condition deteriorated. The couple was dropped on National Highway 24 in the Bithri Chainpur area of Bareilly, from where a 108 ambulance took them to the district hospital. Mithun said, “We were happy after boarding the bus. But then, everything changed when my wife delivered a stillborn and another premature baby. We informed the ambulance service and rushed to a hospital in Bareilly. The bus driver, however, refused to wait for us and left for the destination with other passengers. We all had collectively paid Rs 1.2 lakh for the bus.” Dr Varsha Agarwal, who is treating Fatima at the district hospital, said, “The woman had already delivered twins on the bus and both of them had died when she reached here. Her condition is stable but she is upset. She was only six months pregnant. Her samples would be sent for Covid-19 tests as she was travelling from another district and may have been exposed to the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-months-pregnant-women-on-way-to-wb-delivers-twins-on-bus-in-up-both-dead/articleshow/75952472.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||92 shanties of migrant labourers burnt down in Bengaluru slum||BENGALURU: Nearly 250 migrants from Kalaburagi district have been rendered homeless after their shanties in a slum in Kacharakanahalli, near Kammanahalli, were burnt down when they had gone home. They say police later thwarted their efforts to rebuild their homes. The arson is said to have happened in the last week of April. Construction labourers had been living in the slum in Kacharakanahalli for 18 years. The settlement is locally identified as Sunday Bazaar slum as it is located near a Sunday santhe (fair) venue. The slum, where nearly 300 people lived, had 110 makeshift houses, only 18 of which have survived the blaze. According to slum residents, many people from the settlement had left for their villages in Kalaburagi district a few days before the lockdown kicked in as the Covid-19 outbreak had rendered them jobless. On April 25, a group of people arrived at the slum and tried to set it on fire. When those who had stayed back resisted, the miscreants fled. They returned within two days and set several houses on fire. The miscreants took away some vessels from the burnt houses as also tarpaulins that served as the roof. When the migrants who were in Kalaburagi district were informed about the fire, they immediately rushed back. When they tried rebuilding their sheds, they were stopped by policemen from the local KG Halli police station, they alleged. Dileep D, a resident of the slum, said, “Police took away our tarpaulins and said they have received a court order staying any activity on this plot. They said we need to approach the DC. They even threatened us with lathi-charge or arrest if we started rebuilding our homes.” “We are not educated, we don’t know what DC means. We don’t even know where his office is,” Dileep said. Dileep said people residing here have proper voter IDs showing them as residents of the place. They have also been issued identity cards by Karnataka Slum Development Board. Dileep said he and other slum dwellers had approached KG Halli police and apprised them of the arson, but he was not sure if any FIR was registered. Police, however, declined to react to any of the queries from TOI, saying they are investigating the matter. Bheem Shankar, another resident of the slum, said his four children were born here. “I want them to study here, but everything including their books, school bags and uniforms have been reduced to ashes,” he lamented. Durgappa N, a final-year BCom student, who works as a delivery boy for a food app said, “I don’t have my study material for my final exams. That degree is very important to me.” The slum dwellers are currently being given food by an NGO. Most migrants don’t even have an extra pair of clothes with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/92-shanties-of-migrant-labourers-burnt-down-in-city-slum/articleshow/75955380.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Scientists studying Covid ‘mindset’ to defeat virus||HYDERABAD: Joining the world race to understand the ‘mindset’ of Covid-19, which is wreaking havoc on human lives, Indian scientists have unravelled the genetic secrets of the novel coronavirus circulating in the country. They have found that the isolates obtained from Covid-19 patients in India have a high entropy for changes or mutations in two sets of polyproteins (ORF1a and ORF1b) as compared to the novel-coronaviral strains circulating in other parts of the world. Two groups of Indian researchers analysed thousands of genomes of Covid-19 to arrive at an understanding of how the coronavirus strains circulating in India behave in the local scenario. As of now about 30,000 Covid-19 viral genomes are available on the world data platform, Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID). Of these, one Indian research groups analysed as many as 7,629 genomes of Covid-19. The research studies were conducted by scientists drawn from the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG), National Institute of Virology (NIV), the University of Hyderabad (UoH) and Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (HIMSR). The results of the studies will be published in the upcoming issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR), published by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the umbrella body of all medical research institutions in India. The studies revealed that the samples obtained from Indian patients are closely related to those circulating in countries like Spain, China, Kuwait USA, and Canada. As far as the Indian strains are concerned, the scientists found a number of mutations on polyproteins or genes. “These mutations or changes could be a major contributing factor for the separation of Indian isolate into three distinct clusters. Indian isolates have high entropy for changes in ORF1a and ORF1b compared to global isolates,” the studies revealed. However, mutation variant of gene (D614G or spike protein) is common across the world. The Indian studies have also revealed that contrary to the popular idea, the spike protein is not subjected to very strong positive selection pressure (change) during transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scientists-studying-covid-mindset-to-defeat-virus/articleshow/75955497.cms||Syed Akbar
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||‘With labour back in villages, make rural areas viable to stay’||Is the package offered by the Centre merely a chimera? How will production begin with Covid rules in place and shortage of labour? What will be the impact of migrant labour returning to home states? Are the Centre and states on the right track to re-rail the economy? In Corona Conversations, TOI speaks with Shrinivas Khandewale, former teacher of economics and currently director of Ruikar Institute of Labour in Nagpur. Excerpts: What is your opinion of the Rs20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre? The nature of the package is to increase the ease of doing business for large organizations, small industries, trading and other activities. The Centre has given guarantees on behalf of banks. Late payments will be allowed, loans will be extended and no criminal action taken. The liability has been estimated and treated as a package. In fact, it is an arrangement and not a package. The actual handing over of money is less. Tax refunds are part of the package and we have to go along with it. Would it have been better to give cash in the hands of the needy? One of the advantage of this is people can spend money as they like it. In economics, it is called the theory of choice — what gives me more pleasure. The reality is different. People’s demands are pent up and unsatisfied, they may spend irrationally. Like they are doing on liquor now. Well regulated supply of commodities and services is a natural thing to be done. Handing over money will not help. State governments seem to be dependent on taxes from sale of liquor. GST and direct taxes are with central government. Revenue available to state governments is predominantly from liquor and some minor taxes. Hence, states are trying to increase sale of liquor. The GST share comes to it after some time only. And people are buying liquor like there is no tomorrow. Not just bottles, boxes too. Desi, videsi, pardesi all sort of bottles. The gravest point of liberalization of liquor is that stress in the family will increase. Domestic stress already exists, now drunks will create sociological problems. What would you do if you were the finance minister? Creating employment in rural and urban settings is the prime need of the hour. People have no money. Even lower middle class are coming to an end of their savings. The collector, guardian minister, industrialists of the area, traders, engineers have to sit together as a council for creating employment. They should discuss what are the minimum things that can be done to create employment. The problem is grave in large cities as containment areas are increasing and half the labour has gone back home. Yet, a solution has to be found. What needs the big push — SMEs, MSMEs or big industries? The SMEs are not an autonomous sector. They are the suppliers of spare parts to the big enterprises which are assemblers of commodities. They are inter-dependent. Unless the demand is created, smaller industries cannot manufacture and supply. The industries department of state and Centre must conduct a detailed study. Take the example of Palghar, which has three MIDCs. All are shut as the labour has left. The industries department was asked when they will start. They said all manufacture different parts of various machines, and even if one unit has not started the whole thing gets stuck. This calls for major planning. Very big planning needs to be done. Decisions taken at the top are not percolating to the ground level. Look at migration of labour. Centre and states say all facilities are being provided. Yet people are walking, cycling and are without food and water. These people are returning to the villages after creating wealth in the metros. Can industries function with Covid distancing rules in place? Very difficult. In urban areas, work from home is being encouraged. But in shanties there is not enough place to sleep, how can work be done. Even homes are not designed for office work. An urban planning of industrialization is needed. Secondly, all the people who have gone back to their villages will seek employment. They will survive the rainy season but after that what? The one-time corona experience has taught them that either one dies in the metro or goes back home. If they decide not to return, a peculiar problem of no labour in urban areas and surplus in rural will be created simultaneously. The situation is extraordinary and it calls for extraordinary decisions from the governments. There is no other way than planning for employment in a decentralized manner. It is not perfect nor idealistic, but under the circumstances the best. Even state governments will have to coordinate a lot. Today, if a spare part is not available in Nagpur, the businessman procures it from TN or Delhi. There is a lot of interdependence. It will take detailed planning and resolution of problems at regional levels. The PM must meet or telephone all CMs to discuss problems every day. Only then can we solve the bigger problems. All have to rise above politics. How much time will it take for things to stabilize? We are living in bubbles. We create bubbles of prosperity and enjoy them. When the bubble bursts we come to know the reality. Today’s situation is a combination of the lingering effect of demonetization and declining GDP. In rural areas, many enterprises have stopped and people were left unemployed. Last year GDP was 4.5, now the RBI governor has said that there will be negative growth. What will happen to the welfare of about 60% of lower income people and 30% of middle income group. An industrialist told me that the situation will take at least six months to stabilize. Post corona, will the country change its outlook towards underpaid labour? The labour class helps us create wealth. We are only helping the process. The labourer can work in the forest without our help. But we cannot work without them. Industries today are very dependent on migrant labour. A noted economist told me that migration has solved all the problems. On the contrary, it has created all the problems. When we lure them to metros, where do they live? In jhopdis like in Dharavi where three times the number of people it can hold are staying. Is that a dignified way to stay for a modern Indian citizen? Excluding all Dharavis and jhopdis in the country, we are measuring the rate of growth and trying to be a super power in the world. Won’t feeding the migrants in their villages be a big problem? Absolutely. The government has given a guarantee that foodgrains will be given free of cost for all. This is because it has already procured this during the last 2-3 years. Godowns are overflowing and the government was facing a problem of how to dispose it of. Corona has helped the government save face. But the stock will exhaust soon. It will create a difficult situation in various states. Labour coming from metros will find it below their dignity to work in farm or villages. States and Centre will have to find appropriate jobs in villages. Can poor states take advantage of the situation? Create infrastructure projects where the labour can be employed. It can be fruitful if intelligently done in a coordinated manner. Firstly, plan for full employment in urban and rural areas in any manner. Show the world that we have a plan for them. How much and how we implement is secondary. Make smaller town and cities viable, and not let it grow indiscriminately like Mumbai and its extended suburbs. Secondly, Centre, state, regional provinces like Vidarbha also should be atmanirbhar. Self reliance should go down to the lowest level. A white paper from the government is must. Atmanirbharta is a permanent process. The Centre is keen on privatizing many public enterprises. I am not against private entities. However, I do feel that the public sector is needed for stability in society. Thirdly, housing and other facilities in rural areas are totally inadequate and outdated, and have to be reconstructed. This is a 50-year programme and will automatically create job opportunities in rural areas. Fourthly, climate change needs to be the base of all our educational, manufacturing and agricultural processes. And, finally, agricultural goods need to be given remunerative prices. It is the end of May and cotton is still in the houses of farmers. It should have been procured by now so that the farmer has cash in hand for sowing during the forthcoming monsoon, which is just three weeks away. Coronavirus has set back the world by how many years? 10 to 12 years for certain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-labour-back-in-villages-make-rural-areas-viable-to-stay/articleshow/75949662.cms||Sunil Warrier
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH alumni donate PPE kits, masks to resident doctors||Nagpur: When resident doctors, who are front-line warriors against Covid-19 in government hospitals, faced shortage of protective gear like PPE kits and masks, their seniors came forward to support them and resolved the issue in a few days. Unofficially named as ‘Chain of kindness’, this unique initiative was started in Nagpur GMCH through the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD). It is now being replicated in other GMCs across the state. Till date, four batches of GMCH ex-students have donated PPE kits, N95 masks and sanitizers worth Rs15 lakh to their juniors. Many more batches are gearing up for similar donation. “State government and our administration are procuring more PPE kits and masks, but looking at the increase in number of patients in Nagpur, there is always a scope for more. The idea of ‘Chain of Kindness’ was conceived by ex-students from GMCH 2005 batch. Soon, it was picked up by four more batches and we ended up getting massive amount of PPE kits and masks,” said Dr Mukul Deshpande, president of MARD at GMCH. Dr Ankush Zode, a 2005 alumnus of GMCH and currently a pathologist at super speciality hospital in Amravati, shared how it all began. “Just four days ago, after completing my Covid duty, I got a call from my junior and ex-MARD president Dr Ashutosh Jadhav. He informed that most of our GMC residents were performing duty without proper protection. It all started there,” he said. The big question for the seniors was how to contact the batch of 200-plus settled in different parts of India and abroad. “We had a WhatsApp group where primarily inconclusive political debates would be held and most of the members remained inactive. I started with a message ‘Our GMC and juniors need us’ and within a few moments, got replies from most inactive members,” he said. This batch collected Rs1.5 lakh within a day. “Region, religion or politics, none of it can bind us together. Only thing that brought us together is GMCH, Nagpur. It’s our emotion and we all proud to be a part it,” he said. Other batches too got inspired and now GMCH residents are flooded with donations from former students. The ‘Chain of kindness’ is forming a strong bonding between the juniors and former students. WHO DONATED WHAT GMCH batch | donation 2005 | 100 unsterile kits, 20 sterile kits, 200 N95 masks 2007 | 125 PPE kits, 400 masks 2008 | 100 PPE kits, 400 masks and 2 sanitizer dispensers 2009 | 200 PPE kits, 400 masks 2010 | raising funds for Smart OPD||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-alumni-donate-ppe-kits-masks-to-resident-doctors/articleshow/75956128.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||30-year-old migrant dies in Wardha||Wardha: A 30-year-old labourer, who was part of a group which left for Jharkhand on foot from Pune, died on reaching Wardha on Sunday morning. As soon as the incident came to light, the administration has sent swab samples of the deceased and his all other 15 accomplices for testing. All the 15 labourers have been placed in institutional quarantine. According to sources, the 16 migrant labourers had left Pune for Jharkhand. They were travelling mostly on foot and at times hitchhiking. The group managed to reach Wardha on Saturday evening after travelling nearly 700km. They stopped at the local bus depot for the night. On Sunday morning, health of one of these workers deteriorated. After learning about the group, the administration took all the workers to the district general hospital for health check-up. As condition of the 30-year-old deteriorated further, he was referred to Kasturba Hospital at Sewagram. However, he breathed his last on way to the hospital. As a precautionary measure, swab samples of the deceased and others have been sent for Covid-19 testing. Sub-divisional officer Suresh Bagale informed that after health check-up, the remaining workers have been sent to isolation ward. “Preliminary reports suggest that the worker died of extreme fatigue and exhaustion,” said Bagale. Civil surgeon Dr P Madavi said the worker’s body has been sent for postmortem. Citing Covid guidelines, the authorities, however, declined to reveal the identity of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/30-year-old-migrant-dies-in-wardha/articleshow/75956199.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 25, 2020||Rajkot||Cattle theft rumour triggers clash in Gondal||Rajkot: Two groups of different communities clashed with each other in Mavaiya Circle locality of Gondal on Saturday night. Police have arrested five persons for questioning. Police said the clash was the result of a rumour about cattle theft. Members of one community were checking vehicles allegedly involved in the cattle theft, which the members of the other community did not like, triggering off the clash.“Both the groups resorted to stone pelting. We had to lob two tear gas shells to disperse the mob. We arrested five persons for the crime,” said K N Ramanuj, inspector with Gondal police station. The groups allegedly indulged in vandalism, breaking cabins and damaging vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cattle-theft-rumour-triggers-clash-in-gondal/articleshow/75954537.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Can’t get a haircut? Embrace the bald look||By: Anjali Jhangian PUNE: The rising summer heat, the lockdown and closure of saloons and barber shops have spurred many to embrace the bald look. In Katraj, three generations of Awade family – grandfather Kerba (60), son Santosh (35) and grandson Piyush (7) – got rid of their floppy overgrown hair and went bald. “Every year, I take my son Piyush to the barber and get his head shaved, but this year we all decided to shave our heads together,” said Santosh Awade, a transportation executive at Katraj. “My son is very happy that his grandfather and I have also agaitonsured our heads and he wants us to do it together every year, though my wife is not very happy about it,” he added. At an IT firm, ten employees figured out that the best way to look presentable this summer was to shave their heads. “One of my colleagues brought an electric trimmer, so we used it to shave our heads. Apart from me, two managers, four support staff and three security guards also decided to go bald, so we shaved each other’s heads. It gives relief and you feel nice and breezy,” said Shoeb Siddiqui, a team leader at Wipro. “One advantage of going bald is that it is maintainance-free. Though, you feel the chill on your head with the airconditioning on, ” he added. Some students living together on Dhole Patil Road have also jumped on the bandwagon and shaved their heads. “I share a flat with three collegemates. We are all big fans of The Rock— Dwayne Johnson -- and we have been wanting to try out the bold bald look, but have not had the courage to do so while college was on. Now that we are stuck at home, we decided to go for it. e feel nice and cool, which is a big advantage since we don’t have AC in our apartment,” said Vaibhav Pawar, 20, a BCom student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cant-get-a-haircut-embrace-the-bald-look/articleshow/75956736.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Last-minute downsizing of operations leaves fliers in a tizzy||HYDERABAD: In a last-minute move that led to chaos among passengers, Telangana downsized its domestic air traffic movement to and from the Hyderabad airport, that began on Sunday. From the earlier approved strength of 164 (approx) operations, as released by DGCA, it reduced it to only 30 — 15 arrivals and 15 departures. Sources said the arrangement is temporary and might be revised at a later stage. In another development, Andhra Pradesh has decided to put on hold its flight operations till May 26. “They will begin operations from May 26 on a limited scale,” said an aviation source. Clarifying its stance on the quarantine procedure for arriving passengers, the Telangana government said that asymptomatic domestic travellers will be permitted to go, with advice to monitor their health at home for 14 days, while symptomatic passengers (with moderate to severe symptoms) will be admitted in dedicated coronavirus isolation facilities. “Those asymptomatic will be directly sent to their homes with instructions to observe 14-day home quarantine. They must take care of themselves and follow all rules pertaining to quarantine. They must self-monitor their health for 14 days and contact government helpline numbers in case of any symptoms or health problems. We can’t be conducting tests on everyone,” health minister, Eatala Rajender told TOI. For foreign returnees, being ferried to the state under Vande Bharat Mission, it has reduced the paid quarantine period from 14 to 7 days. It will be followed by 7 days in isolation at home. Travellers booked on flights for May 25 flooded social media platforms seeking confirmation from airline operators. Many were also shocked to receive last-minute cancellation messages from their respective airlines. @IndiGo6E QM96TD is my Pnr, i booked this flight from Hyderabad to Patna for 25th May, departure timing was 10:30 a… https://t.co/GnpElKQMNI— Aditya Hellfire (@aditya_hellfire) 1590329769000“IndiGo6E can you please update the status of flight 6E 944 from Hyderabad to Kolkata on 25th May?” wrote Alisagar Fakhri. Among those who had to bear the brunt of the last-minute revision was Aditya, who was set to travel to Patna. “My departure timing was 10.30 am and arrival in Patna was 12.30 am. Now you have rescheduled it without asking me. So unprofessional behaviour,” the passenger tweeted tagging the airline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/last-minute-downsizing-of-ops-leaves-fliers-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/75955324.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 25, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 patient who underwent abortion discharged from KIMS||HUBBALLI: A pregnant woman who was undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 ward at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) was discharged on Saturday evening. She had been admitted to KIMS with symptoms of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). The 23-year-old woman was pregnant five months when she was confirmed infected on May 3. She subsequently had the baby aborted following severe complications. Doctors, nurses and other staff at KIMS gave her a warm send-off. KIMS medical superintendent Dr Arunkumar C, director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani and Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan were present when the patient was discharged. The doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of the Covid ward gave her a warm send-off, as she stepped out of the ward, the doctors, staff clapped and cheered her up. The patient also expressed her gratitude to the doctors and staff of KIMS, where she had been a resident patient for 20 days. In addition to testing negative for the novel coronavirus, her chest X-ray showed no signs of the infection. Dharwad zilla panchayat chief executive officer BC Satish, HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal were among those who bid her adieu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-19-patient-who-underwent-abortion-discharged-from-kims/articleshow/75954522.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Lancet report raises concerns over HCQ use||Bengaluru: A recent research study published in Lancet on antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), used to treat Covid-19 patients, not offering any benefit has led to debate on the use of the drug. Lancet is a peer-reviewed general medical journal. The study with multi-national registry analysis comprised data from 671 hospitals across six continents, which treated Covid-19 hospitalised patients between December 20, 2019, and April 14, 2020. It included 15,000 Covid-19 patients who were receiving HCQ, chloroquine, along with two antibiotics and 81,000 controls (patients who weren’t given the said drugs). The observational study says HCQ and chloroquine given with or without antibiotics have offered no benefit to Covid-19 patients. Shockingly, it also adds that the drug usage was linked to increased rates of mortality and irregular heartbeats among Covid-19 patients. The researchers have concluded that they were unable to confirm a benefit of HCQ or chloroquine, when used alone or with a macrolide (antibiotic), on in-hospital outcomes for Covid-19. “...Each of these drug regimens was associated with decreased in-hospital survival and an increased frequency of ventricular arrhythmias (abnormal heartbeats) when used for treatment of Covid-19,” the study says. In Karnataka, the study was discussed among experts working in critical care treatment of Covid-19. However, officials from the health and family welfare department TOI spoke to said the usage of the prophylaxis continues, as per revised guidelines of ICMR. On Saturday, the expert team of doctors discussed the matter and decided to go by the ICMR guidelines. ICMR in its revised guidelines issued on May 22 mentions that the drug is contraindicated in persons with known case of retinopathy, hypersensitivity to HCQ, those with G6PD deficiency (condition where someone lacks enough G6PD enzyme, which protects red blood cells) and anyone with pre-existing cardiomyopathy and cardiac rhythm disorders. The revised guidelines also say that the drug has to be given under strict medical supervision with informed consent. However, Dr MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Covid-19 taskforce of Karnataka said no adverse effect of the drug has been seen either among Covid-19 patients or on frontline workers and healthcare staffers using it in Karnataka. “HCQ has provided the much desired benefits to frontline medical, paramedical and public health persons working in Covid care both in hospitals and communities and as caregivers in families. However, due precautions are to be taken before it’s use — like ECG ( for heart), eye check-up ( for retina),” says Sudarshan. According to Dr Pradeep Rangappa, vice-president, Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine, who is also part of the tele-ICU team overseeing Covid-19 patients in 14 districts of Karnataka, evidence of the efficacy of HCQ is being debated on scientific forums. “There is no conclusive verdict on it having favourable benefit in improving outcomes. Risk benefit balance has to be weighed in to consider revision of guidelines based on the emerging evidence,” he said. He added that in India, HCQ has been used for a long time to treat patients with lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. The study was conducted only on Covid-19 patients who were being administered HCQ and not on frontline staffers and healthcare workers, who are using the drug as prophylaxis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lancet-report-raises-concerns-over-hcq-use/articleshow/75955360.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon docs begin telemedicine usage||Nashik: The Malegaon doctors have started using the telemedicine services for the co-morbid patients, who have been admitted to different hospitals in the city. The doctors have been instructed that if they have any queries in treatment of a patient they can get help from the senior practitioners across the state. “The telemedicine has been of great help for doctors in Malegaon considering it is the hotspot of Covid-19 patients outside Mumbai and Pune districts, where there is also a shortage of experts to deal with such situation,” said Hitesh Mahale, additional civil surgeon, Malegaon. The city has limited number of physicians that can provide services to all the people admitted across the three-tier health system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-docs-begin-telemedicine-usage/articleshow/75952485.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||This Eid, Muslims help migrants, destitute, and needy||Nagpur: Responding to the calls for spending money saved on shopping for this Eid-ul-Fitr on charity, several Muslims distributed cash, footwear and food packets to not just the poor and needy within the city but also to the migrants passing through the city outskirts. As per the Islamic principle, the immediate neighbours have to be given first preference while giving annual zakat (charity) due during Ramzan. For some, the neighborhood had affluent families that made them go beyond the local area. Many directly transferred cash to social organizations working for migrants while some sponsored medicines to government hospitals. The community members were not forthcoming on revealing their identity but after some prodding agreed to speak to TOI on the condition they will only divulge details about nature of charity. Lawyer Firdos Mirza said the charity was in addition to zakat. “While helping others, we ensured none was embarrassed. We took their account numbers and transferred money. I belong to rural background, so I started with my relatives and friends and also helped migrants,” he said. Mirza also sponsored medicine at GMCH after he came to know of shortage there. Mohd Arshad Sheikh, a resident of Byramji Town who has real estate business, said he decided not to shop considering the situation in India and across the world. “Skilled workers lost employment, especially tailors. So, we gave the cash saved on shopping. Entire Ramzan, we helped migrants with food,” he said. New Colony-based entrepreneur Fuzail Junaid said, “We distributed ration kits to families irrespective of caste and religion. Many have suffered pay cut so we helped them too. The idea was to help society and not just the community.” Businessman Majid Parekh said he and his family members donated footwear to migrants, besides providing other assistance. “My acquaintance Asma Akbani had formed a group to help migrants. Addl CP Nilesh barne too helped the group in extending benefits to the needy,” he said. Hamid Qureshi, secretary of Jamiat Islahul Momeneen, said, “Compared to previous years, people spent heavily on food bags. Daily wagers, skilled workers, and petty employees all benefited. Just four to five homes in Jafar Nagar distributed grains worth Rs 5 lakh each,” he said. Qureshi added 1,200 to 1,800 food packets were distributed using the charity funds in Shramik Special trains. “This is great contribution towards nation building. Generally, 90% of funds are spent on poor Muslims only by Muslim organizations. But this time all were covered,” he said. Eid will be celebrated on Monday with people offering namaz at their homes and remain indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/this-eid-muslims-help-migrants-destitute-and-needy/articleshow/75956730.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Digital grounding key to judiciary’s online shift||By: V R Kamalanathan What’s true of all the evils in the world is true of plague as well. It helps men to rise above themselves." — Albert Camus, The Plague The world has gone indoors for the past three months due to the ongoing battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. Governments across the globe are on their toes trying to find a long-term solution to this public health crisis, while simultaneously trying to tackle humanitarian and economic crises. Judiciary, a key pillar of democracy, too has taken a hit and its functions are crippled. It is at this point that technology can play a key role to help resume judicial operations. A typical courtroom in India is packed with advocates and litigants and one can conveniently forget about social distancing norms. No wonder courts across the country had to suspend their routine and take up only urgent cases. Courts have asked advocates to do e-filing of cases and attend hearing via video conferencing apps. The UK passed the Coronavirus Act, 2020, which incorporates the functioning of courts through video conferencing by amending provisions of various statutes. It has also made arrangements for public participation through live links. Similarly, the courts in Singapore have also adopted video/telephone conferencing through various platforms for hearings, mediation and counselling. The courts in the USA, Canada and Australia too are making a shift to online platforms to conduct matters similarly. The ease with which the rapid migration to online platforms has been taking place across the world shows this is an ideal time for India as well to bring in electronic filing of cases, applications and pleadings with a synopsis of arguments, law and precedents relied upon as a parallel measure. Even trial courts can explore the concept of having evidence filed electronically and remote cross-examination through video calls. But, before embracing a total or substantial virtual hearing protocol, bar and bench committees have to be constituted at the high court as well as district level to discuss the available infrastructure. There is no second opinion that online courtrooms will improve accessibility, reduce pendency of cases and have a positive impact on the environment. But, in a country like India, where digital technology is yet to percolate to vast sections of society, including professionals, and the public is still getting acquainted with developing technologies, it would be too much to ask the legal fraternity and public to shift totally to digital modes. Governments and the judiciary need to address a few pressing issues before the digital shift. First, stakeholders should ensure a glitch-free, seamless technology and infrastructure, besides free internet facilities in courts. Second, lawyers and court staff need to be trained and be acquainted with technologies. Third, the government has to allot sufficient funds for self-administration of the judiciary to improve and strengthen the technical support for the judiciary. There is an economic aspect to this too — not all lawyers can afford this paradigm shift. The change can be made gradually after providing the aforesaid infrastructure facilities for both the bar and bench. Legally, the digital shift has already got a stamp of approval from the Supreme Court on many occasions. In Maharashtra Vs Dr Praful B Desai case, the Supreme Court considered recording of evidence in the criminal trial as per the Section 273 of the CrPC. In Swaprul Tripathi vs Supreme Court of India also, the apex court considered live-streaming of court proceedings and open court hearings. Roughly 3.2 crore cases are pending before various district courts and around 38 lakh cases relating to Negotiable Instruments Act and close to 8.5 lakh cases as motor vehicle accident claims. By adopting online courtrooms in lower courts these petty cases, minor traffic offence cases and cheque bounce cases. can be heard completely virtually or decided based on written arguments. Access to justice is one of the foremost and essential features of democracy. In his book ‘Online Courts and the Future of Justice’, Professor Richard Susskindin argues that adoption of modern technology would help in addressing the problem of accessibility to justice and further envisages that online courts facilitate courts to function as a ‘service’, and not a ‘place’. ‘Access to justice’ encompasses a number of aspects which also include ensuring every person who seeks justice must be provided with the minimum cost factor to approach a court of justice, and time for disposal of the cases. (The writer is an advocate practising in Madras high court and former secretary of the Madras Bar Association)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/digital-grounding-key-to-judiciarys-online-shift/articleshow/75955545.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Teacher cheated of Rs 1.3 lakh in online fraud||VADODARA: A school teacher in Karjan town was cheated of Rs 1.3 lakh by three persons who had lured him promising huge returns by investing in forex trade last year. The victim Kalpesh Patel lodged a complaint of cheating and criminal conspiracy against the trio at Karjan police station on Saturday. Patel told police that in July last year he had received call from a man identified as Vikas Bhatt asking him to open a demat account with his company. He claimed that he is an advisor with Digitex Network Pvt Ltd in Navsari and they trade through another company named Binomo Trading. As Patel used to invest his savings in stock market and forex market, he got lured by Bhatt’s offer that he will receive at least 10% return. Patel opened a demat account and initially invested Rs 70,000. Three weeks later, he found out that his invested amount had multiplied to Rs 3.25 lakh so he decided to withdraw his investment. When he contacted Bhatt, the latter told him that as per the company’s policy, 20% of the profit amount needs to be deposited in Binomo Trading’s bank account in Surat and he should contact his superior Anurag Sharma. Sharma asked Patel to deposit Rs 65,000 in the digital wallet and bank account of one Jitendra Kale. On September 22 last year, Patel transferred Rs 62,000 and asked Sharma and Bhatt to transfer the profit amount to him. However, the duo refused to return the amount and when Patel asked to return Rs 1.32 lakh which he had transferred to them, they stopped taking his calls. Police said that they have found Bhatt’s address in Navsari and Sharma’s address in Mumbai, but Kale’s whereabouts have not been known yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teacher-cheated-of-rs-1-3l-in-online-fraud/articleshow/75953360.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Shiv Sena alleges scam in city garbage collection||Nagpur: Shiv Sena on Sunday alleged there was a multi-crore scam in the handling of garbage in the BJP-run Nagpur Municipal Corporation with the private contractor for Zones 6 to 10 for filling up mud in garbage collection trucks to increase the weight. Following complaints by Shiv Sena, NMC’s deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) department Dr Pradip Dasarwar on Sunday initiated an inquiry against BVG India, the contractor. After NMC imposed a lockdown, the city’s garbage generation had reduced significantly. On Saturday Shiv Sena city coordinator Nitin Tiwari alleged that to increase weight of garbage collected, BVG India under the patronage of some NMC officials had begun mixing mud from the parking lot allotted to it near the dumping yard in the garbage before going to weigh bridge of NMC’s solid waste management department. Tiwari brought this to the notice of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe who asked deputy municipal commissioner Dr Dasarwar to inquire into the matter. On Sunday Dr Dasarwar visited the BVG’s parking lot and found a portion of the land excavated. Tiwari alleged, “huge quantity of mud had been found excavated from the parking lot.” Tiwari told officials that every day about 150 to 200 brass of mud was being excavated with the help of JCB and mixed with garbage. “It caused financial loss of Rs 1950 per metric tonne for the civic body which comes to around Rs 15 lakh,” Tiwari told Dr Dasarwar. Tiwari, on behalf of the city Shiv Sena, asked Dasarwar to file a fraud case against the company with the police and also with the revenue department for illegally excavating the soil, or the party would launch an agitation. Tiwari was accompanied by Abbas Ali, Ashish Hadge and Lalit Bawankar. Dr Dasarwar told TOI vigilance will be increased. He said in the past the department had caught many vehicles mixing mud with garbage. “We had imposed fine on them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shiv-sena-alleges-scam-in-city-garbage-collection/articleshow/75956161.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Govt grant for Mathura pilgrim site||Lucknow: While construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya is yet to gain momentum, UP government has also shifted its focus on the development of another Hindu pilgrimage centre of Mathura by releasing funds for the construction of a service road around Govardhan Parikrama Marg. Proposed to be constructed by the public works department (PWD), the service lane will be over 14km long and 10m wide. The estimated cost of the road is over Rs 38 crore. The state government has released the first instalment of Rs 2 crore for the project. The 21-km Parikrama Marg goes around Govardhan mountain which is believed to have been lifted by Lord Krishna on his little finger to save people from the wrath of Indra. The circumambulation around Govardhan mountain takes place throughout the year. In a letter sent to PWD chief engineer Rajeev Ratan Singh on May 22, the state government has laid out guidelines to be followed before the project kicks off. PWD officials said the work cannot be started until an assessment of the project is done by competent authority within total budgetary estimate. The rule envisages that the project be assessed by technical experts before being started. The government has also fixed the responsibility of PWD chief engineer to ensure quality of construction and to complete work within the set timeframe. The rules say that the released funds would be utilised in one go and would not be kept in bank or post office and not used in any other project. PWD officials would also have to spend the funds as per guidelines issued by the government from time to time. Officials will also be required to ascertain that no fund had been allocated for the project in the past. Also, the project should be carried out on land which does not face any legal dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-grant-for-mathura-pilgrim-site/articleshow/75956721.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt hospitals will treat Covid-19 patients only if govt capacity exhausts||Nagpur: Managements of private hospitals in the city heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday when district collector Ravindra Thakare made it clear that the government will use their beds for Covid-19 treatment only if the facilities in government hospitals are fully utilized.Thakre and civil surgeon, Dr Devendra Paturkar, stated that authorities have made arrangements for more than 3000 beds in GMCH, IGGMCH, NMC Hospitals, Private medical colleges and charitable trust hospitals for Covid-19 treatment and only if these beds are exhausted, discussions on execution of this order on rates for patient management in private hospitals will be held.Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA), a body of private hospitals in Vidarbha, has been raising this issue since May 21, when the public health department of the state government had issued an order highlighting rate regulation and control of 80% beds in private hospitals in case of surge in Covid-19 patients. VHA members had called on the district collector and other health authorities on Saturday and raised their apprehension over the order. NMC had also issued an order directing 13 private hospitals with more than 100 beds and 29 private hospitals with beds in he range of 50-100 to be ready to provide services to Covid-19 patients. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI and also in an affidavit before HC that private hospitals will be used only after exhausting of capacity in government-run hospitals.“Private hospitals are deemed under NMC’s control for containing Covid-19. We had already issued an order in this regard last month considering the guidelines of the government. We will bring the hospitals into use whenever needed. Private hospitals have to be in a state of readiness,” he said. Issues and solutions Pvt hospitals | Don’t reserve 80% beds in for Covid-19 patients Admin | No need as there are more than 3000 Covid-19 beds in government hospitals Pvt hospitals | In case patients increase, don’t fix rates for treatment Admin | Discussion with hospitals before deciding treatment rates if need bePvt hospitals | If patient treated in pvt hospital tests positive, many docs get quarantinedAdmin | Use PPEs for all patients to avoid being quarantined even if coming in contact with Covid-19 cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-will-treat-covid-19-patients-only-if-govt-capacity-exhausts/articleshow/75956073.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Dasara gift: 1L 2-BHK houses for poor in Hyd||Hyderabad: The dream of becoming owners of ‘dignified housing’ will come true for 50,000 families by August. In all, one lakh families will have housing by Dasara this October. The government has sped up the construction of 2-BHK housing units, a flagship project of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Officials and contractors have taken it up as a challenge to complete construction of one lakh 2-BHK units in and around Greater Hyderabad by Dasara in tune with the announcement made by municipal minister KT Rama Rao. Though there is a shortage labourers, the municipal administration department, on the directions of KTR, has given a free hand to the contractors to bring labourers from districts and other states by arranging special buses and through trains. The government will provide passes by talking to state governments. What’s more, KTR has also promised the working agencies (contractors) that their problems pertaining to the supply and rising prices of steel, cement and sand would be solved and directed the officials of municipal administration and housing to convene a special meeting with the working agencies. About one lakh double bedroom housing units are under final stages of construction in and around the city under the supervision of GHMC. Also, the TRS government has loosened its purse strings to ensure that the 2-BHK project is completed at the earliest. As much as Rs 11,917 crore was allocated to the housing department in the 2020-21 budget. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar said efforts are being made to complete works on a war footing and deliver the houses by Dasara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dasara-gift-1l-2-bhk-houses-for-poor-in-hyd/articleshow/75927007.cms||Roushan Ali
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Passengers may struggle sans cabs||CHENNAI: The state government may have allowed domestic flight services at the city airport but passengers will struggle to reach the airport on time as autorickshaws, cabs and public transport are not available. Passengers who do not own vehicles will have a tough time reaching the airport or leaving it post arrival since cabs are not operated. Airports Authority of India (AAI) has requested the state government to allow cabs or buses for passengers but it did not receive a favourable response. Besides, the airport expects a large number of cancellations as the state government has allowed only 25 arrivals per day. The schedule released by the ministry of civil aviation earlier had 53 arrivals and 52 departures a day from Chennai. “Airlines may have to cancel a few departures because only 25 arrivals are allowed. They will not prefer to fly back empty as it will lead to a loss. Since the announcement by the state government came post 10pm on Sunday, we don’t know how many flights will have to be cancelled,” said an airport official. An AAI official said the first few flights will see stranded passengers arriving. “They may have homes here and may arrange their own transport from the airport. But those who want to reach the airport may have a tough time and they will have to reach the airport earlier than usual too.” While, the SOP issued by the state government said passengers can use prepaid taxi available at the airport, only 200 or less taxis are available. Air Passengers Association of India (APAI) national president D Sudhakara Reddy said, “Passengers are going to suffer because the Centre has created a mess. As the ministry of civil aviation decided to start the services without consulting state governments, the latter started opposing the move. Now, the state government has allowed flights but passengers will now have to deal with cancellation and refund issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/passengers-may-struggle-sans-cabs/articleshow/75955544.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cop accused of harassing junior doctor suspended||HYDERABAD: A junior doctor with the Gandhi Hospital, assigned to Covid-19 duty, has lodged a complaint on the Hawkeye app against a constable who had stopped her for routine checks during the first week of the lockdown. The 23-year-old doctor who had been posted to the Sultan Bazaar Maternity Hospital was returning from duty in the afternoon when the constable had stopped her to check her emergency pass. “He (the constable) asked me to stand aside and talked about general things such as where I was coming from and where do I stay. When I told him that I am a doctor and was coming from the maternity hospital, he asked for my phone number claiming that one of his family members was seven to eight months pregnant and he may require my help. I had given him the number which had no incoming facility,” the doctor said. The doctor went on to say that after this incident, the constable sent WhatsApp messages to the number and when asked who he was, the cop sent a picture of himself. “On Saturday, at around 6pm, he started messaging again and asked for my number which was working. He asked me where I was and when I said I am in my hometown, he asked me when I will return and at what time,” the doctor claimed. On seeing this, the junior doctor asked the constable for the number of SheTeams hoping that it would drive home the message. “I stopped answering and asked him for the number of SheTeams. He then asked me to share the number if there is any troublemaker and immediately made a video call. This was past 12 in the night when he video called me. I then blocked his number and lodged a complaint this (Sunday) morning. I just want him to know that it is not okay to take advantage of people and start randomly calling them,” the doctor said. Following the complaint, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar stepped in and suspended home guard Venkatesh working in the traffic branch with immediate effect for misconduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-accused-of-harassing-junior-doctor-suspended/articleshow/75955345.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19: At 5.9%, Meerut’s death rate now a tad ahead of worst-hit Agra||MEERUT: A 50-year-old novel coronavirus infected woman, with cardiac ailment history, died on Saturday night taking the toll in Meerut to 22 and the death rate to 5.9%, a tad ahead of Agra which has the highest cases in UP. “A woman died at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College on late Saturday night. She was admitted with cardiac problem on May 22, and had tested positive for Covid-19. A resident of Tarapuri in Meerut, she also had paralysis and stopped responding well to the treatment on Friday evening,” said Dr SK Garg, principal, LLRM Medical College. With this, the death toll in the district reached 22 making the death percentage share of the total 370 cases (including one found in Kanpur) reported here until Saturday to 5.9%. According to the analysis done by TOI on the basis of the statistics in place until Saturday, the average growth rate of the number of deaths in the last five days is 2%, which is the lowest so far. Asked about the reason behind the number of deaths in Meerut, Dr Raj Kumar, chief medical officer, said, “There is a fear accompanied with the disease, due to which people delay in bringing the symptomatic cases for treatment. And due to the delay, people reach us when they are already critical. Only if they reach us timely, things will be very different.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/at-5-9-meeruts-death-rate-now-a-tad-ahead-of-worst-hit-agra/articleshow/75952501.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA will develop layouts to counter losses||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority, which suffered revenue losses for the last three months due to Covid-19, has now decided to go for layout development. The VMRDA is in the process of selecting suitable land pockets belonging to it for the sale process. The move by the VMRDA is expected to not only help the urban development authority shore up its revenues, but also boost the real estate activity in the north coastal Andhra Pradesh region, which witnessed a subdued demand due the Covid outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. The VMRDA always receives an overwhelming response for its open plot sale process due to the clearly defined property titles. The VMRDA itself taking up the projects had created curiosity among prospective buyers as it will leave no scope for any cheating, which often happens with some private real estate developers. VMRDA Metropolitan Commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the VMRDA has started identifying the land pockets of the VMRDA for the sale process. “The Covid-19 and lockdown has caused a dent in the revenue of the VMRDA. Developing some layouts in the suburbs will also help decrease the pressure on the core city,” Koteswara Rao said. The last time the VMRDA’s lands came under the hammer was in 2019. But they were only a few land bits scattered in various parts of Vizag city and suburbs. Prior to that, VMRDA developed Fortune Hills as a joint venture in about 98 acres in Dakamarri, some 40 kilometres away from the city. Even though the VMRDA auctioned the HIG and MIG plots in the layout, the auction of the LIG plots is still pending due to not reaching a consensus over the pricing. There are 162 LIG plots measuring about 29,480 square yards in this layout. The VMRDA initially fixed the price of Rs 6,000 per square yard for the LIG plots in this layout. But later due to the surge in the land price, the minimum price as per the revised rates by the state government in the area has gone up to Rs 9,000. This has kept the LIG plot auction process in pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-will-develop-layouts-to-counter-losses/articleshow/75954568.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Recruitment: NMSCDL extends deadline till May 31||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDDCL) has extended the deadline for submitting the application for various vacant posts till May 31. On March 17, the NMSCDCL had floated an advertisement inviting applications for five posts — GM (IT), Deputy GM (IT), GM (Finance), administrative officer and account executive. Earlier, the last date for submitting the applications for these posts was April 4 which was latter extended to April 30. But as the lockdown was extended, the smart city body also extended deadline to submit applications to May 10.As the lockdown kept getting extended, the NMSCDCL kept extending the deadline to May 20 and then till May 31. Aspiring candidates will have to submit their applications along with required documents in the PDF format. The smart city company officials said they will complete all the recruitment process and appoint eligible candidates at the earliest. The smart city company has already re-started all ongoing projects worth over Rs 450 crore. Around 100 workers are working on various sites across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/recruitment-nmscdl-extends-deadline-till-may-31/articleshow/75952506.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP MP’s 2 sons among 3 booked for assaulting party youth leader||Aurangabad: Two sons of BJP’s newly-elected Rajya Sabha MP were among the three persons booked by the city police after the party’s youth wing leader Kunal Marathe accused them of barging into his house and assaulting him late on Saturday night. A video of the alleged assault on Marathe has gone viral. When contacted, MP Bhagwat Karad refuted the involvement of his sons and said that they had been there to intervene as a scuffle had broken out between Pawan Sonawne (BJP ward deputy chief) and Marathe. However, in his complaint lodged with the Kranti Chowk police station, Marathe has blamed Harshvardhan Karad as the key suspect, while his younger brother Varun and their accomplice Pawan Sonawne as second and third suspects, respectively. Kranti Chowk police said that based on the complaint, the three men have been booked on the charges of house-trespass with preparation for causing hurt, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and intentional insult aimed at provoking a person to cause a breach of public peace. Police maintained that prima facie, it appears to be the fallout of a tussle over maintaining dominance in a Kotla Colony ward which is being eyed by the Karads and Marathe for the civic body elections. Marathe, in his complaint, said that Harshvardhan along with two others knocked on his door at 10 pm on Saturday and said that he (Marathe) is going to contest civic body elections from the ward and warned Marathe to not move around in the ward. This led to an argument. The suspects then barged inside the house and attacked Marathe. The allegations have been refuted by Harshvardhan, who said that he and friends have been doing social work in the Kotla Colony ward for the past couple of months. As a part of the welfare works, he along with his friend along brother knocked on the door of one of the houses and asked if they need ration or any help. Offended by the same, the person attacked him. He claimed that the video is doctored and he too has lodged a complaint in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-mps-2-sons-among-3-booked-for-assaulting-party-youth-leader/articleshow/75952495.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Some people are complacent, don’t use masks, says official||CHENNAI: As containment efforts intensify across the city, officials say in some parts of the city, residents of slum areas are finding it difficult to adapt to wearing masks all through the day. The residents also have a false sense of complacency that they would either not get infected, or that it would not affect them in a big way, say health offcials. This is because they have witnessed many asymptomatic cases who have recovered and returned home within 8-10 days. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) officials, hence, have started conducting intensive drives across major slum areas in the city and are distributing masks, kabasura kudineer and soaps. On Sunday, special Covid-19 officer deputed to GCC J Radhakrishnan and official on deputation to Anna Nagar zone S Gopal Sundarraj visited the Naduvankarai Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements to speak directly to the residents. Radhakrishnan told the residents that in some slum localities in the city, it was observed that three or five people in the same family had contracted the infection. “People are not wearing the masks thinking that the disease won’t affect them. Those going out wear masks but those inside the house don’t,” he said. If senior citizens contract the disease, it could prove dangerous, Radhakrishnan said, adding that it was our duty to ensure that we don’t lose any lives. In some areas of Koyambedu, it was found that wearing masks and consuming kabasura kudineer regularly was having a good impact as the cases had dropped, Radhakrishnan said. The other important directive to be followed was to wash hands. “I visit many places but earlier wasn’t wearing gloves. I was told to wear it and I made the change,” he said. The residents were also directed to not self-medicate in case they had fever or other symptoms. “Don’t run to the medical shop and pop pills. Ensure that you report to the local doctor and take medical advice,” Radhakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/some-people-are-complacent-dont-use-masks-official/articleshow/75955550.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Staff presence increased to 50% in UP govt offices||Lucknow: With just a week left for lockdown 4.0 to end, the UP government has decided to increase the presence of employees in government offices from 33% to 50%. According to the order issued by chief secretary R K Tewari on Saturday, head of departments will remain present in office and will ensure presence of 50% of staff. Tewari said the heads would be required to prepare a roster envisaging attendance of employees every alternate day. “But that should not affect the working of the department,” Tewari said. The chief secretary said employees and officials would be required to follow social distancing guidelines while taking other precautionary steps, including downloading of Aarogya Setu app. He directed the officials to call employees in three shifts — 9 am to 5 pm, 10 am to 6 pm and 11 am to 7 pm. The order will also be applicable on government-affiliated offices, local bodies and corporations. Employees engaged in emergency services related to corona crisis would, however, be exempted by the order. Tewari said offices in hotspot areas would be opened after due consultation with respective district magistrates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/staff-presence-increased-to-50-in-up-govt-offices/articleshow/75956793.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Sikh volunteers sanitise Jama Masjid||NEW DELHI: Giving a glimpse of communal harmony, Sikhs on Saturday conducted a massive sanitisation drive at the 17th century Jama Masjid. The photographs, which have since gone viral, showed members of United Sikhs, a UN-affiliated organisation, conducting the activity. With Eid slated for Monday, several prominent Muslims released a video message on social media asking people to maintain social distancing during the festival. “As the capital battles the novel coronavirus, Jama Masjid is closed for congregational prayers. However, a team of Sikh volunteers sanitised the monument to ensure safety for caretakers and visitors,” United Sikhs said. Parvinder Singh Nanda, director of the organisation, said that they have also been providing food and PPE kits at hospitals and quarantine centres. “We want to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread,” he added. United Sikhs has been working since 1999 and has chapters in 11 countries. Mufti Mohammad Tahir Hussain, who accompanied the Sikh volunteers, said he’s known the organisation for over a decade. “They expressed their desire to sanitise Jama Masjid and asked me to get permission from Imam Bukhari, who thanked the team for their humanitarian gesture. We were accompanied by Naib Shahi Imam Syed Shaban Bukhari during the drive,” he added. The Naib Shahi Imam said, “The Sikh community has always displayed exemplary commitment to humanity and we are thankful for their initiative. This enormous crisis can be fought off only if all communities, nations and people unite.” He advised Muslims to strictly avoid congregational prayers, a message that was also given by Mufti Mukarram of Fatehpuri Masjid. Several prominent Muslims participated in a campaign, Eid Apno Ke Liye, where they asked people to avoid going out for shopping or prayers and give “Eidi” to those in need. “People can do charity by helping those in financial distress,” said Abu Sufyan, the person behind the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sikh-volunteers-sanitise-jama-masjid/articleshow/75956783.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||10 districts fare poorly in utilising MLA-LAD fund||JAIPUR: A detailed analysis of the progress of works under rural development and panchayati raj department shows that about 10 districts have spent less than 45% of its available budget under MLA-LAD fund till March 31, 2020. Total expenditure percentage under MLA-LAD fund as on March 31, 2020 (2019-20) was 53.05%, with a total cash balance of Rs 281.28 crore. Pali, which fared poorly, had spent just 28.48% of the available budget till March 31, 2020. On May 15, 2020, the district’s cash balance was Rs 17.05 crore, with an expenditure of 5.92% since March 31 (when the cash balance was Rs 18.13 crore). The average cash balance (unspent) per MLA in the district (having six MLAs) was Rs 2.84 crore till May 15. Meanwhile, in Pratapgarh district, the average cash balance (unspent) per MLA (having 2 MLAs) was Rs 1.71 crore and in Tonk, the average cash balance was Rs 2.01 crore per MLA (with four MLAs in the district), up to May 15, 2020. However, 18 of the total districts have spent over 50% of its budget till March 31, 2020. These include Barmer, Sirohi, Churu, Rajsamand, Baran, Alwar, Bharatpur, Kota, Jaipur, Dungarpur, Nagaur, Jaisalmer, Banswara, Dausa, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Bhilwara and Jalore. Rural development department special secretary P C Kishan said, “During the review meeting with the chief executive officers (CEOs) of the Zilla Parishad, deputy chief minister (Sachin Pilot) instructed them to increase the expenditure percentage from 30-40% to more than 90% in all the districts. He also asked them to achieve a target of average available balance per MLA to be less than Rs 25 lakh by August 31, 2020. He said average cash balance per MLA should never exceed Rs 25 lakh. He also directed that funds should not remain idle in any district and monitoring of the progress of work should be done regularly.” Pilot on Thursday pulled up the chief executive officers (CEOs) of various Zilla Parishads for poor performance in various rural development schemes. Ganganagar and Barmer were performing poorly in BADP (border area development programme); Bharatpur, Baran and Kota were not performing well under Dang; Ajmer, Chittorgarh, Rajsamand fared badly in Magra and Alwar in Swa-Vivek district development scheme and Sikar and Pratapgarh performing poorly in Jan Bhagidari Vikas Yojana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-districts-fare-poorly-in-utilising-mla-lad-fund/articleshow/75956759.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 to take toll on wildlife, all forestry ops||Nagpur: The Covid-19 pandemic is not only affecting humans, but also wildlife and forestry operations as the planned budget of the forest department has been drastically cut from sanctioned outlay of Rs1,648 crore to Rs544 crore, that is almost 67%, for 2020-21. On May 4, Maharashtra government had asked all the departments to curtail their sanctioned budgets to 33% in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. G Saiprakash, PCCF for budget, planning & development, confirmed that the department had sought Rs2,900 crore under all schemes, but only Rs1,648 crore were sanctioned. “As per state directions, it has now been curtailed to Rs544 crore. It will give a big blow to forestry operations and wildlife schemes. We have, however, sought an additional Rs190 crore to cope with the situation,” he said. Due to the curtailment, budget of several schemes has been brought to zero. For development of Gorewada rescue centre, the sanctioned outlay was Rs50 crore, but it has been brought to zero. The centre is crying for space as all its cages are overflowing with rescued wild animals. Similarly, for rehabilitation of villages from protected areas, sanctioned outlay of Rs58 crore has been brought to zero, which means no village can be relocated this year. The funds under ‘Project Tiger’ have been reduced from Rs60.5 crore to Rs50 crore. Wildlife crisis will further deepen as budget for iconic Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Jan Van Scheme, which looks after the welfare of communities around reserves, has been reduced to Rs10 crore from Rs75 crore. According to senior officials, pandemic financial crisis will cost dear to plantations taken up under 50 crore green mission by erstwhile BJP government. It will also affect fire protection works and wildlife habitats. “The meagre budget will be insufficient to maintain 33 crore, 13 crore & 4 crore plantations done in last three years on which crores of rupees were spent. Besides, other routine plantation works will also be affected. The department will be unable to carry out fire lines and pay wages to watchmen and fire-watchers,” said officials. “Even as there is backlog of over Rs30 crore towards cattle and human kills and crop damage compensation, funds have been cut and moreover the overdraft system has been withdrawn for such cases. This will lead to resentment among locals, especially when man-animal conflict is on the rise,” they said. The budget of joint forest management (JFM), all types of plantations and nursery schemes has been cut from already sanctioned Rs1,145 crore to Rs404 crore. The ecotourism budget has also been reduced from Rs30 crore to Rs1 crore, which will result in non-completion of ongoing works started in 2019-20. Money to all academies has also been slashed. “The forest academy in Chandrapur built by spending over Rs100 crore will get Rs2 crore from the Rs10 crore sanctioned earlier. With this, the academy will be a non-starter. Similarly, Kundal Academy budget has been reduced from Rs5 crore to Rs3 crore,” said officials. Budget of institutes like Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB) has also been cut to Rs1.5 crore from Rs10 crore; Maharashtra Zoo Authority (MZA) from Rs1 crore to Rs60 lakh; Maharashtra Eco-tourism Development Board (METDB) from Rs1 crore to Rs70 lakh; and Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) from Rs5 crore to Rs3 crore. Coronavirus Effect Scheme | Outlay | Reduced Fire-fighting 9.7 | 3 Wildlife Habitat 16 | 8 Bamboo Mission 32 | 6 Project Tiger 60.50 | 50 Eco-task Force 10 | 0 Buildings 20 | 0 JFM 50 | 18 Afforestation 350 | 200 Gardens 7 | 4 SFD plantations 692 | 150 Green Army 2 | 0 (Figures in rupee crore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-to-take-toll-on-wildlife-all-forestry-ops/articleshow/75956823.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Keeping Eid festivities low-key, many make donations for worthy causes||Nashik/Aurangabad/Kolhapur: The sighting of the crescent moon on Sunday marked the end of the holy month of Ramzan, and signalled Eid-Ul-Fitr on Monday. The festivities this year, however, are likely to be overshadowed by the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Joyous celebrations, large prayer gatherings, traditional greetings with warm hugs will be missing to a large extent as people have been appealed to stay indoors. Due to the lockdown, congregation of people has been banned even at religious places. In Nashik, Hafiz Hisamuddin, the city head of the Muslim community, said, “We have appealed to the people to offer their prayers at home instead of going to mosques or idgah maidans. We have also requested them to pray for the nation in this time of crisis.” Nashik police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil said a strict bandobast will be maintained across the city to prevent people from gathering at one place. He added that a platoon of the State Reserve Police Force and 300 homeguards will also be deployed. On Sunday, Nashik rural police also appealed to the people to stay indoors by conducting a route march in Malegoan city under the guidance of SP Arti Singh. Meanwhile in Aurangabad, the markets were unusually deserted on the eve of the festival. Many citizens also missed going to the the famous choodi (bangle) bazaar, a temporary market of bangles and other jewellery items that comes up every year during the month of Ramzan. Imran Shaikh, a professional in a private company, said his family will have a low-key celebration and the money they have saved from it will be donated to the poor. “Every year, Ramzan gives me an opportunity to increase my religious and spiritual understanding. The Covid outbreak this time also made us introspect,” said Mubeen Khan, a transporter. Different clerics, community leaders and authorities have appealed to the people to not have mass gatherings to celebrate Eid. Eid donations help start ICU in Kolhapur In Kolhapur too, many people have decided to donate the money they had saved to fight Covid-19. Using the donations, a 10-bedded intensive care unit is being set up at the Ichalkaranji Civil Hospital, which will be inaugurated on Eid. Gani Ajrekar, the chairman of Muslim Boarding said, “We have decided to celebrate this Eid in a simple way. The saved money will be used to provide ration kits and to make things like masks, sanitisers for the poor people and the frontline workers at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital, maintaining social distancing. We will offer our prayers from our homes.” Free dialysis for poor in Aurangabad In Aurangabad, the Lions Midtown Dialysis Centre, meanwhile, has organised a free dialysis camp to observe Eid on Monday. The camp will be held at Mahesh Nagar, near Yashoda Chest Hospital from 9 am to 3 pm. “Dialysis will be carried out free of cost for the poor people,” said Satish Surana, a member of the organising team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/keeping-eid-festivities-low-key-many-make-donations-for-worthy-causes/articleshow/75952515.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Mansa 7th dist to go green, but Punjab tally rises by 15||Candigarh/Amritsar/Bathinda: Fifteen people tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab on Sunday, a day when Mansa became the seventh district of the state’s total 22 to have no active case of the virus. Punjab’s tally has reached 2,060. Another five cases were reported from Amritsar, but the state’s Covid-19 bulletin only showed one case from here. Also, 28 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. Of these, 18 were from Ludhiana, three from Fazilka, two each from Nawanshahr, Patiala and Mansa, and one from Faridkot. According to the bulletin, seven cases were from Pathankot, four from Hoshiarpur, two from Gurdaspur and one each from Amritsar and Jalandhar. Except for one new case each from Amritsar, Pathankot and Jalandhar, the other 12 are contacts of positive patients. Mansa became a green zone as its last two patients were discharged from the civil hospital. The cured patients are a man and a woman who tested positive on May 10, Mansa civil surgeon Dr Lal Chand said. An Amritsar district official said the five patients included a deportee with history of travel to Afghanistan. Another person found to be positive lives in Rani Ka Bagh locality, but runs a bakery shop at Chowk Phullawala, which is close to Katra Dullo from where four cases were reported. Punjab minister O P Soni lives in Rani Ka Bagh. The third case is of a man jailed at Division B police station. It is yet to be ascertained how he acquired the infection. Two cases are from Chananke village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mansa-7th-dist-to-go-green-but-punjab-tally-rises-by-15/articleshow/75955561.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Rajkot||Dhari artist expresses gratitude||Rajkot: In order to express his gratitude to the triumvirate of Amreli district — collector Ayush Oak, superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai and district development officer Tejas Parmar — an artist from Rajkot has made their sketches and uploaded them on Facebook.“This trinity has worked day and night in the fight against coronavirus. I wanted to thank them. Garlanding someone with flowers or draping them with shawl are the usual ways of expressing gratitude. Since I am an artist, I thought of making their sketches and uploading them on Facebook to say a big thank you to them,” says Hitesh Vanara. Vanara, who hails from Dhari and works as a lecturer in a private college of Rajkot, has written in his post with the sketches: “Someone please convey these sketches to these gentlemen.” “Ayush Oak, Nirlipt Rai and Tejas Parmar are working round-the-clock in their fight against Covid-19. They should be felicitated for their services. What better way could have been for an artist like me than to draw their sketches in their honour,” adds Vanara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dhari-artist-expresses-gratitude/articleshow/75954620.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Panel to probe docs’ plaints on hold||Visakhapatnam: The establishment of the committee by the district administration to look into the complaints of the AP Junior Doctors’ Association (APJUDA) against Andhra Medical College (AMC) authority has been deferred till August due to the Covid crisis. Also, classes for the post-graduate medicos that were to commence from May has also been deferred tentatively till August. On May 19, junior doctors from AMC had met the joint collector regarding their complaints and on May 21, they were informed that a committee will be constituted by the district administration to look into their allegations against the AMC principal. However, the matter has been deferred for now. A PG medico and member of APJUDA said, “The joint collector told us that right now the focus is on fighting the pandemic. However, our complaints will be looked into and this committee will be constituted in August. Meanwhile, we were told to collect and submit evidences if we have any. Since most of our confrontations and issues with the principal was done verbally, we do not have written evidences. We respect the district administration’s decision and will wait for constitution of the committee in August. In the meantime, we will continue our work and not resort to protests or boycotting duties.” AMC-APJUDA members have been miffed with their principal Dr P V Sudhakar over allocation of Covid related duties and issuance of a memo for raising funds for procuring masks. The medicos protested being sent to the city outskirts to conduct survey in villages affected by LG Polymers vapour leak. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/panel-to-probe-docs-plaints-on-hold/articleshow/75954595.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm fire cases may hit 5-yr high||Bathinda: With 452 more wheat straw burning cases being reported on Sunday, the total count of stubble burning in Punjab is heading towards maximum in the last five years. The latest incidents push the filed fires post wheat harvest season in the state this year to 13,756 — only 680 less than the 14,436 cases reported in 2017, which is highest in the last 5 years. The burning cases on Sunday were recorded in all the 22 districts, with maximum 85 recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 75 in Jalandhar district. The lowest two cases each were recorded in Barnala and SAS Nagar districts, whereas 3 cases were recorded in Mansa, 4 each in Ferozepur, Faridkot and Ropar, 5 in Bathinda, 8 in Sangrur and 9 in Muktsar district. According to the data compiled by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, till now Moga district accounts for the maximum number of cases at 1,224, followed by 1,173 in Amritsar, while SAS Nagar with 37 cases and Ropar with 65 cases are the only districts where burning cases have been in double digits till now. The field fires are already way past the cases recorded in 2016, when these were 10,732 incidents, 10,907 in 2018 and 11701 burning cases were recorded in 2019. Punjab pollution control board member secretary Karunesh Garg said that fines have been slapped on those found putting fields on fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-fire-cases-may-hit-5-yr-high/articleshow/75955572.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Congress leaders behind rumours of tie-up between BJP & BSP: Mayawati||LUCKNOW: BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday sharpened her attack on Congress, accusing it of spreading rumours that her party would tie up with BJP for 2022 UP elections and form the next government if the alliance is voted to power. “We want to make it clear that BSP will never enter into any kind of alliance with BJP in future elections,” Mayawati said. She said BJP was treading the footsteps of Congress in forming policies not suited for the poor, especially migrants, who have been forced to leave their home state in search of jobs. Mayawati’s attack came hours after Congress leader P L Punia said that BSP’s inclination towards migrants was akin to BJP’s. Mayawati said the BJP governments at the Centre and state should have provided enough jobs to the poor to check their migration. “But that never happened and thus migrants were forced to walk all the way to their native districts,” she said. According to UP government’s estimate, 22 lakh migrants have already returned to the state during the lockdown. Mayawati said migrants are harried because neither the Centre nor the state government took cognizance of their plight during the lockdown. “BJP and Congress are blaming each other. But both are responsible for the plight of migrants. Congress has been in power for the maximum time since independence. People were forced to migrate as they could not get jobs in their home state. The same is happening during the BJP rule,” the former UP CM said. After migrants were left jobless, Mayawati said they thought that instead of dying in other states they should die in their home state. “They had no option at all,” she said, adding that it was during her tenure that people were given employment which put a check on migration. She said her party has been lodging a protest against migration, which witnessed a peak during the Congress rule. Mayawati also attacked BJP for spreading rumours that migration would spike number of corona patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-leaders-behind-rumours-of-tie-up-between-bjp-bsp-maya/articleshow/75956865.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Plan for 1,000-bed quarantine facility in Malegaon shelved||NASHIK: The proposed 1,000-bed quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients at Millat Nagar in Malegaon has been shelved by the local civic body after strong opposition by some political parties. The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) had decided to raise the 1,000-bed quarantine facility in the town considering the possible spike of coronavirus cases. The facility was to be raised on the lines of the one being raised at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai. According to MMC officials, Malegaon has 22 Covid Care Centres besides the dedicated centres where critical patients are treated. “The facility was being prepared to bring maximum Covid-19 services under a single roof thus ensuring that everybody receives fair treatment and facilities. But,after much opposition from some political parties, the plan has been shelved,” a senior official from the corporation said on the condition of anonymity. “The facility would have brought all the coronavirus-related services under one roof. But, since the proposal was met with strong criticism, the municipal commissioner has decided to halt the project at this point of time,” sources in the civic body said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/plan-for-1000-bed-quarantine-facility-in-malegaon-shelved/articleshow/75952525.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chennai||No lesson learned: Madhavaram market crowded||CHENNAI: The temporary fruit market at Madhavaram Mofussil Bus Terminus is getting congested — with traders encroaching open spaces and visitors refusing to follow social distancing — it mirrors Koyambedu. Ironically, the temporary market was set up after the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) led to a Covid-19 cluster three weeks ago. The temporary market commenced operations from May 1 and has 230 shops of varying sizes functioning between 10am and 6pm. More than 200 vehicles, each ferrying a minimum of five tonnes of fruits, enter the market everyday. This apart, about 650 two-wheelers and mini-trucks are brought in by customers from across the city and suburbs. A field check by TOI showed nothing but chaos in the Madhavaram market. Both customers and traders walked around sans physical distancing, and many didn’t use face masks. Traders have encroached the space left open for free movement of the public, with empty fruit boxes piling up. Vehicles entering the market with produce were parked haphazardly in the space left. Some visitors TOI spoke to stressed on the need for immediate measures to prevent a repeat of the Koyambedu conundrum. Shyamsundar, of Redhills, said the temporary market is overcrowded because it attracts individual consumers, who make small purchases for personal consumption. “It is the need of the hour to strictly enforce physical distancing norms,” he said. The temporary market is maintained by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). When contacted, CMDA member secretary D Karthikeyan said it was a challenge in any market. “We are levying fines on those who don’t wear masks and on shop keepers if they violate social distancing norm. Our field staff are doing their best and we have sought additional police force (for crowd management),” he told TOI.  Meanwhile, Greater Chennai Corporation sources said they are considering to move the fruit market to the city’s outskirts as the Madhavaram market, supposed to be for wholesale, has been reduced to a retail facility. “The temporary market should be set up near the Outer Ring Road since it would confine visitors to just retail traders, that will help in better implementation of social distancing norms,” a civic body official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-lesson-learned-madhavaram-mkt-crowded/articleshow/75955564.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Design contest for public school teachers||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Educational Research and Training (APSCERT) will hold a competition among government school teachers for designing cover pages of workbooks for classes I to V. The workbooks will be introduced from the academic year 2020-21. Based on the success of a recent teaching-learning material competition, the APSCERT has decided to engage teachers’ skills in designing the cover page for 18 books, including English, Telugu and mathematics workbooks for classes I to V and environmental studies workbooks for classes III to V. Themes suggested by APSCERT for the cover pages of English workbooks are paintings of the alphabet or child-friendly designs related to the workbook. The painting should be in acrylic/oil/poster/watercolour. No pencil sketch/crayons/colour pencils/charcoal will be allowed. The painting should be scanned and sent through the Google form https: //forms.gle/spPRbXt4GbNTThE58. The last date for submission is May 27. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/design-contest-for-public-school-teachers/articleshow/75954637.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: A hero’s welcome greets retiring Covid-19 warrior||PUNE: It was a rousing welcome for 58-year-old Vijay Kumar Deshpande, an assistant police inspector rank officer posted with the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), as he arrived at the Sai Dwarkamai Society of Kondhwa after completing his 14-day quarantine period late on Saturday evening. With ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ slogans being raised and the officer being showered with flower petals, Deshpande seemed overwhelmed as he thanked everyone with folded hands. He said, “I have been declared as Covid-19 negative,” amid loud cheering. His son, Makrand, told TOI that his father was on Covid-19 duties for the past two months. “Since the outbreak of the virus, he has been working tirelessly. He was posted at different places in these two months including, Pimpri, Chinchwad, Chakan etc. I think he came home twice late in the evening, only to leave for work in the early morning around 5am the next day,” he said. Deshpande was sent to 14-day quarantine for precautionary purposes at the SRPF headquarters located in Ramtekri once his duties ended. “He didn’t have any symptoms but as he was on the frontline, he was sent in quarantine for 14 days. On Saturday, he came home and our neighbours decided to give him a rousing welcome,” Makrand said. Besides showering flower petals, many women in the society performed ‘aarti’ and put ‘tilak’ on his forehead. Deshpande said that those on active Covid-19 duty needed to be respected by the general masses. “One should understand that police, doctors, nurses etc, are risking their lives while performing their duties at present. They also have families and are working under immense pressure. People need to respect them. I am thankful to all the society members who were kind enough and treated me in such a dignified way. And it is nice to be with one’s family after long,” the officer, who will be retiring from service later this year, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-heros-welcome-greets-retiring-covid-19-warrior/articleshow/75956874.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 25, 2020||Nashik||May witnesses spike in Covid-19 cases in Nashik city||Done Nashik: The month of May has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the city, with 78 of the total 88 cases and five casualties being reported in the last 23 days. As many as 13 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, along with one death. The patients were the high-risk contacts of a person who tested positive earlier. With the addition of 13 new cases, the total number of cases rose to 88. Of this 40 people have recovered. Currently, 44 patients are undergoing treatment in the hospital. A Covid-19 patient died on Sunday who was undergoing treatment at a hospital. He was resident of Ramnagar in Peth Road area. There had been only 10 Covid-19 cases reported in the city with no death between April 6 and 27, but the city recorded 78 cases with five Covid-19 related deaths between May 2 and 24. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game said the movements of people from the Covid affected areas like Mumbai, Pune and Malegaon have led to a rise in the number of cases “We are taking measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city. As part of this, we have decided to conduct health check-ups of the citizens at large scale,” said Game. Apart from this, health check-ups of three lakh people from various slums and densely populated areas are being done in the city. The NMC has formed 200 teams comprising health officials, nurses and others. Of the 48 containment zones drawn up in the city, 27 have been lifted. Now, there are 21 containment zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/may-witnesses-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-nashik-city/articleshow/75952534.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 25, 2020||Nashik||CCTV cameras to be set up at crematoriums, burial grounds||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to install CCTV cameras at the entrance of crematoriums and burial grounds to ensure that not more than 20 people attend the funeral rites This comes after some people attending a funeral ceremony outside the city tested positive for Covid-19. It will also help to identify and quarantine the people in case the deceased tests positive. As per the government norms, only 20 people are allowed during the funeral rites. After the incidents where people tested positive after attending the funeral rites, we have decided to keep a close eye at the crematoriums and burial grounds,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cctv-cameras-to-be-set-up-at-crematoriums-burial-grounds/articleshow/75952537.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: GIS helps reach food to fishing community||CHENNAI: After successfully using Geographic Information System (GIS) in marine conservation, a team from Omcar Foundation, an NGO, is using the tool to feed fisherfolk in coastal villages of Thanjavur hit hard by the national lockdown. Mapping using GIS allows one to answer questions about data that relate to a location. “When we go to fishing villages, there are chances that we reach areas where we have already distributed provisions. With GIS mapping, we have a ready-reckoner of sorts to check and work accordingly,” said marine scientist Vedharajan Balaji, who heads the team. The documentation of relief work using GIS and Google Maps helped the NGO reach out to more people in need of relief material. “We update the GIS map “Omcar Covid-19 Relief Support” every day after distributing relief material. The documentation helps us get a clearer picture of who received what,” said Balaji. The team shares its maps with the Covid control room of the collector’s office in Thanjavur to help the administration understand the geographical range of donations made by them. Omcar’s volunteers, recruited for conservation of dugongs, were deputed to prepare a list of people whose livelihood had been affected due to the lockdown. They found that many fishermen in coastal areas, particularly in Sethubavachatthiram block, had no food or money. “This is the first time we used the map for marking houses. So we had to be careful about identifying the geographic location of each house, unlike in the case of mapping a larger area." Omcar volunteers are not new to using GIS. The team first used GIS to map mangroves and land use patterns in Palk Bay in 2012-14. Between 2014-18, the team used GIS for mapping dugong feeding grounds in northern Palk Bay. The team has donated relief material to more than 20 villages and plans to cover six more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gis-helps-reach-food-to-fishing-community/articleshow/75955580.cms||M T Saju
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown slowed the spread, now scale up surveillance, testing: Reports||Nagpur: Crediting the lockdown with slowing the spread of Covid-19 in India, specialists from Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), New Delhi, have suggested extensive scaling up of testing, robust surveillance, sero-surveillance through rapid antibody test kits and expanded observation of vulnerable patients especially in non-hotspot zones to ensure hard won success was not lost in post-lockdown period. Director of PHFI Dr Sanjay Zodpey and his colleague Habib Hasan conducted a detailed analysis of Covid-19 epidemic of the country, compared with situation in other nations. They also suggested measures to control the disease in post-lockdown period. Dr Zodpey, also member on one of the committees of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), along with Dr Himanshu Negandhi and Dr Ritika Tiwari also conducted detailed study of epidemic in Nagpur and came up with a lot of recommendations. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe came to know Dr Zodpey was a resident of the city and staying here during lockdown period. They requested him to help in improving mechanism to deal with the epidemic. Accordingly, Dr Zodpey, also vice-president of academics at PHFI, and his colleagues submitted two reports to Kumar and Mundhe on May 10. The reports drew upon experience of some Asian countries, especially Japan and Singapore, that did not resort to hard lockdown in initial phase and kept the business activities going. They saw surge of Covid-19 cases in recent weeks, forcing them into lockdown. They suggested a cautious path ahead. “Experience of Germany and South Korea suggests this was very much possible as long as we have massive lab-based testing and surveillance system in place along with dedicated isolation, quarantine and care facilities available with sufficient surge capacity to handle any unwanted outbreak,” they added. The experts nboted that India had been able to time its lockdown better than European countries and America. It resulted in slowing the spread of the virus. Nationally the doubling time – a measure of epidemic spread – increased from four days before the lockdown to around 10 days after the fifth week. “In addition, extensive testing in hotspot zones followed by contact tracing and quarantine also helped in containing the spread of SARSCOV2 although there are still some districts with hotspots,” the reports added. Regarding restarting the economy sector-wise and through stimulus package, the reports suggested the fundamental strategy must be to keep a close eye over Covid-19 cases and deaths. “It was important to test suspected Covid-19 cases and their contacts, but equally important to test patients of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and with breathing difficulty, in both hotspots as well as non-hotspot zones. The latter ones are critical to success of surveillance strategy because they will be able to pick up unknown transmission and detection of new hotspots,” the reports said. They also suggested massive upgradation of health infrastructure, especially laboratory-based testing and treatment centres at district and state levels to beat the virus saying eventually everyone was at risk once the lockdowns are relaxed to maintain business continuity. “Those who test positive need to be isolated and contacts put under quarantine, which demands scaling up of isolation and quarantine facilities. Also, for those with mild, moderate and severe disease are required to be provided care and treatment requiring scaling up of inpatient and intensive care beds with oxygen and mechanical ventilation support,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-slowed-the-spread-now-scale-up-surveillance-testing-reports/articleshow/75955594.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Migrants to get employment under MGNREGA||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad zilla parishad has assured the migrant workers that they will be provided with work depending on the demand under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act ( MGNREGA). The authorities concerned have also initiated a survey of active migrant workers in rural areas to identify the workforce, an official release said. As per official record, Aurangabad district currently has around 1,146 works in progress under the MGNREGA, offering employment to 8,151 workers. “The relief measures under MGNREGA have been ordered so that the workers who have returned to their native places in view of the nationwide lockdown do not face any hardship. The local self-governing bodies in villages have been asked to offer work to such workers as and when demanded. The list of available works has been put on display at every local civic body’s office,” an official release said. The authorities concerned said that public works would be offered to workers under MGNREGA in order to ensure social distancing. “Every worker employed under MGNREGA is provided with a face mask and hand sanitizer. The ground-level government staffers overseeing the implementation of MGNREGA have been asked to take all possible measures to protect workers from Covid-19,” government officials said. Under MGNREGA, different works related to rural connectivity, flood control, water conservation, renovation of traditional water bodies, drought proofing, irrigation canals and land development, among other categories are offered to ensure livelihood security in rural areas through ‘right to work’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrants-to-get-employment-under-mgnrega/articleshow/75952556.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Cop loses father to Covid-19||NASHIK: A Nashik police constable — who had tested positive for Covid-19 few days back — lost his father after he succumbed to the contagion on Saturday. The personnel was a resident of Nimon area in Sangamner taluka of Ahmednagar district and contracted the infection while on patrolling duty. He had visited his house in Nimon where his parents were staying when his father allegedly got the infection. According to the health officials, when his tests came positive his parent's swabs were also taken for testing. His 61-year-old father too tested positive as he was admitted in Nashik city hospital. He succumbed to the infection on Saturday night, while undergoing treatment. Apart from him, another 66-year-old man too died due to infection thus taking the death toll to 52 so far. Nashik district on Sunday witnessed 20 new positive cases out of which 13 were tested positive in Nashik city alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cop-loses-father-to-covid-19/articleshow/75952547.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Mansa 7th dist to go green, but Punjab tally rises by 15||Candigarh/Amritsar/Bathinda: Fifteen people tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab on Sunday, a day when Mansa became the seventh district of the state’s total 22 to have no active case of the virus. Punjab’s tally has reached 2,060. Another five cases were reported from Amritsar, but the state’s Covid-19 bulletin only showed one case from here. Also, 28 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. Of these, 18 were from Ludhiana, three from Fazilka, two each from Nawanshahr, Patiala and Mansa, and one from Faridkot. According to the bulletin, seven cases were from Pathankot, four from Hoshiarpur, two from Gurdaspur and one each from Amritsar and Jalandhar. Except for one new case each from Amritsar, Pathankot and Jalandhar, the other 12 are contacts of positive patients. Mansa became a green zone as its last two patients were discharged from the civil hospital. The cured patients are a man and a woman who tested positive on May 10, Mansa civil surgeon Dr Lal Chand said. An Amritsar district official said the five patients included a deportee with history of travel to Afghanistan. Another person found to be positive lives in Rani Ka Bagh locality, but runs a bakery shop at Chowk Phullawala, which is close to Katra Dullo from where four cases were reported. Punjab minister O P Soni lives in Rani Ka Bagh. The third case is of a man jailed at Division B police station. It is yet to be ascertained how he acquired the infection. Two cases are from Chananke village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mansa-7th-dist-to-go-green-but-punjab-tally-rises-by-15/articleshow/75955586.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maha police save teen about to end life in Bengal||Nagpur: A 19-year-old student of Kalyani University was on the verge ending her life at her residence at Barrackpore near Kolkata when Maharashtra cyber intelligence and analytical cell in Mumbai spotted her suicide note on social media and immediately alerted it’s West Bengal counterpart on Saturday. Blissfully unaware of what the teenager was planning inside the bedroom, the family was shocked when the local cops landed at the residence. The girl was counselled by the police who had managed to trace the location of the girl with the help of Maharashtra police cyber security cell. Within an hour of the girl posting her suicide note on social media, the college girl from Barrackpore was saved in whisker of time. Special IG, Maharashtra cyber security cell Yashasvi Yadav said the suicide note was detected by special software and spotted by his team. “We took 20 minutes to trace the girl and her address. Our team located the Barrackpore cyber cell experts and urged them to rush,” he said. Yadav has announced a reward of Rs50,000 to his team and appreciation letter to Barrackpore police. “We had sent her details to sub-inspector Satyajeet Mondal, who took it up from there. The girl’s life was saved at the last moment,” said the special IG. The teenager, apparently miffed at parents, had posted her suicide note on social media mentioning that she was being ‘backstabbed’ by many and her family members had been accusing her of being morally degraded which she was not. The suicide note, which ends with a good bye, underlined the depressed state of mind of the teenager who also appeals to the society not to judge someone who is already heartbroken and has none to look forward to help. She also states that her stepmother has been rude and harsh with her. Joint CP, Barrackpore, Ajay Thakur, said the girl was disappointed after her parents had chided her for excessive use of Internet among other things. “We had alerted our women police staffers who along with others had counselled the family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-police-save-teen-about-to-end-life-in-bengal/articleshow/75956878.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Cong: Maya is now BJP spokesperson||Lucknow: Attacking Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati, Congress leaders on Sunday said that ‘behanaji’ has become an undeclared spokesperson of the BJP and her inclination towards the BJP remains despite rising incidents of atrocities against dalits. Hitting back at the BSP chief Mayawati a day after she described Rahul Gandhi’s meeting with migrant workers a ‘drama’, party national general secretary PL Punia said: “The language ‘Twitter behanji’ is using these days clearly indicates that she makes the press note for the BJP and sends it.” Punia further said that it also appears that Mayawati is angry at Congress party’s efforts to help migrant workers. “I think she is angry over the proactive efforts of the Congress and its general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to help the needy and poor migrants,” he added. Party’s Scheduled Caste chairman Brijlal Khabri accused the BSP of having a ‘tacit understanding’ with the BJP. “It seems that there is a tacit understanding between the BSP and the BJP, as both have termed Rahul Gandhi’s meeting with poor labourers as drama. In a few days, Mayawati has become an undeclared spokesperson of the BJP.” In response to a question, Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Misra slammed Mayawati for blaming the party for migrants’ crisis. “Blaming the Congress, which has been out of power in UP since 1989, is wrong. In fact, many PSU were sold whenever the BSP formed government in the state. It also led to exodus of workers,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-maya-is-now-bjp-spokesperson/articleshow/75956877.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||‘Cases against Lallu politically motivated’||Lucknow: The Congress party on Sunday said that cases against UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu were politically motivated and demanded immediate withdrawal of fake cases and release of Lallu from jail. “Lallu was booked for helping migrant workers and labourers returning to their homes in UP. The entire act of putting him in jail shows the high high-handedness of the UP government,” said senior party leader Rajeev Shukla in an online interaction with mediapersons. He was referring to the buses' row between the UP government and Congress leadership. On a question related to a ‘confrontational politics between the Congress and the BJP’, Shukla stated: “There is no confrontation with the state government. From the time we applied for permission, our intention was just to help migrants. We did not indulge in politics of any kind.” “He was arrested twice – first in Agra where he sat on a demonstration to protest delay in granting of permission to allow entry of buses in the state. He was allowed to go after bail. But before he could leave, he was re-arrested in connection with the Congress’ standoff with the state government. Such a misconduct by the state government with a two-time MLA is undemocratic and uncalled for,” said Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra. Congress leader from western UP Pankaj Malik, against whom a case has been registered for bringing buses to Noida, said, “We are not afraid of any case, we will fight it out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cases-against-lallu-politically-motivated/articleshow/75956897.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lockdowns, rising heat correlate to Covid-19 case growth dip||AHMEDABAD: A correlation study of the lockdowns and rising temperatures with average of daily growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the state has revealed that the daily growth rate dipped significantly as temperatures rose. The study was carried out by an Ahmedabad liver transplant surgeon. The study involving 6,625 Covid-19 cases and 479 deaths found that the average daily growth rate of Covid-19 cases dipped from as high as 78% in the initial period of the lockdown, beginning March 25, to 8.32% by May 6. The average temperature during this period rose from 34°C to 44°C. When correlated with corresponding four lockdowns, the average dip in Covid-19 cases’ growth rate was from 15.30% to 3.46%. In fact, a similar trend was observed by Dr Bhavin Vasavada, the liver surgeon at a city-based hospital, when it came to the growth rate of positive cases being reported each day. Towards the beginning of the lockdown, the growth rate of patients turning Covid-19 positive was 16%. By the fourth phase of the lockdown, the figure hovered between 6.5% and 6.8%. “Let me be clear, it’s a correlation study of lockdown days and temperature rise that saw a dipping daily growth rate of Covid-19 cases,” said Vasavada. “I have not attributed these factors as reasons for the dipping Covid-19 growth rate. That’s a matter of scientific investigation.” He added, “Since it’s a new virus and many of us have no immunity against it, it must be one of the many reasons why there is rapid spread. But heat and dry conditions do play a role in curtailing respiratory droplets and fomites, which are essential for viral transmission.” Vasada had taken Ahmedabad’s temperature as reference, “as maximum cases, almost 80%, were being reported from the city.” A senior health expert told TOI that an epidemiologist should evaluate this correlation study. “It is worth noting that when any epidemic spreads, the day-on-day growth rate may decrease,” the expert said. “It is also to be seen how the Covid-19 spread would have turned out had it happened during winter months. Similar correlation studies should be analyzed in Europe, China, or the Americas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdowns-rising-heat-correlate-to-case-growth-dip/articleshow/75957066.cms||Paul John
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada builders unable to book sand online, business hit||VIJAYAWADA: Sand supply has become a source of concern again for builders across Vijayawada city. Although a major part of the city has been denotified as non-containment area, builders claimed that the sand portal of APMDC is not accepting orders from Vijayawada city stating that it is a containment area. The large number of daily labourers in the city is depended on the real estate sector. Most of them lost their livelihood owing to the the lockdown, which brought constructions to a grinding halt. But recently, the state government exempted several sectors from the lockdown to boost business activity. Consequently, construction work in rural areas and green zones picked up. But the picture is the opposite in the city. Despite only seven containment zones being notified in Vijayawada, sand supply has been stalled across the city. “Sand shortage has badly affected the construction industry. We are feeding hundreds of migrant workers from Chhattisgarh who came to work at our site. The government is not permitting us to book sand online. It is showing Vijayawada as a red zone. The Telangana government is supplying sand even in containment zones and promoting construction activity,” said R V Swamy Credai Vijayawada unit president. “We have submitted a representation to the district and state authorities and waiting for their approval. The government should respond immediately and allow online sand booking for non-containment areas in Vijayawada. This is because a few middlemen have already started making money by taking advantage of the situation in the city. Special action teams had seized a few tractors transporting sand illegally recently. Builders are requesting the mining authorities and special action teams to take stringent action against such middlemen,” he added. Meanwhile, mining authorities have begun shifting sand to the stockyards to meet the demand during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijayawada-builders-unable-to-book-sand-online-biz-hit/articleshow/75954657.cms||Venu Lanka
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Lawyers face difficulties with e-filing of petitions||AURANGABAD: Courts across the country have been opting for e-filing as well as hearing through video conferencing in view of the nationwide lockdown. However, lawyers are facing serious issues in e-filing of cases due to technical reasons. Lawyers have claimed that they are facing problems in filling and submitting of advocate registration forms. “User registration’s malfunctioning is proving to be the biggest hurdle in e-filing of cases. We have raised the issue with the high court registrar, but it is yet to be addressed,,” said lawyer Prashant Nagargoje. The technical issues in the e-filing process are preventing scores of lawyers practising at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court in e-filing of petitions. Lawyers said that they are being forced to turn down meritorious petitions,for not being able to e-file the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lawyers-face-difficulties-with-e-filing-of-petitions/articleshow/75952569.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 25, 2020||Amritsar||Farm fire cases may hit 5-year high in Punjab||BATHINDA: With 452 more wheat straw burning cases being reported on Sunday, the total count of stubble burning in Punjab is heading towards maximum in the last five years. The latest incidents push the filed fires post wheat harvest season in the state this year to 13,756 — only 680 less than the 14,436 cases reported in 2017, which is highest in the last 5 years. The burning cases on Sunday were recorded in all the 22 districts, with maximum 85 recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 75 in Jalandhar district. The lowest two cases each were recorded in Barnala and SAS Nagar districts, whereas 3 cases were recorded in Mansa, 4 each in Ferozepur, Faridkot and Ropar, 5 in Bathinda, 8 in Sangrur and 9 in Muktsar district. According to the data compiled by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, till now Moga district accounts for the maximum number of cases at 1,224, followed by 1,173 in Amritsar, while SAS Nagar with 37 cases and Ropar with 65 cases are the only districts where burning cases have been in double digits till now. The field fires are already way past the cases recorded in 2016, when these were 10,732 incidents, 10,907 in 2018 and 11701 burning cases were recorded in 2019. Punjab pollution control board member secretary Karunesh Garg said that fines have been slapped on those found putting fields on fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farm-fire-cases-may-hit-5-yr-high/articleshow/75955600.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolhapur||CPR hospital dean transfer confusion continues||KOLHAPUR: Confusion continues at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital over dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye’s transfer. Gajbhiye was asked to move to Jalgaon on Friday. On Saturday, Gajbhiye said she had made a request to the state health directorate seeking to continue as CPR hospital’s dean and expected a revised order. However, even on Sunday, the revised order or any other of communication was issued from the state pertaining to the transfer. “I am waiting for the revised order,” Gajbhiye told TOI. Meanwhile, the transfer of Jaiprakash Ramanand to CPR hospital from Dhule hospital as dean was halted. This order as issued on Sunday. It has been learnt that local politicians opposed Ramanand’s posting as new dean of CPR hospital. Ramanand had earlier served as the acting dean of CPR hospital and it is claimed that there was constant bickering over several issues between him and local politicians then. One of the politicians is claimed to have leveraged his clout to cancel Ramanand’s appointment. Like Saturday, Gajbhiye did not take up routine work at the hospital on Sunday. She, however, said that she will attend the discharge of some covid patients on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cpr-hospital-dean-transfer-confusion-continues/articleshow/75952582.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Pvt airline suspends flight till June 1||Nashik: The private airline, Trujet, has suspended its Nashik-Ahmedabad flight till June 1 as the state government did not allow domestic flight operations to resume in the state, said officials from Trujet On Friday, the Trujet had announced to start Nashik-Ahmedabad flights from Monday for which the bookings had already begun Fifteen passengers had booked the Nashik-Ahmedabad flight scheduled on Monday. The airfare was Rs 2,390 per passenger. “We will also refund the amount for the bookings made by the passengers,” said the officials. The Air India’s subsidiary Alliance Air had already announced that it will take a call on resuming operations from Nashik after June 1 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-airline-suspends-flight-till-june-1/articleshow/75951604.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 25, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 rate in Pune increases to 14 days||PUNE: The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the city — the number of days in which the number of patients doubles — has gone up, according to data released by the Pune Municipal Corporation. According to the PMC report, the number of cases doubled at an average of every six days in March, when the first case was detected. Since then, the report indicates, the number of cases took longer to double, standing at 14 days now. PMC officials some the increase is a good sign, as it indicates that the speed at which the disease spreads has reduced. “One important aim in sealing the areas was to break the chain. The increase in doubling rate can be seen as testimony to the success to this move,” a senior civic official said. Another civic official said the Peth areas and slum pockets are witnessing a higher number of cases compared to other parts of the city. Currently, 65 areas are in containment zones. “The civic administration took some steps with an aim to contain the spread, and our measures have been in the right direction,” municipal Shekhar Gaikwad said. As per the report, between March 2 and May 21, there has been a consistent rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. On May 21, the number cases in Pune city stood at 4,017. However, a closer reading of the data shows that the average number of daily cases has, in fact, increased. For instance, It took just four days for the number of cases to go from 64 (April 2) to 174 (April 6) — an average of 27.5 cases per day. It took 14 days for the number to increase from 2,146 (May 7) to 4,017 (May 21), but the daily average has increased to nearly 134. “It (the increase in daily average) can be attributed to the increase in testing and the consequent rise in positive cases. More people are getting screened now — around 200 a day in March to 1,500 daily this month,” a senior civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-rate-in-pune-increases-to-14-days/articleshow/75956892.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 of 24 deaths on Sunday from western part of city||Ahmedabad: The western part of the city saw six deaths of the total 24 Covid-19 deaths reported by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Sunday. Of the total deaths, 11 people had barely spent one to four days in the hospital before succumbing to the virus. A 45-year-old lady from Isanpur died on Saturday the same day she was admitted to Civil Hospital, while another 55-year-old woman had spent a day at SMS hospital. There were five people who had no co-morbid conditions. Most of the patients suffered from diabetes and hypertension. There was one case each of mental illness, kidney problem, thyroid and multiple myeloma. One death was reported from Jodhpur locality where a 75-year-old man succumbed to the disease. In Chandkheda two women, one aged 62 and another 55, succumbed to the disease. In Sabarmati, a 52-year-old woman died of Covid-19. One more case of Covid-19 was reported in Bopal where a 37-year-old resident of Shree Sharmnam Society tested positive. In all, seven cases including three cases from Dholka, two from Daskroi taluka including Bopal and two were reported from Sanand. While in the outskirts of municipal limits, a fresh Covid-19 case was registered in Bopal area taking the total number to 20 cases of which two women from the area had died during treatment. Ahmedabad district has so far reported 162 cases and nine deaths. Of the two cases reported in Sanand one was from Sanand town, while the second was from Changodar industrial area. The officials said that there are 26 patients who are still under treatment, while 122 have been discharged from Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-of-24-deaths-on-sunday-from-western-part-of-city/articleshow/75957058.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Hisar, Sirsa refuse to count patient||Hisar: Details of a Covid-19 patient have not been recorded either in Hisar, where he works or in Sirsa, where he is from. Both have passed the buck on to the other district. Clearly, the local administrations of both Sirsa and Hisar are interested more in improving their total count than give a true picture of the ground reality. The employee of a private hospital in Hisar tested Covid-19 positive on May 22. He lives in a paying guest accommodation in Subhash Nagar area of Hisar, which was declared a containment zone. Despite this, the Hisar health department refused to include the case in the list of Covid-19 patients on the grounds that he is a permanent resident of Sirsa. On the other hand, Sirsa health department also excluded his name from the district Covid-19 list. Hisar civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said since the patient belongs to Sirsa, he was not included in their list of Covid-19 patients. “The Sirsa health department has been informed about it. Apart from this, a Covid-19 positive Border Security Force (BSF) trooper, who came to Hisar from Delhi, has also not been included in the list of Hisar Covid-19 patients,” Dr Sharma said. Acting civil surgeon, Sirsa, Dr Viresh Bhushan said the patient did not visit his native place in the last few days. “In such a situation, there is no point in creating a containment zone here, so his name was not included in the list of Sirsa Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hisar-sirsa-refuse-to-count-patient/articleshow/75955607.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||24th death in Akola, 52 new cases in Vid, many from rural areas||Nagpur: A Covid-19 death was reported in Vidarbha for the fourth day in a row on Sunday when a 60-yr-old woman undergoing treatment at Akola GMCH from May 20 died. This was the 24 death in Akola, and 51st of Vidarbha region. Apart from the death, Akola recorded 19 new confirmed positive cases, highest in Vidarbha for third consecutive day. Amravati – the second worst hit district after Akola — recorded 12 new cases. With Nagpur (6), Chandrapur (6), Gondia (4), Bhandara (3), and Gadchiroli (2), Vidarbha completed half century of new cases for the fifth time in last 8 days. Total cases reached 1,247. All cases in Chandrapur, Gondia, Bhandara and Gadchiroli are returnees from Mumbai, Pune and other hotspots. They reside in rural areas of these districts. Of the 11 districts in region, Yavatmal, Washim, Buldhana, and Wardha recorded no new case on Sunday. However, a labourer walking from Pune towards Chhattisgarh died in Wardha on Sunday. His swab samples were taken and reports are awaited. With 15 patients, including a 5-year-old girl from Buldhana, and three police personnel from Nagpur, discharged from hospitals, total number of patients recovered of Covid-19 reached 766 in Vidarbha. The recovery rate is about 61.52%, way higher than state’s 30% and national 45%. Sunday began with bad news from Akola, where a 60-yr-old woman from Malipura area – one of the hotspots – died of Covid-19. The woman had tested positive on May 20. Akola also recorded 19 new cases. Ten men were discharged from hospital, but asked to stay in institutional quarantine under observation for 24 hours. A spike of 12 Covid-19 positive cases put Amravati district administration on high alert. They ordered micro planning in containment zones and listing of all chronic blood pressure and diabetes patients there, besides taking swabs of individuals down with fever for five or more days. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur held an emergency meeting with the administration. Collector Shailesh Naval toured all isolation centres, and ordered X-rays of all symptomatic cases. A 45-year-old nurse at the Covid hospital here and a 5-year-old girl are among the 12 who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 164, according to an official release. The nurse, the 11th corona warrior and fourth from the hospital to contract the virus, had her swab taken when she was quarantined after being on duty for 10 days at the Covid hospital. Her swab tested positive today. Besides the nurse, three members of a family from Habib Nagar, females aged 5 and 30, and a male aged 33, also tested positive Sunday morning. They were put in institutional quarantine after a 32-year-old male in the family tested positive on May 21. The fifth case of the day is also from Habib Nagar, a female aged 65, an official said. With four cases on Sunday, Habib Nagar now has eight cases, including two recovered cases. In the evening, seven more tested positive. They included a 19-year-old from Masanganj, the hotspot’s 24th case; a man (30) and a woman (65) from Shiv Nagar, which has earlier given three cases; an 11-year-old girl from Al Hilal Colony, which reported a death on Saturday, and males aged 22 and 54m and a female aged 36 from Habib Nagar. Amravati district’s count of 164 now includes 15 deaths, 76 recovered, 71 active cases and two referred to GMCH, Nagpur. “We received 171 reports today and 159 tested negative while 12 were positive,” Naval said. In Chandrapur, six patients tested positive, taking the total to 21. Civil surgeon Dr CS Rathod said the new positive patients include a 25-year-old youth from village Varvat, a 25-year-old woman from Ghugus, a person (28) from Durgapur, and a 27-year-old male contact of positive patient from Chiroli. Their samples were collected on May 22 and reports arrived late on Saturday night. Those from Varvat and Durgapur had returned from Mumbai, while the Ghugus woman had come back from Pune. Two more patients tested positive on Sunday. They include a 24-year-old youth from Balaji Ward in city. He had returned from Pune and was under home quarantine. His samples were taken after he developed symptoms, turned out positive. The other patient is mother of positive patient from Visapur and likely to have been infected from her son. DEATH TRAP May 21 | 68-yr-old died in Akola May 22 | 2 deaths in Akola, 1 in Amravati May 23 | 2 deceased tested +ve in Buldhana, 1 died in Amravati May 24 | 60-yr-old woman died in Akola||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24th-death-in-akola-52-new-cases-in-vid-many-from-rural-areas/articleshow/75956902.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 25, 2020||Pune||Despite a pandemic, doctors keep up organ transplants in Pune||PUNE: Three people in Pune have benefitted from the organs of a security guard who was declared brain dead by doctors recently. Family members of the 40-year-old man, a resident of Dehu road, made the decision to donate the liver and kidneys. The transplants were carried out on Saturday, May 23. It was the third organ donation in Pune that led to successful transplants during the Covid-19 lockdown. A total of three livers and four kidneys have been donated and transplanted in recepients since restrictions began on March 24. The guard was rushed to the DY Patil hospital in Pimpri a day after he started complaining of severe headaches. He was soon diagnosed with intracranial bleeding. Doctors at the hospital said he could not be revived despite their best efforts and on May 22, he was declared brain dead. “He was the sole earner in the family. His wife agreed to donate his vital organs, including liver and kidneys,” said a doctor at the DY Patil hospital. According to norms set by the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), the apex body that allocates donated organs as per the waiting list, the man’s liver was given to a patient enrolled with the Ruby Hall Clinic and his two kidneys were allocated to two patients: one enrolled with the DY Patil Medical College and hospital and the other with the Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital. “The liver recipient is a 60-year-old resident of Pune who hails from Rajkot in Gujarat. He is liver cancer patient who urgently needed a transplant,” said Aarti Gokhale, the transplant coordinator of the ZTCC. The donor’s two kidneys have also been successfully transplanted into two patients. “They are also doing well,” Gokhale said. The first organ donation during the lockdown took place at Ruby Hall Clinic on May 14. The donated liver was transplanted into a patient at Sahyadri hospital the very same day. The second organ donation took place at Inamdar hospital in Fatimanagar, when members of a 36-year-old bank employee (declared brain dead), donated his liver and kidneys that benefited three patients in Pune and Mumbai on Thursday, May 21. The bank employee was a resident of Wanowrie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-have-carried-out-3-organ-transplants-since-lockdown/articleshow/75956899.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Report on Civil Hospital to Gujarat HC in week’||GANDHINAGAR: A day after the high court reprimanded the state government over poor healthcare at the Civil Hospital at Asarwa, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is also the state health minister, said that the government will respond to the high court’s observations within a week. On Saturday, in a stinging indictment of the state government, the Gujarat high court had said that it appeared as if the Civil Hospital at Asarwa was worse than a dungeon. Not happy with the facilities being provided for patients during the pandemic, the HC asked the state government to set things right and submit a report within a week. Patel said on Sunday, “The state government had a detailed discussion with advocate general Kamal Trivedi. I have visited the Civil Hospital five times in two months and discussed with the doctors and experts. Core committee meetings were held three times under the chairmanship of the chief minister.” Patel added that the government was studying the observations made by the high court. “The CM, chief secretary, law minister, health secretary, other senior officials and me have reviewed the matter and we have had a detailed discussion. The government will file its reply in the court next week,” he said. Stating that he did not want to comment on matters which are under consideration of the court, Patel said, “I have visited the Civil Hospital five times in the past two months. On three of these occasions, medical experts and specialists met me in the hospital campus and we discussed how we could serve the people better,” Patel said. Nitin Patel said that he will be 65 years old next month and although it is not advisable for elderly persons to venture out of house, he has never avoided going out and visiting hospitals. “Even my family members have requested me to stay at home, but I have never hesitated in visiting hospitals and meeting doctors in public interest,” Patel claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/report-on-civil-hospital-to-hc-in-week/articleshow/75957079.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP to give ration cards to all migrants||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced to provide ration cards to all migrants and daily wagers, underlining his government’s resolve to address the woes of hundreds of workers who have been forced to migrate during the nationwide lockdown. Presiding over a meeting of team-11 at his residence, Yogi directed the officials to expedite the issuance of ration cards to over 22 lakh migrants, who have returned to UP. Till date, a state government spokesperson said, around 8 lakh migrants had been issued ration cards under ‘Tatkal’ scheme. Other migrants, who have ration cards in other states, are being covered under ration portability, he said. Officials said more than 22 lakh migrants have already arrived in the state via 1,100 special trains. The spokesperson said UP received the maximum number of migrants across the country. “The government sees migrants as a strength of the state,” he said. Yogi also asked the officials to ensure that migrants are provided ration packets and Rs 1,000 each. The move comes even as the state government resorts to profiling of migrants for their skills and provide them jobs. The move to provide ration cards to migrants comes close on the heels of the government drive to provide free ration to labourers and daily wagers hit by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-give-ration-cards-to-all-migrants/articleshow/75956903.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||Policymaking is not our job, we will do what is mandated to us: DIG Irshad Wali||BHOPAL: The frontline Covid warriors — city cops are efficiently enforcing the ongoing lockdown since the past two months. However, since the start of lockdown 4.0, many believe that cops have loosened their grip as a large number of people are seen on city streets violating norms. TOI spoke to DIG Irshad Waliover the issue and how cops are strategising for the future when the lockdown will eventually end. Excerpts During lockdown 4.0, people are seen out on roads. What are the challenges that cops are facing? n Many establishments such as sweetshops, ice cream and milk parlours, grocery stores, private and government offices have opened and that is why there are more people on roads. Cops have been constantly checking people but most stopped are govt staff or on emergency duty. It is very difficult to keep track of everybody and people should exercise self-discipline and follow lockdown rules. Many are of view that peak spike in corona cases will take place between June and July. What strategy has police planned to deal with such a situation? n Policy making is not the task of police. We will act as per rules mandated. When more relaxations are made, we will focus on enforcing the lockdown during 7pm to 7am and on containment areas. Habitual criminals are taking benefit of lockdown relaxation. In masks it will be difficult for cops to identify them. How will cops deal with the situation? We will monitor and track them using criminal tracking techniques. We have already started working on it and identified many such history- sheeters. Their record will be made, and man-to-man monitoring will increase. Crime rate has gone down drastically during the lockdown though theft incidents from locked shops and houses are being reported. How do you plan to control such crimes? Like I said, we will use criminal tracking techniques and monitor such elements. Many such offenders have already been arrested and those who are on the run will also be nabbed. In the last 2 months of the lockdown, many cops have been infected by Covid. They are working in a containment areas like Jehangirabad. What is being done to keep the police force motivated? Duty hours of the force have been reduced and weekly offs are being given to policemen, including gazetted officers. Senior police officers are constantly interacting with field staff. Officers visit the places where policemen are staying away from their families and talk to them and boost their morale. Good work is being rewards and officers are maintaining personal touch with field staff. What security arrangements have been made for Eid? We had regular dialogues with the Muslim community and religious leaders. They have appealed to people to offer ‘Eid Namaz’ at home. Regular announcements through police PA systems are being made. Social media is being monitored carefully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/policymaking-is-not-our-job-we-will-do-what-is-mandated-to-us/articleshow/75956907.cms||Sudeept Mishra
May 25, 2020||Pune||PMR registers 258 new cases in Pune, seven deaths in PMC limits||PUNE: As many as 258 positive cases were registered in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Sunday, taking the coronavirus patient tally to 5,694. The single-day coronavirus case tally had came down to 269 in the region on Saturday after hitting a high of 358 the previous day. Seven more positive people succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the city on Sunday, taking the toll in the region to 272. Of these, 242 fatalities are in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits alone. The total number of positive cases has gone up to 4,782 in the PMC limits. A senior official in the PMC’s health department said 77 people were allowed to go home on Sunday after they recovered from the infection. “Over 2,560 people have so far been discharged from hospitals,” the official said. Of the seven casualties on Sunday, four were men and three women. Among them were a 21-year-old Dayas Plot resident, who was suffering from respiratory problem. Besides, a 63-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, a 71-year-old woman from Ganesh Peth, a 56-year-old woman from Salisbury Park, a 71- -year-old man from Yerawada and a 60-year-old woman from Shankar Housing society died. The seventh casualty was a 67-year-old man from Solapur, who was staying at Nana Peth. The officials said most of these patients had comorbidity factors such as blood pressure, diabetes, cardiac and renal problems and respiratory issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-registers-258-new-cases-in-pune-seven-deaths-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/75956906.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man awaiting test result flees SVP||Ahmedabad: A man thought to have Covid-19 on Friday ran away from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (SVP) Hospital in Ellisbridge. The hospital is run by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Resident medical officer (RMO) of SVP Hospital, Dr Kuldeep Joshi, filed a complaint with the Ellisbridge police station on Saturday. Joshi stated that a doctor on duty found on Friday that a patient named Ayyub Shaikh, 30, a resident of Christia Society in Sarkhej, was not present at B-1 ward where he was admitted on Friday morning. Joshi said that Shaikh showed symptoms of Covid-19, such as cough and fever. He was under observation and his report was pending, the FIR said. “On Friday at around 10pm, I was informed by a doctor on duty that the patient was not on his bed or the ward,” said Joshi in the FIR. “Later, we checked other areas of the hospital, but did not find him anywhere.” Joshi also stated, “We inquired with his family members at his home but he did not reach home. His phone was switched off.” This incident raised questions about the security at SVP Hospital. Generally, a missing person complaint is filed in such cases. But the RMO has filed a complaint of negligent act which may spread infection. The Epidemic Act has also been invoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-awaiting-test-result-flees-svp/articleshow/75957248.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad records 37 new cases||AURANGABAD: As many as 37 Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,285. Meawhile, a 63-year-old patient from Nyaynagar and a 51-year-old from Town Hall in Aurangabad city succumbed to the infection on Sunday, taking the death toll in Aurangabad district to 50. Authorities informed that 27 patients, around 10 of them residents of Hussain Colony, were discharged from a dedicated Covid-care hospital in Chikalthana in Aurangabad city on Sunday. In addition, two patients with comorbid conditions who were taking treatment for Covid-10 at Government Medical College and Hospital were also discharged. Authorities from the health department said that of the 79 Covid-19 patients being treated at GMCH, 69 of them are stable and showing signs of recovery while the condition of the remaining 10 patients is critical. While 619 patients have completely recovered and been discharged in Aurangabad district, 616 are still undergoing treatment. Till Sunday, 1,724 confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported in Marathwada. As per official record by the state public health department, Aurangabad health division has reported 1,446 cases including 47 deaths whereas Latur division has reported 226 such cases and eight deaths due to Covid 19. In Aurangabad division, the municipal limits of Aurangabad has the highest number of Covid-19 cases (1,285) followed by Hingoli (112), Jalna (56), Aurangabad district (23), Parbhani district (17) and the municipal limits of Parbhani (5). In Latur health division, the municipal limits of Nanded reported 83 cases followed by Latur district (67), Osmanabad (31), Beed (26), Nanded district (15) and the municipal limits of Latur (4). Health authorities said off late, fresh Covid-19 cases were being reported from mainly Aurangabad, Hingoli and Jalna. “The rural areas of the region continue to witnessed new Covid-19 cases with several such patients having travelled from other cities after the lockdown norms were relaxed,” said a senior health official. The district administrations from Marathwada have asked people having travel history to remain in quarantine and voluntarily come for health screening if any flu-like symptoms are found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-records-37-new-cases/articleshow/75952604.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman tries killing self, brother kills her husband||VIJAYAWADA: A man killed his brother-in-law after his sister attempted to commit suicide by consuming pesticide at Ponnur in Guntur district late on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Ankamma Rao, of Inturu village. According to Ponnur inspector M Nageswara Rao, Ankamma Rao’s wife Lakshmi Tirupatamma attempted to commit suicide on Friday following a fight with her husband. She was admitted to a private hospital. On Saturday night, Tirupatamma’s brother Venkatesh came to see his sister. After seeing her on the hospital bed, Venkatesh went out of the ward and stabbed his brother-in-law Ankamma Rao who was standing outside the emergency ward. He then fled from the spot with a friend. Doctors rushed to the rescue of Ankamma Rao but he died while being treated. Cops have booked a case against himand launched a search for Venkatesh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-tries-killing-self-brother-kills-her-husband/articleshow/75954682.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Want PK again? CMO calls Cong MLAs||Jalandhar: Even as the Congress government in Punjab is facing questions about its performance from its own elected representatives, the chief minister’s office (CMO) has started calling party MLAs to ask if they want poll strategist Prashant Kishor as consultant in the 2022 assembly elections too. Congress sources said several MLAs received these calls on Saturday from a close aide of chief minster Amarinder Singh. The aide asked the MLAs if Kishor should be hired this time too. When contacted, a few MLAs confirmed to TOI that they had received such a call. “It was surprising. The query came out of blue and at a time when our government is facing questions about performance and delivering on promises made in 2017,” said a MLA. “I asked what these promises, which we had made after being advised by Prashant Kishor,” said a Congress MLA on the condition of anonymity. “It seems to be a ploy to diffuse the discontentment. Through these calls, an impression is being given that next elections would be contested under Captain Amarinder Singh’s leadership and MLAs should simply stop making any noises or expressing dissent,” said another MLA. Even as there is discontentment in MLAs, they are unable to organize themselves, mainly due to the trust deficit among themselves. “CM’s camp is aware of this trust deficit and lack of strong sense of purpose. They are unable to go beyond a certain point. Some of them can be having their own weak points and competition among themselves. In such a situation such calls from CM’s office would further confuse the MLAs,” another incumbent party MLA said. A senior Congress functionary said after CM managed to pull away six MLAs amid brewing discontentment in September last year by appointing them as advisors, they remain suspicious about one another. “Their failure to act collectively has been a major comforting factor for CM’s camp,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/want-pk-again-cmo-calls-cong-mlas/articleshow/75955611.cms||IP Singh
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Jail officer’s guard +ve, Faridabad hits 209 as Hry gets 53 new cases||Chandigarh/Kurukshetra/Karnal: The Covid-19 count of Haryana reached 1,184 on Sunday as 53 people, including 36 in NCR districts, tested positive for coronavirus infection. Two more cases were reported from Kurushetra, but these were yet to be added to the state’s evening bulletin on Covid-19. Fifteen patients were discharged from hospitals too. Now, the state has 403 active cases. Fourteen new cases were reported in Faridabad, where the total tally is 209. Gurgaon got nine new cases, and its tally is 271 now. Among other districts, eight cases were from Karnal, seven from Hisar, five each from Sonipat and Rewari, two from Jhajjar and one each has come from Kaithal, Rohtak and Panipat. In Kurukshetra, the gunman of the district jail superintendent and a woman from Adhon village tested positive. Kurukshetra civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said the 65-year-old woman had arrived from her sister’s house in Delhi on Thursday and her sample was taken the next day. “Samples of 11 members of her family have been collected here. We have written to Delhi administration to check four of her family there,” he said. He added they had collected the samples of four contacts of the 37-year-old gunman of district jail superintendent. “The officer was also tested recently and found free of coronavirus infection,” he said. Both patients have been isolated at MMU Hospital, Mullana, in Ambala district. Karnal chief medical officer Dr Ashwani Ahuja said the new patients included a 30-year-old man, 32-year-old woman, an 8 year-old-girl, and a 6-year-old boy from a family in Chaman Garden. Three members of this family tested positive for Covid-19 on May 23. The fifth case is ofa 37-year-old man from Rajiv Nagar, who had returned from Delhi on May 22. All five patients have been admitted to Mullana Medical College for treatment. Details of the other two patients were yet to be ascertained. At present, there are 16,471 persons in the quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jail-officers-guard-ve-faridabad-hits-209-as-hry-gets-53-new-cases/articleshow/75955646.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||PMPML set to resume operations, customer footfall a concern||PUNE: With the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) set to begin its services in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area from May 26, authorities said they were apprehensive on whether the buses will see enough passengers’ footfall. “While all arrangements have been made, we are not expecting a large number of passengers which automatically hits the revenue aspect of the transport body. Instructions have come that the buses will move only in the PCMC jurisdiction and cannot enter the jurisdiction of the Pune Municipal Corporation. Altogether, we plan to start with 50 buses while maintaining proper social distancing in the vehicles. We hope that we get a decent number of passengers,” a senior PMPML official told TOI. It is after two months that the PMPML’s regular services will begin. Since the lockdown, the transport body has been plying a limited number of buses to cater to the essential service providers. “According to the regulations, only 21 passengers will be allowed in each of the buses with window and aisle seats in alternate rows marked for the passengers. Children below 10 years and those above 65 years will not be allowed to travel in these buses. The buses will be plying on a total of 30 routes in the PCMC area from the depots at Nigdi, Bhosari and Primpri. We are, however, waiting for things to further ease up so that the service can be started in the PMC’s jurisdiction too which is the main source of revenue for the PMPML. Moreover, several offices are still closed and the same can be said about the educational institutions. Under such circumstances, we doubt we will get many passengers,” the official said. The buses will connect to areas including Bhosari, Kamshet, Dehugaon, Chakan, Alandi, Hinjewadi phase-3 etc. The official said that people entering the buses will have to wear masks and the buses will be disinfected and sanitized regularly There will be teams at the depots and also at the bus stands to clean the buses. “People at the bus stands will have to follow social distancing norms. It is a good sign that we are reviving our services after a gap of more than two months. However, PMC should also consider the gradual start of movement of PMPML buses,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-set-to-resume-ops-customer-footfall-a-concern/articleshow/75956912.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 25, 2020||Meerut||After Africa & Pakistan, swarms of locusts threaten crops in north India; UP sounds alert||BIJNOR: Leaving a trail of destruction in parts of Rajasthan and MP, a vicious army of desert locusts has reached Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi and Agra, prompting the government to declare a state-wide alert. The farmers and governments in MP and Rajasthan-- from where the crop-eating pests entered the country from Pakistan-- are already struggling to contain the menace. Drifting in the sky like smoke, the swarms travel from one place to the other during the day when the winds are favourable. When flying, the swarms are spread over a kilometre area, overcasting the sky. According to agriculture department officials, a big swarm of locusts can eat acres of crop within an hour. It comes at a time when the country is already grappling with coronavirus epidemic and the pests attack can threaten the food security. According to the agriculture department officials, locusts eat green plants. They are a problem because swarming locusts will strip an area of its vegetation including the crops. Locusts very often live singly or in small groups, sometimes the numbers build up and they can do a great deal of damage to the crops. To deal with the situation, the UP’s agriculture department has launched a massive drive to educate farmers on how to keep the locusts menace at a bay. In Agra, the district administration has deployed 204 tractors mounted with chemical sprays. Earlier, the Locust Warning Organization (LWO) of the Union ministry of agriculture and farmer welfare had warned of attack in May-June this year. The first locust attack this year was reported in Ganganagar, a north Rajasthan district bordering Pakistan, on May 11. On May 20, they were spotted in around 100 kilometres away from the border of the UP with Rajasthan. In five days, swarms of locust covered a distance of around 200 kilometres from Ajmer to Dausa district of Rajasthan. Deputy director of UP’s agriculture department, JP Chaudhary, said, “Locust swarms came from Pakistan. They are flying towards UP, passing through Rajasthan and MP. At present, these swarms are near Jhansi and near bordering area of Madhya Pradesh along Agra. Principal secretary of agriculture department has put entire staff of on alert. We have launched awareness programmes to sensitize farmers about locusts.” “When in swarms, locusts are feared creatures. They can cover over 100-km distance in a day. We have issued advisory to farmers. Agriculturists should burn wood to cause smog and beat the drum or plates to scare them away if they are spotted near the fields,” Chaudhary added. Besides, farmers can take Chlorpyrifos 20% EC insecticide from the agriculture department and spray it on their crops, Chaudhary said. “Grasshopper swarms can cause huge loss if farmers show negligence and do not take measures at earliest. Locusts survive on green leaves and are able to destroy crops very fast, particularly potato, wheat, mustard and sugarcane crops. Now sugarcane farmers are very concerned about locusts,” he said. While in Bijnor, a big producer of sugarcane, chief development officer KP Singh has launched awareness drives among farmer groups to inform them about the pests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-africa-pak-swarms-of-locusts-threaten-crops-in-north-india-up-sounds-alert/articleshow/75949262.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||Fear of Covid-19 impact on economy outweighs health concerns: Survey||LUCKNOW: The first two phases of the nationwide lockdown left 79% people worried, not because they feared getting infected or were uncertain about how long it would last, but were worried that its economic impact would affect their future. A survey on ‘Understanding public sentiment during lockdown’, conducted by Prof Satya Bhushan Dash and Avinash Jain from the Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow, has revealed that 32% respondents feared that the pandemic would have impact on economy, while only 14% considered the risk of getting infected as a bigger worry. Despite apprehensions, 60% people were confident about India’s ability to combat the spread of coronavirus. This confidence stemmed from measures taken by the government like lockdown, social distancing and contact tracing. In fact, people showed high level of confidence in lockdown 2.0 (63%) as compared to lockdown 1.0 (57%) due to improvement in health infrastructure, availability of masks and PPE kits. About 40% respondents were apprehensive about the possibility of considerable damage due to corona as they believed people were not complying with lockdown guidelines. The online survey conducted among 931 people in 104 cities through social media platforms, also captured basic feelings and emotions of people during lockdown. Fear, as expressed by 40% respondents, and sadness, by 22% people, emerged to be the dominant emotions. Interestingly, 13% said they were happy during lockdown, 11% people felt disgusted, while 9% said they were surprised. Respondents comprised 62% men and 38% women. “I hope government’s actions are visible on ground quickly to alleviate fear of impact of economic situation which is there in people’s mind,” said Prof Dash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fear-of-covid-impact-on-economy-outweighs-health-concerns-survey/articleshow/75956928.cms||Isha Jain
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP suspends its leader for six years||Chandigarh/Rohtak: Two days after a video went viral on social media showing Sugarfed chairman Chander Prakash Kathuria falling off a multi-storey building in Chandigarh, where he had gone to meet a woman, Haryana BJP suspended him for six years. Karnal-based Kathuria suffered injuries after he allegedly lost grip of the cloth he was using to descend from the woman’s second floor flat on May 21. Haryana BJP on Sunday placed Kathuria, a special invitee to the party’s state executive committee, under suspension from primary membership of the party for six years. The orders were issued in the name of Haryana BJP chief Subhash Barala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-suspends-its-leader-for-six-years/articleshow/75955608.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 11 recovered patients have donated their plasma so far||AHMEDABAD: On April 18, 23-year-old Smruti Thakkar from the city became the first Covid-19 positive patient who recovered and donated her blood plasma for convalescent plasma treatment at Civil Hospital. In subsequent 36 days, 10 other Amdavadi Covid-19 survivors have come forward to donate their plasma for the cause. Experts associated with the process said that donors come from all walks of life — from an AMC official to a police constable and a student to an entrepreneur. What connects them all is their will to give back to society and the system that helped them recover at no cost.  Deven Bhatt, assistant municipal commissioner with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), was one of the plasma donors. “When I was at SVP Hospital, trials had just begun. I had told the staff even before my discharge that I would volunteer for the donation,” said Bhatt. “As it requires 14 days after recovery, I waited for the period and donated the plasma.” Bhatt said that like blood donation, it’s a donation for a cause and those who can should come forward. For Hitesh Vaghela, a constable with the city police’s traffic branch, his positive status came as a shocker. “I believe I might have contracted it during duty,” he said. “But my hospitalization experience was good due to the support of all senior officers and my recovery was fast. I got a call from SVP Hospital for the donation and without any hesitation, I said yes.”  11 recovered patients have donated their plasma so farDr Vishwas Amin, the director of Ahmedabad Red Cross Society, said that they are facilitating majority of the plasma donations in the city. “There’s misconception that the procedure takes away blood from the body — it’s not true,” Amin said. “A few also fear infection but it’s also not the case. Every donor is given a thorough understanding of the procedure before taking the plasma.” Experts associated with the plasma trial in the city, one of the few in India, said that initial trials have shown encouraging results. A 50-year-old woman got discharged after therapy. “The purpose of the therapy is fighting the infection with antibodies from the recovered patients which can help critical patients,” said an expert. The expert said that we might need to wait for some more time for conclusive results of the effort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-recovered-patients-have-donated-their-plasma-so-far/articleshow/75957384.cms||Parth Shastri
May 25, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Alcoholic man kills wife for refusing money for liquor||RAJKOT: An alcoholic labourer allegedly bludgeoned his wife to death when she refused to give him money to buy liquor in Nilvada village of Babra taluka in Amreli district on Saturday night. After committing the crime, the accused Ghugha Sakaria also attempted suicide by consuming pesticides. Police said Sakaria (51) allegedly hit his wife Vinatu on her head with a spade, killing her on the spot. “Sakaria then tried to end his life by consuming pesticide. He was rushed to Babara Civil Hospital. We have deployed cops at the hospital to arrest him once he regains consciousness,” said PR Vaghela, inspector with Babra police station. Ghugha was booked on the complaint of his son Bharat, who alleged that his father was a habitual drunkard who often fought with his mother for money to buy liquor. The incident occurred in the cabin of the farm owned by Sakaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/alcoholic-man-kills-wife-for-refusing-money-for-liquor/articleshow/75954679.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Trichy||39 test positive in south Tamil Nadu, 10 in central region||MADURAI/TRICHY: With 39 people testing Covid positive, which included 27 cases from other states, the total number of Covid-19 cases in south Tamil Nadu climbed to 1,233 on Sunday. Virudhunagar district reported 13 cases, all of whom were returned from other states. The 13 cases include a 1-year-old boy. While 10 were from Maharashtra, three were from West Bengal. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 98 as per the revised medical bulletin. Tuticorin district, meanwhile, reported 11 influx cases on Sunday, taking the total cases to 160. Theni too saw four cases, all men, including three from other states. The three influx cases were one each from Delhi, Kerala and West Bengal. No new cases were reported in Tirunelveli. Madurai district reported the most number of local Covid-19 cases on Sunday with six fresh cases including one woman. Among them were two 45-year-old men who had travelled to Chennai. Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari also saw three and two local cases. The three cases in Ramanathapuram, included an 8-year-old girl. The two cases in Kanyakumari include a man and a woman both above the age of 60. Meanwhile, ten new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in the central region on Sunday. The cases include three of a family in Trichy and an 8-year-old girl in Pudukottai. The total number of cases has climbed to 83 with three more positive cases including a couple in Thanjavur district. A 38-year-old man and his 36-year-old wife from Thattuvancheri in the district tested positive. Both have returned from Chennai on April 31. Meanwhile, a 53-year-old man from Mela Kabisthalam in the district who also returned from Chennai on May 12 tested positive. Tiruvarur, which has 35 Covid-19 positive cases, recorded two more cases on Sunday. A 39-year-old man from Nannilam in Tiruvarur district who arrived from Kolkata and a 29-year-old woman who was admitted to the Government Hospital in Nannilam for delivery tested positive. After five days, Ariyalur district reported a fresh Covid-19 case on Sunday, a 79-year-old man from Jayankondam. There are six active cases of which five are under treatment at Ariyalur medical college hospital. Eight samples await results in Ariyalur. An 8-year-old girl tested positive for Covid-19 in Pudukottai district on Sunday. She is the third member of the same family who has now been tested positive. A 48-year-old man and his 44-year-old wife were tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 13 people are undergoing treatment at the government hospital. However, no new cases were recorded in Perambalur, Nagapattinam and Karur districts on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/39-test-positive-in-south-tn-10-in-central-region/articleshow/75956904.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: DRI seizes foreign cigarettes worth Rs 30 lakh||VIJAYAWADA: Sleuths at the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) busted two cigarette smuggling rackets in Vijayawada and seized two truckloads of cigarettes on Saturday. While one of the trucks contain smuggled cigarettes of foreign origin, the other was transporting local cigarettes without valid bills. Based on credible intelligence, sleuths intercepted a truck at P Nainavaram near Vijayawada. The truck was travelling from New Delhi and was stationed at a goods transport agency. Upon verification, officials recovered about three lakh sticks of ‘Paris’ brand cigarettes concealed under stainless steel ware. The cigarettes were smuggled from Myanmar and brought into India and were being transported to Vijayawada. All tobacco products that are sold in the country should have a pictorial warning, as specified by the government, which covers 85 per cent of the pack. However, the Paris brand does not contain any pictorial warning. The driver of the lorry told officials that the truck started on its journey from New Delhi and he took over at Gwalior and drove to Vijayawada on the instructions of his boss. While the cigarettes are estimated to be worth Rs 30 lakh, the truck and stainless steel ware that were also seized are together worth about Rs 25 lakh. In a separate incident, DRI sleuths intercepted another lorry carrying six lakh local cigarettes without valid papers. DRI officials handed over the lorry to state goods and services tax (SGST) officials for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dri-seizes-foreign-cigarettes-worth-rs-30l/articleshow/75954737.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Row heats up in UK over lockdown curbs||London: A moderate Sikh has been forced to quit a government taskforce set up to develop the plan for reopening places of worship in Britain as a row escalates over how and when gurdwaras should reopen when the lockdown eases. Barrister Jasvir Singh, chair of professional networking organisation City Sikhs, who was awarded an OBE in 2017, stepped down on Saturday. Jasvir Singh made a personal decision to step down from the places of worship taskforce, a government spokesperson said. “Since his appointment, he has experienced a sustained campaign of abuse, intimidation, and threats against him and his family and we condemn this in the strongest possible terms. A replacement is being worked out.” The Sikh Federation (UK) had issued an open statement 48 hours after Jasvir’s appointment, backed by some gurdwaras and Sikh organisations, rejecting Jasvir and the taskforce and giving the government a five day ultimatum “to properly engage with gurdwaras”. Within three days, Gurmail Singh Malhi, president of Sri Guru Singh Sabha Southall, was swiftly invited to take part in a Zoom call with the taskforce, but minutes before he backed out. Jas Singh, advisor to the SFUK, said gurdwaras were angry that the government “put us in the same category as pubs and nightclubs,” which are tentatively scheduled to reopen on July 4. “If you are allowing people to go back to work, then you should also be allowing us back to gurdwaras.” The Sikh Council UK has already published detailed guidance on the safe reopening of gurdwaras based on inputs from Sikh medical professionals, he pointed out. “We plan to open gurdwaras up this week to anyone wishing to undertake 'sewa'. They were never closed as gurdwaras have served one million meals throughout the pandemic. Now we want to extend it for wider use so that people can go inside, pay their respects and receive the blessings. We completely reject the advice coming from the government.” He said gurdwaras rejected Jasvir as their representative because he was not a baptised practising Sikh and the taskforce was considering “no reciting of prayers, no kirtan (communal singing) and no blessing”. “None of that is unacceptable,” he said. “Even during Operation Blue Star, they sang hymns when the gurdwara was being bombed. Is going to the gurdwara more high risk than going to the supermarket? I don’t think so.” Jasvir told TOI he had been approached by the government and “told to take on the role”. “I’m not a Khalsa Sikh but I have never claimed to be. I am a practising Sikh, as I attend a gurdwara and I believe in the faith.” Jatinder Singh, secretary general of Sikh Council UK, who also sits on the management committee of Guru Nanak Gurdwara, Smethwick, said, “We have been providing meals, mobile langar and PPE throughout the pandemic and then when it came to finding someone from the Sikh faith on the taskforce, we were not consulted and he was imposed on us. Jasvir doesn’t have any relevant experience on how gurdwaras are managed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/row-heats-up-in-uk-over-lockdown-curbs/articleshow/75955652.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Wholesale grocery market to open from Monday||PUNE: The Poona Merchants Chamber will reopen the wholesale grocery and jaggery market from Monday. The market was closed from May 19 after two traders were infected with novel coronavirus. The district collector Naval Kishore Ram, who held a meeting with the chamber of Friday, said, “We have discussed the matter at length and have told the traders to reopen their shops to maintain supply of grocery in the city so that people will not have to pay extra for essential groceries in the coming days. The market will reopen on Monday with due precautions.” Authorities from the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) issued an order about the reopening of the market on May 22. In the order, the APMC had mentioned a set of guidelines while running the shop at Market Yard. Balasaheb Deshmukh, the chief administrator of Market Yard, said, “We have categorically told traders not to allow workers from containment zones to work at their shops. The traders got infected because they had come in contact with people living in the containment zone. If we find a person or staffer from the containment zone working at any shop, we will cancel his licence.” The Market Yard will allow only 100 trucks of goods during the day. “We will appoint our security guard at Gate 5 to check the body temperature of each individual,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wholesale-grocery-market-to-open-from-monday/articleshow/75956956.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 25, 2020||Pune||Postmen deliver Rs 9 crore to account holders’ doorsteps in Pune||PUNE: Postmen from the Pune region postal department have delivered Rs 9 crore collectively to account holders of different banks at their doorstep during the lockdown. Postal officials said 3,600 postmen delivered the amount in cash through 42,000 transactions — the highest in the two years since the India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) service had started. The Pune region postal department caters to four districts — Pune, Ahmednagar, Solapur and Satara. Officials said the postal department had been flooded with requests for the service since the lockdown was imposed — the response to the facility was tepid before that. “The state government had transferred money into the accounts of direct benefit transfer beneficiaries (in Sherechiwadi village, Satara district), many of them of whom were stuck indoors. They were desperate for cash, but had no way to access the bank branches or ATMs,” Col SFH Rizvi, postmaster general, Pune region, said. Manoj M Pawar, Sherechiwadi branch postmaster, explained the benefits of the Aadhaar-enabled payment services (AePS) of IPPB to the villagers. He got in touch with the account office and then assembled the villagers outside the gram panchayat building to deliver the cash, while implementing social distancing norms and other precautions. Explaining how the system works, T Nirmala Devi, the director of postal services, Pune region, said, “IPPB provides inter-operable banking services to the customers of any bank. With AePS (a free service), anyone with a bank account linked to their Aadhaar card can perform basic banking functions, such as cash withdrawals and balance inquiry, at their doorstep. All they have to do is place a request at the nearest post office. A postman then visits the customer’s house to authenticate his/her identity and delivers cash.” “A network of approximately 2,500 post offices has been involved in the region,” Rizwi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/postmen-deliver-rs-9-crore-to-account-holders-doorsteps/articleshow/75955657.cms||Neha Madaan
May 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Moose Wala case: Cops move bail, singer still on run||PATIALA: Four of the five cops, booked by the Sangrur and Barnala police for taking Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala to Badbar police firing range in Barnala district and allowing him to use fire arms, including an AK-47 rifle, have now applied for anticipatory bail before a Sangrur court, while the singer himself is still on the run. Those moving the court are suspended ASI Balkar Singh, head constable Gurjinder Singh and constables Jasveer Singh and Harvinder Singh. The fifth accused cop, head constable Gagandeep Singh, is yet to move his application. They had first been booked by the Dhanaula police in Barnala district On May 4 under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and the next day, the Sangrur police had also registered a case against them under same sections. Later, on the intervention of the HC, sections of the Arms Act were also added to the FIRs registered in the two districts. The Barnala and Sangrur police had recently constituted special teams to carry out raids to arrest Sidhu Moose Wala, the five cops and three other individuals against whom the FIRs had been registered in Dhanaula after a video showing the singer using an AK-47 automatic weapon at Badbur police firing range surfaced in social media. The next day, another case was filed against all the accused at Dhuri police station after another video showing the singer firing from his 9mm pistol at the Ladda Kothi police firing range reached the top officials of the district police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/moose-wala-case-cops-move-bail-singer-still-on-run/articleshow/75955626.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Private hospitals asked to set up Covid-19 wards in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Terming the Covid-19 outbreak as a ‘public health emergency’, the district administration has asked private hospitals in the city to form special wards for the healthcare of positive patients Acting on the directives of the state government, district collector Uday Chaudhari has asked the private hospitals with a bed capacity of more than 100 beds to reserve at least 50 per cent of beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The capacity may be increased step-by-step as per the patient load. We are starting with one dedicated ward of 10 beds to be reserved exclusively for any suspected or confirmed positive case,” he said, adding that every healthcare provider should be ready for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The order stated that any healthcare provider cannot deny services to any patient, irrespective of whether the patient is showing Covid-19 symptoms or not. The private hospitals have been also asked to follow guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and ministry of health to adhere protocols issued for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Unmesh Takalkar, director of CIGMA Hospital, said that joint efforts should be taken to keep the Covid-19 outbreak at bay. “Going by the global trends, Covid-19 is likely to stay in India for at least a few months more. The private hospital can play its role in combating disease and reduce pressure on the state health machinery,” he said. The district administration has also said that care must be taken by the health workers from any unknown asymptomatic carrier of Covid-19. “Use of face mask and physical distancing should be mandatory in hospital premises. Sanitisers must be made available to all the visitors inside the hospital building,” said the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-hospitals-asked-to-set-up-covid-wards-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75952637.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Rajkot||Two Gedia gang members attack cops, held||Rajkot: Two members of infamous Gedia gang were nabbed in Jejhari village of Patadi taluka in Surendranagar district on Sunday. Police said the accused, identified as Rasheedkhan Malek and Ahmedkhan Malek, both aged 32, allegedly attacked Deepak Dhol, inspector with Surendranagar local crime branch (LCB), Hitesh Dhograna, head constable with Surendranagar LCB, and Kalpesh Patel, constable with Surendranagar LCB. Dhol suffered a fracture injury, Dhograna received a knife injury on his nose, while Patel received an injury inflicted by an iron pipe. “Both Rasheedkhan and Ahmedkhan had been absconding after jumping parole in 2018. Both were sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case. Both are wanted in as many as 57 cases ranging from theft from trucks, assault on cops to arms dealing and robbery,” said Dhol. Earlier, five members of the Gedia gang were arrested on February 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-gedia-gang-members-attack-cops-held/articleshow/75954731.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||50 fresh Covid cases take Bhopal tally to 1,241; recoveries at 788||BHOPAL: As many as 50 people tested positive for Covid-19 here on Sunday. So far, 1,241 people have tested positive for the deadly contagion in Bhopal. A total 788 of them have recovered. On Sunday, the health bulletin reported three deaths in the state capital. It includes a person who had died in Hamidia hospital four days ago. He was later diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. Among the new cases, a family of four tested positive in Tailiya area of Bhopal. A cable operator first tested positive and later his family members also tested positive for Covid-19. Traffic movement in Ginnori and Budhwara has been curtailed by the administration. Contact tracing of the cable operator has been undertaken. So far, 48 people have died due to Covid-19 in Bhopal. There are 408 people who are under medical observation and considered active cases of Covid-19. Fifty-two of these cases are under treatment at AIIMS Bhopal. Six new patients were admitted on Sunday. In all, 47 Covid-19 positive patients are clinically stable. Five are critically ill and on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/50-fresh-cases-take-bhopal-tally-to-1241-recoveries-at-788/articleshow/75956963.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Domestic flights to resume services in Kolkata on May 28||KOLKATA: Domestic flights to and from Kolkata will resume from May 28 (Thursday), instead of May 25 (Monday), following a request of Bengal government on Saturday, which cited the twin crisis of Covid-19 pandemic and cyclone disaster in south Bengal. Flights to Bagdogra will also resume on May 28. The decision was conveyed to Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee by the ministry of civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola on Sunday evening, hours before the first flight was slated to take off from the city on Monday morning. All airlines were on tenterhooks till the decision was announced around 7.45pm on Sunday. Sources said the number of flights would also be scaled down significantly from around 93 mentioned in the initial list to around 20. The Maharashtra government has limited the number of Mumbai- bound flights to 25 while Telangana government has said it will allow only 15 flights to Hyderabad. The delay in operations has led to discontentment among flyers, airlines and travel agents with the ire being directed at the civil aviation ministry and regulator DGCA for not consulting the states before announcing the commencement date. “The manner, in which the flight resumption was handled, is immature and ad hoc. More planning and coordination goes into introduction of an inter-state bus route. The opinions of the state government should have been sought before the date was announced. That would have spared so much confusion in the industry and people,” said travel agent Manoj Saraf. While GoAir had refused to open its bookings from May 25, citing the lack of clarity and confusion over the flight operations, other airines that went by the DGCA order and opened bookings are now in a quandary over what to do with hundreds of passengers who have booked flights between May 25 and May 27. “This is the third instance of bookings being opened and then flights being cancelled since the lockdown was announced. Not only does this lead to loss of passenger confidence in the airline, it also reflects very poorly on the airline industry in India,” said an airline official. Confused over whether this will again lead to problems in refunding the tickets, passengers frantically called travel agents and airline offices. Till late on Sunday, there was no clarity on the issue. “Many passengers already have their money stuck in credit notes issued earlier by airlines. But processing the credit notes for tickets purchased via travel agents is still a problem. Those desperate to travel put in their money again to book tickets. What will happen if it gets stuck in credit notes once again?" he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/domestic-flights-to-resume-services-in-kol-on-may-28/articleshow/75955664.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||MGNREGA work turns out be only option during lockdown for this teacher||JAIPUR: Ramavtar Singh Rao (41), who was a teacher at a private school in Asalpur village (Jobner) around 50 km from here and earned a little more than Rs 15,000 a month, now has to make ends meet by working as a mate under the MGNREGA scheme earning Rs 235 a day or Rs 7,050 per month. Rao, who has been working as a mate since April 16, had done his masters in political science from Rajasthan University in 2001 and BEd in 2009. The job of a mate is to assign tasks to the labourers and work-site management. The lockdown has left several people like him unemployed, forcing them to work under MGNREGA. As on Sunday, 39.64 lakh labourers were engaged under MGNREGA work in the state. “Due to the lockdown, we haven’t been paid our salaries after February. Therefore, we are going through a financial crisis now. Also, we couldn’t go anywhere as there was no means of transportation. Since, there was no other option left, we had to go for MGNREGA work to run the family. It’s not easy to make ends meet with a big family, but somehow we manage,” said Singh, who has 10 members in his family, including his parents, wife, two brothers, their wives and children. “Others in the family are not able to go anywhere for work due to the lockdown. At least, I have to earn something for the sustenance of the family. At times, we have to borrow money from others. I have been in teaching students for the past 24 years. At Asalpur village school, I used to teach Hindi till 12th standard,” he added. Praising the MGNREGA scheme, Ramavatar said it had turned out to be a lifesaver for people living in the villages. “It has provided a relief to those families in the villages where the male bread earners are not able to the city for work. So, the female members go for NREGA work. We thank the government for running the scheme in the state. It is a good source of employment in the villages and the scheme should not be stopped,” he added. Like Ramavtar, there are a few other graduates in the village who are also working under the scheme. Sita Verma, 30, who works as a MGNREGA worker, has completed her graduation in Arts in 2019. “Since my husband’s ( a teacher) school is closed, he can’t go for work now, so I decided to work under NREGA. At least, one has to work to run the family. I had also applied for a teaching job in a private school before the lockdown was imposed. It is a big family. So, my sister-in-law and I decided to go for NREGA work. The scheme has helped provide work to the villagers,” Sita told TOI. Suman, from the same village, is also a graduate and works under the scheme. A MGNREGA labourer earns Rs 220 per day. Among the 260 works under NREGA, special focus is given to plantation and development of pasture lands (grazing grounds), playgrounds, model ponds and crematoriums/cemeteries; development of water bodies, nursery works and individual works (apna khet, apna kaam).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mgnrega-work-turns-out-be-only-option-during-lockdown-for-this-teacher/articleshow/75956984.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||This too shall pass: Bengalis in US tell Kolkata||KOLKATA: Four days of power cuts and lack of water supply has tested the patience of many across Kolkata who have blocked roads in protest demanding immediate restoration of services. But there is a section of Kolkatans based abroad who say living with power and water supply interruption for days on end is a regular feature of their lives in hurricane-prone zones of a superpower like the US. Those who have been there and seen that have only one piece of advice for Kolkatans: Stay calm. Sanku Bose, who lived in the US for 22 years, returned to Kolkata this year as the Group CEO Techno India Group. He was a resident of Texas when Hurricane Ike had wrecked havoc in September 2008. For 28 days straight, he had to live without electricity. “August to October is the hurricane season in the US. Every year hurricane hits the Gulf of Mexico and the impact is felt in Florida, New Orleans, Texas and Missouri. Apart from Hurricane Ike in 2006, I have been witness to Hurricane Rita (2005) and Hurricane Katrina (2005). During Hurricane Katrina, I was in Louisiana and partly in Texas. In case of Hurricane Rita and Ike, I was in Texas. For us, dealing with Category 1 and Category II hurricanes is part of our daily lives,” said Bose from his Dover Court residence in Kolkata.  In fact, power disruption is such a regular feature that departmental stores even sell ‘hurricane readiness kits’ to last for 2/3/4/5 days. “They comprise emergency light, mobile battery charger etc. Before landfall happens, the power is always shut down. All lines are overhead and no one takes the risk of keeping them on during a hurricane. We are all prepared with a mini generator and torches,” he said.  While in Texas, Bose used to live in a mandatory evacuation zone. “In 2008, I had signed a bond stating that since I hadn’t agreed to evacuate, police will not be responsible for rescuing me within 12 hours after the catastrophe. That year, the roof of my house had literally flown to a lake nearby! I was stranded without a roof for seven to eight days and no power and electricity for 28 days. Here in Kolkata, power was restored in my residence within 18 hours after Cyclone Amphan ravaged the city,” Bose recalled. Orlando-based Soumitra De has been a witness to seven hurricanes while living in Florida for 22 years. In 2004, large parts of Florida’s Orlando were without power for two weeks. Finance and accounting professional Soumitra De, who has been witness to seven hurricanes while living in Florida for 22 years now, said, “We get major hurricanes every year. The season begins from June 1 and ends on November 30. I have been a witness to Hurricane Bill (2009), Hurricane Irene (2011), Hurricane Matthew (2016) and Hurricane Irma 2017. In 2004 itself, there were three of them - Hurricane Charley, Hurricane Frances and Hurricane Jeanne.” Reports of power disruption due to Cyclone Amphan in Kolkata reminded De of Hurricane Charley which had blown away the power lines of central Florida in 2004. Live wires were entangled with branches. The trees had to be chopped by the people from the electric companies before power could be restored. “Across central Florida, all generators got sold out within a day. There were no protests for the first seven days. The local government had let people know that this was an exceptional emergency and it would take time to fix. Food and petrol were a problem since power outage had stopped supermarkets and gas stations from opening,” De said. Kanan Banerjee had to stay without power for a week last year during Michigan's winter snowstorm. Incidentally, as Bengal is battling the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, the US state of Michigan has been inundated by what is being called the ‘500-year’ historic flood event. More than 10,000 residents were asked to evacuate after heavy rains breached two dams last week. Nutrilite’s global head of marketing Kanan Banerjee, who lives in west Michigan, is thankful to have not faced the wrath of nature this time. “I can understand how tough it is in Kolkata to live without power and water supply. Last year during the winter storm, we lost power for almost a week. When you live in USA, you have a lot of natural calamities including wildfires, hurricanes and snowstorms. When we had a snowstorm in Michigan a few years ago, more than a million had no power. Some got back power in less than a day but many were without power for days. Power was restored in my neighbourhood after three days,” said Banerjee, adding how 500,000 people in San Francisco were without power for days last year after power was cut as a precaution against sparking wildfires in high-wind conditions. Therefore, it is always important to be prepared. “It is harder when you have kids in winter with below freezing temperatures. If none of our friends have power, we stay home and turn it into a game by pretending to be ‘camping’. It is harder during lockdown when you can’t even go to a friend’s place for shelter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/this-too-shall-pass-bongs-in-us-tell-city/articleshow/75955669.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||18 more +ve, HP breaches 200 mark||Shimla: Eighteen fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the state’s total past the 200 mark to 203. Among the new patients, six had returned from Mumbai, two from Delhi, and one from West Bengal. The details of the rest were yet to be ascertained. Ten patients are from Una district, two each from Hamirpur and Mandi, and one each from Bilaspur, Chamba, Mandi and Solan. Four of the 18 cases were reported on Saturday night — one from Solan and three from Una. The Chamba case is of a 30-year-old man who returned from Mumbai and was in institutional quarantine at JNV Sarol. The Mandi patients include a 19-year-old woman from Saklana village who returned from Mumbai on May 18 and was in institutional quarantine at Sandhol, and a 48-year-old woman from Jogindernagar in Mandi district, who was in institutional quarantine at Swarghat. One of the Hamirpur cases is of a 20-year-old nursing student from Dangar in Bilaspur district who returned from her uncle’s home in Delhi on May 18 and was in quarantine at Badagran in Hamirpur district. In Solan, the patient is a 43-year-old man from Ramshahar in Nalagarh. He arrived from West Bengal on May 19. In Una, the patients include 47-year-old woman and her two sons, aged 26 and 23, from Thathuh village in Bangana. Later, their relative — a 44-year-old man — also tested positive. They arrived from Mumbai on May 17 along with another family member and were in institutional quarantine. Bilaspur has reported eight cases so far, Chamba 14, Hamirpur 62, Kangra 51, Kullu one, Mandi 11, Shimla two, Sirmaur four, Solan 20, and Una 30. So far, 36,676 persons people have been put under surveillance and 11,264 of them have completed it. Of 25,905 people tested for Covid-19, 24,625 tested negative. The state’s death count is three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18-more-ve-hp-breaches-200-mark/articleshow/75955722.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||Eid spirit: Bhopalis vow to help needy, keep celebration subdued||BHOPAL: Eid-ul-Fitr is here but people so eagerly looking forward to the festival feel a twinge knowing that they will not be able to invite their friends over for the celebration and neither can they hug each-other. Namaz will also take place at homes as mosques will stay closed amid the Coronavirus lockdown. However, Bhopalites have found ways to spread cheer even in such times to keep up the spirit of love and brotherhood on Eid. “When Ramzan began, we thought that while we are observing Roza in lockdown, things will become normal in a month. As such, we will be able to celebrate Eid like every year by inviting our friends and relatives to feast with us. However, now we will just have a small celebration at home,” said Saba Khan, a private employee. Asma Khan, a social worker said, “Donating groceries and food to people in lockdown we came in touch with many people who do not even have money to buy a packet of sewaiyan. So we have purchased sewaiyan, sugar and dry-fruits to donate to those families so that everyone can celebrate Eid.” Mohammad Altaf Qureshi, a government employee said, “The most important thing was offering the namaz in the mosque together which we will not be able to do and another important thing is to go and meet the relatives who have lost some. On the first Eid after someone's death it is the extended family's duty to visit the bereaved with sewaiyan and pray for the departed soul.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eid-spirit-bhopalis-vow-to-help-needy-keep-celebration-subdued/articleshow/75957012.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cyclone derails hopes of 5,000 Bengali migrants to reach home||PUNE: Close to 5,000 migrant workers from West Bengal find themselves in a helpless situation. The Pune police have issued them travel passes, but the Shramik Special trains, which were to ferry them, have been cancelled due to Cyclone Amphan’s fury in West Bengal. Initially, two trains were to leave Pune for destinations in West Bengal. Many workers have already vacated their rooms after receiving travel passes from the police stations, and cannot go back. Some workers called up the hotel owners who arranged temporary stay facility for them while many simply took to the footpaths and the space under flyovers. The cyclone not only led to the cancellation of both trains but also other subsequent trains that were planned for the state. Chandan Roy, a hotel worker, told TOI, “My friends and I were happy after receiving passes from Deccan Gymkhana police station two weeks ago. We were on trains going to Kolkata, but the trains were cancelled. I am helpless. Workers from the other states have reached their homes and we are still stuck here.” Another hotel worker, Jit Roy, said he came to Pune from Kolkata with his brother and father a year ago. “We surrendered our room but our hotel owner gave us space to stay,” he said. “We hope the train will be schedule soon,” he added. A senior police officer told TOI, “As many as 5000 workers from West Bengal have registered with the police. The Railways were supposed to run two trains about a week ago but the West Bengal government did not allow the movement of trains. Now, a train is likely to travel for Kolkata in three days. About four trains are likely to go to Kolkata from Pune.” Earlier, the West Bengal government did not give its nod to the special trains. When the permission came through, the cyclone hit the state. “Even if these workers reach Kolkata, we have learnt that they will not be able to travel to their villages as many roads have been washed away,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyclone-derails-hopes-of-5000-bengali-migrants-to-reach-home/articleshow/75956998.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: As illicit liquor comes under scanner, 120 families give up brewing equipment||VIJAYAWADA: A lack of liquor supply during the ongoing lockdown has once again shifted the focus to the illicit liquor brewing business in Krishna district. In Kruthivennu and Nidamarru mandals in the district, around 120 families have been brewing arrack, or country liquor, for the past 40 years. The choice to be part of this business, many concede, was due to lack of other livelihood options. District police held a special drive against illicit liquor over the last 15 days and registered 133 cases. Two-hundred persons were arrested and 1,232 litres of country liquor seized. Key ingredients used in the preparation of arrack were also destroyed — 24,780 fermented jaggery wash, 290 kilogram of black jaggery, 47 kg of ginger — as well as 29 vehicles. Many families involved in manufacturing arrack also gave up their equipment to the police and took a pledge to stay away from the business. Speaking to TOI, Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu said a majority were part of families with a continuing tradition of brewing arrack. “With the new generation taking up other jobs and businesses, the families have voluntarily chosen to give up the illicit liquor business. Most of them have been involved in brewing arrack for 30 to 40 years.” “Considering the consequences, we actually don’t want to continue this business any more. While people think that it is lucrative we barely get Rs 100 per bottle at times and since we have to sell the produce quickly, we do so at throwaway prices,” said Mahesh (name changed), a 62-year-old resident of Kruthivennu. Police admit that with liquor supplies halted during the lockdown, the arrack trade saw brisk business. However, those involved in brewing, they said, did so only to make ends meet. Police also provided rations and other essential items to these families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-illicit-liquor-comes-under-scanner-120-families-give-up-brewing-equipment/articleshow/75954767.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Power back in 60,000 more Kolkata households||KOLKATA: Power supply to 60,000 homes on the CESC grid along the city’s southern periphery was restored on Sunday. The development came after a prod by CM Mamata Banerjee who visited power utility CESC’s headquarters at Victoria House in Esplanade on Saturday to drive home the urgency to step up restoration of power lines. Also, acute water crisis in several localities was resolved on Sunday after booster pumping stations that had suffered power outage resumed operations by either reconnecting to the network or providing temporary connections through generators. This is expected to douse some of the anger in power- and water-starved localities where residents staged roadblocks in protest. “We have restored power to 92% consumers on the network. We are trying to mobilize more men as the restoration involves re-erecting poles that have buckled or fallen and drawing cables afresh to reconnect homes with the supply grid,” said a CESC official. Of the 33 lakh consumers on its network, nearly 10 lakh have overhead power lines that bore the brunt of the cyclone that tore through the city on Wednesday. All of them were switched off on Wednesday evening, but some were damaged and went off the network. CESC also requisitioned nearly 60 generator sets to provide connection to water booster pumping stations and multi-storied buildings that have a large consumer base. “Restoration work will take several days. With the help of the state government, we arranged for generators to provide temporarily respite,” the official said. Among the booster pumping stations that resumed operations were those at Bansdroni, Kasba, Garfa, Patuli and areas off EM Bypass. The government kept up the pressure to expedite the repairs with chief secretary Rajiva Sinha meeting CESC officials thrice on Sunday. KMC boss Firhad Hakim, too, met the officials. WBSEDCL reported restoration of connection to houses in Garia, Bansdroni, Kestopur, Baguiati, Teghoria, Salt Lake, New Town, Barasat, Tamluk, Egra, Contai, Krishnagore, Santipur, Ranaghat, Gayespur and Kalyani. “More than half of Sonarpur, Baruipur, Rajpur, Narendrapur, Kakdwip and Namkhana towns now have power. Of the 273 sub-stations that were hit, power to 240 has been restored,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-back-in-60k-more-kol-households/articleshow/75955642.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Stop sending migrants to Gadchiroli: Collector’s SOS||Nagpur: With migrants, mostly Mumbai returnees, bringing the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection to the district which otherwise had remained untouched by the disease till a week ago, collector Deepak Singla has urged his counterparts in Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and adjoining districts to refrain from sending people to Gadchiroli.The Maoist-infested tribal district had last week made an exit from green zone after Mumbai returnees started testing positive there.Singla said the administration is fast running out of space in quarantine centres despite aggressively making newer provisions. “Our infrastructure may not be able to handle the swarming migrants reaching here from hotspots. We need time to make existing facilities available for newcomers,” he said.The district has 15 Covid cases, all Mumbai returnees, as on Sunday and 1,014 suspects. The administration has also completed screening of 48,777 migrants coming to Gadchiroli from other places. Around 2,092 persons, after reaching from Mumbai, Pune and high risk zones, have been quarantined at Covid care centres (CCC). Around 17,590 persons have been kept under observation at village-level quarantine centres, while 14,031 are in home quarantine.In a major relief for the administration on Saturday, 576 samples sent to Nagpur laboratory tested negative for Covid infection.Maintain personal diary: Opening another front to contain Covid spread, Singla has issued an order urging people to maintain personal diary mentioning places visited by them and persons who came in their contact. He has also urged shopkeepers to note down details of customers who visited their establishment in a separate register which will help in effective contact tracing. The administration is also set to release short films, dubbed in tribal languages like Madia and Gondi, for creating awareness about the measures to follow for fighting Covid-19. At least two of such films would focus on maintaining personal diary and convincing shopkeepers to have register of customers.Singla said, “After a person is tested Covid positive, we have to go for contact tracing so as to identify high risk persons who may have been affected after coming in contact with the patient, knowingly or unknowingly. We have to deeply interview a suspect or patient for tracing whom all he or she had met and where did that person had visited. Sometimes, it may not be possible to recall everything,” he said. “Maintaining a personal diary by the citizens would help us reduce the interview time and ensure effective contact tracing. One has to just write where he/she had gone and met whom before testing positive,” said Singla.Singla also said shopkeepers, in the olden days, would maintain everything in writing like whom something was sold or about any other transaction. We are just telling them to revive the system. “Nowadays, traders and shopkeepers maintain such details in computer or mobile app. If they start keeping record of the visitors/customers, it will help administration and health teams in contact tracing,” said the collector. Due to less crowding at shops these days, it would not be a cumbersome task, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stop-sending-migrants-to-gadchiroli-collectors-sos/articleshow/75956948.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Delhi-Katra e-way will connect Asr’||Amritsar: The Union road transport and highways ministry has promised that the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway alignment would be amended to provide a direct connect between Delhi and Amritsar, Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal claimed on Sunday. She said it would fulfil a long standing demand of Amritsar residents and was also in tune with the original alignment proposed during SAD-BJP tenure in Punjab. Harsimrat said the ministry had acceded to her request to include an additional greenfield highway between Kartarpur and Amritsar to ensure direct connectivity between the holy city and Delhi.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-katra-e-way-will-connect-asr/articleshow/75955689.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur records 31 Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district recorded 31 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, as per the district health department report. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district rose to 317. Of the 31 Covid-19 cases, Shahuwadi and Chandgad taluka recorded seven cases each, followed by five cases in Radhanagari taluka, and four in Kagal taluka among others. There were four Covid-19 cases reported in the jurisdiction of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation. According to the data, Shahuwadi taluka has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the district with 102 people testing positive, followed by Radhanagari taluka with 47 Covid-19 cases and 35 cases reported in Bhudargad taluka. Only four talukas — Gaganbawda, Shirol, Hatkanagale, and Kagal — have reported cases in single digits so far. There are 20 Covid-19 cases in the municipal corporation area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-records-31-covid-cases/articleshow/75952706.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana businessman names shop ‘Gupta and Daughters’||LUDHIANA: Sons and brothers have long monopolised the business name game. So when Ludhiana contractor Manoj Kumar Gupta decided to christen his medical store "Gupta & Daughters" after his daughter Akansha, it was a blow for "Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao" beyond sloganeering. Gupta, 54, also owns a construction company whose name – Gupta & Sons – doffs its hat to male lineage. But when he started his second venture in Ludhiana’s Civil Lines three years ago – a charitable pharmacy with "Guru Nanak Modi-Khana" written in Gurmukhi on the board – the proprietorship went to his daughter not just in spirit but also in name. "It's a symbol of gender equality. When I told my family about it, they were all happy despite some initial reservations about a different-sounding name. But I had made up my mind," said Gupta, a resident of Pakhowal Road. Akansha, a law student, said she was proud of her parents for setting an example in gender equality. Her elder brother Roshan Karan, an MBA, said he had always been taught to treat his sister as an equal. "In India at least, we haven’t seen or read about anything like our father's initiative," he said. While Gupta was inspired by the Centre's Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign, he credits his parents with instilling the right values in him and his wife for keeping the family rooted to that philosophy. "I am thankful to God and my parents for giving me these values, including respect for women. I am also thankful to my wife Rama, who is the boss at home." Gupta & Daughters, which has a tie-up with the Sikh Welfare Council, provides medicines for free to poor patients. Watch Ludhiana man names medical shop ‘Gupta and Daughters’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-businessman-names-shop-gupta-and-daughters/articleshow/75955674.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Efforts to revive normalcy gather pace but sporadic protests continue||KOLKATA: Without power and water, the agony continued for Kolkatans, across several pockets of the city sparking sporadic protests even as CESC workers grappled to restore connections and multiple agencies persisted with efforts to clear uprooted trees and help revive normalcy. Scores from areas like Jodhpur Park and Lake Gardens that have been without electricity for five days shifted to places where amenities are undisrupted. At Regent Estate, where power was restored on Sunday morning, a scuffle broke out between two groups of residents leading to a police complaint. “Without power and water, it had become difficult to stay on. So, I have moved to my sister’s house at CIT Road,” said Sreemati Ghosh, a 70-year-old Jodhpur Park resident. She added that numerous complaints with the CESC have yielded no response so far. Reports of protests came in from Baghajatin Bazar and Sree Colony in the Jadavpur zone, Shakuntala Park, Sarsuna and Parnasree in Behala and Baruipur and Narendrapur on the southern suburbs. Trouble also erupted in areas like Baisnabghata and Baguiati after power was restored in some households while others were left in the dark. At Sarsuna, CESC workers alleged that they were forced to work at places they were not assigned to at the insistence of locals. The police, on the other hand, claimed they have managed to clear almost all important roads that had been blocked. At Sree Colony, the local municipal coordinator was at the forefront of protest outside the CESC office. Debasish Mukherjee, an RSP councillor, felt that the locals had a right to protest because they were left without electricity and water. Residents at Baghajatin used logs of uprooted trees to block roads to disrupt traffic. “Inaction on part of the power utility agency and the KMC has left large areas of Baghajatin, Sree Colony and Pallisree without power and water,” the councillor alleged. However, a section of local residents did not support the blockade as they felt road blocks in large areas were actually preventing their movement. “I was supposed to visit a pathological lab at Jadavpur for a test. But my car was stopped at Pally Shree. I could not proceed further,” said Amal Mitra, a senior citizen and a resident of Layelka. Residents of a couple of high-rises in the New Alipore Triangular areatook to the streets late on Sunday evening, demanding restoration of power. They later withdrew the stir after assurances from police, said an officer. Lalbazar traffic control room said multiple protests were reported in the Jadavpur and Behala but nothing “that disrupted traffic for too long”. “Things were much better on Sunday,” claimed an officer. “It has been four days since we have been requesting CESC offices at Jadavpur to restore electricity. They say it is a major overhaul and will take time. For four days now, I have not been able to run the pump. Even the 20-litre pet bottles are no longer available in our area. Each day, we are getting together to demand basic rights and social distancing has gone for a toss,” said Sayon Banerjee, an IT executive. Important stretches like the one between Richie Road and Chakraberia remained cut off. “Other than that, we have cleared the entire stretch of the road. Till Saturday, we could clear two of the four lanes on Prince Anwar Shah Road. On Sunday, the full stretch was opened for vehicles. Similarly, several smaller roads at Bansdroni, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Behala along with a few in the Port area have been restored,” said Rupesh Kumar DC (Traffic). Police said besides depending on the DMG force that has over 400 personnel, traffic cops are keeping generators and axes. At least two of them — East guard and Garden Reach traffic guard — deployed these machines on Sunday to clear roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/efforts-to-revive-normalcy-gather-pace-but-sporadic-protests-continue/articleshow/75955710.cms||Saikat Ray
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Chamkaur Sahib to be developed’||Chandigarh: Punjab cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the state government is trying to develop the historic city of Chamkaur Sahib as a tourism destination. A sum of Rs 47 crore has been approved for beautification of the city and establishment of a theme park under this project, Channi said, adding that Rs 14 crore will be spent on beautification and Rs 33 crore will be spent on the theme park. According to the cabinet minister, the Rs 14 crore beautification project includes façade development at Gurudwara Katalgarh Sahib road, beautification of canal embankment and construction of a pathway along the canal. Chamkaur Sahib, Channi said, holds great significance in Sikh history as the elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh were martyred here in the fight against the Mughals. Sikhs from all over the world come here to pay obeisance to Baba Ajit Singh and Baba Jujhar Singh, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chamkaur-sahib-to-be-developed/articleshow/75955704.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||NTCA changes stripes, now cites lockdown for tiger report delay||Nagpur: Even after a delay of 10 months, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), a statutory body under MoEFCC (ministry of environment, forest and climate change) monitoring all tiger reserves in the country, has failed to release final All-India Tiger Estimation (AITE) 2018 report. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi released ‘Status of tiger in India-2018’ report on July 28, 2019 (World Tiger Day), NTCA-WII had promised to release the final report in a month with figures of individual tiger reserves and clusters. “If the NTCA-WII did not have figures of individual tiger reserves, then how did it arrive at the figure of 2,967 tigers in the country as per AITE-2018, an increase by 33% from 2,226 tigers in 2014,” say wildlife experts and independent scientists. On December 17, TOI reported how doubts were being raised over the increase in number of tigers and time was being taken to revamp the report to substantiate its own figures. The NTCA conducts tiger estimation every four years. In 2014, the preliminary (summary) report was released on January 20, 2015, and final report was quietly released in March. To make a mention, in Maharashtra, the Phase IV tiger estimation exercise, similar on the lines of NTCA, is in final stages. Tadoba has already released its 2019 report on ‘Long-term monitoring of prey and predators’ recently with an estimated 115 tigers and 151 leopards in 1,700 sqkm area. In December, when TOI sought to know from NTCA member-secretary Anup Kumar Nayak about the delay, he said, “The report needs to be compiled properly and is in final stages. It will be released by December 31, the deadline to release the report.” In January 2020, when TOI inquired about it, Nayak said the final report was in print. Three days ago, when TOI again asked him, Nayak said, “The report is in print, but held up due to lockdown.” A similar reply was received from YV Jhala, principal investigator & WII scientist. Contrarily, lockdown came into force after March 24 and had it been in print in January, the report would have been out by now. Arjun Gopalaswamy, science adviser, Global Programs, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), who had critically analysed NTCA reports, says, “Our study looked more closely at the scientific bases and implications of India’s claims of rising tiger numbers over the past 12 years as per the NTCA-WII reports.” “We found claims of an ‘inverted occupancy-abundance relationship’. This is very unusual in ecology. We also found that the methods adopted generate estimates of tiger numbers with a much higher variability (noise) than previously thought, and consequently, undermining the claims of ‘doubling of tiger numbers’ over the past 12 years,” Gopalaswamy told TOI. He said, “Our study recommends a thorough re-analysis of all past tiger data to account for these variabilities, and in the future, to focus on using methods to estimate accurately tiger occupancy at the national, regional levels and methods to estimate accurately tiger abundance at individual sites or reserves.” However, one of the major reasons for going slow on the report is due to errors creeping in the 2018 summary report. WII, in September last, reacting to news reports appearing in a section of media on exaggerated numbers, had admitted that original 2014 tiger photo album had a few errors that were due to typos and pasting of the same photos in multiple places. “These errors had crept in during copy-editing by the printer and have now been rectified in the uploaded corrigendum album for all camera trap photos obtained by the forest department of states and WII,” it stated. Hence, WII is now more careful before coming out with the final report. NTCA officials maintained the delay is due to three times more data collected than 2014. In 2018 estimation, 3.5 crore wild animal images were recorded which need finer detailing. The delay is purely due to voluminous work. Tigers 2014 | 2018 Maharashtra 190 | 312 Uttarakhand 340 | 442 Uttar Pradesh 117 | 173 Madhya Pradesh 308 | 526 Karnataka 406 | 524 Kerala 136 | 190 Tamil Nadu 229 | 264||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ntca-changes-stripes-now-cites-lockdown-for-tiger-report-delay/articleshow/75957019.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: SEB destroys over 3,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash||VIJAYAWADA: Continuing its drive against illicitly distilled arrack, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths and cops conducted raids at Athamuru and Ramavarapumodi villages under Bantumilli mandal and also at Kasarabad and Netipatti villages under Chandarlapadu mandal in the wee hours of Sunday and destroyed more than 3,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash and 50 litres of arrack. Cases have been booked against more than a dozen persons under AP Excise Act. In four other incidents, the Krishna district police seized more than 650 non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) bottles being transported into the district from neighbouring Telangana. The SEB conducted cordon and search operations based on specific intelligence and found arrack brewing units at Athamuru and Ramavarapumodi. The operation was headed by SEB special officer Vakul Jindal and supervised by Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu. More than 130 personnel from SEB and police department participated in the coordinated searches took place in Chandarlapadu and Bantumilli mandals. Vakul Jindal said that they have intensified surveillance on arrack brewing and raids will continue henceforth. He warned that stringent action will be initiated against perpetrators. Police seized more than 600 liquor bottles, brought from Telangana, at Akkapalem and Vavilala in Tiruvuru mandal, Chepurivaripalem in Vissannapet mandal, Chatrai and Nandigama. Cops seized six bikes and arrested eight persons for illegally transporting liquor from Telangana into the district. Krishna district SP Ravindranath Babu said they have setup check posts all along the Telangana border to curb smuggling of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-destroys-over-3000l-of-fermented-jaggery-wash/articleshow/75954805.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra education department worries about rise in school dropouts||PUNE: State education commissioner Vishal Solanki on Saturday said that the pandemic situation, coupled with unemployment, could lead to a higher number of school dropouts. Rural teachers as well as activists have echoed a similar fear. In a bid to stem the number of school dropouts, 5,000 Bal-Rakshaks along with teachers will be given the responsibility to bring students back to school once the schools reopen across the state. A statewide survey is currently underway to check the impact of the pandemic on students, said Solanki. At present, the drop out rate in the state is about 1-2% in primary classes, he added. “We are concerned about the issue. The Bal Rakshaks and teachers have voluntarily taken up the responsibility to ensure that every child in the village is enrolled in the local government school. This ensures that no child remains out of school. The Right to Education Act states that from the age of 6-14 every child must receive free and compulsory education. The Bal Rakshaks, teachers and members of school management committees counsel parents to send their wards to school,” said Solanki. Dinkar Patil, director of (secondary) education and head of Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSERT), said, “People in financial distress may think of earning more by sending their teenaged children to work. Plus, the impact of socio-economic issues is seen more on girls. We will train centre heads and Bal Rakshaks to not only bring students to school but also provide psychological support for them and their parents. In 2017, about 80,000 children were brought back to school by Bal Rakshaks. The number stood at over 35,000 in 2019. It is crucial to keep the students in school once they have been enrolled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-dept-worries-about-rise-in-school-dropouts/articleshow/75955736.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Clean-up on, new estimate pegs green loss at 15,000||KOLKATA: The city has lost an estimated 15,000 trees, 40% among them full-grown, in cyclone Amphan. This is three times the loss estimated earlier. KMC’s parks department and civil engineering department have made this preliminary assessment borough-wise. The multi-agency clean-up, meanwhile, continued on Sunday and most of the Kolkata’s arterial roads could be opened to traffic, some along a single-lane. TimesViewIt is good to see all agencies working together towards a common end. The situation is improving and, hopefully, more and more neighbourhoods will get back at least the basic services — power, water, phone link and garbage-disposal — in the next few days.Majority of full-grown trees were uprooted in boroughs I, VIII and IX. Areas which suffered loss of greenery the most include Northern Avenue-Tallah belt, Ballygunge Circular Road, Ballygunge Gardens, Sarat Bose Road, Southern Avenue, Rabindra Sarobar, Rashbehari Avenue, Alipore, Tollygunge Circular Road, Behala and Moore Avenue among others. The KMC parks department officials on Sunday informed that majority of uprooted trees from city’s major thoroughfares were removed on Sunday. The five columns of the Army’s Kumaon Regiment resumed road activities to clear roads in Kolkata and Salt Lake on Sunday morning. The Army’s Eastern Command deployed the troops on Saturday afternoon after a request was sent by the West Bengal government to the Bengal Sub Area. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), meanwhile, has increased its presence in the city by flying in more personnel from other states. According to Nisith Upadhyay, commandant, 2Bn, NDRF, 19 teams are presently deployed at several locations in Kolkata to clear major thoroughfares. The NDRF teams have been working in the city since Thursday. Some of them are now assisting the Army columns. “A lot of work has been completed in several parts of south Kolkata, such as Southern Avenue, Ballygunge Circular Road and Gurusaday Road. Work is now on at Behala and other locations such as Diamond Harbour Road and Salt Lake. The teams are being guided by civic officials and Kolkata Police,” a senior Army official said. NDRF teams cleared parts of Esplanade (including areas around KMC headquarters), Red Road, Harish Mukherjee Road and locations in Dhakuria. According to Kumar Ravi, deputy commandant, 2Bn NDRF, nearly 950 personnel of the force are now on duty in the city and surroundings. Of them, about 400 are from other battalions. Kolkata Police personnel, along with DMG teams, managed to clear almost all the important roads of the city of damaged trees. “There are a few roads — like the one between Ritchie Road and Chakraberia — which is still not functioning. But, otherwise, we have now ensured that the entire stretch of the road was motorable. For example, till Saturday, we could open two of the four lanes on Prince Anwar Shah Road. On Sunday, the full road was opened to vehicles,” said Rupesh Kumar DC (Traffic). A senior forester said that eight forest department teams were also on the job. Police said besides depending on the DMG force that has over 400 personnel, traffic cops too are keeping generators and axes. The east guard and Garden Reach traffic guard deployed these machineries on Sunday. The KMC on Sunday deployed 200 additional civic workers for each of the 16 boroughs. The civic parks department has also purchased over 20 electric saws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clean-up-on-new-estimate-pegs-green-loss-at-15k/articleshow/75955693.cms||Saikat Ray
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sanitation supervisor at AIIMS dies of Covid-19||NEW DELHI: A 58-year-old sanitation supervisor at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who had tested positive for novel coronavirus, has died, sources said. He was on ventilator and succumbed on Sunday at 7.30pm. He was a permanent employee of AIIMS and was posted at the outdoor patient department, the sources said. “Another corona warrior sacrifices his life in service of the country,” Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary, AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association, tweeted with the hashtag ‘IndiaFightsCOVID19’. “AIIMS has lost its proud warrior. The virus is dangerous, very communicable and doesn’t spare anyone,” he said. Kuldeep Dhigan, general secretary, AIIMS, SC/ST Employees’ Welfare Association, said that the supervisor developed fever and mild respiratory discomfort, following which he got himself examined at AIIMS on May 16. “As his case did not fulfil the criteria for testing, he was not tested for Covid-19. He underwent routine blood tests, was counselled and briefed about the precautions to be taken and sent back home,” Dhigan alleged. Due to sudden worsening of symptoms, the supervisor was taken to the emergency on May 19, Dhigan said. “He had breathing difficulties and was hospitalised. He was then tested for Covid-19 and the results came out to be positive,” he added. “All frontline workers like us who have high risk of exposure due to handling of hazardous biomedical waste during the cleaning process should be tested even at slightest suspicion,” Dhigan said. Srinivas also said that the threshold for testing should be further lowered for individuals working in high-risk locations like hospitals and those who may suffer inadvertent exposure to the virus despite taking adequate precautions like surveillance staff and police personnel. “We are going to have a high-level meeting with the director on Tuesday, to discuss issues pertaining to the safety of healthcare workers at the institute,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sanitation-supervisor-at-aiims-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75984480.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 14-day home quarantine must for flyers||JAIPUR: The state government on Sunday night clarified that all passengers arriving in the state by scheduled commercial flights from Monday will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. The move comes a day before domestic flight operations resume across the country. Altogether 19 flights are scheduled to land in Jaipur and the same number of flights will depart to various destinations from Monday. The guidelines issued by the home department state that flyers who are quarantined would be monitored and any breach of the conditions could land them in institutional quarantine and fine or legal action. However, such passengers who are visiting any place in the state for work or other purpose for a period less than a week and have already undergone a RTPCR test up to two days before arrival and are carrying the report of negative shall be exempted from home quarantine and permitted for return journey. Meanwhile, the airport authorities have been asked to maintain a database of passengers including the addresses of places they visit in Jaipur and their phone numbers. “We will conduct thermal screening and will get full details of passengers to share with the state government,” said Jaipur airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara. “For symptomatic patients, there would be direct isolation to the nearest health centre. Those with moderate to severe symptoms would be sent to a dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre,” said an officer, while quoting the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare. “I am travelling to New Delhi to bring my son back who studies in Noida (Uttar Pradesh). I have no idea if on arrival I would be quarantined. Still, I have booked the tickets,” said Ramesh Sehajwani, a businessman. Meanwhile, Mumbai and Pune, for the time being, have refused flight arrivals at their airports. “This means that we would have 19 departures from Jaipur and 16 arrivals except for Pune and Mumbai on Monday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/14-day-home-quarantine-must-for-flyers/articleshow/75957070.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Big mandis in Kolhapur city set to open soon||KOLHAPUR: The big vegetable markets (mandis) in the city are likely to open in the next couple of days due to the congestion near the roadside vegetable markets. The vendors will be allowed to sit in the market following the odd and even formula. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti visited some of the big markets on Sunday and discussed the possibilities of re-opening them. After the lockdown was imposed the markets were shut and the vendors were allotted the space on the roads in different localities near residential areas. This was done to avoid congestion in the markets. The decentralised roadside vegetable markets was appreciated by many as they said it helped to ensure social distancing. Kalshetti said, “We are planning to open big markets such as the Kapiltirth vegetable market. We have observed congestions near the roadside decentralised markets due to easing of the lockdown. We will allow some vendors to sit in the markets following the odd and even formula to ease the pressure on the decentralised roadside markets.” Sharad Jondhale, a vegetable vendor from Kasba Bawda market, said, “We request the civic administration to open the markets as we have to face action from civic staff if customers do not maintain social distancing. The administration should allow the vendors to sit in markets in the morning and evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/big-mandis-in-kolhapur-city-set-to-open-soon/articleshow/75952779.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Latur court convicts 5 in dacoity case||AURANGABAD: The Latur additional sessions court has convicted five of the 11 accused in a two-year-old dacoity case. The entire trial was done by video conferencing presided by judge RD Patil. In August 2017, the accused falsely claiming to be crime branch policemen had entered a bus and kidnapped a man, who was carrying cash to purchase optical articles from Mumbai. Following which five out of 11 accused were arrested on the charges of dacoity, impersonating as police, kidnapping a man, and criminal conspiracy. The five accused are identified as Jagdish Nakade, Chetan Meshram, Rajesh Sadhankar, Vicky Meshram and Harish Barad-Rajput.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/latur-court-convicts-5-in-dacoity-case/articleshow/76124486.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 25, 2020||Kolhapur||18 +ve cases emerge in Solapur||KOLHAPUR: As many as 18 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Solapur city on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 583 in Solapur district. Of the 18 cases, four patients have already died while an 80-year-old man succumbed to the infection on Sunday morning. The death toll in the district has reached 51. There are 278 active cases in Solapur. Solapur rural superintendent of police Manoj Patil has warned to take strict action against citizens, especially those returning from regions worst-affected by Covid-19, if they fail to abide by the guidelines of home and institutional quarantine. “Over 34,000 people have returned from the affected areas to rural Solapur and there are high chances of community transmission. If someone has any symptoms, they should get themselves checked at the nearby health centre,” said Patil.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/18-ve-cases-emerge-in-solapur/articleshow/75952742.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 count breaches 7000-mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid-19 cases breached the 7,000-mark in the state on Sunday. Three persons died while 286 others tested positive bringing the tally to 7,028. One death was reported from Chittorgarh, the fourth from the district, Jaipur reported its 78th fatality while Pali reported its seventh death. The state toll stands at 163. Districts which reported cases are Jaipur (78), Nagaur (47), Jodhpur (35), Rajsamand (24), Ajmer (22), Udaipur (21), Pali (7), Barmer (6), Kota (6), Bharatpur (6), Bhilwara (6), Jaisalmer (4), Dungarpur (4), Bikaner (3), Dholpur (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Sikar (3), Sirohi (3), Dausa (2), Alwar (1), and two from other states. Out of 286 cases, 180 are migrants who reached from different states travelling by buses, trains and by their personnel vehicles. Since May 1, as many as 1,658 migrants have tested positive. However, in Jaipur the situation is grave as 78 more persons were found positive, but the cause of concern is that they were reported from 34 places. Central jail and district jail reported more cases on Sunday. As many as 13 inmates tested positive from district jail and 10 from central jail. Six persons were found infected in Ramganj, while four each from Bhatta Basti, Boitawala Benad Road and Police Lines. Three cases each were reported from Ambabari, Andhi and two cases each were reported from Renwal, Kaladera, Sarund, Jawahar Nagar and Devgudha of Amber. One case each was reported from Nirman Nagar, Chandpole, Sriram Colony, Joshi Marg in Jhotwara, Purani Chungi on Agra Road, Nehru Nagar, Hathnodha, Nareda, Kotputli, Jaisainghpura Khor, Sanganer, Nahargarh Road, Keshavpura on Ajmer Road, Bajaj Nagar, Bagru, Itawa Bhopji, Janta Colony, MI Road, Jahota and Gudha Surjan. However, 62 persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the figure of recovered patients to 3,848 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-count-breaches-7000-mark-in-state/articleshow/75957114.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyclone-hit booksellers on College Street get students’ help||KOLKATA: Students of Presidency University as well as Calcutta University have come forward to help the book sellers on College Street which was ravaged by Cyclone Amphan last week leaving the books floating in water and blowing away the stalls. The network of students who came together in March to help those affected by the lockdown economically will reach out to student community and the civil society and act as a pressure group and prevail over government and publishers for support to rehabilitate hundreds of booksellers who have lost both their stock and establishment in the cyclone last week. Strong winds completely decimated many stalls and water gushed into the shops in the iconic book market in central Kolkata. The next day, books were floating on the waterlogged street. Many book stalls on College Street that attract huge number of school and college going students have ceased to exist after strong winds blew away the structures while other owners have lost a big part of their stock to the accumulated water. Even bigger book shops have lost stocks worth lakhs after water seeped into their establishments. Many of them kept the books on the pavements and on the carriageway to dry. A group of students from both the universities which are a landmark on College Street visited the shop owners to assess the quantum of loss and figure out the nature of support most of them would need to get back on their feet and restart their business. The pictures of books floating in waterlogged streets and helpless booksellers ruing their losses, soon after the cyclone struck, went viral and send shockwaves across the city. “We still do not know the exact quantum of the loss as many booksellers who stay far away from College Street have not been able to access their shops. But according to a preliminary survey done by the students of Calcutta and Presidency University each bookseller has incurred losses of up to Rs 1 lakh, including damage to their shops and their stock. Even the bigger publishers and booksellers have suffered but the extent is not very high,” said Ahan Karmakar, a student of Presidency University who is also a part of Quarantined Student Youth Network which has been operating multiple kitchens across the state to provide cooked meals to those affected by the lockdown economically. The students have already shared bank details on various social media platforms requesting everybody to contribute. The proceeds will go towards rehabilitating the booksellers who have been impacted by Amphan. College street, also known as boipara (book-mart), is hub of Kolkata’s student and literary crowd. It is the largest second-hand book market in the world and largest book market in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-hit-booksellers-on-college-st-get-students-help/articleshow/75955744.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Medical College Hospital doctor joins work after recovery from coronavirus||KOLKATA: A young doctor who got infected on the line of duty is now back to work in Kolkata’s tertiary level Covid hospital after being discharged from the hospital and completing the mandatory home isolation. Rishav Mukherjee, a second-year post graduate trainee in the medicine department of Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK), brushed aside the risk of professional hazards like getting infected with the virus and said that he could not wait any longer to resume work. The budding doctor who had been posted at the Covid-19 isolation ward of MCHK had tested positive for the virus on April 19. When he started working in the ward, the hospital was not designated as a Covid hospital. But like any other hospital, it had to run a fever clinic and isolation ward for Covid suspects. Mukherjee and his colleagues had been posted in the isolation ward as they were from the medicine department that contributes largely to the functioning of isolation wards in hospitals. “I was dying to come back to work. But I had to follow certain protocols before I could start working again,” the doctor told TOI. Mukherjee, now deputed at the Green Building of MCHK, is geared up to accept whatever duty he is assigned. He is among 12 doctors — eight from medicine and four from radiology — attending to around 95 SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) patients. “Initially, I was apprehensive when I had tested positive for the virus. But then I realised that people of my age without any co-morbidity are at extremely low risk. Support from family, patients, colleagues helped me recover from the viral attack. I was glad that none of my primary contacts had tested positive,” said the doctor. Mukherjee was discharged from ID&BG (Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General) Hospital on May 1. He had been in home isolation after being released from the hospital. He said he had observed professionalism among the ID&BG doctors and nurses and this would help him handle patients at MCHK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mch-doc-joins-work-after-recovery-from-coronavirus/articleshow/75955787.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Zilla parishad schools miss the mark for RTE refund||PUNE: About 535 schools in Pune district have fallen short of providing documents for reimbursement of fees in lieu of admissions done under the 25% quota of Right to Education (RTE) Act. As many as 249 applications from schools were received by Pune ZP as on May 21. The Pune ZP has stopped accepting applications. The education office of Pune zilla parishad (ZP) decided to reimburse the fee to schools so they could pay staff salaries. However, all schools were found to have several shortcomings in submission of documents. The schools were asked to fulfil the document requirements and get the fees reimbursed. The reimbursements are for the academic years 2012-13 to 2017-18. The list of all schools with shortcomings has been put up on the ZP website. Pune ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “During the lockdown, the government has advised schools not to charge fees from the parents/guardians. Many schools were struggling to pay salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff. We wanted to pay the fees to help schools give out salaries and meet other expenses while complying with government rules. Unfortunately, none of the schools are eligible for payment at this stage. The shortcomings in documentation are clearly listed. We have therefore requested them to submit the self-attested copies of missing documents at the ZP office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-schools-miss-the-mark-for-rte-refund/articleshow/75955777.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Husband no more, cured maid gets Rs 1.5L help||Rohtak: Moved by the plight of a woman whose husband died of Covid-19 at PGIMS, Rohtak, and who was found to have been infected by the virus too, doctors at the premier health institute here roped in NGOs and social activists to arrange Rs 1.5 lakh for her. Covid-19 control room in-charge Dr Varun Arora said the husband, Mohammad Raja, died on May 20. The wife, Ishrat, who worked as a maid in Gurgaon, was also admitted to PGIMS. Her husband was a delivery boy for restaurants. The woman has three minor daughters and an elderly father at home in Gurgaon. Dr Arora said the Gurgaon health department had not collected samples of the children. Only after intervening, the three children were and found infected, he said. Dr Arora said he sought help from NGOs and social activists. “Today, Israt has been discharged after her Covid-19 report came negative and a cheque worth Rs. 1.5 lakh has been handed over to her by PGIMS vice-chancellor Dr O P Kalra, as a token of help,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/husband-no-more-cured-maid-gets-rs-1-5l-help/articleshow/75955791.cms||Sat Singh
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fatal delay: Fear of Covid-19 hospitals leading to deaths||AHMEDABAD: The outbreak of Covid-19 and deteriorating conditions at hospitals have instilled a fear in people, who prefer not to get hospitalized and do so only when their conditions worsen, where some of them are too late and succumb to the novel coronavirus. TOI spoke to the families of three such patients, who were not ready to go to hospital and ultimately died of the coronavirus. In the first case, a 55-year-old man from the Vastral area had a cold, cough and fever for around ten days. The person, who was also suffering from hypertension, preferred to consult a local doctor and took medication till Thursday, when he began complained of breathing problems. On Thursday night, his condition worsened and family had to call the 108 ambulance, which took him to the nearby Shardaben Hospital. At the hospital, he was declared brought dead by doctors. The deceased’s relatives said he did not want to be hospitalised at the newly set up Covid-19 facility on the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus despite the insistence of his family and other relatives. Another man from the Asarwa, 45, who worked for a private firm was also suffering from a dry cough for around a fortnight only consulted a local doctor. “He was not ready to go to a Covid-19 designated hospital fearing that he would catch the infection at the hospital only. The increasing number of deaths at Covid-19 hospitals instilled more fear,” said a family member. This man was also admitted to the Covid-19 hospital on the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus and died on Thursday morning. A relative of a 54-year-old woman from the Odhav area of city, who died a week ago, said that they also had a fear of hospitalisation in he corona ward where people were dying of the virus. “My sister had a dry cough for a week and was referred to the Covid-19 hospital at Civil, where she died after being hospitalized for two days,” said the deceased’s brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fatal-delay-fear-of-covid-hospitals-leading-to-deaths/articleshow/75957253.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Dist admin asks KMT to wait till May 31||KOLHAPUR: With growing demand for resuming city bus service, the district administration has requested the transport department of the civic body to hold on to the plan for a while. As per revised lockdown guidelines, intra-district public transportation has been allowed with not more than 50% passengers boarding the buses. Accordingly, state transport buses have resumed the services in major towns and cities. The Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) provides bus service to city as well as villages on the outskirts. On normal days, around 90,000 passengers travel by KMT buses. Subhash Desai, additional manager of KMT, said, “We have planned to resume the service along major routes. Currently, around 40 buses are being deployed for Covid-19 management related works and we have 70 buses available. We have been requested by the district administration to wait till May 31 as the Covid-19 cases are increasing.” The demand to resume the bus service is being made mainly by the office-goers as private offices have been allowed to open with limited staff. “We have the buses and staff ready. With the nod from district administration we will start the service in couple of days, but just within the city jurisdiction. Since private transportation is allowed, the buses deployed to carry the industrial workers will be also available for regular passengers,” Desai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dist-admin-asks-kmt-to-wait-till-may-31/articleshow/75952819.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC found no ‘fabrication’ of Covid-19 death data||NEW DELHI: While disposing of a PIL that sought scrapping of the death audit committee (DAC) of the Delhi government on Covid-19 cases and a direction to the government to come out with “actual” figure of cases and death count, Delhi high court has ruled that it seems there is neither any arbitrariness or discrimination, nor any material to show fabrication of data on the part of the authorities. It said the members of the committee were experts in their subject and that data was being collected from hospitals in a proper format and on the basis of guidelines issued by the Centre. The bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan observed that the entire case of the petitioner was based on presumptions and surmises on the basis of newspaper reports. The bench, however, clarified that it would expect the DAC and the government to publish data only after it was properly analysed. It also directed that the data be maintained properly by the committee and government. The PIL had been filed by All India Lawyers’ Union. It had sought a direction to the Delhi government to publish the data related to confirmed cases of Covid-19 and deaths through a daily bulletin, claiming that there was a huge discrepancy between the actual information provided by the various hospitals and the figures being released by the Delhi government. In a statement referring to the court order, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Sunday said “Delhi High Court had upheld the accuracy and sanctity of the death figures published by the AAP government”. Accusing the BJP of “playing dirty politics”, he said the party must apologise to the people and the Delhi government for indulging in a baseless, motivated and malicious campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-found-no-fabrication-of-covid-19-death-data/articleshow/75955756.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Over 500 new Covid-19 cases; biggest single-day death toll at 30||NEW DELHI: A 48-year-old nurse working at a private hospital in west Delhi became the latest casualty of Covid-19 in the capital. She was undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital. In total, Delhi has recorded 261 Covid-19 deaths. This includes 30 deaths — the highest casualty reported in a single day — confirmed by the state government authorities on Sunday. “The newly reported deaths took place earlier but were added to the list of Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday following perusal of case sheets by the death audit committee,” an official said. The total number of Covid-19 count in the state crossed the 13,000 mark to reach 13,418, with over 500 more persons testing positive for the viral infection in the city for six consecutive days. Dr R N Kalra, medical director of Kalra Hospital, where the nurse who died due to Covid-19 worked, expressed profound grief over her demise. “She hadn’t been coming to hospital for the last 10 days. We got to know about her illness only recently. Her colleagues have also undergone Covid-19 test and have tested negative,” he added. Two days ago, Dr Jitendra Nath Pande, an eminent pulmonologist and former head of the department of medicine at AIIMS, died due to novel coronavirus. His wife, also a doctor, has tested positive for the viral infection and is undergoing treatment at AIIMS. A mess worker who was working at one of All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ hostel also died due to Covid-19 recently. A senior doctor said healthcare workers are at the maximum risk to contract Covid-19 because they are directly dealing with patients. “Over 300 healthcare workers, who may or may not be directly involved in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, have tested positive for the disease in Delhi,” the doctor added. The dean of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in central Delhi has tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. Dr Rajeev Sood, who is looking after the management of Covid-19 manpower at the hospital, also tested positive for the infection recently. Sources said Dr Sood is under home isolation and contact tracing has been initiated by hospital authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-500-new-cases-biggest-single-day-death-toll-at-30/articleshow/75955810.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||Govindpura and Mandideep industries rev up to get rolling||BHOPAL: The industrial estates of Mandideep and Govindpura are warming up to resume operations, with many already up and running, albeit with skeletal staff. About 700 units in Govindpura have start operating with reduced staff, even as low as 25%. At many units, machinery and the premises are being readied for equipment to be switched on for production. There are about 1,100 units , majority of them MSMEs, in this industrial area of Bhopal. With easing of lockdown restrictions for industries, factories are gradually switching back into operational mode. Difficulties remain, though. Industries have demanded that the government waive fixed power charges for the lockdown period and held an e-dharna on Thursday. Also, industrialists point out, demand is low and business may not improve until Mumbai, Delhi ,Ahmedabad and Indore continue to be in lockdown. “Labour and raw material continue to be the two major issues affecting the industrial scene. Many units still have 25% to 30% work force, and they too find it difficult to commute,” pointed out president of the industrial area, Amarjeet Singh. Industries in Mandideep, about 25km from Bhopal, face the same problems even more acutely because Bhopal’s borders are sealed. “We get raw material and a large number of other inputs from Mumbai, Delhi Ahmedabad and also Indore. But the markets and industries in these regions are shut down. You cannot run an industry in isolation. Unless the whole eco system starts functioning, it is difficult to operate,” said Rajeev Agrawal, president of the association of all industries in Mandideep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govindpura-mandideep-inds-rev-up-to-get-rolling/articleshow/75957141.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Diamond units get nod for production||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has announced that diamond industries (cutting and polishing) and even processing houses in the city can commence their production. However, the restriction in the 11 containment zones in the city will remain effective. The 11 containment zones include Shahpur, Saraspur, Gomtipur, Asarwa, Danilimda, Dariyapur, Jamalpur, Khadia, Behrampura, Maningar and Gulbai Tekra. The majority of the processing units are situated in Danilimda, while the diamond units are located mostly in Bapunagar area. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary forest and environment, said that on Sunday it was decided in a meeting that the diamond and processing houses situated either in the eastern part of the city or the western part of the city would be permitted to operate, according to the guidelines of the state government. Gupta has been appointed as the overall in-charge of activities to control the further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad Gupta said that the relaxation to the diamond and processing houses would be subjected to the standard operating procedure issued by the industries department. Gupta said that on May 20 the home department had issued a directive stating that production in the city except those situated in the containment zones would be permitted to operate. The officials said that this was the 11th meeting held at the Riverfront house after the new team of Gupta and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar had taken over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diamond-units-get-nod-for-production/articleshow/75957257.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Storm chronicle: After Amphan, historians look back at past cyclones that hit Calcutta||KOLKATA: The word ‘cyclone’ was coined in erstwhile Calcutta by British geo-scientist Henry Piddington, the first in the world to start storm research in the annals of the Asiatic Society. Looking at the structure of the natural phenomenon, Piddington compared it to the coil of a snake, which is what ‘cyclone’ means. By the time he published his landmark, ‘Laws of Storms’ in 1842, the city had witnessed the Great Bengal Cyclone of October 11-12 in 1737 and would soon face another one, on October 5 in 1864. The former is considered one of the first five recorded cyclones of the world while the latter is also known as the Great Calcutta Cyclone. Both are counted among the most severe till date, in terms of wind speed and loss to life and property. Amphan has brought the focus back on Piddington’s work, carried out at the Asiatic Society where he had set up the country’s first meteorology centre. Information about the 1737 cyclone is limited; some details can be found in the reports of ‘London Magazine’ and ‘Gentleman’s Magazine’, both published from London, said Shankar Nath, who has researched the storm for a Kolkata Municipal Corporation document. “It is in this storm that the steeple of St Anne’s Church, called the first English Church, which was located at the western corner of Writer’s Buildings, and the Nabagraha temple tower, built by Gobindaram Mitra near Kumartuli, fell,” Nath added. The two foreign publications have quoted government records saying the storm induced 40ft-high waves and floods that inundated 60 leagues or 330km and killed over 300,000 people across Bengal, said A K Sensharma in his ‘Great Bengal Cyclone of 1737’. The Great Calcutta Cyclone of 1864 raged between 4pm and 10pm. Satya Chandra Mukherji said, “The avenues of Fort William were destroyed, Eden Gardens was a wilderness, the iron rails overthrown, Garden Reach roads were blocked by trees, the roof of Free School, the Roman Catholic Church tower at Bowbazar, the steeple of Free Church of Scotland, the minarets of the mosque at Dharmatalla and the roof of St James’ Theatre were blown away. Even telegraph lines were broken, bringing communication to a halt,” he wrote. Researcher Bibhor Das, who studied the impact of the 1864 cyclone on Bishop’s College in Howrah, cited reports of two ships — Vessel Bengal and Mail Steamer Nemesis — which broke into pieces and were flung on to the campus where IIEST now stands. Historian Ramkrishna Chatterjee, also the publications secretary of Asiatic Society, said all the research on the two cyclones will be published in a special edition soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/storm-chronicle-after-amphan-historians-look-back-at-past-cyclones-that-hit-calcutta/articleshow/75955823.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 25, 2020||Trichy||Farmers go back to tradition, cultivate Kuthiraivali rice||Trichy: While the farmers from the foothills of Pachamalai had shifted to producing onions and tapioca a few years ago, encouraged by the agriculture department under the national food security mission (NFSM) farmers from Thuraiyur and Uppiliapuram blocks in Trichy this year have cultivated a traditional variety of Kuthiraivali rice. The farmers from Sobanapuram and Top Sengattupatti in Uppiliapuram block and Vannadu in Thuraiyur block have raised Kuthiraivali rice (millet variety) in around 63 acres. The crop is moving to vegetation stage from flowering and the recent rain has come as a boon for this short term crop, which would take 85 days to mature, farmers said. Earlier, farmers from these blocks used to raise various millets including Kuthiraivali, but as there were no takers, farmers gradually switched over to cash crops . The yield of Kuthiraivali, too, was not very good. However, due to increasing health-consciousness among people, particularly from urban areas, farmers have moved back to their tradition, M Ramachandran, 42, a farmer from Vannadu told TOI. “This year officials from the agriculture department encouraged us to sow Kuthiraivali. When compared to other crops, expenses are very less. I have raised the crop in half an acre,” he said. Due to non-availability of certified seeds, they could not get a good yield earlier, NFSM consultant, R Santhanakrishnan told TOI. “We have distributed a short duration and high yielding variety of CO (KV) 2. The yield would be 6,555 kg per acre of grain and 13,010 kg of fodder. In the case of input cost, it is enough to spend Rs 6,000 per acre from land preparation to harvest. Government is also providing Rs 6,000 backend subsidy to encourage farmers,” he added. If farmers would sell it after duly polishing it, they can get Rs 80 to Rs 120 per kg. It is good for increasing haemoglobin in blood and useful for preparing food items such as dosa, paniyaram and adai, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-go-back-to-tradition-cultivate-kuthiraivali-rice/articleshow/75957087.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||HC allows minor rape survivor to terminate 24-week pregnancy||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has allowed a 17-year-old rape survivor to medically terminate her 24-week pregnancy. By the time HC granted its permission to perform the medical termination of pregnancy (MTP), the girl had completed 25 weeks of pregnancy. On April 28, the Osmanabad police had booked an accused on charges of raping the minor and impregnating her. The accused was also slapped with relevant sections of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. To terminate the unwanted pregnancy resulting from the alleged rape, the survivor’s mother had reached out to the Government Medical College and General Hospital, Latur, but the medical experts there refused to perform the MTP because the pregnancy had crossed the 20-week mark. The minor, through her lawyers SG Shinde and Abhaysinh Bhosale, filed a petition in the HC. The lawyers, through video conferencing, contested: “The birth to such a child would cause a grave injury to her mental health. Giving birth to such a child would ruin her future. It is contended that in the facts and circumstances of the case, extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court deserves to be invoked to protect the dignity of the minor and thereby to protect her right to life as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.” Considering the plea, HC asked the medical board of Swami Ramanand Teerth Rural Medical College and Hospital at Ambajogai to carry out her medical examination and submit its report. Justice VL Achaliya passed the order after perusing and accepting the recommendations made by the hospital’s medical board, which said in the report: “This case is of IPC 376 (rape), continuation of pregnancy and birth of child affects the mental and social health of mother constantly, so, on humanitarian and social ground, this committee recommends termination of pregnancy at any government recognized MTP centre of choice of patient with due risk.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-allows-minor-rape-survivor-to-terminate-24-week-pregnancy/articleshow/75952857.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 27 localities out of red zone, to get some relaxations||VADODARA: Residents of 27 localities will be able to enjoy some relaxations as the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has put their apartments, building, and societies from red zone to orange zone. Some of them include Dwarkesh Society near Polo Ground, Balaji Duplex near Parivar crossroads, Maninagar in Manjalpur, Kamal Park on Warasiya Ring Road, Gaurav Society near Panigate and government quarters at Navi Dharti. Movement of residents was strictly prohibited in these areas where citizens had access to only permitted essential services. The state government has permitted only essential services in containment zones. Meanwhile, city continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 cases as 30 people tested positive since Saturday night, taking the total number of cases to 855 by Sunday evening. A majority of cases were from Panigate, Yakutpura, Wadi and Rajmahal Road which have witnessed cases in the past while scattered cases were also reported Impiniyam flat, Chhani and Patel Colony near Dinesh Mill area in Akota. The patients who have tested positive are in the age group of 20 to 76 years. The positive tests reported on Sunday were from results of 145 tests conducted since Saturday evening of which 115 tested negative. The 855 positive cases include 32 from rural areas of Vadodara district, five from outside the district and rest from the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. North and east zones continued to be the worst-affected zones within the VMC limits with 383 and 272 positive cases respectively. Of the 318 patients who are currently under treatment in government and private hospitals, condition of 303 patients is said to be stable, nine patients are being treated with oxygen support while six others are on ventilator. In all seven patients were discharged on Sunday. These included four from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri and three from home isolation. With this, the total number of discharged patients now stands at 499.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/27-localities-out-of-red-zone-to-get-some-relaxations/articleshow/75953473.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Flyers on home stretch if no Covid symptom||BHOPAL: With domestic flights resuming on May 25, the Madhya Pradesh government came out with Covid-control SOPs on Sunday mandatory quarantine for those with symptoms, the rest can go home. The first commercial plane to arrive at Raja Bhoj Airport after a gap of 61 days will be an Indigo flight from Delhi, scheduled to touch down at 3.20 pm. Arriving passengers need to fill a declaration form about their travel history, address and contact details, and go through a Covid screening. Those detected with Covid symptoms will have to go into mandatory quarantine at a paid facility or government-run one. “They will be tested and sent home only if their report is negative. If their report is positive, they will be sent to dedicated Covid care centres and isolation ward for 10 days,” said airport director Anil Vikram. Those who show no symptoms after seven days could be allowed to go home but they will have to be home quarantined for the next 7 days. To travel home or outside Bhopal district, passengers will have to keep their e-ticket with them. On the first day of flight resumption, IndiGo and Air India will operate four flights on the Delhi-Bhopal-Delhi sector. From May 26, six flights are expected to operate on Delhi-Bhopal-Delhi, Mumbai-Bhopal-Mumbai and Hyderabad-Bhopal-Hyderabad sectors. Aarogya Setu app is a must for all fliers above 14 years of age. Masks and gloves are mandatory, of course, and fliers can take 350ml of sanitizer with them. Check-in will be contactless with CISF personnel checking ID card and e-tickets/boarding passes without touching them. Those who cannot print boarding passes or do a web check-in can use the self-check-in kiosks rather than going to a counter. The Airport director said passengers must arrive two hours before scheduled flight time. They will be thermal screened at the gate and will be allowed in only Aarogya Setu app shows green and their body temperature is normal. Private vehicles and select cab services will be allowed to take passengers and employees to the airport. Fliers’ baggage will be disinfected at the main gate. Fliers have to go through repeated rounds of hand sanitization prior to boarding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-flyers-on-home-stretch-if-no-covid-symptom/articleshow/75957193.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Conjoined 2-year-olds separated at AIIMS after 24-hour surgery||NEW DELHI: A pair of conjoined twins from Badaun in Uttar Pradesh, who were joined at the hip and lower back, have been separated following a 24-hour surgery at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, officials said. The two-year-old girls had fused pelvis, spinal bones, spinal cord, intestines and shared a common rectum, besides having abnormalities of the heart and major blood vessels, a senior doctor explained. The surgery, which began at 8.30am on Friday, continued past 9am on Saturday. A team of 64 healthcare workers, including surgeons, anaesthetists and plastic surgeons, were involved in the surgery. The process of anaesthesia and the surgery was very challenging as both the children had a hole in their hearts, the doctor claimed. “Even when under anaesthesia, surgeons had to ensure that the hearts kept working as normal as possible during the surgery and that was a major challenge,” he explained. As a part of the surgery, remodelling of the spinal cord, separation of the spines, reconstruction of rectum and blood vessels of the thighs were done. The uterus also had to be separated and reconstructed. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria took note of the need for the surgery and promptly granted permission for the procedure to be undertaken even during the Covid-19 situation, another doctor said. The surgery was led by Dr Minu Bajpai, head of the department of paediatric surgery at AIIMS, with assistance from anaesthetists and plastic surgeons. “The twins are under close care and monitoring,” a doctor said. A senior official at AIIMS, who did not want to be quoted, said they would wait for three to four days to assess the recovery of the twins. In 2017, AIIMS had successfully separated twins — Jaga and Balia — who were conjoined at the head — an extremely rare case. The twins are currently in their home state of Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/conjoined-2-year-olds-separated-at-aiims-after-24-hour-surgery/articleshow/75955836.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Suspicious husband kills wife, 2 sons in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: A 35-year-old man surrendered before the Peth-Beed police station on Sunday and confessed to killing his wife and two sons in the Shukrawarpeth area of Beed, about 130 km from here. The arrested accused has been identified as Santosh Kokane, a salesman, while the deceased are Sangita (31), Sandesh (10) and Mayur (7). Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said: “The motive was that Santosh suspected his wife of having an extra-marital relationship.” Sources said an argument broke out on Sunday afternoon. Santosh got violent and smashed Sangita’s head with a stone. He then smashed Sandesh’s head before drowning Mayur in a water barrel. He then confessed to the crime to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/suspicious-husband-kills-wife-2-sons/articleshow/75952896.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 25, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Yadgir district in dire need of doctors as Covid-19 cases spike||YADGIR: The sudden jump in Covid cases across Yadgir district is a cause for worry due to the acute shortage of doctors. Although the administration says it's prepared to handle the increasing number of coronavirus cases, the authorities have started making alternative arrangements to treat critical patients. There are no specialists in government hospitals and hospitals are functioning with just 50% of sanctioned posts. To make matters worse, 72 persons who returned from Maharashtra tested positive on Saturday. This is a record daily jump yet for any district in the state. On Sunday, 24 more cases were reported, taking the total to 111. The district administration has arranged over 800 beds, which, going by the current rate of rise in cases, should be enough. Officials say the health department has been anticipating a surge as people from neighbouring states were expected to return. Many people from the district migrate to Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to seek work. As per labour department data, 14,500 workers have returned from various states. As there are no specialists to handle critical cases that need ventilators, the administration has tied up with Kalaburagi ESI (Employees’ State Insurance) Hospital. Deputy commissioner M Kurma Rao said: "We're issuing a notification again to recruit doctors. The district has been facing an acute shortage of doctors for many years.” Kurma Rao said three notifications have been issued but only two candidates applied. He did not reveal the number of sanctioned posts and vacancies. He said critical cases would be sent to Kalaburagi ESI Hospital. Based on the condition of patients and their comorbidities, a decision about shifting patients would be taken. A health official said there's not much cause for worry as most patients are asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/yadgir-district-in-dire-need-of-doctors-as-covid-19-cases-spike/articleshow/75954098.cms||Shreyas HS
May 25, 2020||Trichy||AC dealers in Trichy feel the heat as sales go down by 75 per cent||TRICHY: The prevailing economic uncertainty due to the Covid-19 lockdown has resulted in about 75% fall in air conditioner (AC) sales in April and May this year in Trichy, which would otherwise be the busiest time for electronic outlets every year. The AC dealers in Trichy said that even with the temperarure touching 40 degree Celsius, the customers are hesitating to spend and are even abstaining from availing monthly instalment scheme to purchase ACs. On an average, an electronic outlet in the city sells around 400-450 air conditioners each in April and May. With the retail electrical shops permitted to open from May 6 and having spent the entire April in the lockdown, the shops have had only 10-25% of the routine AC sales so far. “From June, people will have to spend on their children’s education and other financial commitments. We sold 15-20 air conditioners per day in May 2019, but in this year, we have sold only a dozen air conditioners in the whole month,” V Anand, manager, Sivas Electronics, Salai Road said. Meanwhile, there is a marginal surge in AC prices, attributed to the constraints in shipments and have become costly by Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 post the lockdown. However, the lull in sales was largely attributed to poor cash flow for people during the lockdown. “Around 70% of our customers prefer monthly instalments option generally. But ever since we reopened the shop, people have been hesitant to avail EMI option,” B Moorthy, manager of Venus Electronics, Trichy said. Parameters to avail monthly instalment option was also made stringent by the finance companies post the lockdown to identify only the customers, who can repay the loan during the crisis, dealers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ac-dealers-feel-the-heat-as-sales-go-down-by-75/articleshow/75957156.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||People throng railway counters to get refunds||Jaipur: With the North Western Railway (NWR) opening its reservation counters, the number of people visiting Jaipur and other stations have increased. While many are coming to book tickets for upcoming journeys, a lot of people are queuing up to claim refunds of their tickets which had been cancelled due to the lockdown. Railway authorities said they would open its food stalls in a phased manner. Many people who had pre-booked tickets for journeys from March 23 to April 14 and April 15 to May 1 have been coming in large numbers to Jaipur station to get their tickets cancelled. “Thankfully, railways is providing us full refund,” said Kalicharan Agarwal, who cancelled his ticket to Mumbai told. Many people who had booked tickets for pilgrimage to Vaishnu Devi and for Goa, Mumbai, Kathgodam and other stations for summer vacations, also came to get refunds. Similar scenes were witnessed at other stations like Gandhi Nagar, Khatipura, Bandikui, Alwar and others. “We are yet to calculate the figures but there has been 70 per cent refund cases in our daily transactions,” said an officer with the commercial wing of NWR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-throng-railway-counters-to-get-refunds/articleshow/75957199.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Balancing faith and duty||Dr Fatima GhanchiAhmedabad: For Dr Fahad Radhanpuri, a doctor with VS Hospital, the first few days of working at Covid Care Centre at Samras Hostel in the city have been difficult.“I severely dehydrated for the first two days. The PPE kits that we wear cause a person to sweat a lot. The body quickly loses water in the sweltering heat. But third day onwards, I found the key to keep hydrating and also observing roza,” says Dr Radhanpuri, who has completed his stint and is currently under isolation.As the city and several parts of the world are scheduled to celebrate Ramzan Eid today, for several Muslim doctors serving in the city, the month of Ramzan has been a testing one this year with duty at Covid-19 hospitals and centres with extended working hours and wearing PPE causing them to dehydrate.Dr Naaz MansuriDr Shakil Vadaliwala, a neonatologist at the VS Hospital, has had a similar experience. “One has to wear PPE kits for six to eight hours on an average day. But the body finds rhythm after a few days. I used to save my lunch pack for iftaar and dinner for sehri,” he says. “The month was also special as I became father on May 20. I am still to see my child and have only been communicating with my family through video calls. Hopefully, I’ll unite with them soon,” he adds.The doctors also prayed for the quicker recovery of patients and the return of normalcy for all as the Eid celebration will be limited to their families – and sometimes even to their colleagues or patients in isolation.Dr Fatima Ghanchi, an assistant professor at GCS Hospital, says that as she lives in Kalol and daily commutes to her workplace, the month has been a bit challenging. “But I guess both faith and work are important, and I am happy that I could balance them both. I have isolated myself from my family as I have been living on the first floor of the house with minimal contact,” she says.“PPE kits exhaust any person, but I have been observing roza since I was 17 years old and I devised a way to ensure rest, hydration and food while ensuring that the duty hours are not affected. After all, it is the time when the society needs our services the most,” says Dr Naaz Mansuri, a resident doctor at Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/balancing-faith-and-duty/articleshow/75957421.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ludhiana||ICMR sero-survey from tomorrow||LUDHIANA: A 14-member ICMR team will be collecting 400 blood samples from people living in 10 clusters in Ludhiana district under the ‘Community Transmission Surveillance Programme’, or sero survey, and would conduct rapid antibody tests to find out prevalence of Covid-19. The team will arrive on Monday and kick off the process a day later. Ludhiana district has reported 179 positive cases, including seven deaths. The district has been chosen as most of the cases had unknown source of infection. The survey has been completed in Patiala, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and a part of Pathankot. Spokesperson of state health department for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Now, 400 samples from each district will be sent to the Chennai-based National Institute for Research to monitor trends of the Covid-19 in community transmission. The blood samples will be tested through rapid antibody test kits and ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test kits, developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune.” Nodal officer for ICMR survey in state Vishal Chopra from department of pulmonary medicine at Government Medical College, Patiala, would be leading the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/icmr-sero-survey-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75955856.cms||Mehak Jain
May 25, 2020||Goa||Clueless & Confused||Over two months ago, this paper had warned that Goa should get serious about tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. But two months later, the state is no better. Lack of leadership and clarity in decision making has become a standard feature. From the decision to hold zilla panchayat elections to the often-changing government stance on lockdowns and SOPs, chief minister Pramod Sawant has carried on with a false bravado of senseless hope. Having been rapped by the Centre for a series of imprudent decisions, Sawant was quick to step aside and hand over decision-making to a team of bureaucrats, who are neither accountable to the people nor have the pulse of the state. What ensued was the chief minister playing the role of a messenger to the Twitter-happy bureaucrats and almost giving his approval to every decision that was taken by this group behind closed rooms. The cracks were evident as there was lack of coordination and unanimity in the government with the chief minister in variance with health minister Vishwajit Rane. While Rane had insisted on more restrictions and warned Goans not to have a false sense of satisfaction as the state became free of Covid patients in April, Sawant was busy promoting Goa as a Covid-free state. Instead of putting up a joint front by taking the opposition and people into confidence, the government has been busy in hashtag politics. With only five of the 66 patients symptomatic to the virus, Goa has been taking its luck for granted. As rail, road and air routes open, Sawant must lead from the front and assure Goans that they are safe under him and not hide behind a set of bureaucrats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clueless-confused/articleshow/75958177.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 30,000 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra tally croses 50,000||MUMBAI: On a day when chief minister Uddhav Thackeray indicated that the state was yet to see the worst of Covid-19, cases in Maharashtra have touched 50,000 and scaled a grim record of over 3,000 in a single day. With 3,041 registered on Sunday, Maharashtra’s tally stood at 50,231. The journey from the first two cases to half a lakh has taken 77 days. Maharashtra now has a doubling rate of 11 days. Notably, of the 50,231 cases, as many as 39,756 (79%) were recorded in May. Mumbai meantime set its own worrying record of 30,000 cases and inched closer to 1,000 deaths. It also recorded 1,725 cases in a day, its second highest jump on a single day, taking the count of positive cases to 30,542. With 39 deaths, the city’s death toll is now 988. The state recorded 58 deaths on Sunday, taking the toll so far to 1,635. Mumbai continues to account for 60% of the state’s fatalities. Starting from May 6, the state has recorded over 1,000 cases daily for 12 days in a row. Thereafter, it has started seeing a further surge. For the last six days, it has recorded over 2,000 cases every single day. On Sunday, it crossed the 3,000-mark in one day. The only silver lining was, 1,194 patients went home on Sunday, taking the count of recovered people to 14,600. State’s recovery rate continues to be 29%. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an address, said the crucial period is yet to come, and the state has to brace for the worst. He called for precautions to be taken since the rains are approaching. Anticipating a shortage of blood, he appealed for donors as the state faces a shortfall of blood units. “We have blood which will suffice only for 8-10 days. We need blood for Covid-19 and non-Covid patients,” said Thackeray. The CM further added that the number of beds available for Covid-19 patients would increase to 14,000 by May-end. He said field hospitals have been set up with ICU beds and oxygen facilities as more patients would need oxygen than ventilators. He also thanked citizens for complying with social distancing norms and lockdown rules, which he said, had helped keep the case load below 50,000 at a time when a central team had projected 1.25 to 1.5 lakh patients till May-end. The civic authorities said the city’s Covid-19 growth rate from May 16 to May 22 was 6.61%. They claimed that only eight of the city’s 24 civic wards have a growth rate of more than 8%. The maximum growth rate (13.7%) was seen in N ward that covers Ghatkopar and Vidyavihar. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said wards that have a higher growth rate need stricter containment measures and greater participation from citizen groups in terms of social distancing. In terms of augmenting facilities, Kakani added that doctors have undertaken a dry run of the jumbo facility in MMRDA, BKC and it was likely to be thrown open for patients from Monday. “We will be starting with 100 patients and gradually scale it up to 400. The overall capacity of the centre is 1,008 beds of which 50% will have oxygen support,” he said. In the next few days, facilities at NESCO in Goregaon and Mahalaxmi will be opened. Across the state, there were 58 deaths due to Covid-19, of which 39 were from Mumbai, six from Pune, six from Solapur, four from Aurangabad and one each from Latur, Mira-Bhayandar and Thane. Of the total 58 deaths, 34 were male and 24 females. Thirty of them were over 60 years, 27 were from the age group of 40 to 59 years and one patient was younger than 40 years. Forty out of 58 patients (67%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease. According to the state health department, 38 deaths occurred in the last 24 hours and the rest between April 23 and May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3000-cases-take-state-past-50000-city-breaches-30000/articleshow/75957299.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Train ticket refund starts; 6-month validity||NASHIK: The refund for the cancelled railway tickets that were booked through the passenger reservation system (PRS) will be given from Monday, said railway officials. The authorities have warned the people from making any rush at the respective counters. The railways plan to start operations slowly as it has started about 100 up and down trains from June 1. The booking for the same has been started already. “People with confirmed tickets will be allowed to travel on the train. The railways had first announced bookings through online system only but they have now decided to start PRS at various railway stations,” said a railway official. Since the counters are opened for people to book the tickets, the railways have also started the process of refunding the cancelled tickets. “People who had physically booked the train tickets through the PRS system will be able to get a refund from the PRS only. While the ones booked through online will get the refund online-only,” the railway official added. The railways, though, have kept a timeline of six months to get the refund of the tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/train-ticket-refund-starts-6-month-validity/articleshow/75952941.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||As thousands return home, over 1.63 lakh households seek job under MNREGA in Uttarakhand in May||NAINITAL: With thousands of migrants returning to Uttarakhand in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the number of job seekers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) has skyrocketed in the state. According to government data, more than 1.63 lakh households have demanded work in 24 days of May. The surge is up from just around 75,000 people seeking work in the entire month of April. However, despite so many people demanding work, only around 64,000 were allotted work in May. Gram pradhans say that dozens of people have approached them to get a MNREGA job card and almost every migrant is seeking work but they are not able to process the request. The migrants meanwhile say that even though the wage of Rs 202 allocated under the scheme is significantly lower than what they earned in the cities, but with no other work available, they have no option but to seek a job under MNREGA.  "I worked at a restaurant in Delhi but when the lockdown was imposed, my boss said he has no work and therefore, he cannot pay me. I was there for weeks without any work but now that I am finally home, I would rather build temporary roads and dig ponds than go back," said Arun Kumar, who returned to his village in Nainital district last month. Incidentally, in comparison to other states like Haryana which pays the workers around Rs 300 per day, the wages in Uttarakhand are lower. When asked on what the government is doing to address workers’ woes, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, "We are committed to giving work to everyone. The Centre has said that it will provide an additional funding of Rs 40,000 crore under MNREGA, and therefore the situation should improve soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-thousands-return-home-over-1-63-lakh-households-seek-job-under-mnrega-in-ukhand-in-may-a-jump-of-over-100-only-64000-get-work/articleshow/75952967.cms||Prashant Jha
May 25, 2020||India||India now No. 10 among Covid-hit nations; 6,500+ cases on Sunday||NEW DELHI: As the country's Covid-19 count continued to surge, India overtook Iran on Sunday in total recorded cases of the coronavirus to take the 10th spot among nations worst-hit by the pandemic. New cases reported in the past 24 hours spiralled to 6,566, the highest single-day rise so far and the sixth peak in daily cases in as many days, even as the day's death toll rose to 153. Maharashtra, as usual, led the numbers with a fresh high of 3,041 new cases, 1,725 from Mumbai alone. With this, the state crossed the 50,000-mark in total cases while Mumbai went past 30,000. Cyclone-ravaged Bengal reported its highest number of fresh cases at 208. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates Bengal's cumulative tally of cases rose to 3,667, a day after virologists expressed fears of a sudden rise in the epidemic numbers as a possible fallout of cyclone Amphan. Kolkata (52 cases), Howrah (48), North 24 Parganas (21) and Hooghly (20) provided the bulk of the numbers. Before this, the highest single-day case spike had been on May 10, with 158 new cases detected. At least 26 states/Union territories reported new cases on Sunday, one less than the number on the previous day, indicating the spread of the infection in the country. Continuing the trend of the past few days, Tamil Nadu reported the second highest count of cases during the day at 765. For the first time since May 1, the number of people cured of Covid-19 in the state exceeded the number of those being treated on Sunday, even as Chennai's count crossed 10,000. The city reported 587 fresh infections. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage Gujarat crossed figure of 14,000 positive cases, becoming third after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu to do so. It also recorded 29 Covid-related deaths, taking the death toll to 858. The deaths include 28 from Ahmedabad. Gujarat is second in death toll after Maharashtra with a mortality rate of 6.1%. Read AlsoCovid-19: Positivity rate per 100 tests rises to 5% in last 2 weeksThe countrywide positivity rate of coronavirus cases per 100 tests has increased to 5% if tests in the last two weeks. At least seven states and Union Territories have reported much higher positivity rates. These include Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Telangana, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar,eachThe virus continued to surge in Delhi, with 508 new cases reported and as many as 30 deaths. Officials, however, said the deaths had taken place earlier and were being reported on Sunday after the designated committee had cleared these as fatalities connected to the coronavirus. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  The virus continued to surge in states that have been seeing a workers returning in large numbers. While Rajasthan reported 286 new cases, the number were high in Uttar Pradesh (254), Madhya Pradesh (219) and Bihar (180). In Odisha, 66 fresh cases were recorded. The state government added Bargarh as a new district in the list of coronavirus-affected districts in the state. With this, the number of districts that have so far reported the deadly virus increased to 28. There are 30 districts in Odisha. Watch India now No. 10 among Covid-hit nations; overtakes Iran, 6,500+ cases on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-now-no-10-among-covid-hit-nations-6500-cases-on-sunday/articleshow/75959469.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Some of the 716 coins date back to 13th century Bahamani rule||Kolhapur: Some of the copper coins among the lot of 716 coins unearthed from a mud pot at Anuskura village date back to the Bahamani Sultanate in the 13th century, a reign which spanned over 200 years, claim numismatists and historians.Numismatics claim that the large number of copper coins were minted during the Bahamani ruler Ahmad Shah II who ruled from 1436 to 1458. The references of the coins can be found in the book titled “Coins of Indian Sultanate” authored by Stan Goran and J P Goenka.Naeim Shaikh, a numismatist said, “I saw the pictures of some of the coins. The coins made up of copper have Persian inscription on it. A large number of copper coins were minted during Ahmad Shad II’s reign. Gulbarga and Bidar (both in Karnataka) had minting units. A lot of the coins date back to the reign of emperors ruling between 13th and 16th century. Further study will help us reveal more facts about the coins.”Phonda ghat, Anuskura ghat and Amboli ghat are the three passes connecting the Konkan region to South maharashtra . Anuskura ghat is one of the ancient passes which was used as a trade route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/some-of-the-716-coins-date-back-to-13th-century-bahamani-rule/articleshow/76124542.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nashik||Rain helps Nashik & Kolhapur dams maintain adequate stocks||NASHIK: Nashik division, which witnessed a drought-like situation in 2019, has 34% water in its reservoirs — at least 12% more compared to the storage in the last four years. The storage levels in the reservoirs dropped drastically in 2019, when the water stock as on May 24 stood at 12% or 767 million cubic metre against the total capacity of 6,003 million cubic metre. In 2018, the reservoirs were only 27.9% full . Sources in the water resources department attributed the rise in the storage levels to the more than adequate rainfall in the region during monsoon last year when districts in the division received 87% to 120% rainfall. “The division largely has three major sources of water—Godavari river in Nashik district, Mula-Mutha rivers in Ahmednagar district and Tapi river which runs through Jalgaon and Dhule before entering Gujarat. Since all these rivers received adequate showers last year, the dependency on dams for water was lower this year,” said sources. “As long as there is water in the wells, farmers will not demand rotation of water from the dams. It is only when there is a scarcity that there is a demand that water be released from the dams, either through the rivers or the canals,” said sources adding that there was enough stock in the dams this year despite releasing water for agiculture and drinking purposes. When asked if the outbreak of Covid-19 helped save the quantum of water otherwise used by industries, a WRD officer said, “Water drawn from the dams is mainly used for drinking and agriculture purposes. The quantum used by industries, though very little, did help save water.” Meanwhile, the untimely rain in the last couple of week has increased the storage in dams in Kolhapur district to 40%. The dams were only 19% full during the same time last year. District authorities said currently water has been discharged from the dams to irrigate farms. They also want to ensure there is sufficient storage in the dams if monsoon gets delayed. Kolhapur district disaster management officer Prasad Sankpal said that monsoon was expected to be normal as per the forecast of the meteorological department. “The water resources department has been asked to keep a tab on the arrival of monsoon. We have to maintain the water stock mainly for irrigation purposes. The discharge will be done based on the requirement and the intensity of rainfall.” The current stock is adequate for drinking and irrigation even if the monsoon defers by some days .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-helps-nashik-kolhapur-dams-maintain-adequate-stocks/articleshow/75952998.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Seven held for man’s murder over his social media ‘status’||PUNE: A recent brawl over a status update on a social media platform led to the brutal murder of a 22-year-old man at Takve budruk in Vadgaon Maval,around 50km from here, late on Friday night . The Vadgaon Maval police team, led by inspector Suresh Nimbalkar, arrested seven suspects for the murder of Yash Aswale. Nimbalkar said Aswale, along with his two friends, had gone for a walk towards Ghonshet village around 10.30pm on Friday. “The suspects reached there on four motorcycles,” the officer said. “Four of them had sharp weapons with them,” Nimbalkar added. “The four persons assaulted Aswale while three others caught hold of Aswale’s two friends,” the inspector added. He said the police personnel had received a tip-off that Hritik Aswale along with his accomplices were involved in the murder. “We traced them to their hideout and arrested them,” Nimbalkar said. “We found that Aswale had entered into a brawl with Hritik Aswale from the same village over the status that he had uploaded,” Nimbalkar said. “A police complaint had been filed after the brawl,” Nimbalkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-held-for-mans-murder-over-his-social-media-status/articleshow/75955875.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Celebrate Eid at home, avoid public gatherings: Goa police||PANAJI: Goa police has appealed to Muslim brethren across the state to perform namaaz at home while celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr on Monday, in view of the lockdown. The police also met with religious heads of the Muslim community to explain to them the importance of celebrating the festival only with immediate family members, and avoiding large gatherings in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh, on behalf of Goa police, extended his Eid-ul-Fitr wishes to all those celebrating the festival, and also appealed to them to offer prayers at their homes, in view of the restrictions on gathering in religious places. Singh said that social distancing is a must and requested the community to bear with the ongoing restrictions. Appreciating the earlier cooperation extended by the community,the IGP expressed confidence that they would abide by the ministry of home affairs guidelines. Superintendent of police Shobit Saxena said that police inspectors and deputy superintendents on Sunday held meetings with leaders of the Muslim community and requested them not to organise public functions for Eid. They were told that all religious places have been closed due to the lockdown, and they should celebrate Eid by staying safe at home with family. “We have asked them to celebrate Eid safely,” Saxena said Speaking on the resumption of flights from Monday, Saxena said that all necessary arrangements have been made and larger numbers of police personnel have been deployed at the airport. The force has arrested 1,405 persons — 572 in North Goa and 833 in South Goa — since the lockdown began, and registered 772 FIRs. A senior police officer said the 53,500 registered violations include moving around villages and cities without permission, opening shops in defiance of government orders, and in some cases, transporting furniture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/celebrate-eid-at-home-avoid-public-gatherings-goa-police/articleshow/75958178.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Patna||Girl dies after consuming pesticide in Bihar||PATNA: A 14-year-old girl died and her nine-year-old younger sister fell ill after consuming pesticide at Masarhi village under the Gaurichak police station area in Patna district late on Saturday night. Police said it’s still not clear whether the girls deliberately consumed pesticide after they were scolded by their father or accidentally drank it while playing. SHO of Gaurichak police station Nagmani Kumar said the deceased girl was identified as Reema Kumari. “The condition of her younger sister, Rani Kumari, is stated to be critical. Reema, Priti (16) and Sulekha (13) were born from Chandu’s first wife who had died several years back. Rani and Munna (8) were born from his second wife,” the SHO added. He said Reema and Rani were rushed to a local hospital where the former died during treatment around 7am on Sunday. “We have received information that Chandu had scolded his daughters after returning home around 10pm on Saturday. No written complaint has so far been lodged by the family members. Further investigations are on,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-dies-after-consuming-pesticide/articleshow/75955035.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 25, 2020||Trichy||Nilgiris and Dindigul farmers in the race to occupy Kallikudi mkt||Trichy: The Expression of Interest (EoI) floated by the agricultural marketing and agriculture business department to utilise the Kallikudi integrated vegetable market here has received good response from farmers. Eyeing the cold storage facility and the facilities to export vegetables, Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) and Farmer Producer Group (FPG) across the state have submitted applications to occupy shops for rent in the integrated market, which has been kept unused for two years.Official sources said that the EOI floated on March 9 has attracted more than a hundred applications till March 22, the final day to submit EOI. As Trichy is well connected by road, FPOs and FPGs from districts such as Nilgiris and Dindigul were learnt to have applied for Kallikudi market shops to scale up their presence. “Several FPOs and FPGs have expressed their willingness to occupy multiple shops for rent. We have to scrutinise the applications to identify eligible farmers,” an official said. Out of the 830 shops in the market, around 197 to 207 shops were exclusively allotted to the farmers’ organisations. After a scrutiny, a stakeholder team will be constituted by the district administration to award rental agreements to the identified farming groups.“The 2,000 MT cold storage facilities in Kallikudi will come in handy for farmers to stock their produce. Commodities can also be exported to Singapore, Malaysia and Sri Lanka from Trichy international airport,” Ku Pa Krishnan, former state agriculture minister, said. Farmers’ groups also are keen to utilise Kallikudi market as a transit point to operate in the central districts from Oddanchatram vegetable market, Dindigul and Mettupalayam market, Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nilgiris-and-dindigul-farmers-in-the-race-to-occupy-kallikudi-mkt/articleshow/75957215.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 25, 2020||Pune||Three drunk men create ruckus in Baner area||PUNE: Three men in an inebriated condition caused a ruckus in the Baner area in the early hours of Sunday. Residents of Veerbhadranagar, who first thought the men were robbers, alerted the Chatushrungi police. It later transpired that the men had gotten into a quarrel with other people in the area and were trying to avoid them by entering different housing societies at random. “The other group beat up these men. They fled into a housing society,” senior inspector Anil Shewale said. “They started going from one society to another to avoid the other group, when the security guard of a society raised the alarm,” he said. Shewale said police have verified the entire incident and also questioned the three men. The local residents did not lodge a formal complaint against the men, The residents claimed that the men had attempted to beat up the guard who raised an alarm. The men then jumped over the society’s gate and fled. “The men were just running around the area. We raised the alarm thinking that they were burglars. Police also verified the incident,” a resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-drunk-men-create-ruckus-in-baner-area/articleshow/75955871.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Thieves flee with 10 laptops||PUNE: Thieves stole 10 laptops worth Rs12.5 lakh from a shop in Market Yard on Saturday evening. The police said the suspects prepared duplicate keys of the locks on the shutter and broke into the shop on Saturday evening to enter the store and decamp with the laptops. The shop owner, Vishkant Laddha, lodged a complaint with the Market Yard police station at night. The shop is located on the third floor of a commercial building. The police said the suspects stole only high-end laptops of a particular brand and fled. The police said shop has remained closed for the past two months due to the lockdown announced in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The police said theye were checking the CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the suspects. The police suspected the involvement of a person aware about the building and its layout in the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-flee-with-10-laptops/articleshow/75955869.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Trichy||Case against Senthil Balaji shifted to CB-CID||Trichy: Within a week of Aravakurichi’s DMK MLA Senthil Balaji being booked by Thanthonimalai police for allegedly threatening Karur district collector K Anbalagan, the case has been shifted to CBCID police. Based on a complaint by Angalagan, Balaji was booked for allegedly threatening him at a press meet after meeting him in person at the collector’s officer on May 14. DMK in-charge for Karur district, Balaji had accused the collector of functioning in favour of the ruling party at the press meet. He said the collector had responded in an irresponsible manner when he was asked why elected representatives from the opposition were not invited for the Covid-19 review meet held at the collector office. “But the collector said he was not aware of such a meeting. If the collector continues to function in favour of ruling party, then he will not be able to move freely in the district,” said Balaji.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/case-against-senthil-balaji-shifted-to-cb-cid/articleshow/75957273.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Trichy||Back in biz, barbers take on lockdown locks, giant beards||Trichy: It was nothing short of a reunion of long last friends on Sunday when the regular customers of saloons met their trusted barbers. Resuming business two months after the lockdown began, Trichy barbers used social media to avoid overcrowding on Sunday by using WhatsApp for customers to fix appointments. The cash-strapped hairdressers also hinted at a possible hike in tariff for services in the coming days, given the additional expenses incurred in disinfecting the salons. There were many lighter moments too with people sharing anecdotes about botched self-administered haircuts and beard styling and the hair stylists being asked to fix it. There were also many who did not want to take such risks, who thronged the salons with giant beards and messy long hair. “Customers enquiring about the salons operating were added to a WhatsApp group. Each person was allotted a specific slot to avoid overcrowding,” T Thiruvaikumaran, a hairdresser from Melachinthamani, Trichy said. Barbers who did not have smartphones managed the enquiries through phone calls and fixed appointments. Chairs in the waiting rooms were reduced to ensure social distancing. A few customers brought their own towels to avoid using the apron used by other customers. However, the customers had to remove the face masks while getting a haircut and a shave. As the seats are supposed to be cleaned every time a customer vacates, barbers said their expenses had surged, particularly to buy sanitizers. “We may increase the tariffs by Rs 10 to Rs 20 as we have to frequently sanitize our gears,” P Dharmalingam, secretary of Trichy district hairdressers association, said. Water consumption has also significantly increased due to the need for frequent handwash. Though the government insisted that barbers wear hand gloves, it was rarely followed as hairdressers found it difficult to do their job with gloves on. On Sunday, some customers were seen tipping the barbers understanding their plight, having had no income in last couple of months. Meanwhile, the established beauty parlours insisted that customers sit on alternate chairs and maintain distance while availing the services. Madurai: G Senthil, a resident of Anna Nagar, has been keenly waiting for barber shops to open so that he could get rid of his unkempt hair which had overgrown in two months as the shops closed just before the day he was planning to have a cut. “My wife did offer to cut my hair, but I was not ready to take the risk. Shaving was not a problem as I have been doing it myself,” he said. A large number of people like Senthil hit salons in Madurai early on Sunday after the government relaxed restrictions for salons.  The hairdressers disinfected the shops on Saturday itself and turned up in full strength on Sunday morning to make the most of it. M Velmurugan, human resource manager of Vinitas hair and makeup, said they are following all precautionary measures prescribed by the government. Customers are made to wait with mandatory social distancing, provided hand sanitizer and their temperature checked before being let inside. “We frequently disinfect the shop, ensure mask and gloves for hair stylists and customers are also made to wear mask. Disposable apron is provided to customers to ensure safety,” he said. N M Shanmugam, president of Madurai City Maruthuvar Association, said there are 2,000 barber shops in the corporation limits alone, employing more than 5,000 people. “I can tell you 99 % of barber shops in the city follow the government’s instructions and ensure safety of customers and hairstylists. It has been a tough two months with the shops shut. We had to provide salary and also pay rent without any income,” he said. He demanded that the state government expedite distribution of Rs 2,000 to every barber as lockdown relief. “We have been approaching various offices, but officials are clueless on the procedure to apply for it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/back-in-biz-barbers-take-on-lockdown-locks-giant-beards/articleshow/75957238.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Internet & mobile services buried under tangled wires||Kolkata: Trees that fell during Amphan left optical fibre and the internet network in tatters across the city, with cellular service providers and broadband operators failing to provide a time frame by which the voice and data logjam can be cleared. On Sunday, the firms were rummaging through the tangled wires on the streets to find ways to restore network at offices and homes. “It may take another five to seven days to smoothen the service in some parts of the city. We are unable to come up with an easy solution. The whole stretch of optical fibre line or broadband wire cannot be checked, repaired and replaced in two-three days. We cannot even source new sets of wire as the market is closed,” said a top official of a broadband service provider in the city. The dedicated cable-linked broadband services, like Alliance, SITI Cable, Wishnet and Hathway, are finding it difficult to answer calls from subscribers, most of whom are professionals now working from home. The continuous communication lapse has resulted in stretched office hours for the WFH executives, who have been trying to compensate for the lost time since Wednesday. Most will now have to sacrifice weekend relief and be on the job even on Eid-al-fitr to ensure that deliverables get sent on time. “Ongoing project deadlines are sacrosanct for most global firms. They cannot be postponed. We have been told to finish work by the middle of next week, which seems quite impossible considering the sorry state of internet,” said Mandira Sen, a leader at healthcare vertical of an Indian IT major. The ordeal of teachers taking online classes has increased manifold. On Sunday, they were reminded of completing the curriculum on time this week. “I am running out of time. None of my classes could be taken since the cyclone. Now I have to look for a way to reach out to my students,” said Krishnendu Bhattacharya, co-owner of a coaching centre in Behala. Meanwhile, a top engineer of a tower maintenance company said power has been restored in almost 80% of the base transceiver stations (BTS) or mobile towers across the city, but hiccups remain in some areas of south Kolkata, including Jadavpur, Garia and Behala. “The towers are functional, however, the service areas continue to have power cuts,” he added. The super-powerful storm also dislocated antennas on many towers, which resulted in weak signal transmission in several areas. “Resetting dislocated antennas on towers is taking a lot of time and effort,” said a network official at a cellular service provider. Explaining the difference in signal strength from operator to operator within an area, the network official added, “It varies from pocket to pocket as one service provider may be strong in one pocket, while another has a robust link in another.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/internet-mobile-services-buried-under-tangled-wires/articleshow/75955880.cms||Sovon Manna
May 25, 2020||Goa||Eid under lockdown: Namaz at home, no visits, guests, hugs or biryani for friends and relatives||PANAJI: For Imtiaz Shaikh, observing Eid-ul-Fitr every year after a month of fasting and abstinence was nothing short of a celebration. He would attend the Eidgah held at Panaji early in the morning, then go home to feast on shir korma followed by a busy evening of attending to guests, distributing biryani in the neighbourhood and wishing loved ones ‘Eid Mubaraq’. This year owing to the lockdown and social distancing norms, Eid-ul-Fitr prayer will be performed at home to ensure safety followed by a quiet meal with the family. “I will not be visiting my friends and relatives due to the lockdown. Neither we have invited people to our home this year, nor we will be distributing biryani and shir korma owing to social distancing norms,” Shaikh said. Mosques across the state will remain closed and Eidgah congregations will not be held as a precautionary measure. This year celebrators are therefore going to perform the prayer within the confines of their home and have a low-key observation of the festival. Saligao-based Tawquir Shaikh starts prepping for the Eid special cuisine days in advance, purchase new clothes for the big day, however this year the annual fervor is amiss.“It doesn’t even feel like Eid,” he said, who for the first time in decades will be restricting himself indoors on Eid-ul-Fitr. “But I’m thankful to be spending the festival with my family unlike the stranded migrant workers who are perhaps spending their Eid traveling to their hometown,” he said. The All Goa Muslim jamats had earlier issued an advisory to the community to offer the ‘nafl chast namaz’ from their homes along with their family, this year . “This is a good time to help one’s neighbours and the underprivileged that are affected due to the lockdown,” Bashir Ahmed, president of the jamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eid-under-lockdown-namaz-at-home-no-visits-guests-hugs-or-biryani-for-friends-and-relatives/articleshow/75958179.cms||Nida Sayed
May 25, 2020||Pune||Hot Sunday at 41C in Pune, no respite for rest of week||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its Sunday forecast stated that the city’s temperature would remain between 40-41C throughout the week. The weather is expected to remain dry until May 29. Officials said there were chances of light rainfall, along with lightning and thunder activity, over the weekend. Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD Pune’s weather forecast division, said, “The impact of super cyclonic storm Amphan has sucked out moisture from the atmosphere mainly in the southern peninsular region and parts of Central India. As a result, there is a very little formation of moisture incursion in the atmosphere. Besides, the wind pattern at the lower atmospheric level is not westerly to north westerly at present. Because of these weather conditions, the weather condition will mostly remain dry till May 29.” He added that there is a chance of cloudy conditions in the afternoon with possibility of light rain associated with lightening and thunder activity on May 30-31 over the city. Heatwave conditions would prevail over Vidarbha and some parts of Marathwada region for next three days, an official said. Of 11 weather stations in Vidarbha region, nine recorded temperatures at 40C on Sunday. Nagpur station recorded 46.7C, highest in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hot-sunday-at-41c-in-city-no-respite-for-rest-of-week/articleshow/75955879.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Railway official, doctor pal buy health cover for 1,000 conservancy workers||CHENNAI: Ever since Covid-19 cases started spiking in India since April, many citizens have expressed their gratitude to frontline workers by clanging vessels, lighting lamps, clapping or by showering petals. In Chennai, a railway official and his doctor friend in Kerala have tread a different path. They have bought a health insurance policy for 1,172 conservancy workers who are working on contract basis across Chennai railway division. B Illangovan, who is additional divisional railway manager (ADRM-1) in Chennai division, and his friend Dr S Manoharan from Kollam, did the good deed. Though the policy premium costs just Rs 160 per person, the conservancy worker would get a payout of Rs 25,000 if he/she gets Covid-19 infection. This will be useful as contract workers are paid daily wages and will lose their salary if hospitalised. Speaking to TOI, Illangovan said he first chanced upon this idea when he was reading about the ‘adopt a healthcare worker’ scheme in Australia. “The scheme is to help doctors, nurses and conservancy workers in any way possible. Like say, getting them fruits or dropping their kids at school,” he said. When he suggested this idea to a group of friends on Facebook, he got a resounding response, especially from Dr Manoharan, who readily agreed. Illangovan started from his home turf, the railway colony. “Though they may not die if they get Covid-19, the conservancy staff face discrimination. They would lose their salary,” he said. He got a list of the workers from the environment and medical departments of railways, which handles cleaning work in stations and colonies. What started off with getting health cover for 10-12 workers, has now ended with the duo buying insurance for more than a 1,000, spending close to Rs 1 lakh from their own pockets. This has caught on now. S M Vasu, a chief ticket inspector (CTI) in Chennai division and a volunteer at help4covidTN, an organisation delivering relief, has started buying insurance for house-helps. “I have helped 26 workers so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rly-official-doctor-pal-buy-health-cover-for-1k-conservancy-workers/articleshow/75955878.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 ‘surviving’heat; Rajasthan cases, deaths spike in May||JAIPUR: The change in temperature has had no impact on Covid-19 spread, and the state has witnessed a significant spike in new cases as well as deaths in the month of May. As many as 4,444 cases have been reported in May so far from a total of 7,028. This accounts for 63% of the total cases reported till date. Also, 105 deaths have been reported for the month out of a total of 163 deaths, so far, for the state, accounting for 64% of all deaths. The behaviour of Covid-19 in intense heat, which was expected to be prone to it, has come as a surprise for health authorities. Since May 1, new cases have constantly increased along with deaths in comparison to March and April, collectively. The graph of active cases, which had started to flatten from April 25 to May 10, began to move upwards, and currently shows 3,017 active cases. The highest single-day spike was also reported in May when 338 persons were found infected on May 19, indicating that rising temperature has no impact on the virus. “The first Covid-19 case was reported on March 3. Even with summer intensifying, we are reporting more cases,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, CMHO, Jaipur-I, who is leading the fight in the city’s hotspot areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-survivingheat-rajasthan-casesdeaths-spike-in-may/articleshow/75957361.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Over 3,000 workers depart in Shramik special trains bound for Jharkhand||Panaji: Migrant workers from Jharkhand who were stranded in Goa during the nationwide lockdown were able to return home to their respective native places in two trains over the weekend. Train number 01680 bound for Daltonganj, Jharkhand, carrying 1,660 passengers departed from the Karmali railway station after nearly an hour’s delay on Sunday evening. Another train had left for Jharkhand prior to this, late Saturday night, with1,628 passengers. The train dropped off passengers headed to Godda, Deoghar and Dumka districts of Jharkhand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-3000-workers-depart-in-shramik-special-trains-bound-for-jharkhand/articleshow/75958180.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops beat, injured me: Migrant worker||JALANDHAR: A migrant worker has accused a group of Punjab Police personnel of thrashing him severely, causing fractures in two of his fingers and other injuries. Some police volunteers were also involved in the act, he claimed. While the victim, Ajay Mishra, a native of Sitamarhi district in Bihar, said at least one of his assaulters wore a t-shirt, the local police said he had an issue with a police volunteer and it has already been settled. Mishra, who lives in a building in New Gobind Nagar, Peer Gujjan here, however, said after he fell down due to thrashing, a policeman helped him reach the civil hospital by calling an ambulance. According to the victim, the incident took place on May 21 evening when he was waiting at a hand pump to take a bath, where a woman was washing her utensils. But, as a woman police person saw him standing there, she asked him to go away. When he insisted that there was no other hand pump near his room, she called out more policemen, who thrashed him badly, he claimed. Doctors at the hospital told him that his two fingers had got fractured and there were some other injuries, too, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-beat-injured-me-migrant-worker/articleshow/75955881.cms||IP Singh
May 25, 2020||Trichy||Relatives keep Chennai-returnee, 55, out of home fearing he has Covid-19||TRICHY: Returning to his native Thanjavur was more traumatic for a 55-year-old man than staying in Chennai as he was ostracised by family members fearing that he may be a carrier of the coronavirus. Left to starve for the last three days, Pattukottai municipal authorities finally arranged free food for him from the Amma canteen and his blood sample was taken for Covid-19 test. Based on the officials’ request, he was given some space at his home. A native of Srinivasapuram in Pattukottai, N Raju has been working in a hotel in Tambaram for the last 30 years and often used to visits his brother Ramesh’s house. After the hotel was shut down, he stayed nearby till last week when he decided to walk and hitch-hike. Finally, he arrived in Thanjavur a relieved man but his happiness was shortlived as his relatives refused to take him in. They told him he might have contracted Covid-19. Municipal sources said their relatives in the village were not willing to give him even a glass of water. Dejected, the man slept in an auditorium at Kasa Kulam near a taxi stand for the last four days. Some taxi drivers noticed his condition and informed the Pattukottai municipality authorities. Soon, N Ravichandran, sanitary inspector of the area, arrived there and took him to Pattukottai government hospital where blood sample was collected. When the officials brought him back to Ramesh’s house, his family members were not ready to provide either food or shelter. On being instructed by municipality commissioner K Subbaiah, the sanitary inspector arranged food for him from the nearby Amma canteen. “We took the man to his house and urged Ramesh and his family members to provide a small space in their backyard till the result came. Police and revenue officials also spoke to them. Finally, they relented”, Ravichandran added. If the result is positive, the hospital authorities would take care of him. “Otherwise, we have to think about the next course of action,” the municipality authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/relatives-keep-chennai-returnee-55-out-of-home-fearing-he-has-covid-19/articleshow/75957307.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||87 passengers of Mumbai-Haridwar Shramik Special test positive, U'khand officials say cases may double||Dehradun: Besides the 55 passengers who were found positive on Saturday, 32 more passengers of the Mumbai-Haridwar ‘Shramik Special’, were found Covid-19-positive on Sunday. Officials of the health department confirmed that cases may double in the next couple of days as reports of over 3,000 samples are pending in four different labs across the state. Officials said that around 1,500 passengers of Mumbai-Haridwar ‘Shramik Special’ had de-boarded at Haridwar railway station on May 20 and were sent to various districts in around 15 different buses. The passengers who tested positive were from the buses bound for Almora, Nainital and Bageshwar. Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary (health), said, “As many as 32 more positive cases from Shramik Special were reported on Sunday and till now total 87 have been found positive. We are awaiting more reports in the next couple of days.” Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar said that over 450 samples of passengers of same train were collected in Haridwar itself on May 20 and the department has got some reports while many are still pending. Meanwhile, overburdened with around 1,000 new samples collected between May 20 and 23, All India Institute of medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, has stopped taking more samples on Sunday. Rakesh Thapliyal, PRO of AIIMS Rishikesh, confirmed that the institution is working on clearing the pending cases which are over 1,000. He added that most of the samples in AIIMS were collected in Haridwar, Dehradun and Uttarkashi. Chief secretary Utpal Kumar, sharing the new treatment guidelines of Covid-19 patients, said that all the new positive patients would be under surveillance for the next 10 days and if they don’t develop any critical symptoms between the 7th and 10th day, they would be discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/87-passengers-of-mumbai-haridwar-shramik-special-test-positive-ukhand-officials-say-cases-may-double/articleshow/75953074.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Andaman and Nicobar residents to sail home on May 28||CHENNAI: In a major relief for residents of Andaman and Nicobar Islands stranded in the city, a passenger ship will be operated to ferry about 600 individuals to Port Blair on May 28. It is the first vessel between Chennai and Port Blair since the lockdown began, leaving around 1,500 residents of the Union territory stuck across the country. Of them, 600 are in different parts of Chennai. Andaman and Nicobar Islands administration’s deputy resident commissioner in Chennai, V Boobalakani, told TOI that the vessel named M V Nicobar would leave Chennai Port on May 28. “The Union territory administration is operating the vessel, that would take stranded patients and students to Port Blair initially. The vessel will be ferrying once in four days till all the residents of the islands are evacuated,” she told TOI. Though the ship has a capacity to ferry 1,200 passengers it will be operated at 50% capacity to maintain physical distancing. Unlike the rest of the country that is linked by roads and railways, the Union territory can be accessed only by air or sea. According to the deputy resident commissioner, the passengers must undergo the mandatory quarantine period after reaching Port Blair. “We are in the process of scanning passengers in the city before their departure,” she added. TOI had on May 18 reported that about 600 residents of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, who came to Chennai before the lockdown, were stranded and running from pillar to post to reach the Union territory. A vessel that was scheduled to take them to the Union territory on May 6 was cancelled leading to disappointment among the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/andaman-residents-to-sail-home-on-may-28/articleshow/75955882.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||Over 8,000 migrants waiting in Haridwar for several days to return to their homes in UP and Bihar||HARIDWAR: Around 8,000 migrants are stranded in Haridwar, pregnant women and small children among them, waiting for buses to ferry them to their homes in UP and Bihar. Many are forced to wait under the scorching sun, as there are no buses yet to take them them home. Like Pinki Devi, 25, a resident of Hardoi district in UP, who was seen waiting for a bus on Sunday with her one-month-old son in her arms at the Bhalla Sports Stadium where around 1,000 migrant workers had converged.  “My husband is daily wager who recently lost his job. We have no money to survive in Haridwar. We somehow managed to reach Bhalla Ground, but are being told that there is no bus available. All we want is to return home,” she told TOI, sobbing. With no buses available, police on Sunday were seen sending back the migrants who had assembled at the sports stadium. Circle officer (City) Abhay Singh told TOI, “We are using Bhalla sports stadium as a stop for buses carrying migrant workers from other states to Uttarakhand. The workers are then sent to their home districts after Covid-19 screening. Migrant workers from UP and other states started gathering here, thinking they would get buses to their hometowns, but we haven’t got any buses from UP so far. We have evacuated the ground and asked them to go home, as a large crowd like this can trigger a Covid-19 outbreak.” Sumit Kumar was among a group of 14 labourers, all natives of Patna, who travelled to Bhalla sports stadium from Pauri Garhwal four days ago, hoping to get a bus to go back home. They had all lost their jobs. “We have been thrown out of the stadium and now we have no shelter. Police asked us to go wherever we want. We came here to go home, but turns out there is no facility to ferry migrant workers belonging to other states. There isn’t even a help desk here,” Kumar said. It was an even worse situation for Shanti Singh from Lakhimpur Kheri, who is pregnant and had been waiting in the open at the stadium for over a week with her husband. “We left our rented accommodation eight days ago and reached here. Now, we don’t know where to go,” she said. Officials said that they are co-ordinating with their counterparts in UP and Bihar, but low availability of buses is a major concern. District magistrate (DM) Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “We are getting in touch with authorities in Uttar Pradesh and buses can be expected to start coming in from Monday. We are preparing a roster, according to which migrant workers will be able to board buses from their nearest police station.” He added, “Around 750 workers will be transported daily to UP by buses. We are also trying to arrange transport for migrant workers from other states, like Bihar and West Bengal. Those who have no home in Haridwar will be provided shelter too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-8k-migrants-waiting-in-haridwar-for-several-days-to-return-to-their-homes-in-up-and-bihar/articleshow/75953097.cms||MS Nawaz
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Restored cable operations take a hit, this time for clean-up||KOLKATA: Cable TV screens kept flickering on and off across Kolkata homes as wires got snapped during efforts to remove uprooted trees. While services remained suspended across major parts of south, east and north Kolkata on Sunday, numerous pockets where lines had been restored suffered a second blackout in the morning after efforts to remove debris from roads were stepped up. Cable screens remained blank across Tollygunge, major parts of Behala, Alipore, Chetla, New Alipore, Kasba, Ballygunge and Bhowanipore. A section of subscribers said their connections — which had been restored on Saturday morning — were severed again on Sunday. Cable operators and multi-system operators (MSO) blamed it on indiscriminate chopping of the felled trees, which led to new cables being snapped. “We had replaced cables in several areas. But they were snapped again when trees were being sawed. It happened in Bhowanipore, Harish Mukherjee Road, SP Mukherjee Road and Rashbehari Avenue. Almost 80% of connections between Tollygunge and Sarat Bose Road are down,” said Tapash Das of Ideal Cable TV Operators’ Association. “I was pleasantly surprised to find the channels were back on Saturday afternoon. But on Sunday morning, they went blank again. My operator tells me that new cables have been snapped during axing of uprooted trees. Now I’m without both internet and TV,” said Behala resident Samit Saha. According to a section of operators, more than 60% of cable lines have been restored in north Kolkata. But most homes in Salt Lake and New Town failed to get cable on Sunday too. “We hope to restore all connections by Tuesday. Chopping of trees has spoiled our work to a great extent. Cables will have to be installed again. It can’t be helped since large parts of the city are still without electricity and power restoration remains the top priority,” said Mrinal Chatterjee of MSO Bengal Broadband. Procuring replacement cables is also turning out to be difficult, said operators. With most shops still closed, supply has been slow and erratic. “Apart from cables, we need other equipment, which are now scarce,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restored-cable-ops-take-a-hit-this-time-for-clean-up/articleshow/75955893.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 25, 2020||Shimla||Border road projects in Himachal Pradesh face acute labour shortage||MANALI: Construction of border roads along the border in Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh is facing an acute shortage of labour due to the nationwide lockdown clamped to check the Covid-19 spread. Work, which is suspended during the winter months, has begun with the increase in temperature but the Border Roads Organization (BRO) is facing nearly 60% shortage of labourers. To tackle the situation, BRO is pooling up whatever little human resource is available locally. “Nearly 800 labourers have been roped in from local areas, but we still need about 1,200 more. However, no work shall be stalled despite shortage of manpower. We have talked to the local administrations to cooperate and bring migrant labourers,” BRO’s Project Deepak chief engineer Brigadier M S Baghi said. Being in high altitude areas, work on border roads in Himachal and Ladakh is possible only between mid-April and October and migrant labourers move back home then. They return in April, when the snow melts and mountain passes are thrown open for vehicular traffic. However, this April, when work on building roads, bridges, retaining and breast walls to stop land sliding, culverts for water diversion and maintenance of old roads restarted on a war footing, the migrants have not been able to return because of the lockdown restrictions. Manali-Sarchu highway on Manali-Leh axis, Hindustan-Tibet Road, Keylong-Sansarinala road, Darcha-Shinkula and Gramphoo-Samdo roads are under the jurisdiction of Project Deepak and all have strategic importance. The area has sparse population and number of people working as labourers negligible. BRO hires almost all the available manpower from other states. With increasing tension between India and China, especially on the Ladakh border, BRO is in no mood to compromise with the works. Majority of the length of Manali-Leh highway has been widened and work on remaining stretches is continuing. Old bailey bridges on Manali-Leh highway are being replaced by new ones. Over 300m-long bridge at Darcha, the longest bridge on Manali-Leh highway, will also be inaugurated this year. The alternate road to Ladakh via Shinkula pass is also being built on war footing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/border-road-projects-in-hp-face-acute-labour-shortage/articleshow/75955886.cms||Suresh Sharma
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Ensure no stranded worker walks back home, says CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered all deputy commissioners and district police heads to ensure that no migrant worker is forced to walk home. He assured that the state government will provide them food as well as free travel by trains or buses. Amarinder made it clear that till stranded migrant workers leave Punjab, they should be provided with food and water. He said migrant workers found walking on the road should be transported by the police in bus to the nearest place from where they can board a train or bus to their native state. By Sunday night, 311 special Shramik trains carrying more than 3.90 lakh passengers had left from different railway stations of Punjab to various states. Punjab government also pressed state transport buses into service to drop migrant workers to districts of western Uttar Pradesh free of cost. Amarinder also expressed the hope that all state governments will abide by their responsibility of transporting Punjabis stranded in their states back to Punjab. He said he has written to all chief ministers concerned. Stating that Punjab is migrant workers’ karma-bhoomi, even if not their janam- bhoomi, Amarinder appealed to migrants not to undertake a difficult journey by foot to their native place. Over 17.18 lakh migrant workers have registered with the state government to travel back to their native states. Amarinder said the state government has undertaken a massive validation exercise of all registered persons by making individual phone calls to confirm whether or not they are keen to return to their native states. “This is being done in view of the fact that in the past three to four days, around two-thirds of the industrial units in the state have commenced operations after easing of restrictions, following which the number of persons keen to travel out of Punjab has reduced considerably,” he said. So far, Punjab government has paid Rs 20 crore to the railways for the special trains that took migrant workers to their respective states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ensure-no-stranded-worker-walks-back-home-says-cm/articleshow/75955883.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Leopard dies after being trapped in snare||UDAIPUR: Wire snares are turning out to be silent killers of the big cat. On Sunday, a male leopard fell prey to a wire trap laid for wild animals in Gehunwada village of Aaspur block in Dungarpur. The incident occurred on Sunday morning when some villagers heard the roars of the wild cat and went to see where the voice was coming from. They saw a leopard struggling inside the bushy trap. The villagers informed the forest department and officials from Punali and Mandav check-posts under Antari forest range arrived at the spot. However, the officials did not have ample resources to rescue the leopard which bled profusely. Before the officials could do anything, the animal died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopard-dies-after-being-trapped-in-snare/articleshow/75957415.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar makes anti-microbial coatings for PPE kits, hospitals||Patiala: A team of researchers in IIT Ropar have developed two noble synthetic materials for anti-microbial coating on PPE kits and disinfectant spray for tunnels and for fogging. Researchers say these materials can be effective in curtailing the spread of microbes, especially in high risk areas like hospitals and quarantine facilities. As against currently available material, which is generally made of volatile organic compounds and/or has a pungent smell, the material developed by the team is non-volatile, does not have a foul smell but possesses very high anti-microbial properties. IIT director Sarit Das said gradual opening of activities across the country has thrown up the challenge of regular and effective sanitisation of public areas. He said a team of IIT professors Dr Narinder Singh, Prof C Raman Suri, Prof Harpreet Singh and Amanpreet Singh developed synthetic materials for anti-microbial coatings. He also said the materials have high shelf life on both metallic or non-metallic surfaces. The two types of coatings, hydrophilic and hydrophobic, can be used based on the area of application. Hydrophilic materials are primarily meant for fogging and spray on walls while hydrophobic materials are designed for coatings on PPE, hospitals and furniture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/iit-ropar-makes-anti-microbial-coatings-for-ppe-kits-hospitals/articleshow/75955894.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||4,700 workers on their way home to Bihar||Yamunanagar: Three Shramik trains carrying nearly 4,700 passengers departed for Barauni, Muzaffarpur and Katihar districts in Bihar from Jagadhri-Yamunanagar at 12.15pm, 4.20pm, and 6pm respectively on Sunday. This came as a relief for a number of migrant workers who had been living in shelter homes in Yamunanagar district. As soon as the trains departed from the station, the labourers clapped in relief and thanked the administration. Labourers from Uttar Pradesh had already been sent to their home state in Haryana Roadways buses from Yamunanagar. Now the administration is sending labourers from Bihar back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4700-workers-on-their-way-home-to-bihar/articleshow/75955890.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar asks business houses to set up units in Bihar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday exhorted the business class to come forward and set up industries in Bihar, which is a consumer state with tremendous scope in the fields of fabrics, tussar silk, shoes, leather, bag, furniture and cycle manufacturing. He said setting up industries will also create more job avenues for the people who have returned from other states recently. He also assured all possible government help to the business people willing to set up new industries in Bihar. “Bihar has tremendous scope for industries related to fabrics, tussar silk, shoes, leather, bag, furniture and cycle. We are a consumer state. We have very big market,” Nitish said. “Come forward and set up new-age industries. The state government will provide all necessary assistance,” Nitish said. He said Bhagalpur and Munger have unlimited scope in the field of fabrics, especially silk-related industry. “Bhagalpur silk is famous worldwide. Earlier, it used to be exported to many countries,” Nitish said and asked the officials to identify the potential and help business people in setting up industries in silk sector. He said leading business people of Bihar should also think about the employment of people returning from other states. While interacting with the migrant workers staying at 16 quarantine centres in eight districts across the state for the third consecutive day, Nitish told them that the government was making arrangements for their employment in the state itself. “Stay in Bihar and become partner in the progress of state. You will be provided employment as per your skills. Bihar mein koi bhukh se nahin marta. (No one dies of starvation in our state),” the CM told them. Later, information and public relations department (IPRD) secretary Anupam Kumar, while briefing mediapersons on Nitish’s interaction with the migrant people, said the CM directed all departments to prepare a solid work plan to create more employment opportunities for the returnee migrant workers. More than 10.56 lakh migrant people are staying in 15,036 quarantine centres across the state, he said. Expressing concern over the difficulties faced by migrant workers due to the lockdown, Nitish said, “The private companies outside Bihar where our people were employed did not take care of them during the lockdown, though it was their duty.” Rs4L ex gratia payment to kin of 13 Covid deceased CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday announced immediate payment of Rs4 lakh each as ex gratia to the next of kin of those who died due to Covid-19 in state. Thirteen people have died due to Covid-19 in state. The amount will be paid from the CM Relief Fund. The state government has already paid the ex gratia amount to the kin of one Covid deceased, a CMO press note stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-asks-biz-houses-to-set-up-units-in-state/articleshow/75954798.cms||Madan Kumar
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||After saying no, Maharashtra allows 50 flights in Mumbai from today against 200 planned||MUMBAI: Indecision within Maharashtra’s ruling coalition over resuming commercial flights from Mumbai airport finally lifted on Sunday, hours after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed his reluctance to allow travellers to fly into the city. Thackeray said he had conveyed to aviation minister Hardeep Puri that, in keeping with Maharashtra’s lockdown restrictions, flights would be allowed to land only for medical emergencies or in exceptional cases such as to bring in stranded students. An hour after his address, NCP spokesperson and cabinet minister Nawab Malik announced an unexpected about-turn. “I have spoken to the chief secretary and our decision is that 25 flights to and from Mumbai airport will start from Monday,’’ Malik said. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta too confirmed the go-ahead. “The details of the flights are being worked out by the concerned departments and airline firms,” Mehta told TOI. Pune and Nagpur will also see a resumption of flights, 17 and 4, respectively. Arriving passengers will be screened by government agencies and sent to 14 days of home quarantine. Those on a short visit for a personal emergency will be exempted from the rule provided they submit proof. The policy is in line with the plan adopted by most states. Aviation sources said according to the earlier plan, about 100 departures and 100 arrivals were to be handled by Mumbai, the second busiest airport in the country, from May 25. However, a pushback from states prompted the Centre to opt for a low-key start after a two-month suspension. This would leave a large chunk of passengers booked on 1,400-odd flights from and into Mumbai in the last week of May fending for refunds. A list of stringent dos and don’ts will be in force when the lockdown lifts. A state official said it has been made clear to airlines that no individual living in a containment zone should be allowed to board a flight. “We have banned entry and exit from containment zones across the city,” he said. However, airlines cited practical difficulties in identifying a passenger who may originate from a containment zone. The rules, in any case, forbid a person from leaving a containment zone and the penalty for flouting it ranges from a fine to penal action. MIAL also urged flyers above 14 years to mandatorily download the Aarogya Setu app. “Mumbai airport also advises passengers above 80 years as well as expectant mothers and passengers with health issues to restrict travelling,’’ the airport said in a statement. Besides, every passenger will have to strictly follow social distancing norm at the airport, and any violation will attract provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act as well as the Indian Penal Code. All passengers will have to observe self-isolation for 14 days. Those on long visits will have to adhere to self-isolation for 14 days, while those on a short visit will have to give proof for reasons for their stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-saying-no-maha-allows-50-flights-in-city-from-today-against-200-planned/articleshow/75957401.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Duty hours of factory workers cut||Jaipur: Minister of state for labour Tikaram Jully on Sunday announced cutting down of working hours for factory workers from 12 hours to 8 hours in all the registered factories in the state. Earlier, the state government had increased the working hours from 8 to 12 hours per day to meet the requirements of the workers in view of Covid-19 crisis. He also said no passes were required for the movement of workers in the state. On the other hand, Gujjar leader Himmat Singh on Sunday threatened a statewide agitation as he alleged that state government hadn’t fulfilled its promise of giving 5% reservation in jobs and education to MBCs in 15 different recruitments due to which 25,000 youths belonging to most backward class (MBC) had been denied jobs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/duty-hours-of-factory-workers-cut/articleshow/75957411.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Beginning today: Flights to and from Amritsar airport||Amritsar: Adapting to the new normal in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Das International Airport will begin operations from Monday, but only with domestic flights, as there is an embargo on international flights till May 31. Domestic and international flight services have been grounded since March 24, a day before imposition of first phase of the Covid-19 lockdown in India. Airport director Manoj Chansoria said according to schedule they had gotten, the airport would get six flights daily with an additional flight on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. He said flights will be departing for Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur and Patna from Amritsar, whereas the decision to begin international flights would be known after May 31. Manoj said passengers departing from Amritsar were required to do a web check-in and download the Arogya Setu app. He said they should adhere to norms, including wearing of masks and maintenance of social distancing. “We have tried to lay procedures which do not involve any touching. Departing passengers will be subjected to thermal screening and only those with normal temperature will be allowed inside,” he said, adding that all passengers would have to follow the health advisory and instructions of administration. “In new normal, there are going to be more checks, queues, waiting and time for procedures,” he added. Airport director said it would largely depend on passengers to adhere to new norms. “Passenger cooperation is what we expect. We have laid distance markers and set up other systems, but it is the passengers who have to follow them. Otherwise, the very purpose of this exercise will be diluted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/beginning-today-flights-to-and-from-amritsar-airport/articleshow/75955898.cms||Yudhvir Rana
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Power demand up, PSPCL to restart Rajpura plant unit||PATIALA: With demand for power rising in the state, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has asked Nabha Power Limited (NPL) to start generation at its Rajpura thermal power plant, which had been closed due to the lockdown since the last week of March. Partial operationalisation of industry and commercial establishments, coupled with rise in temperature, has flipped power demand in the state. Till recently, demand was not more than 3,000 MW a day. Now, it has gone up by almost 4000MW and is hovering around 7,000-7,900MW. This demand is nearly just as much as the same time previous year. The plant will restart after 57 days. While one of the units of the plant has been put back into action, the second unit is under maintenance. The three units at Talwandi Sabo and two units at GVK Goindwal are yet to be revived. The Talwandi Sabo thermal plant has not been generating power since March 7, while the Rajpura plant stopped generation on March 28. All units of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat thermal plants are also under shutdown and are likely to be brought back into action only during peak paddy season, when demand crosses 12,000 megawatts. They supplied power for some time in January. The plant load factor of Ropar and Lehra Mohabatt thermal plants was 6.33% and 5.81%, respectively for the month of January this year. Till Saturday, power demand in the state touched 7,816 MW, forcing the power corporation to meet demand with an additional supply of 1,700 lakh units (LU) — 71 LU from Rajpura thermal, 214 LU from hydro units and 1,340 LU from central sector units. PSPCL had on March 29 invoked force majeure clause of power purchase agreement (PPA) against private thermal plant generators in Punjab following load crash in the state after the declaration of lockdown in the country to save fixed charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-demand-up-pspcl-to-restart-rajpura-plant-unit/articleshow/75955899.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 25, 2020||Udaipur||Call of duty: Women cops send kids to grandparents’ home in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: For most of the people, this lockdown period is a family bonding time but for many mothers from the police department in Udaipur, it is a testing period. Most of them have sent their children miles away to their maternal or paternal grandparents living in villages. The unpredictable extended duty hours, sudden calls to report during emergencies, the fear of catching the infection, etc, had been the reasons that many mothers, especially in the lady patrol team, decided to stay away from their young kids. The lady patrol team which is the first in Rajasthan works in two shifts, i.e., 7am-3pm and 3pm-10pm. They are not given weekly offs and most of the time they have to be on their motorcycles patrolling around the city tasked to keep people indoors. They conduct flag march, counsel people and rush on urgent calls from distressed citizens. Chuki Chouwdhary’s 10-year-old daughter Rajnika and three-year-old son Manit have been away from her for two months now. “They didn’t want to go but we had no other options since my husband too is in the police department. He is a guard at central jail. When we reached home after work, both of the kids ran into our laps and we really feared they could be infected. We sent them to their grandparent’s home at Jalore," Chuki said. Constable Sushila Kumari's plight is even pitiable since her daughter Tanvi is just 18 months old. She still was on breast feeding when the outbreak happened and worried about the toddler as well as their 10-year-old son Mohit. Sushila and her husband decided to send the children to their grandparents home. “Since they needed either one of us, my husband took both of them to our native place in Jhunjhunu. I am dying to hold my daughter and when we connect everyday through video calls, she calls out mummaa aaja. It’s difficult to hold back my tears," Sushila says. The kids have been living with both their grandparents in Bhagina and Bhapar villages, close to each other. Hemlata Menariya, a 28-year-old cop attached with the lady patrol team have been living alone for two months now as her husband also left with their two-year-old son Monil to join his parents at Badi Sadri, Pratapgarh. “I speak to my son for almost an hour daily and it is getting difficult day by day to pacify him as he refuses to listen and wants to come back home. Had my husband Pankaj not been with him, it would have really been difficult for the elderly people to handle my son alone,” Hemlata says. “We are really proud of the lady patrol team who are playing on the forefront to control the pandemic. Family is a source of moral support and while most of the people are lucky to get quality time with family, our cops are dealing with the double whammy of facing the infection threat as well as being away from their children which is really difficult for any mother,” DSP Chetna Bhati, in-charge of the patrol team said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/call-of-duty-women-cops-send-kids-to-grandparents-home-in-udaipur/articleshow/75957409.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: This Eid, no hugs, no prayers at mosques||AMRITSAR: The ‘Eid Mubaraks’ will be without the customary embrace this year. The Covid-19 pandemic is going to play a dampener in celebrations — usually marked by prayers, feasts and get-togethers — in the border belt of Punjab. Community members are expected to refrain from attending the community Namaz and instead offer prayers at home on Monday. The imam of historical Khairuddin Mosque, Hamid Hussain Qasmi, told TOI that this would be the first time for him when prayers wouldn’t be offered in mosques on Eid. “But it is a calamity and everyone has to take precautions to contain the spread of virus,” he said. Qasmi has appealed to community members not to gather in mosques. There are over 100 mosques in the border districts of Punjab, including Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Ferozpur. Anwar ul Huda, member of Anjuman Falah Ul Muslimeen, said there was no Eid market in Amritsar this year and people also did not buy new clothes or gifts. Tariq Ahmad, spokesperson of Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at, which is headquartered at Qadian in Gurdaspur district, said Eid was going to be different for everyone around the world. “Our community is abiding by the rules set by central and state governments and is practising social distancing,” he said. He too said there would be no community prayer at mosques as people are asked to offer prayers at home. The historical Masjid-e-Aqsa in Qadian is locked. Krishan Ahmad, a resident of Qadian, said “Shopkeepers complain they couldn’t get new stock for Eid shopping due to lockdown.” He said everyone in Qadian will miss the embrace. “We will also miss hosting people from neighbouring villages for prayers and feast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/this-eid-no-hugs-no-prayers-at-mosques/articleshow/75955902.cms||Yudhvir Rana
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||SHO Bishnoi cremated with full state honours, probe on||JAIPUR: Deceased SHO Vishnudutt Bishnoi’s family in Churu finally accepted his body on Sunday morning after their demands, including a government job for the next of kin, were accepted. He was cremated with state honours on Sunday afternoon. The crime branch is investigating his death and will submit their findings at the earliest, claimed officials. Bishnoi, the SHO of Rajgarh in Churu district, hanged himself at his government residence early on Saturday. Police have recovered two suicide notes, but none of them specify the reason for suicide barring that he was under stress. He hung himself in early hours of Saturday after returning home around 3am. After his death, the deceased cop’s relatives reached Churu on Saturday evening and the suicide gained political momentum with many leaders staging protest and demanding an inquiry into the suicide. Till late Saturday evening, the relatives refused to take the body till their demands were met. His family has also registered a FIR of abetment to suicide Jose Mohan, IG, Bikaner Range, said, “We have accepted the demands of judicial inquiry into the suicide as well as a government job for his dependent. All possible help will be extended to his next of kin as he was part of our family.” Additionally, to help Bishnoi’s family, police personnel will also contribute their one day’s salary which will be given to his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sho-bishnoi-cremated-with-full-state-honours-probe-on/articleshow/75957410.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: HC order has unmasked BJP, it must apologise, says AAP leader Sanjay Singh||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh on Monday said Delhi high court’s order on the AAP government’s Covid-19 death figures had unmasked the dirty politics of BJP. “BJP leaders and the mayors of the municipal corporations claimed that the Covid-19 death figures in Delhi were between 1,000 and 1,500. In times of a humanitarian crisis such as this, BJP should have stood by Delhi government but they just did dirty politics,” the Rajya Sabha MP said. “It is unfortunate that in this extraordinary time, BJP is stooping so low and doing a frivolous campaign against the AAP government.” BJP is trying to mislead the people of Delhi and spread fear among them, he alleged. Delhi high court recently rejected a plea seeking the scrapping of Delhi government’s death audit committee, set up to scrutinise the data about Covid-19 deaths. Demanding apologies from BJP leaders, Singh said, “The court observations mean that the data published by Delhi government is correct and accurate. Delhi high court has upheld its sanctity.” He added Gujarat high court had observed the Ahmedabad civil hospital was “as good as a dungeon, maybe even worse”. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, claimed following the party’s remarks, the number of deaths declared had gone up from 73 on May 10 to 276 in 15 days. The government should also release the number of Covid-19 patients dying due to co-morbidity, he claimed. “It will clear all confusion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-order-has-unmasked-bjp-it-must-apologise-sanjay-singh/articleshow/75984533.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Nod for 15% discount for Punjab exporters||Chandigarh: Punjab Biotechnology Incubator (PBTI) has approved a 15% discount on all product testing facilities for registered Punjab-based exporters besides introducing special packages to support them further. PBTI is providing testing services such as residue analysis, microbial analysis, adulterants and food additive analysis, which form an important part of the stringent export guidelines of European Union countries. During lockdown, Punjab exported rice, honey, milk and milk products to key markets in the European Union, UK and UAE. Invest Punjab, the investment promotion and facilitation agency of the Punjab government, has conducted brainstorming sessions with government departments, industry, exporters and entrepreneurs in the agricultural and food sector to identify initiatives which can help Punjab-led businesses to capture the growing global demand for agri-products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nod-for-15-discount-for-punjab-exporters/articleshow/75955903.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ajmer||Rs 57-lakh project to desilt feeders of Pushkar Sarovar||AJMER: Pushkar town administration has started the work of de-silting the five feeders of the holy pond (Sarovar) to facilitate inflow of water during monsoon. The project started under MGNREGA is estimated to cost Rs 57 lakh. It is providing work to 350 people every day. After the call of the state government to provide work to rural people under MGNREGA following three consecutive lockdowns, the Pushkar administration came out with project ‘Operation Feeder Clean’. “Some credit goes to social activist Arun Parashar who floated this idea to me and BDO (block development officer) Vijay Singh Chauhan who took me to the site and I immediately approved it,” said Devika Tomar, sub-divisional officer, Pushkar. The project involves cleaning the five feeders that bring water from the Nag Hills to Pushkar Sarovar. The first one extends from Badar Mata to Buda Pushkar, second is from Noser Ghati to Kapil Kund, the third is from Kherkedi to Vamdev Road, the fourth is from Pushkar Sarovar to Leela Sevadi and the last one is from Saraswati Temple to Pushkar Sarovar. These feeders were constructed about 15 years ago to bring water to the holy pond. “But after construction, there was no maintenance and now SDM Devika Tomar has taken the initiative to clean them,” said Deepu Maharishi, a priest in Pushkar. The Nag Hills have herbs which have Ayurvedic value and the water coming from the hills is clean and beneficial. “The motive of this project is to provide something positive to the town while giving maximum employment to the rural people under MGNREGA,” added SDO Tomar. Tomar says she visits the site daily to ensure the work is done properly. “My preference is keeping social distancing, providing water to labourers and mostly to women labourers working at the site,” the SDO said. The administration passed the project to provide employment to total 19,925 labourers and to give jobs in rotation to villagers of Ganeheda and Leela Sewadi and surrounding villages. Meanwhile, another project to stop leakage of Pushkar pond has been sent to the district administration for sanction, Tomar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rs-57-lakh-project-to-desilt-feeders-of-pushkar-sarovar/articleshow/75957427.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Government teams to assist those in home isolation||NEW DELHI: With several cases of all members of a family put in home isolation and unable to go out on their own to buy essential commodities, Delhi government has decided to form teams at district level for their help. In his order on Monday, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar asked all district magistrates to appoint nodal officers and deploy a team of civil defence volunteers (CDV) to facilitate such families. The nodal officers will share their contact numbers with such home-isolated families and ensure “unhindered” supply of essential commodities and medicines on payment basis. As per the Centre’s guidelines, asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients and those with mild symptoms are put under home isolation and treated and supervised under Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) of Delhi government. There are about 3,400 corona patients under home isolation. “All district magistrates should appoint a SDM level officer as nodal officer with sufficient number of team members for facilitating home isolation persons with a dedicated mobile number in each district,” Khirwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-teams-to-assist-those-in-home-isolation/articleshow/75984541.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Patna||Two more die, corona cases cross 2,500-mark in Bihar||PATNA: Two more Covid patients died in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 13 in Bihar while 180 fresh positive cases took the tally to 2,574 in state on Sunday. Both the patients who died had comorbidities. There are 1,859 active cases while altogether 702 persons have been discharged from hospitals so far after their subsequent test reports came negative. A 60-year-old man from Majhaulia in Siwan died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna while a 48-year-old man from Marhaura in Saran district breathed his last at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Friday, but his test report came late Saturday evening. The Siwan man suffered from kidney failure and cardiac arrest. He was also a diabetic, said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist and nodal officer at NMCH. He said the man was admitted on May 22 after testing positive for Covid-19 on May 21. “He was referred from Siwan Sadar hospital after testing positive. We also collected his samples this morning before his death and sent to RMRI, Patna. His report came positive in the evening,” he said. Sources said he had returned from Kolkata on May 20 and was kept at a quarantine centre in the district. He was admitted to Sadar hospital on May 21 when found symptomatic with cough and sneezing. The Saran man died due to pneumonia at PMCH. Dr PN Jha of medicine department and nodal officer at PMCH said the man was admitted on May 22 morning and died in the evening the same day. “He had been suffering from cold, fever and cough for long and taking home remedies. He was also a diabetic. When his situation deteriorated, he came to PMCH. His sample was collected after his death,” he said. “The deceased had no travel history. The samples of his family members were also collected in Saran after his test report,” he added. Meanwhile, Katihar reported maximum 33 cases on Sunday, followed by 20 in Banka, 12 in Nawada, 11 each in East Champaran and Rohtas, nine each in Begusarai and Purnia, seven in Arwal, six each in Munger, Saran and Bhagalpur, four each in Patna and Samastipur, three each in Sheikhpura, Gaya, Kaimur, Gopalganj, Siwan, Nalanda, West Champaran and Madhubani, and two each in Supaul, Muzaffarpur, Aurangabad, Jehanabad and Khagaria. Jamui, Bhojpur and Lakhisarai reported one case each. Health department sources said 1,599 returnee migrants had tested positive till Sunday afternoon since May 3. Most of them returned from Delhi (392), followed by Maharashtra (362), Gujarat (256) and Haryana (128). Total 63,741 samples were tested so far across the state whereas more than 1,400 test results were pending. Chart Total deaths: 13 Fresh cases: 180 Total cases: 2,574 Total patients recovered: 702 Patients recovered on Sunday: 49 Active cases: 1,859||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-more-die-corona-cases-cross-2500-mark-in-state/articleshow/75954897.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Kota man strangles, kills wife over spat||Kota: A man strangulated his 40-year-old wife to death over a domestic scuffle at his farm under Etawa police station in Kota on Sunday morning. Police have lodged a case of murder against Badrilal Mali, who is absconding, and handed over the body to the family members after post-mortem. The deceased Bhanwaribai was a resident of Padli village under Etawa police station. A scuffle between the couple erupted when they were working in their agriculture field in Padli village on Sunday morning. Mali, in a fit of rage, strangulated his wife to death and fled away, SHO Mukesh Meena said. Police lodged a case of murder against the accused under Section 302 of IPC and initiated investigation into the matter, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-man-strangles-kills-wife-over-spat/articleshow/75957426.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Seven doctors prescribe tests on phone, get notices||MUMBAI: At least six doctors from the suburbs and one from south Mumbai have been served showcause notices for prescribing the Covid-19 test to asymptomatic patients or for asking them to get tested without conducting a physical examination. The BMC has also served notices to around 20 doctors from K-West ward for failing to open their clinics. The actions have infuriated the medical community, which has called for better dialogue, saying the civic body’s lack of trust on a doctor’s clinical acumen could weaken the fight against Covid-19. Civic authorities said the notices were sent to “errant” doctors who prescribed tests without physically checking the patient, a criterion it said was non-negotiable. Most of the doctors are from N-Ward that covers Ghatkopar and Vidyavihar, and coincidentally has the highest growth rate of positive cases (13.7%) among the 24 civic wards. In N-Ward, the civic official cited the example of an elderly doctor, who has quarantined himself at home because of his age and history of heart disease, but continued to write prescriptions based on “phone consultations”. In the case of others, they claimed to have found a minimum of 13-14 prescriptions given to asymptomatic patients. “We are short of testing resources, beds, doctors and nurses. Why should there be unnecessary testing?” said Ajitkumar Ambi, assistant commissioner N-Ward. He, however, added the idea was not to go after doctors, but only to apprise them of the testing guidelines. He said even doctors from the BMC-run Rajawadi Hospital had been reprimanded for testing asymptomatic patients. Dr Deepak Baid from the Association of Medical Consultants said it was not true that one of the senior doctors, who had been sent the notice, had written the test without physical examination. “The doctor had prescribed the test after seeing the patient. The BMC’s action is uncalled for and we condemn it,” he said. “Does a civic official know better than a doctor about prescribing a test? Ask any doctor and they will tell you that testing is, perhaps, more difficult than finding a bed. Why is the BMC trying to stifle testing?” said a senior south Mumbai doctor. “The truth is we are doing far fewer tests than necessary to curb the epidemic,” the doctor added. “Besides, telemedicine is acceptable now,” said a member of the Indian Medical Association, underlining the need to augment testing capacity urgently. While Mumbai is testing around 3,500 samples every day, the state is conducting around 13,000 tests. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, medical education said the state can test up to 23,000 samples per day. “It’s just that we are only testing those who fit the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines,” he said, adding the lab at JJ Hospital alone is conducting 1,500 tests for MMR region, excluding Mumbai. (Inputs by Vijay V Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7-docs-prescribe-tests-on-phone-get-notices/articleshow/75957439.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Youth arrested for raping minor in Kota||KOTA: A youth, accused of raping a 13-year-old girl, was sent to judicial custody here on Saturday. The youth had trespassed into his neighbour’s house on Tuesday (May 19) and raped the teen while her parents had gone to market to purchase vegetables. “The rape survivor’s mother on Tuesday evening lodged a case at Udhyog Nagar police station against the youth identified as Mohammad Javed, son of Mohammad Jakir, resident of Govind Nagar area,” Udhyog Nagar SHO Pramendra Kumar Rawat said. The mother alleged that the youth entered her house on Tuesday morning when they had gone to purchase vegetables and the minor was sleeping alone at home. The accused, finding the girl alone, raped her there and fled, he said. Police booked the accused aged over 18 years under Section 457, 376 (3) of IPC and sections of POCSO Act and initiated investigation, the SHO said. The police arrested the youth on Friday and produced him before local court on Saturday that ordered to send him to judicial custody, he added. A criminal case under sections of IPC, SC/ST Act and Arms Act against Javed is already pending in the court, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-kota/articleshow/75957429.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Clerk booked for Rs 7 lakh corona relief fund fraud||PATNA: At a time when the state machinery is fighting Covid-19 pandemic, the nazir (accounts clerk) of Narhat block in Nawada district was allegedly busy committing fraud by forging cheques and withdrawing excess amount from the corona relief fund. This is the first case of embezzlement of the corona relief fund in the state. Narhat block development officer (BDO) Rajmiti Paswan on Saturday lodged an FIR against nazir Ghanshyam Prasad, accusing him of siphoning of Rs7 lakh through fraudulent means. Narhat police station SHO Navin Kumar Sinha said on Sunday the accused allegedly tampered with the cheques signed by the BDO on different dates and withdrew the excess amount from the banks concerned. Explaining the modus operandi, the BDO said, “He (nazir) used to prefix a huge amount on cheques bearing the official signature of the account holder and withdrew cash from the banks where the department has its accounts. It happened on several occasions but the bank never intimated me.” The amount was withdrawn from the main branch of Punjab National Bank, Nawada and Dakshin Bihar Gramin Bank, Sheikhpura. The fraud came to light when the BDO received a call on May 5 soon after the nazir presented a cheque for Rs2.50 lakh. “I asked the bank official to stop payment,” Paswan said. Subsequently, the transactions in the two bank accounts from October 2019 to May 2020 were verified and Rs7 lakh excess amount was found withdrawn during the lockdown period, the BDO said over phone. A show-cause notice was issued to Prasad, a resident of Gambhir village under Warisaliganj block in Nawada district. However, he didn’t reply and proceeded on leave without prior approval from the authority concerned. The SHO said Prasad was booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by any public servant or banker) and 420 (cheating) of IPC. He said the accused was absconding. A special police team has been set up to arrest him at the earliest. The role of the banks concerned has also come under scanner. The BDO said the bank is supposed to verify before clearing any payment of more than Rs50,000 from any government account at a time. “But it didn’t happen in this case,” he added. A retired CBI officer said a similar modus operandi was adopted in the multi-crore Srijan scam in Bhagalpur and its adjoining districts in 2017. More than 50 Covid-19 cases have been reported from Nawada district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/clerk-booked-for-rs-7-lakh-corona-relief-fund-fraud/articleshow/75954979.cms||Ramashankar
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Forget washing hands, there is no drinking water in Barmer villages||JAISALMER: The World Health Organisation (WHO) has asked people to wash their hands with soap several times a day to prevent coronavirus. But in many far-flung areas of Barmer district, there is severe water crisis and in many rural areas PHED waterlines are damaged and water tanks are dilapidated. Women in these areas try to collect water from pits where water gets accumulated due to damaged pipelines. In many rural areas, the situation has remained the same since Independence. Every year, plans are made for summer season, but nothing changes on the ground. The state government’s project to connect these villages is going on, but it will take many years. The condition of Bhachbhar village, 45km from Barmer district headquarters currently reeling under a temperature of around 45°C, is pathetic as women lead their entire lives collecting water from pits with nobody to listen to their woes. They start collecting water around 7am and the process continues till late evening. The government so far has not announced any scheme for this area. Villagers are forced to quench their thirst with murky water and family members often get into fights when their turn comes to fetch water. Villager Manohardas Ramwat questioned how will the government’s advisory of washing hands be followed when there is no water to drink. Villagers say water comes in pipeline from Ramderia to Bakhte ke Beri, but due to illegal connections in the middle of the pipes, water does not reach till the end. The same situation is in many villages and hamlets in Chauhatan area especially in Gafan, Arbi ki Gafan, Chande ka Paar, Sajan ka Paar, Sargela, Kumbharon Ka Paar and Mathar Ka Paar. Water works department has accepted that there is shortage of water in many border villages. According to department officer Sonaram Beniwal, Narmada canal project can solve this problem but will take two years for the work to complete. Under this project, 205 villages will be connected in Shiv-Ramsar scheme worth Rs 600.79 crore. District collector Vishram Meena said the scheme is underway in areas of water scarcity in Barmer district but is pending especially at Chauhatan and Siwana. A 10km area in Siwana has not been connected with the scheme due to some reason and efforts are being made resolve this issue. In water hit areas, tankers come to the rescue at Gadra road, Sheo and Ramsar tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forget-washing-hands-there-is-no-drinking-water-in-barmer-villages/articleshow/75957438.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jaipur||Youth drowns in temple pond in Bundi||Kota: An 18-year-old youth drowned in a pond at Kundeshwar Mahadev temple near Jajawar village under Nainwa police station area of Bundi district on Sunday morning. The youth was bathing on the stairs near the pond when he accidentally slipped into the water. The deceased was identified as Vikram Singh, son of Gopal Singh, resident of Kachola village under Hindoli police station in Bundi district. The family of the deceased had come to Kundeshwar Mahadev temple to offer puja, police said. While the deceased and his father were taking bath on the stairs before offering puja, the boy accidentally slipped into the pond and drowned. Police rushed to the spot and with the help of locals fished out the body around an hour later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-drowns-in-temple-pond-in-bundi/articleshow/75957430.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||This Eid, Hyderabad techies gift stranded migrant families a taste of home||HYDERABAD: A group of 10 techies from various parts of the city have come forward to help Muslim migrant workers stranded here, have a taste of home this Eid-ul-Fitr . The techies, who formed a group ‘Feed the Need’, are supplying ration kits to help workers celebrate Eid amid lockdown. The group said that they wish to offer some form of solace to workers who have lost their jobs and ache for their home and families living hundreds of kilometres away. Speaking to TOI, Vinay Vangala, an IT employee, said, “Our aim was to help Muslim migrant workers, who have lost jobs, enjoy the festival. Leave alone preparing Biryani or devouring Sheer Khurma, most can’t afford two meals a day.” “We identified 138 families and distributed Rs 500 , ration kits with rice, wheat, oil and other essentials which will be last them a month,” said Vangala. The techies also identified a few families who are in need of LPG cylinders and made arrangements to distribute them with Cyberabad police and Telangana Social Impact Group. A few migrants say that they have been struggling feed their families. Mohammad Arshi, 35, a daily wage labourer who resides in Ameenpur, said, “We were completely broke before we received this ration kits and a gas cylinder from the team two days ago. Without them, my children would be starving on the day of the festival.” Arshi’s family, including his four children, were planning to walk back to Bihar, his home. “With this ration, I can now survive here for another month.” The ‘Feed the Need’ group includes Prashanth Mamidala, Srinivas Bellam, Sai Teja, Ramanjeet Singh, Anumod Thomas, Vidhyasagar Jagadeesam, Surendra Uplanchivar, Pradeep Gadicherla and Ankit Raj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-eid-city-techies-gift-stranded-migrant-families-a-taste-of-home/articleshow/75957437.cms||Moulika.KV
May 25, 2020||Indore||Covid-19: ‘Community spread in some pockets of Indore’||INDORE: There are pockets in city with high number of Corona cases, where spread of the disease is happening at community level, which is also the case in other majorly hit cities, said Dr AB Vajpayee of All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Kolkata. Dr Vajpayee and Dr Shamita Mondal from AIIH, Kolkata were in city oversee the strategy for preventing the virus from spreading. He said, “Effective lockdown has helped in reducing number of new positive cases in the city but it is not a permanent solution. Bit it is the only solution for now.” The team was satisfied with ongoing strategy for containing the virus. Vajpayee said, “The administration has planned the strategy at micro level. People will come outside after a time because of basic necessities like food.” The administration has been providing food to the poorest through community kitchen with a daily budget of Rs 1 crore. The other requirements are also fulfilled through the other means, said Vajpayee. “I like two three measures very much including this. The other is providing pulse-o-meter for regular monitoring of oxygen content in high-risk people. These people are asked to provide a photograph of the reading regularly on an app used for monitoring the population,” said Vajpayee. If oxygen content of any of the person is found low, a team rushes to his place. Also, home quarantining of contacts traced is also one of the good measures, said Vajpayee. These measures aren’t there in many of the cities like Kolkata and Mumbai. As lockdown is lifted, infection will begin to increase. But, before that people should be aware of how to follow precautionary measures in post-lockdown period till vaccine comes, said Vajpayee. To stop virus from spreading through herd immunity, around 60% of population needed to be infected. If this stage is reached, the death number will be very high, hospitals will be full, said Vajpayee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/community-spread-in-some-pockets-of-city/articleshow/75955919.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt nod to intrastate buses with full seating capacity||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Sunday allowed intra-state movement of buses, passenger vehicles and city bus service with full seating capacity besides giving the nod to passenger trains to resume operation within the state. “Barring containment zones, buses can start operating across the state from Monday,” special relief commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said. “Though vehicles can operate with full seating capacity, standing of passengers inside buses will not be permitted. The state transport authority and police personnel will enforce it strictly,” Jena added. But maintaining social distancing could pose to be a big challenge if passenger and city bus services are run with full seating capacity. “Since special passenger trains and flights operate with full capacity, the government has also allowed buses to run with full seating capacity,” a senior government official said. “As a precautionary measure, it has been made mandatory for all passengers to wear masks while persons with visible symptoms will not be permitted to board vehicles,” the official added. Despite the government’s nod, the All Odisha Bus Owners’ Association (AOBOA) said they will not be able to operate buses unless the government resolves some issues. “The government has only issued a formal order but is yet to come out with a standard operating procedure (SOP). They said person/persons with visible symptoms will not be allowed to board vehicles. How will it be enforced? What about the safety of passengers and staff?” said Debendra Kumar Sahoo, the association general secretary. State transport minister Padmanabha Behera accepted that there will be some doubts in the mind of passengers while boarding buses. “The government had earlier allowed movement of buses in green zones with passengers up to 50 per cent of the total capacity. But bus services could not be resumed. Even if the government now allows buses to run with full seating capacity, there is apprehension that passengers may not turn up,” Behera said, adding that the government will soon hold a meeting with bus owners on various issues. Movement of passenger trains within the state has been allowed keeping in mind the standard operating procedure laid down by the Union ministry of home affairs. Despite night curfew (7 am to 7 pm), the state government also allowed movement of public transport, private vehicles and taxis including app cabs to and from airports, railway station and bus terminals/stands/stops round the clock for facilitating movement of passengers by air, rail and road. The four-wheelers and auto-rickshaws are allowed to run with up to two passengers apart from the driver. Though inter-state bus services has been allowed by the government, the SRC said it can be resumed only with mutual consent of two states. Hundreds of buses run between Odisha and neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand. Official sources said the state-owned Odisha State Road Transport Corporation (OSRTC) and various city bus authorities are actively considering to start operations following the state government nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-nod-to-intrastate-buses-with-full-seating-capacity/articleshow/75953208.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Now, visit Mother Dairy booth to report domestic abuse||NEW DELHI: Mother Dairy outlets and chemist shops, which have remained open throughout the Covid-19 lockdown in the capital, are now also serving as centres for women to silently report domestic abuse. With the domestic abuse cases in Delhi nearing 100 during the lockdown, Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) has chosen these places among others to spread awareness about its helpline number and also to allow a victim of domestic violence to pass on the information discreetly. National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) had recently come out with a report which revealed that Delhi had the third highest number of domestic violence cases in the country till mid-May. “In the pre-lockdown period, the victims would come to us to report. But now, we are trying to reach out to them at their doorstep. Once we receive a complaint or a call on our helpline number, our counsellors speak to both the victim and the abuser. But if the abuser is not willing to speak or is evasive, we depute a lawyer who files a petition in court on behalf of the victim,” said DSLSA member secretary Kanwal Jeet Arora. According to DSLSA, Mother Dairy booths and chemist shops are present in every locality of the city. Women frequent milk booths and pharmacy shops which have remained functional during the lockdown and hence these were chosen as centres to report domestic abuse. A similar tie-up with anganwadi and ASHA workers to report local domestic violence cases has yielded positive results. DSLSA chairperson Justice Hima Kohli last week made the reporting mechanism more robust by starting a mobile application that is available for download on android platform. Termed ‘Vidhik Sewa,’ the app intends to provide free legal aid to domestic violence victims among others. “Once the app is downloaded, the woman can register her details and write to us about the alleged abuse or violence. We will reach out to her through telecounselling,” Arora told TOI. Last month, the authority had informed the high court that it had started a toll-free helpline number 1516 with a view to help vulnerable sections of society and another WhatsApp number 9667992802 wherein any victim of domestic violence could approach it through SMS or by just giving a missed call. The victim would be contacted and provided legal aid and advice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/now-visit-mother-dairy-booth-to-report-domestic-abuse/articleshow/75984584.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 25, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Cop accuses wife & in-laws of harassment moments before killing himself, video goes viral||MEERUT: During his last moments, UP police constable Vijay Gaud recorded a video and accused his wife and in-laws of harassing him. Posted at Meerut SSP office, Gaud allegedly committed suicide on May 11. The video has now surfaced on social media. In the video, Gaud, while narrating his ordeal and explaining the reason behind taking the extreme step, also accused a police inspector of publicly humiliating him. According to sources, Gaud was in a troubled marriage, as his wife had pressed harassment charges against him. Following an altercation, his wife had left for her native place last month. The case was registered at Khatauli Kotwali in Muzaffarnagar where attempts for mediation were going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cop-accuses-wife-in-laws-of-harassment-moments-before-killing-himself-video-goes-viral/articleshow/75951411.cms||Piyush Rai
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Open your kitchen & heart to those less fortunate: Najaf Ali Khan||HYDERABAD: The Nizam’s family has urged people in the state to observe a low-key Eid and support each other as the country fights the Covid-19 pandemic. Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of Mir Osman Ali Khan, the last Nizam of Hyderabad, told TOI that the lockdown has taught people to step up and do their bit to safeguard humanity in the hour of catastrophe. “This lockdown has opened the eyes of so many of us who sit with their filled pantries, while others struggle to find a proper meal for days on end. I have had so many people reach out to me and share their struggles. Many of them were widows, families without a breadwinner and people born and raised in poverty,’’ said Najaf Ali Khan. Talking about how this year’s Ramzan and Eid has been unique in many ways, he said, “During lockdown, Taraweeh and Jumma prayers were performed at homes. The devout could not offer prayers in the mosques due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The characteristic Iftar parties were also missed. But people found ways to help each other in these trying times.’’  On a final note, he added: “It’s not just about what you do in the face of a disaster; it’s about what you do always. It's disheartening to see so many people dying of hunger. Let us all do our bit to help them lead a better life,” added Najaf Ali Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/open-your-kitchen-heart-to-those-less-fortunate-najaf-ali/articleshow/75957442.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Indore||Indore: No 14-day institutional quarantine for flyers sans Covid-19 symptoms||INDORE: While several state governments have made 14-day quarantine mandatory for flyers, those arriving at Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport of Indore will not need to go for it unless they have any symptoms of Covid-19. The airport is all set to see movement of nearly a dozen flights from Monday. State government and even local administration are apparently with this view of not making 14-day quarantine mandatory for passengers, who will not have any symptoms. Airport director Aryama Sanyal said that they have made arrangements for thermal screening and oxymeter test for both arriving and departing passengers. “Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go and 14-day quarantine has been made mandatory for those who shows symptoms,” she said adding that such passengers will be isolated at an enclosed space reserved at visitors area of terminal building and then they will be taken hospital with help of health department. The director claimed that all arrangements have been made to ensure provision of safe and secure environment for passengers. “Separate teams of health department will be deployed to conduct screening of every passengers flying in and out of airport,” she added while talking to TOI. Indigo and TruJet will operate flights to cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad from Monday. Indigo will operate six flights to Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad, while TruJet will operate two flights to Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-14-day-institutional-quarantine-for-flyers-sans-covid-19-symptoms/articleshow/75955921.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Dehradun||Wildlife data collection severely hit due to pandemic||Dehradun: The Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown has severely impacted the wildlife data collection this year, with many scientists ruing that the most viable period for the process — summer — has gone waste due to the virus outbreak. According to researchers involved in wildlife studies, accurate data collection and regular field studies are very important for any kind of analysis in the area. They said that such studies are likely to be impacted this year as they were forced to stay indoors due to the novel coronavirus outbreak during the peak data collection period. They added that the entire process may have to be restructured this year to address the shortcomings. Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India director Dhananjai Mohan said, “The manual field surveys and spot data collection have been hit due to the lockdown-related movement restrictions amid the pandemic. Summer is the best time for collecting data. However, we have been able to collect data only from camera traps and radio collars this season. Monsoon poses a lot of challenges like poor visibility, difficulty in accessing remote areas and closure of reserves among others.” Another senior WII researcher Anant Pande, who is also part of an expedition to Antarctica, said, “It was for the first time that our team went to the deeper areas of the continent where several fauna samples are buried under temperature below -50°C. However, we are now stranded at Cape Town in South Africa under hot and humid conditions since April 12. We are worried about the sample degradation and delay in analysis.” Senior WII officials also said that the release of annual tiger estimates is likely to be impacted too due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wildlife-data-collection-severely-hit-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/75953235.cms||Shivani Azad
May 25, 2020||Indore||Coronavirus in Indore: Two toddlers, octogenarian among 43 discharged||INDORE: A 5-month-old baby went home with her mother on Sunday, two months after contracting Covid-19 infection. She was among the 43 patients discharged from Sri Aurbindo Institute of Medical Sciences including a four-month-old boy and 82-year-old male. Dr Rajeev Singh, spokesperson said, “The mother of the five-month-old girl has been in different hospitals for the last two months for treatment. But, she came here couple of weeks back and now finally walked back home after getting cured.” There were at least 17 high-risk age group people above age of 50 years of age and four children among those discharged from the hospital. Dr Ravi Dosi, HoD respiratory department SAIMS said, “Both four-month and five-month old babies were mildly symptomatic. The five-month girl was having cough but couldn’t say it is because of Covid-19.” Both of them got infection from their mothers, said Dosi. Now, all of them are cured and went home, said Dosi. The 82-year-old male came with mild symptoms including headache was in ICU for two days. Later, he was shifted to isolation ward. The male was having some fluctuations in ECG, said Dosi. So, it was decided not to administer Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin to him. He was treated with other medicines and got cured, said Dosi. The rest high-risk persons were treated in accordance to protocol of ICMR including injection of low molecular heparin to them. HCQ is also administered, added Dosi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/2-toddlers-octogenarian-among-43-discharged/articleshow/75955926.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||TOI conclave to help design Telangana’s post-lockdown future||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic has thrown up unique and unforeseen challenges for businesses globally and locally, for Telangana, especially Hyderabad. At the same time, it has unlocked new opportunities for those who are ready to innovate amid this new normal. As the deadline for the lifting of the lockdown nears and the economy begins opening up, The Times of India is bringing together top business leaders across sectors to deliberate on the unprecedented challenges, throw light on the opportunities created by Covid-19 and chart out a roadmap to reignite Telangana’s business engine as part of a virtual conclave ‘Reboot Telangana: Making Telangana Future Positive’. The TOI conclave, which is being supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Janapriya, Agromech and Saket Pranamam, will bring together over 50 speakers, including industry leaders, domain experts and government representatives, across sectors such as IT/ITeS, pharma, biotech, healthcare, manufacturing, startups, MSMEs, real estate, education, hospitality, through two sessions daily for a week. The six-day virtual conclave will be flagged off on Monday morning by Telangana’s IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao with a session on ‘Getting the business engine back on track’, along with Telangana Inc’s top guns – FICCI national president and Apollo Hospitals joint managing director Sangita Reddy, Cyient Ltd executive chairman and former Nasscom chairman BVR Mohan Reddy, Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance president and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories chairman Satish Reddy, Shantha Biotechnics founder KI Varaprasad Reddy, GVK Group VC GV Sanjay Reddy and CREDAI Hyderabad president P Ramakrishna Rao. This will be followed by an afternoon session on IT/ITeS, with a session titled `Time to log back into the growth story' that will see IT&EC principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan thrash out issues facing the sector with Nasscom’s national chair for GCC Council V Laxmikanth, Pegasytems India MD E Suman Reddy, Micron Tehnology India MD Anand Ramamoorthy, HYSEA president Bharani Kumar Aroll, ZenQ CEO & immediate HYSEA past president Murali Bollu, and TCS SVP & global head of technology business unit V Rajanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/toi-conclave-to-help-design-ts-post-lockdown-future/articleshow/75957448.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Woman travelling in Shramik Spl goes into labour, forces Bihar-bound train to halt in Odisha||Bhubaneswar/Jharsuguda: The wife of a migrant worker gave birth to a baby girl inside a police van in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district while she was being taken to hospital on Sunday. She has been identified by police as Payal Kumari (25). Payal was travelling to Danapur (Bihar) from Secunderabad (Telangana) in a Shramik Express with her husband and three-year-old son when she went into labour, forcing the Railways to make an unscheduled stop at Jharsuguda. The officials also sent an SOS to police to shift her to a nearby hospital. “We were alerted by the Railways about the emergency case involving the pregnant woman’s plight. The train was scheduled to pass through Jharsuguda junction at 2.20pm and not stop there. However, a technical halt was scheduled at Jharsuguda for the woman,” superintendent of police (Jharsuguda) Rahul P R said. Sabitri Bal, the inspector-in-charge of Jharsuguda police station, reached the station on time to help Payal. “The woman inspector and her staff immediately took Payal to the Jharsuguda district headquarters hospital in the police control room (PCR) van. She gave birth in the police van midway to the hospital,” Rahul said. Sabitri said the mother and daughter are fine. “We had alerted the hospital staff, who were ready to attend to the woman and her baby. Arrangements are being made for their food, shelter and transport to take them back to their native place,” she added. Payal’s husband Bal Krishna Prasad (27) was relieved and thankful to all concerned for being prompt in action. “I have been working as a supervisor in a private firm in Secunderabad. Since the lockdown, we have been facing a lot of problems. With no money left on us, we decided to return to our village at Kripalpur in Bihar. We boarded the Shramik Special train on May 23 afternoon from Secunderabad station for Danapur in Bihar. The next day, before reaching the Jharsuguda railway station, my wife went into labour. We informed the police personnel present on the train, who later alerted the officials at Jharsuguda railway station,” On Friday, the Jharsuguda police had helped a nine-month pregnant woman and her husband reach their village in Balasore district. The couple, who had left Mumbai a few days ago, was spotted walking in Jharsuguda when police came to their rescue. The delivery of a child in a police van comes four days after a woman gave birth to a girl inside a fire service van during Cyclone Amphan in Kendrapada district on May 20. (With inputs from Ritesh Sharma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/woman-travelling-in-shramik-spl-goes-into-labour-forces-bihar-bound-train-to-halt-in-odisha/articleshow/75953239.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Brahmins in H’bag quarantine centre refuse food cooked by members of SC community||Hazaribag: Five Brahmin migrants lodged at the Banaso quarantine centre in Hazaribag’s Bishnugarh block on Sunday refused to eat food cooked by members of a Scheduled Caste community. The district officials later decided to give the five dry ration and asked them to prepare their own food. Around 100 people, mostly migrants who returned from different states, have been kept at this quarantine centre. Confirming the news, Hazaribag deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said, “They (migrants) should not have made such a hue and cry about the issue. One needs to rise above caste and religious affiliations to jointly fight the pandemic.” Bishnugarh block development officer (BDO) Sanjay Kumar Kongari said, “After consultations with the local mukhiya, we gave them dry ration.” In another development, a quarantine centre at Barwar Idgah School in Daroo block was vacated as inmates reportedly demanded a dedicated cook. But the DC said the authorities have decided to vacate quarantine centres by releasing people who don’t have Covid-19 symptoms. He said, “There is no point keeping migrants who don’t exhibit Covid-19 symptoms in quarantine centres. We need the space to accommodate the migrants who are in the process of returning soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/brahmins-in-hbag-quarantine-centre-refuse-food-cooked-by-members-of-sc-community/articleshow/75955161.cms||Abhijit Sen
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Heat to intensify in Ranchi and other parts of Jharkhand: IMD||Ranchi: With rain unlikely, summer heat is set to intensify over Ranchi and other parts of Jharkhand in the coming week. The Ranchi office of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its weather forecast for all 24 districts between May 24 and May 29, predicted gradual rise in daytime mercury. “Daytime temperature will remain above normal in the next 48 hours. Barring parts of northeastern Jharkhand, isolated and localised showers are unlikely. Maximum temperatures are expected to return to normal from May 28 onwards,” IMD Ranchi director S D Kotal told TOI. On Sunday, Ranchi recorded 40.8 degree Celsius, four notches above the normal average. Jamshedpur recorded 39.4 degree Celsius and Daltonganj recorded 44.3 degree Celsius. Chaibasa recorded close to 41 degree Celsius, while Bokaro was close to 40 degree Celsius. Weathermen said the rise in mercury was due to the absence of moisture over Jharkhand and a change in the wind pattern. “While the atmosphere is devoid of moisture, hot north-westerlies are blowing into Jharkhand from central India. But the wind pattern is likely to change again at the end of this month and moisture will be fed from the Bay of Bengal,” Kotal added. While warm winds blew in Ranchi and most parts of the state, weather office said the parameters did not match for a heatwave alert to be issued. In Met parlance, heatwave alert is issued after daytime temperatures record an increase of five degree Celsius or more for a minimum of three consecutive days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/heat-to-intensify-in-ranchi-and-other-parts-of-jharkhand-imd/articleshow/75955101.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||80 Shramik Specials likely to reach Jharkhand, govt miffed over train delays||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government is expecting a minimum of 80 special trains from various parts of the country in the next 10 days. On Saturday, the Indian Railways announced that it will operate 2,600 Shramik specials to ferry approximately 36 lakh migrant workers. Jharkhand, which was the first state to receive a Shramik special on May 1 from Telangana, has received a little over 120 trains that ferried close to 2 lakh migrants. “We are expecting at least 80 specials in Jharkhand in coming days,” transport secretary K Ravikumar told TOI. However, officials in the state transport department hinted that the numbers may vary. Recently, seven Shramik specials bound for various stations of Jharkhand from New Delhi were cancelled after they did not have enough passengers. The last two trains from the national capital, which had passenger capacities of close to 1,600, ferried 391 and 461 passengers, respectively. However, Jharkhand government is upset with the Indian Railways over the delay in arrival of the Shramik specials. “On Saturday, a special from Borivalli in Mumbai was scheduled to arrive in Jasidih in Deoghar. But the train was late by 21 hours. Another train from Mumbai, which was due to arrive at Koderma railway station, was late by 72 hours. All special trains arriving to Jharkhand from the west are running late,” a senior official said. In a statement issued on Sunday evening, the Indian Railways said the delay in running was due to congestion. Stating that 80% of the trains are headed to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, it added: “Convergence of trains to these destinations caused congestion in the network. Further, increased time taken in de-boarding of passengers due to the various health and social-distancing protocols at the stations is leading to congestion at terminals which further affects network congestion.” The New Delhi-bound Rajdhani Special Express was rescheduled four hours later due to the late arrival of the link rake on Sunday morning. The delay in trains is also causing problems for railways. “Due to late running, we are also being forced to ramp up our catering and provide for meals such as lunch and dinner. Plus, the trains are being stopped at unplanned destinations to refill water due to the prolonged travel time,” said an official of Ranchi division of South Eastern Railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/80-shramik-specials-likely-to-reach-jharkhand-govt-miffed-over-train-delays/articleshow/75955058.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Muslims to celebrate quiet Eid today||Ranchi: With the sighting of moon on Sunday, Jharkhand and the rest of the country will be celebrating Eid on Monday, albeit in an entirely different manner this time, courtesy Covid-19. In Ranchi, the virus has disrupted the normal way of life and the rituals of Eid this year will have to be performed at home. For the first time in decades, the all-night Chaand Bazaar on Ranchi’s Main Road beside Hindpiri, a containment zone, will not be set up. Both administration and socio-religious bodies like Edara-e-Sharia have asked people to stay indoors for the Eid namaaz to stop the spread of Covid-19. While many still remain stranded miles away from home, joy and positivity echoed in the hearts of the ones who were able to reach home before the festivity. Stuck in Chennai, Abdul Hamid, a resident of Godda who managed to get a seat on a special train en route to Dhanbad is among the few lucky ones who will be able to reach home just in time for Eid with family members or at least in their hometown if they are kept at quarantine centres. Taking to Twitter, Hamid shared his story of finally boarding a train on Saturday and wrote, “After two months of being locked down at home, I have finally set off for my home state and I am on the train. I am indebted to all the people who have put in efforts to rescue me and I pray that god keeps them safe and stands by them in every noble cause.” On Sunday, a handful of markets opened, including shops at Kantatoli, Doranda and Karbala Chowk, but the crowd was largely thin throughout the day. Even the traditional bakery and sewai businesses have taken a hit and there wont be fancy bakarkhanis and kesar sewai on the platters of Ranchiites. “There is a shortage of labour and supply of materials and prices too have shot up. The Hindpiri market used to be a hotspot for both buyers and sellers and varieties like the colourful sewai, kesar sewai and ghee sewai were missing throughout Ramzaan. Even the price of branded sewai packets have shot up by Rs 30-40 per kilogram,” said Mushtaque, a Kantatoli-based vendor who also has a manufacturing unit of sewai and sweet buns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/muslims-to-celebrate-quiet-eid-today/articleshow/75955081.cms||Debjani Chakraborty
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Resumption of flights can worsen situation: JMM||Ranchi: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the major ruling alliance partner in the state, on Sunday objected to the Union government’s decision to resume domestic flight services from Monday onwards stating that it can lead to worsening of the Covid-19 situation. In a statement issued to the media, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya suggested that the Centre considers resuming operations of domestic airliners and trains after June 1, when the lockdown is scheduled to end. Bhattacharya said, “JMM is opposed to resumption of operations of domestic airlines from Monday and special trains from June 1. The possibility of their resumption should have been evaluated first after the end of the ongoing Lockdown 4.0. With 2,600 Shramik Special trains slated to ferry 36 lakh migrants across the nation, the state governments need time to prepare. If the Centre resumes operations of flights and trains without the consent of the states, there will be chaos. Therefore, the services must be resumed after Lockdown 4.0 or after every migrant reaches their respective destinations.” Jharkhand is witnessing a surge in numbers of positive cases after the migrants began returning in special trains and buses arranged by the state government and in their own transport. Close to 2.5 lakh migrants have returned since May 1. On Sunday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued a set of guidelines on domestic travel by trains, air and inter-state travel for operators and passengers. The ministry made it mandatory to wear masks at the time of boarding and travel. “States need to ensure that all passengers are put through thermal screening tests,” the guidelines read. The guidelines further said, “Asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go with the advice that they must monitor their health for 14 days and report to district or state nodal officer, if they develop symptoms. Persons with mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or being in isolation at a Covid Care Centre (both public & private facilities). If tested negative, they will be allowed to go home and isolate themselves for seven days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/resumption-of-flights-can-worsen-situation-jmm/articleshow/75955064.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Congress’s Bermo MLA dies in Delhi after prolonged illness||Ranchi: The Congress party’s Bermo MLA, Rajendra Singh, died on Sunday at a private hospital in Delhi while undergoing treatment for various ailments. He was 75. Singh, a veteran trade leader, had served as a minister during the earlier JMM-Congress government in the state. Governor Droupadi Murmu and chief minister Hemant Soren condoled the bereaved family. Soren said the vacuum created by Singh’s demise is irreparable. “Singh had been one of the prominent voices of trade unions and workers and an astute politician,” he added. Jharkhand Congress president Rameshwar Oraon termed Singh’s demise a big loss for the party. Former CM Raghubar Das and BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi are among several other politicians cutting across party lines who have condoled Singh’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congresss-bermo-mla-dies-in-delhi-after-prolonged-illness/articleshow/75955123.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: ‘Depressed’ Bokaro youth ends life, ninth suicide in 20 days||BOKARO: A 25-year-old youth, who was put in home quarantine after returning from Maharashtra on May 13, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his sister’s house at Sector-8/B under Harla police station on Saturday late night. In the last 20 days, at least nine suicides attributed to depression during the lockdown have been reported from different parts of Bokaro. The youth, identified as Prakash Kumar Singh, worked as a carpenter and upon his return, officials of the district health department collected his swab samples for Covid-19 test and the result is awaited. While the actual reason behind the extreme step is unknown, police suspect it to be a case of anxiety and depression. Officer in-charge of Harla police station Jai Gobind Gupta said, “Singh returned from Maharashtra on May 13. He worked as a carpenter in Chandrapur district for two years. The deceased was alone at the time of the incident on Saturday.” Suicides related to depression and anxiety is on a rise in Bokaro amid the ongoing lockdown. On Saturday, another resident in Dugda under Bermo sub-division committed suicide at his shop where he used to sell fritters. His wife, Parvati Devi, told police that Kewat was depressed due to a financial crunch as the lockdown had hit his earnings. On May 21, a 35-year-old male resident of Bhojudih under Chandankyari police station committed suicide also due to depression. Mental health experts link the spurt in the cases of suicides to depression related to financial stress, joblessness, uncertainty among other issues. A psychiatrist of sadar hospital, Prasant Mishra, said, “Increase in stress due to financial worries, relationship issues, fear of abandonment, stigma, fear of contracting infectious diseases and social ostracization are a few reasons that are prompting suicidal tendencies among people.” He advised people to be cautious of Covid-19, but not fearful. “Covid-19 is certainly a cause of worry, but recovery rate in our country is high. People should not lose hope, they should find a meaning in their life and not hesitate in seeking help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/depressed-bokaro-youth-ends-life-9th-suicide-in-20-days/articleshow/75955094.cms||Divy Khare
May 25, 2020||India||Traffic jam: Shramik Special takes 4 days instead of 28 hrs||MUMBAI: The Shramik Special that left Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) here last Thursday for UP's Basti reached its destination after almost four days on Sunday evening. Trains from Maharashtra and elsewhere in the country have been forced to take detours because of congestion on routes. TOI has reported a train that left Vasai for Gorakhpur on Thursday took a detour via Orissa and Asansol, taking passengers by surprise. "We are in a hapless situation. It has become a long, arduous journey in hot weather. We hoped to reach in 28 hours, as per schedule, but it's been four days now," said Chembur resident Birendra Singh in the afternoon, when the train was yet to reach Basti, his native place. "This train was to go to Basti via Itarsi, Bhopal, Jhansi, Kanpur and Lucknow. But we have been taken via Agra, Gwalior, Haryana, Rajasthan and Ghaziabad. We crossed the UP border through Delhi and from there reached Lucknow." Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav said on Saturday, "Nearly 80% Shramik Special trains are terminating in UP and Bihar. This has resulted in congestion on the direct routes, necessitating diversions." Railway officials say congestion at terminals, too, is to blame for the delays and diversions. Passengers of the LTT-Basti train claimed they were given food and water only once after the train left LTT. "We are on our own. Fortunately, wherever our train halted between stations, villagers were kind enough to give us drinking water," Singh told TOI on phone while the train was running. When TOI spoke to another passenger, Naseem Ali, a while later, he said, "At times, the train is halting in forests for hours on end. What can you find in a forest? There's very little food with us. We buy food from stalls if the train stops at a station (an unscheduled halt), but that is rare. Also, not many of us can afford to buy food for so many days." Ali, who lives at Cheeta Camp, said at the time, "There are children on the train, who are feeling restless. We haven't had a bath in this weather for days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/traffic-jam-train-takes-4-days-instead-of-28-hrs/articleshow/75959626.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Renewed focus on public health helps Andhra Pradesh battle Covid-19 crisis||AMARAVATI: It’s been over two decades since liberalisation when the Indian economy opened up to the private sector. The Union government and many states across the country are busy selling off remaining stakes in public sector undertakings (PSUs). In such an environment, the 45-year-old chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, who took over the reins of the state last year after a landslide victory, has decided to take the road less taken. The Andhra Pradesh chief minister, although an industrialist himself has decided to place his bet on the public sector. YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s move to take the plunge and invest large amounts of money into the public sector has taken many of his peers by surprise. As the world battles the novel coronavirus, Jagan’s gamble to focus on the public sector has proved right. It is the public healthcare system in Andhra Pradesh that almost single-handedly tackled the Covid-19 containment operations over the last two months, while almost the entire of the private healthcare closed operations. The Andhra Pradesh government has prepared mega plans to strengthen the public healthcare system through an infusion of a massive sum of Rs 17,000 crore over the next three years. All the hospitals, right from primary health centres (PHCs) to teaching hospitals are being renovated in a bid to cater to the needs of ordinary people. Around 10,000 village clinics are also in the pipeline. In fact, many believe that the decision to set up one government medical college in every parliamentary constituency and seven government nursing colleges in the state is going to prove to be a game changer for the healthcare sector of the state. Dr K Srinath Reddy, renowned cardiologist and honorary advisor to the state government said, “Public financing to strengthen primary and secondary healthcare systems is the need of the hour to save millions from getting pushed into poverty.” “The public healthcare system was completely neglected in the past,” added Dr Srinath Reddy, who is also associated with the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). In fact, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has not confined his government’s efforts to strengthening just the public healthcare sector alone. He has set his government’s focus on all core sectors including education. Around 45,000 schools are being renovated in three phases. These schools are being provided drinking water facilities, toilets, fans, lights, blackboards and compound walls. In addition to providing infrastructure, the state government has also decided to go for massive recruitment drives to fill up all vacancies in the health and education sectors. “All successive governments have completely ignored the public sector institutions, particularly health and education. It is really heartening to see the young chief minister spend large amounts on these sectors,” said Dr LSN Prasad, a retired professor of economics. YS Jaganmohan Reddy is perhaps the only leader investing heavily on the public sector, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/renewed-focus-on-public-health-helps-state-battle-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/75953946.cms||Samdani MN
May 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Renewed focus on public health helps Andhra Pradesh battle Covid-19 crisis||AMARAVATI: It’s been over two decades since liberalisation when the Indian economy opened up to the private sector. The Union government and many states across the country are busy selling off remaining stakes in public sector undertakings (PSUs). In such an environment, the 45-year-old chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, who took over the reins of the state last year after a landslide victory, has decided to take the road less taken. The Andhra Pradesh chief minister, although an industrialist himself has decided to place his bet on the public sector. YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s move to take the plunge and invest large amounts of money into the public sector has taken many of his peers by surprise. As the world battles the novel coronavirus, Jagan’s gamble to focus on the public sector has proved right. It is the public healthcare system in Andhra Pradesh that almost single-handedly tackled the Covid-19 containment operations over the last two months, while almost the entire of the private healthcare closed operations. The Andhra Pradesh government has prepared mega plans to strengthen the public healthcare system through an infusion of a massive sum of Rs 17,000 crore over the next three years. All the hospitals, right from primary health centres (PHCs) to teaching hospitals are being renovated in a bid to cater to the needs of ordinary people. Around 10,000 village clinics are also in the pipeline. In fact, many believe that the decision to set up one government medical college in every parliamentary constituency and seven government nursing colleges in the state is going to prove to be a game changer for the healthcare sector of the state. Dr K Srinath Reddy, renowned cardiologist and honorary advisor to the state government said, “Public financing to strengthen primary and secondary healthcare systems is the need of the hour to save millions from getting pushed into poverty.” “The public healthcare system was completely neglected in the past,” added Dr Srinath Reddy, who is also associated with the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). In fact, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has not confined his government’s efforts to strengthening just the public healthcare sector alone. He has set his government’s focus on all core sectors including education. Around 45,000 schools are being renovated in three phases. These schools are being provided drinking water facilities, toilets, fans, lights, blackboards and compound walls. In addition to providing infrastructure, the state government has also decided to go for massive recruitment drives to fill up all vacancies in the health and education sectors. “All successive governments have completely ignored the public sector institutions, particularly health and education. It is really heartening to see the young chief minister spend large amounts on these sectors,” said Dr LSN Prasad, a retired professor of economics. YS Jaganmohan Reddy is perhaps the only leader investing heavily on the public sector, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/renewed-focus-on-public-health-helps-state-battle-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/75966400.cms||Samdani MN
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Auction of unviable temple land not new: TTD chairman||TIRUPATI: Strongly rebutting criticism from various quarters over TTD trying to sell ‘unviable’ properties across the country and raise funds, TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams chairman YV Subba Reddy underlined that the TTD trust board is competent to dispose of such properties. It is in line with the rules under the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Religious Endowments Act, he said. “Disposing of unviable properties is not new to TTD and the temple administration sold 129 properties across the country between 1974-2014. Continuing the practice, in 2015 the TTD trust board under the chairmanship of Chadalawada Krishnamurthy passed resolution number 84 to identify and alienate unviable TTD properties across the country”, Subba Reddy pointed out. And on Jaunuary 30, 2016, following a sub-committee report, the then TTD trust board led by Chadalawada Krishnamurthy passed resolution number 253 to dispose of 50 odd unviable TTD properties across the country through public auction. Those included 17 properties in rural areas of Andhra Pradesh, nine properties in urban areas, 23 in remote areas in Tamil Nadu and 1.2 acres of land in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand. Moreover, Subba Reddy said, the present trust board has merely approved the resolution passed by the previous TTD trust board and passed another resolution — number 309 on February 29 this year — to go ahead with the public auction to dispose of unviable TTD properties. “Most of these properties are of no use to the TTD. The extent of these properties are also meagre. The properties include, one to five cents of residential properties, 10 cents of agricultural properties etc. There is also risk of such small properties being encroached upon. Taking all these aspects into account, the TTD trust board gave its consent to dispose all unviable properties”, he noted. “Unfortunately, when these are the facts, some section of the media have desperately tried to link the decisions and resolutions passed by the previous trust boards to the present state government, which is unfortunate. Some section of the media have deliberately distorted the facts and are trying to mislead the devotees of Lord Venkateswara and the public at large. This is unacceptable”, the TTD chairman fumed. Subba Reddy reiterated that the TTD trust board is the sole competent authority, which has the powers to sell, exchange or mortgage immovable properties, if it is considered that the transaction is necessary or beneficial to the TTD and is consistent with the objective of the TTD, as has been laid down in the government order Ms No.311 of chapter 22 of rule-165, Revenue (Endowments -1). Meanwhile, Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, the state government whip who is also the ex-officio member of the TTD trust board, lamented over the politicising of the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/auction-of-unviable-temple-land-not-new-ttd-chairman/articleshow/75953967.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||BJP against TTD’s asset sale decision||Guntur: Taking strong exception to the TTD board’s decision to sell the temple assets citing unviability, BJP state president Kanna Lakshminarayana has demanded that the board immediately withdraw the move to avoid facing public wrath. He said the BJP will not remain silent if the state government indulges in such ‘anti-Hindu’ practices and warned of severe consequences if it went ahead with the privitisation of the temple assets. “Who gave the powers to the TTD board to auction the properties donated by the philanthropists with a specific purpose,” Kanna fumed. He said that such properties should be utilised only for the endowment and should not be commercialised and claimed that ‘unviability’ was an excuse to sell the properties of the temple.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bjp-against-ttds-asset-sale-decision/articleshow/75953979.cms||Samdani MN
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh high court raises questions on govts’ silence on LG Polymers case||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court raised questions over what the court called the silence of state and central governments over affidavits submitted in the LG Polymers styrene vapour leak case. The court asked why both governments are silent if the company was running without environmental clearances. The high court also raised some specific issues such as: Why did the emergency alarm not work when the incident happened? Why were people in the affected zone not trained on what to do during an emergency? Why they were not informed about the evacuation procedure? The court further asked how the company was allowed to transport the styrene monomer to South Korea after registration of the crime and who gave the company permission to shift the styrene without a magisterial inquiry on the formation of an investigation team. While asking the governments to submit reports on questions raised, the court ordered to seal the premises of the LG Polymers plant. No one except investigating teams would be allowed inside, the court said. Further, the court directed that any movable and immovable assets of the company should not be shifted without court orders and the passports of the company’s directors should not be given to them without the court’s permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-raises-questions-on-govts-silence-on-lg-polymers-case/articleshow/75954020.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Flights cancelled, fliers left in lurch||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the state government having decided to cancel flight operations from Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada on Monday, fliers have been left in the lurch about ticket refunds and their accommodation into flights on other dates. According to airline officials, going by regulations set up Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), it would be impossible to fly additional flights to accommodate these fliers. “As of now, as per DGCA instructions, only limited operations (about one-third) would be permitted. Further augmentation of flights will be done in a calibrated manner. So we think, we will be able to fly additional flights soon. However, accommodation is possible for passengers who wish to be accommodated subject to seat availability,” an airline official said. However, like those flights that were cancelled since the domestic flights were restricted on March 25, where most airlines provided credit voucher to the passengers, this time airlines may not give full fare refund to the passengers. Air Asia spokesperson told TOI that they are giving two options to passengers. First, they can travel on the same sector unlimited number of times till October 31 with no additional cost till October 31, 2020. Second, they can opt for credit voucher valid for two years. In that case, fliers can use the value of the credit voucher for flights of any sectors of the airline as many number of times. However, if the ticket price is more than the voucher value passengers need to pay the additional amount. “Other airlines are yet to come up with any cancellation policy for these cancelled flights,” said Anil Punjabi, the regional chairman of Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/flights-cancelled-fliers-left-in-lurch/articleshow/75953995.cms||Arpit Basu
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Chandrababu Naidu allowed to visit Visakhapatnam today||AMARAVATI: Ending the near 24-hour suspense, decks have been cleared for TDP supremo Chandrababu Naidu’s visit to Visakhapatnam on Monday. DGP Gautam Sawang has, however, while granting permission, listed down several guidelines of the Union home ministry pertaining to Covid-19 prevention. The DGP said Naidu’s request to visit Visakhapatnam by air and return home at Undavalli in Guntur district by road has been considered as a special case. He requested Naidu to cooperate with the authorities in following the guidelines prescribed by Union home ministry. As per the DGP’s reply, Naidu must undergo Covid-19 test as per the Union health and family welfare directive referance (3) of clause 17, sub-clause (iv) and reference (4). The rules mandate testing of people stranded in the other states and persons coming from other states. He said the persons who test negative would be released for home quarantine with proper intimation to the village/ward level health functionaries. The DGP also cited Union home ministry’s advisory that vulnerable persons such as people aged 65 or above, pregnant women and children aged 5 years should stay at home except for medical emergencies. He referred to the rules of night curfew which prohibits movement of individuals between 7pm to 7am except for essential activities. The DGP also quoted the rules pertaining to the movement in containment, buffer and orange zones which prohibits the movement of people from outside to the zones and from the zones to the outside due to the strict perimeter control. According to TDP sources, Naidu would be leaving Hyderabad for Visakhapatnam at 10am. He would visit RR Venkatapuram to meet the victims of LG Polymers gas leak mishap. Naidu is expected to reach Undavalli residence before 7pm. It is not clear whether he would agree to undergo the rapid test for Covid-19 at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-allowed-to-visit-vizag-today/articleshow/75954064.cms||Samdani MN
May 25, 2020||Amaravati||Chandrababu Naidu allowed to visit Visakhapatnam today||AMARAVATI: Ending the near 24-hour suspense, decks have been cleared for TDP supremo Chandrababu Naidu’s visit to Visakhapatnam on Monday. DGP Gautam Sawang has, however, while granting permission, listed down several guidelines of the Union home ministry pertaining to Covid-19 prevention. The DGP said Naidu’s request to visit Visakhapatnam by air and return home at Undavalli in Guntur district by road has been considered as a special case. He requested Naidu to cooperate with the authorities in following the guidelines prescribed by Union home ministry. As per the DGP’s reply, Naidu must undergo Covid-19 test as per the Union health and family welfare directive referance (3) of clause 17, sub-clause (iv) and reference (4). The rules mandate testing of people stranded in the other states and persons coming from other states. He said the persons who test negative would be released for home quarantine with proper intimation to the village/ward level health functionaries. The DGP also cited Union home ministry’s advisory that vulnerable persons such as people aged 65 or above, pregnant women and children aged 5 years should stay at home except for medical emergencies. He referred to the rules of night curfew which prohibits movement of individuals between 7pm to 7am except for essential activities. The DGP also quoted the rules pertaining to the movement in containment, buffer and orange zones which prohibits the movement of people from outside to the zones and from the zones to the outside due to the strict perimeter control. According to TDP sources, Naidu would be leaving Hyderabad for Visakhapatnam at 10am. He would visit RR Venkatapuram to meet the victims of LG Polymers gas leak mishap. Naidu is expected to reach Undavalli residence before 7pm. It is not clear whether he would agree to undergo the rapid test for Covid-19 at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/naidu-allowed-to-visit-vizag-today/articleshow/75962121.cms||Samdani MN
May 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Chandrababu Naidu allowed to visit Visakhapatnam today||AMARAVATI: Ending the near 24-hour suspense, decks have been cleared for TDP supremo Chandrababu Naidu’s visit to Visakhapatnam on Monday. DGP Gautam Sawang has, however, while granting permission, listed down several guidelines of the Union home ministry pertaining to Covid-19 prevention. The DGP said Naidu’s request to visit Visakhapatnam by air and return home at Undavalli in Guntur district by road has been considered as a special case. He requested Naidu to cooperate with the authorities in following the guidelines prescribed by Union home ministry. As per the DGP’s reply, Naidu must undergo Covid-19 test as per the Union health and family welfare directive referance (3) of clause 17, sub-clause (iv) and reference (4). The rules mandate testing of people stranded in the other states and persons coming from other states. He said the persons who test negative would be released for home quarantine with proper intimation to the village/ward level health functionaries. The DGP also cited Union home ministry’s advisory that vulnerable persons such as people aged 65 or above, pregnant women and children aged 5 years should stay at home except for medical emergencies. He referred to the rules of night curfew which prohibits movement of individuals between 7pm to 7am except for essential activities. The DGP also quoted the rules pertaining to the movement in containment, buffer and orange zones which prohibits the movement of people from outside to the zones and from the zones to the outside due to the strict perimeter control. According to TDP sources, Naidu would be leaving Hyderabad for Visakhapatnam at 10am. He would visit RR Venkatapuram to meet the victims of LG Polymers gas leak mishap. Naidu is expected to reach Undavalli residence before 7pm. It is not clear whether he would agree to undergo the rapid test for Covid-19 at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/naidu-allowed-to-visit-vizag-today/articleshow/75962118.cms||Samdani MN
May 25, 2020||Goa||Mickky opposes ‘quarantine tourism’||Margao: Former MLA Francisco ‘Mickky’ Pacheco on Sunday came down heavily on chief minister Pramod Sawant for “making Goa a hub of quarantine tourism”. Pointing out that three buses carrying people had ferried people to Betalbatim on Saturday for quarantining them in hotels in the village, Pacheco said that most of them were non-Goans. “I have no problems with Goans being brought and quarantined in the hotels. I am ready even to arrange free hotel accommodation for them for the purpose of quarantining them. But quarantining non-Goans in villages across the state is fraught with risks as they are found roaming on the streets,” Pacheco said. He urged the panchayats of the coastal belt, including those of Betalbatim and Nuvem, to voice their opposition to using hotels in their respective villages for quarantining people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mickky-opposes-quarantine-tourism/articleshow/75957760.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Quepem civic body finally shuts down weekly mkt||Quepem: The weekly Sunday bazaar in Quepem town wore a deserted look after Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) staff successfully stopped vendors from occupying footpaths to carry out business. QMC staff along with chairperson of the civic body, Dayesh Naik, monitored the market area till afternoon. Referring to TOI’s May 11 report on social distancing norms not being followed at the market, councillors Filu D’Costa, Raul Pereira and Manuel Colaco had jointly requested Naik keep the Sunday bazaar shut. Although Naik accepted the councillors' demand, on May 17, the bazaar was crowded with migrant vendors having occupied a 1km stretch on either sides of the road, up to Don Bosco High School. The QMC market inspector and other staff were not able to disperse the crowd that had gathered since early morning. The following day, the QMC chairperson had informed TOI that he had already placed a placard in the market stating that the weekly Sunday bazaar will be closed till further orders. “There was not a single vendor in the market or along the footpaths. Some fish vendors shifted to the adjoining road leading to the Selaulim irrigation canal at Sirvoi,” a fish vendor told TOI. Hotel owner Maruti Shetty, despite facing difficulty in purchasing his vegetable requirement, said that closure of the bazaar was a welcome move. “Vendors and public should strictly follow orders so as to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus,” Shetty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-civic-body-finally-shuts-down-weekly-mkt/articleshow/75957850.cms||Johnny M
May 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur chilli yard reopens, separate entry and exit points marked||Guntur: The agricultural marketing department has decided to resume operations at the Guntur chilli yard today. State agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu and special commissioner and director of agricultural marketing PS Pradyumna held several rounds of discussions with traders and officials last week and asked officials at the yard to chalk out an action plan keeping in mind Covid-19 containment measures and preventing farmers from crowding ahead of launching operations. Viewing the directive as green signal to reopen for business, the governing body of the agriculture market committee of the yard on Sunday decided to resume operations from today. Chairman of the agriculture market committee Ch Yesurathnam and secretary Venkateswara Reddy held negotiations with key players, including commission agents, exporters, ‘hamalis’, weighmen and staff in the yard on Sunday and drafted a blueprint. Yesurathnam said transactions in the market would formally commence today and arrangements are in place to avoid a stampede-like situation in the premises of the yard. “Separate entry and exit points have been readied to bring the stocks in and take them out. While entry gates 3 and 4 on Chilakaluripet Highway will be used as entry points, gates on Sattenapalle Highway would be used for exit,” said Yesurathnam. Yesurathnam said they would allow only 100 commission merchants per day on a rotational basis and allow all exporters. Steps will be taken to see that the number of staff, workers and farmers do not exceed 1,500. Wearing a mask has been made mandatory and traders will handle only between 10,000-20,000 bags per day to avoid congestion of stocks and people in the yard. However, the decision of the market committee has kicked up a controversy as officials have not readied any action plan to restrict the entry of farmers. “Since we are allowing commission agents on rotation basis, they will alert the farmers as to when they should bring the stocks,” said Venkateswara Reddy. “This system is nothing but forcing the farmers to sell their stocks only with the help of select commission agents,” said a trader, adding that it would deprive farmers of their right to sell stocks to any trader and result in a fall in price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-chilli-yard-reopens-separate-entry-and-exit-points-marked/articleshow/75954128.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||No fines for late returns at Central Library||Panaji: The Goa State Central Library has waived off all fines accrued on books borrowed from them but not returned due to the lockdown. “Members can return the books they had borrowed whenever they can,” library curator Carlos Fernandes said. He said that the priority is to ensure that the readers follow MHA guidelines instead of just travelling to return the books they had borrowed earlier. After two months of lockdown, the Goa state central library reopened its doors to the public last week. The library charges a late fine of Re 1 per day post the date of return. By scrapping the overdue fee, it is now one of several libraries around the world that has adopted a no-fee or amnesty policy in the wake of the lockdown. Since the lending section reopened on Monday, the library is receiving returns by readers who had borrowed books in March, just days before the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. The books are quarantined and disinfected before being returned to the shelves. Fernandes said that the library staff is following a strict cleaning process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-fines-for-late-returns-at-central-library/articleshow/75957944.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Private buses ask for Rs 3 lakh to drop migrants home||CALANGUTE: With uncertainty and chaos around the return of migrant workers to their native states, private bus operators from Goa have been demanding Rs 3 lakh per bus to take workers employed by tourism stakeholders to Odisha, said sources. Shack owners’ welfare society general secretary John Lobo said that with the governments of West Bengal and Odisha making no arrangements for trains to take back their workers from Goa, workers who are desperate to get back home before the monsoon have been hiring buses, and some have even arranged for buses to come and pick them up from their native states. “Buses from Odisha are charging them Rs 1,98,000, which is much less than the Rs 3 lakh being charged by Goan bus operators,” Lobo said. In addition, the costs for bus drivers and helpers are extra, and it works out to around Rs 8,000-8,500 per passenger, he said. Around 20 buses with 45 passengers each have already left Goa with workers from the tourism sector, sources said, and some more will be leaving in the next few days. “The workers are paying from their own pockets and some employers have also contributed,” Lobo said. While many workers from the Calangute-Candolim tourism belt have managed to go back by the Shramik Special trains, around 200 from Assam are in a quandary as their state government is not allowing anybody to return to Assam. “There is also confusion at the railways and government end. There was a train to Manipur, but they said they would not take anybody from Assam as they would not be allowed to get down in Assam. But at the last minute, when the train was ready for departure they allowed people from Assam who were at the station to board the train as there were around 700 empty seats. If they had informed me I could have sent my workers, most of whom are from Assam,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-buses-ask-for-rs-3l-to-drop-migrants-home/articleshow/75957952.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Nagpur||Taloja jail refuses Gawli entry, in home quarantine now||Nagpur: Underworld don Arun Gawli went into home quarantine after he was refused entry by Taloja Central Jail administration in Navi Mumbai, citing threat of Covid-19 infection. His twice extended parole ended on Sunday, after Nagpur bench of Bombay high court rejected his application for third extension on May 22. His counsel Mir Nagman Ali said the gangster-cum-politician would be moving another plea before the HC to extend his leave, on May 29. “He’s in a peculiar position where Taloja Jail authorities aren’t ready to accept him citing infection threat, and he can’t come to Nagpur due to travel restrictions,” Ali told TOI. Popularly known as ‘Daddy’ in his area of Dagdi Chawl, Gawli rushed a letter to divisional commissioner on Sunday stating that about 26 patients were found positive for coronavirus from there. “Considering my age (68), health officials there put me into home quarantine for 14 days from May 20 till June 2,” he mentioned in the letter, a copy of which is with TOI. The don appealed to the commissioner to extend his leave by another week till May 31, and grant another seven days to facilitate his journey from Mumbai to Nagpur. “I went to Taloja Jail to surrender on Sunday, but superintendent there refused me entry,” he said in the letter. Police sources said even Gawli wasn’t keen to move to Taloja prison, as many members from his rival gangs like Abu Salem and Ashwin Naik are imprisoned there and chances of clashes can’t be ruled out. Nagpur jail SP Anupkumar Kumre told TOI they would be informing HC about Gawli’s letter and his inability to travel to the city in view of the lockdown. “Being a high profile prisoner, he was refused entry at Taloja and also due to the fact that he came from a containment zone. Presence of his rivals there may be another reason. We will wait for court’s directives on Tuesday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/taloja-jail-refuses-gawli-entry-in-home-quarantine-now/articleshow/76001857.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay students, alumni team up for 24-hour ambulance service||MUMBAI: A group of students and alumni of IIT-Bombay have launched a round-the-clock ambulance service. In a month, they have attended to around 3,600 calls. Their aim is to reduce the long waiting period for an ambulance, a common problem amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Another common complaint in the city is sky-high rates, which also the group wants to address. It has its own vehicles and these are available for Rs 5,000 for 5 km with the charge increasing with distance after the first 5 km. They are also trying to get more and more private ambulances under one aggregation platform, though they say they have no control over the prices charged by the private players. They claim people will get an ambulance in an hour and 45 minutes after they dial 8899889952. Called HelpNow, the initiative began with five ambulances. It now offers 45 ambulances, including private ones, 15 of which are dedicated for Covid patients. Three students from the institute, Aditya Makkar, Shikar Agarwal and Venkatesh Amrutwar, were the brains behind the initiative. The IIT-Bombay administration has no role in it. "In 2017, we had to struggle to get an ambulance for my father in Delhi after he suffered a heart attack. We had to rush him in a car. When we learnt that Mumbai is facing a shortage in this pandemic, we decided to start this service," Makkar said. They got an initial funding of Rs 2 lakh from the Desai Sethi Centre for Entrepreneurship at IIT-Bombay. Makkar said they chalked out a plan and looked around for volunteers. As many as 24 health workers and students came forward. "Each one of them is well-trained in handling Covid patients, as well as dead bodies. The driver and the attendants are equipped with the best PPE kits, hand gloves, masks and sanitisers. After every call, we thoroughly sanitise the vehicle. We are also providing them with preventive medicines of Ayush," Amrutwar said. They have even carried bodies of unknown Covid victims free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-bombay-students-alumni-team-up-for-24-hour-ambulance-service/articleshow/75959953.cms||S Ahmed Ali
May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Despite spike in cases, Karnataka’s test positivity rate lower than national average||BENGALURU: While the number of Covid-19 cases and the number dead have been rising in recent weeks in Karnataka, the silver lining is that the state’s test positivity rate (number of positive cases per 100 tests conducted) is just 1% – far lower than the national average of 5%. A low test positivity rate, experts say, suggests infection is not high or the spread of the virus spread is at a relatively low level. Since the state has scaled up testing to 3,209 tests per million people, the low test positivity rate suggests the state has not allowed the situation to spin out of control. For context, Kerala’s positivity rate is 2%, while Maharashtra is 14%. Dr Giridhar R Babu, epidemiologist and member of Indian Council of Medical Research’s Covid-19 research group on epidemiology and surveillance, said: “Karnataka should be happy as a low positivity rate indicates background prevalence of infection is not increasing. With testing ramped up, the test positivity rate remaining the same indicates that the burden of infection is getting better.” Dr Babu is also part of the Bengaluru-based Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). Covid-19 experts across the world say test positivity rate is a huge parameter to determine if the incidence curve is flattening. “The number of positive cases has crossed 2,000 so far, but there is no need for alarm. There has been no major spread in the state so far,” a senior IAS officer said. So, how has the state managed to keep the test positivity rate low? Dr CN Manjunath, state Covid-19 taskforce nodal officer and cardiologist, said: “Tracing contacts and segregating people with exposure to positive patients through institutional quarantine is one of the best things the state has done. This has helped reduce the spread of the virus immensely. That’s one reason why Karnataka is reporting less than 1% of positive cases despite the number of tests crossing more than a lakh. The lockdown mandate by the government to curb the spread has also helped immensely with 75-80% of the population adhering to norms and staying at home. This could also be a major reason for the low positivity rate.” Medical education minister (in-charge of Covid-19 issues) K Sudhakar concurred with Dr Manjunath, saying Karnataka was alert and prepared before the pandemic broke. “The state’s four-Ts strategy of tracing, tracking, testing and treatment has worked well so far,” Sudhakar said, adding: “Karnataka’s positivity rate is among the lowest in the world.” Data from the state Covid-19 war room shows the test positivity rate in the US and the UK was 12% as on Sunday, while it was 7% in Italy and 6% in Japan and Germany. Only South Korea had 1% positivity rate. However, the challenge now is to monitor those returning from other states. “The test positivity rate is high in Mandya at 2.6% and this is attributed to those who returned from Maharashtra,” a senior bureaucrat said. Dr Babu suggested testing to be ramped up further. “Going forward the syndromic approach has to be better and we should test as many people with symptoms as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/despite-spike-in-cases-karnatakas-test-positivity-rate-lower-than-national-average/articleshow/75959956.cms||Rakesh Prakash
May 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt orders five-fold hike in Covid-19 beds at private hospitals||NEW DELHI: A day after TOI highlighted the shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients in the city's private hospitals, the Delhi government took note of the crisis and decided to increase the allocation in these hospitals. It directed all private hospitals and nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more to reserve at least 20% of their total bed strength for coronavirus patients. Till now a total of around 650 beds were available for coronavirus patients in around eight private hospitals, although 10 were designated as Covid-19 hospitals. After the government's directions, this number is expected to rise to nearly 3,000, roughly five times the current availability. As on the date, the government said, there are 117 private hospitals or nursing homes having a bed strength of 50 or more. Now, all these hospitals will have to earmark beds for Covid-19 patients.  TOI had reported on Saturday how nearly 80% of beds in private hospitals designated for Covid-19 in Delhi were occupied. Top hospitals such as Apollo in Sarita Vihar, Max Smart in Saket, Fortis in Shalimar Bagh and two Sir Ganga Ram hospitals in Pusa Road had confirmed that most of their beds were running full. 117 private hospitals to reserve 20% beds for CovidThe government’s decision marks a major shift from its previous policy of designating only those hospitals or units for Covid-19 treatment that could be completely turned into Covid-19 facilities — thus avoiding the mixing of Covid-19 patients with others. “Delhi government felt a need to increase the number of beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients. Hence, all 117 private hospitals/nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more have been directed to reserve 20% of their total bed strength for Covid patients,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted on Sunday, along with a copy of the government order for expansion of Covid-19 beds in private sector. The order states that government will append the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration (Amendment) Rules 2011to allow all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to accommodate 25% extra beds depending on space availability for non-Covid patients, if they choose so. “These 117 private hospitals shall bill the Covid-19 patients as per their respective schedule of charges. However, the billing for non-Covid patients admitted on extra beds shall not be more than 50% of the lowest economy category of the concerned hospital as per earlier practice during upsurge of cases of vectorborne diseases,” it adds. Dr Vinay Aggarwal, executive member of the Delhi Medical Council (DMC), said an increase in bed availability in private hospitals was much needed. “Since it’s a national calamity, we all have to participate. The non-Covid-19 hospitals will have to identify smaller units that are separate from the main block to accommodate Covid-19 patients. It goes without saying that infection control measures will have to be stepped up too to ensure that other patients don’t feel scared,” he said. Dr Aggarwal, however, added that many small hospitals and nursing homes with more than 50 beds operate from residential areas and, given the stigma associated with Covid-19, there might be some resistance against the move. Ashok Agarwal, lawyer and public health activist, suggested that the government should select private hospitals and declare them 100% Covid-19 designated instead of directing the earmarking of a few beds. “It may lead to a scare among non-Covid-19 patients. Already, we are seeing many patients suffering from diseases such as cancer and heart disease who are scared to go to hospital for the fear of contracting Covid-19,” he said. BJP targets Delhi govtDelhi BJP on Sunday alleged that the corona patients were not getting proper treatment due to unavailability of beds in the health facilities. It alleged that while Delhi government claimed to have beds and other facilities to treat 30,000 patients, it told the court that 3,150 beds were earmarked in government and private health facilities. Delhi government, however, refuted the charges and said it had preparations for 10,000 patients, while the plan of action for 30,000 patients was ready. Watch Delhi: Five-fold hike in Covid-19 beds at private hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-orders-five-fold-hike-in-covid-19-beds-at-private-hospitals/articleshow/75960070.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ATS nabs robber with alleged Maoist links||MUMBAI: The Juhu unit of the state ATS on Saturday arrested a robber involved in over 35 cases in the city and allegedly financing Maoist groups in Nepal. Sources said Dalveer Singh Rawat alias Pappu Nepali (38) was caught with a country-made pistol and three live cartridges when he came with the intention of conducting robbery at a petrol pump in Andheri (W). Juhu ATS unit head inspector Daya Nayak got a tip-off and on ATS chief Deven Bharti's instructions, a team led by ACP Shripad Kale caught him. During interrogation, Rawat admitted that he and his 10 aides had robbed 16kg gold from a jewellery workshop in Vijayawada in 2017. He was wanted in the case. Cops said he was planning to escape to Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ats-nabs-robber-with-alleged-maoist-links/articleshow/75960162.cms||Mateen Hafeez
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Consumer body starts e-survey on flight ticket refund||Mumbai: A consumer rights body, Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), launched an online survey for passengers struggling to get refunds for flights that were cancelled due to lockdown. MGP chairman Shirish Deshpande said the survey will help them study the needs and expectations about refunds. Travel agents can take part in the survey too. Indian carriers decided that the payment will be held in credit for a year and not be refunded. Under Indian norms for flight cancellations, passengers can decide whether to keep their payment as credit with the airline or seek a refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-consumer-body-starts-e-survey-on-flight-ticket-refund/articleshow/75960171.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Goa||Goa hits double-digit milestone, sees highest single-day spike with 11 cases||GOA: Goa’s count of active Covid-19 cases jumped from 39 to 47 in a day, as 11 train passengers tested positive for the novel coronavirus even as three patients were cured and discharged. “All (the 11) travelled by train from Maharashtra, and they are under treatment at the ESI (Covid) hospital,” said director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa. CM: Of 66 cases, 61 asymptomaticChief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that of the 66 Covid-19 positive cases the state has seen since March, 61 were found to be asymptomatic. “Five (of the 66) had mild symptoms,” he said. The patients who were discharged on Sunday after being cured of Covid-19 tested negative twice, and will stay in facility quarantine for seven days. After this, they will be home-quarantined for another seven days, as per the state government’s standard operating procedure (SOP). Goa has conducted a total of 12,499 tests till Sunday. The day also saw three suspects admitted in isolation wards and 705 persons placed in various facility quarantine locations. Since the spurt in cases last week, the state government increased the number of beds at the Covid hospital from 100 to 170, with a provision to add 30 more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-hits-double-digit-milestone-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with-11-cases/articleshow/75960175.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor wants distinct establishment for Raj Bhavan, govt sits on his proposal||MUMBAI: Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appear to be on a course of confrontation over key issues. The latest is Koshyari's proposal for an independent establishment for Raj Bhavan. Raj Bhavan declined to comment on the matter, saying it was an administrative issue. According to reports, Gujarat is the only state with an independent establishment for Raj Bhavan. Alarmed by rampant red-tapism in the corridors of power even on routine proposals submitted by Raj Bhavan, it was proposed that an independent establishment should be set up exclusively for Raj Bhavan so that the governor will take decisions at his own level and will not require approval of the state government, particularly the general administration department led by the chief minister. Raj Bhavan is keen on an establishment on par with the Bombay high court, Maharashtra Public Service Commission and the state legislature. "Establishment matters of these organisations are dealt at their own level, they are never submitted to Mantralaya. So far as Raj Bhavan is concerned, even routine service matters and promotions are pending in Mantralaya since 2006. Governor is keen that these should be resolved in a time-bound manner and that will be possible if an independent establishment is created for Raj Bhavan," an official said. The official said the general administration department in Mantralaya received the Raj Bhavan proposal but no decision had been taken on the grounds that under the rules there is no provision for a distinct establishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-governor-wants-distinct-establishment-for-raj-bhavan-govt-sits-on-his-proposal/articleshow/75960177.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 25, 2020||World||New Zealand PM carries on with TV interview during quake||WELLINGTON: New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern barely skipped a beat when an earthquake struck during a live television interview Monday morning. She interrupted Newshub host Ryan Bridge to tell him what was happening at the parliament complex in the capital, Wellington. "We're just having a bit of an earthquake here Ryan, quite a decent shake here,” she said, looking up and around the room. “But, um, if you see things moving behind me.” New Zealand sits on the Pacific Ring of Fire and is sometimes called the Shaky Isles for its frequent quakes. Monday's magnitude 5.6 quake struck in the ocean about 100 kilometers (62 miles) northeast of Wellington, according to the US Geological Survey. The quake hit just before 8 am and was felt by thousands of New Zealanders who were getting ready to start their work weeks. It was strong enough to rattle food from shelves and stop train services. But there were no reports of major damage or injuries. Ardern continued on with her interview, telling the host the shaking had stopped. "We're fine Ryan,” she said. “I'm not under any hanging lights, I look like I'm in a structurally sound place.” A 2011 quake in the city of Christchurch killed 185 people and destroyed much of the downtown area. The city is continuing to rebuild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/new-zealand-pm-carries-on-with-tv-interview-during-quake/articleshow/75960184.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Jamshedpur||Pakur on Covid-19 map as state records 27 new cases||RANCHI/RAMGARH/JAMSHEDPUR/ HAZARIBAG: Jharkhand on Sunday recorded 27 fresh cases of Covid-19, including four from Pakur, taking the total tally in the state to 377. Pakur now becomes the 22nd of the state’s 24 districts to be hit by the virus. Among the new cases, four each are from East Singhbhum and Hazaribag, three each from Dhanbad, West Singhbhum, Garhwa and Ramgarh, two from Koderma and one from Ranchi. The state has now 225 active cases and 149 patients have recovered. Three persons have also died with the virus. All three fresh cases in Ramgarh were migrants who have returned from Maharashtra. DC Sandeep Singh said, “One is a middle-aged man from Dulmi block and had returned from Pune three days ago. The others returned from Mumbai and we are finding out their details In Hazaribag, four more migrants who had returned from Mumbai tested positive. “They are residents of Bishnugarh, Barkagaon and Katkamdag blocks and include three men between 22 and 40 years of age and a 14-year-old girl,” Hazaribag DC B P Singh said. Three more migrants who had returned from Mumbai and Surat to Garhwa also tested positive in the district, civil surgeon Dr N K Rajak said. He added, “Two are from Korwadih and one from Sadar block. All of them returned on May 17.” Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said, “All three cases were kept in PMCH isolation ward since their return from Mumbai and tested positive on Sunday Koderma’s two fresh cases had returned from Mumbai and New Delhi. “They were kept at an institutional quarantine centre at Satgawan and Jainagar blocks have tested positive for the virus and had returned from Mumbai and New Delhi,” Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap said Ranchi’s lone new case is a 27-year-old migrant who has returned from Mumbai. “He is a resident of Bundu block and was in home quarantine since his arrival,” an official said Kolhan region, too, detected seven new cases on Sunday with four from East Singhbhum and three from West Singhbhum. All four cases in East Singhbhum had returned from Ranchi, Kolkata in Bengal and Ara in Bihar. They are residents of Baridih and Sidhgora areas. “We are tracing the contacts of the trio. Two were in home quarantine and their areas will be converted into containment zones,” East Singhbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla said. In West Singhbhhum, three migrants from Mumbai tested positive. “All three men were put in three separate institutional quarantine centers in Chakradharpur upon their arrival,” an official in the district health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/pakur-on-covid-19-map-as-state-records-27-new-cases/articleshow/75970635.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||8-yr-old boy cured after suffering rare & life-threatening stroke||Ranchi: An eight-year-old boy got a new lease of life on Saturday after he suffered a rare and life threatening stroke on May 13, thanks to the doctors at the Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital who almost miraculously revived him from a coma without even conducting a surgery. A team of neurosurgeons and neurophysicians, led by Dr Sanjay Kumar and Dr Deepak Chandra Prakash, administered medicines to cure the Dhanbad resident, identified as Piyush Mandal, who suffered the stroke while playing near his house. Dr Deepak said, “The patient was brought to us in a gasping condition since he had suffered a massive stroke and his left arm and left leg became immobile. Preliminary examination revealed that he was in a strong hypertensive condition with high blood pressure.” After a CT scan, the doctors discovered that six cerebral arteries were blocked. “Each of his three anterior middle cerebral artery was blocked with high blood pressure, which is the rarest of the rare cases as it affects one in one lakh patients and is a form of moyamoya disease leading to vasculatic stroke,” Dr Deepak said. The patient was soon put on life support as his left arm and left leg were immobile. “After four days of anti-hypertensive and anti-edema medication, the patient’s blood pressure became normal and after 10 days of strict medication, Piyush is now able to walk again with minimal support,” Dr Deepak added. Although the patient is walking now with minimal support, he will be kept under observation and will be discharged only after the levels of chemical presence in his body stabilises, the doctors said. When asked about the possible reasons behind such stroke in kids, Dr Deepak said, “There are three reasons which lead to this stroke — cardiac evolution, abnormality in blood coagulation and auto anti-body levels, but all three were normal in Piyush. We suspect a blockage at the internal carotid artery of the patient and for that we need to conduct digital subtraction angiography and magnetic resonance angiography to evaluate any kind of blockage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-yr-old-boy-cured-after-suffering-rare-life-threatening-stroke/articleshow/75955089.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi airport reopens from today||Ranchi: Birsa Munda International Airport is set to start operation of domestic flights from Monday and will function with nine pairs of flights to four different destinations. Talking to TOI, airport director Vinod Sharma said, “We have nine scheduled flights for Monday of four different airlines. The first flight to enter the airport will be of Air Asia which will arrive at 7.35am from Bengaluru and the last will be an Indigo flight which will take off from here at 8.20pm for New Delhi. There are chances of changes or cancellation of services which will be communicated in advance.” As of Sunday, four airlines, including Indigo, GoAir, Air Asia and Air India will resume services from Ranchi airport on Monday. “A total of nine flights connecting New Delhi, Bangalore, Mumbai and Hyderabad are scheduled to operate to and from Birsa Munda International Airport and we have made elaborate arrangements for a contactless passenger flow at the airport,” Kumar added. According to officials, the airport management is making use of technology as well as mechanised machines to implement a smooth passenger flow in a sanitized environment in order to ensure that every individual entering or exiting the airport is safe amid the on-going pandemic. Under the new system, physical verification of ticket checking by security personnel and issuance of boarding passes by airline staff has been called off and passengers have to go for mandatory web check-ins. Sharma said, “Upon arrival at the departure gate, passengers will produce their ticket and identification cards to a web cam installed at the gates which will be verified by a security personnel manning the system. After crossing the departure gates, passengers will have to scan the bar codes on their tickets at the bar code readers installed at check-in counters which will issue boarding as well as luggage tags which has to be collected and pasted on the luggage before sending them for sanitization.” He added, “After sanitization of the luggage, passengers are expected to get their luggage scanned at the x-ray machines and submit it for sending to the aircraft. Passengers will then have to scan the boarding passes at the machines installed at the aerobridge before they board the aircraft to maintain the count,” said Sharma. Meanwhile, a mock drill was also conducted at the airport for employees to apprise them of entry and exit protocols which are to be followed. “Not only passengers, but employees are also being apprised of the new system so that they do not find it difficult on Monday. Everyone is supposed to flash their identity cards at the web cam installed at the departure gate before entering the terminal building,” said a security official. On being asked about the buffer timing for passengers, Sharma said as per civil aviation ministry orders, passengers flying out have to report two hours prior to their departure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-airport-reopens-from-today/articleshow/75955110.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Jamshedpur court denies bail to Alcor hotel owner||JAMSHEDPUR: A local court here has denied bail to a hotel owner and four others, who were arrested under various sections of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. In a 20-minute online hearing of their bail petitions on Saturday, the district and sessions court denied bail to Rajiv Duggal, owner of The Alcor hotel, Sharad Poddar, Laddo Mangotiya, Rajat Jaggi and Deepak Agarwal. The court asked the police to submit the case diary in the next hearing scheduled for May 28. They moved the court after their earlier bail petitions were denied by the chief judicial magistrate (CJM). The CJM had on May 13 rejected the bail pleas of all accused, including the hotel’s manager Dhananjay Singh, businessman Raju Bhalotiya and a girl from Kolkata, who were reportedly partying in the hotel during the lockdown. Acting on a tip-off, police had raided the hotel on April 25 and found Laddo Manogtiya, Rajat Jaggi and Deepak Agarwal inside. They were taken to to nearby Bistupur police station and minor charges were slapped against them. The accused were also let off after sometime. Locals, however, raised a hue and cry, after which the police station in-charge Rajesh Prakash Sinha was suspended. Later, a police team led by SP (city) Subash Chandra Jat raided the hotel premises again and found a girl, allegedly involved in immoral act. In her confession to the police, the girl said she had been staying in the hotel after she was brought from Kolkata during the lockdown in a car. Police seized the CCTV footages of the hotel and arrested its owner Duggal. The arrest of Duggal, however, did not go down well with a section of Sikhs residing in the city. They staged a dharna and submitted a memorandum to the DC, saying Duggal is a respectable businessman and has been falsely implicated. Demanding his immediate release, the protesters also sought a CBI inquiry into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/court-denies-bail-to-alcor-hotel-owner/articleshow/75955103.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Muslim youths stand by one & all in cyclone-hit Basirhat village||Basirhat: If social distancing was blown away when Amphan made them huddle together for dear life, the super cyclone’s aftermath has thrust them even closer. A number of Muslim youths in Taragunia, in North 24 Parganas’ Basirhat subdivision, have resolved that none will go hungry in the village if they can help it. They have reached out to each of the 200 Hindu families apart from 300 Muslim households. Most of these youths, who are casual workers in local brick kilns, had spent their meagre savings on expenses in the past two months of Covid-induced lockdown. They were looking towards some earnings from jute and mango cultivation, but the rampaging storm snatched that last bit of hope too. But no super cyclone was going to cow these young men down into refusing the call of humanity. The members of Taragunia Orient Club decided to pool money from whatever sources they could tap into and arranged for food packets. “Samasya toh sokoleri. Tai bole ki morte chhere dite pari (Each of us is in trouble. But how can we leave anyone to die of hunger)?” said club president Mukhlesur Rehman, who is in his early 30s. Working in brick kilns had fetched him Rs 500 a week until the lockdown made him sit at home, jobless. “Most of us could not earn anything in the past two months. We thought things would change by Eid. It turned worse and people were starving. We decided to spend whatever we had saved for Eid,” Rehman said. The amount the club members pooled together, however, was not enough and so they turned to the brick kiln owners. “Some agreed, some refused. We decided to begin with whatever we had,” said Asadul Mollah, another club member. After Amphan passed, club members surveyed each household and started with the Hindu families. “Day after the cyclone, they came with packets of dry ration — milk powder, sugar, lentils — and soap. I don’t know how they managed all the stuff. Most of their families are in a hand-to-mouth situation since the lockdown,” said villager Sambhu Haldar. The club members, however, pooled in some more money and distributed semai (vermicelli), lungi, gamchha and sari for the women. “You can consider it a gift for Eid. There isn’t a better way to get Allah’s blessings,” Rehman said. “But we did not accept zakat money. Those who wanted to spend that, we asked them to donate it separately,” he added. As word spread, unknown faces too started seeking help. “We will not refuse anybody. But our resources are running out fast,” Rehman said. “We will keep helping each one, irrespective of their identity or faith. As long as my son has food, none in the village will go hungry,” Rehman added before he took off to start distributing food packets again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/muslim-youths-stand-by-one-all-in-cyclone-hit-basirhat-village/articleshow/75957684.cms||Rohit Khanna
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Mission turnaround after Amphan misery||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s direct intervention and the joint action by central and state agencies on the ground seemed to have brought about a sense of normality in large parts of the city on Sunday, with several areas getting back basic services and many city thoroughfares — un-navigable till Saturday — seeing traffic movement. Several thousand households, both in the CESC and WBSEDCL coverage zones, got back electricity on Sunday. CESC reported to the state that large swathes of south Kolkata, some in north Kolkata and the rest in Howrah were back on the grid; WBSEDCL reported that 213 of its 272 sub-stations could be revived. As many as 60,000 more homes got back electricity on Sunday, said CESC. On Saturday, the chief minister, sensing the mood in the city, had stepped in by going herself to the CESC headquarters to speak to senior executives. With electricity back more than 90 hours after Cyclone Amphan passed through the city, the water crisis also eased somewhat, with booster pumping stations that had suffered power outage restored. Several parts of the city, however, still faced problems. These pockets witnessed sporadic protests for the third day straight. If, however, the number of protests can be seen an as index of dissatisfaction, it pointed to anger subsiding in many pockets. Sun-day’s protests were reported from three south Kolkata zones, mostly in Behala. The others were Baghajatin Bazar and Sree Colony in Jadavpur and Baruipur-Narendrapur in the southern suburbs. Army units were deployed in Behala, along with police, KMC and Fire Brigade personnel to speed up restoration work. KMC said on Sunday that 15,000 trees had fallen across the city (three times its initial estimate), around 40% of those full-grown. The five columns of the Army’s Kumaon Regiment resumed work after helping clear Southern Avenue, Ballygunge Circular Road and Gurusaday Road. On Sunday, along with Behala, Army units were deployed on Diamond Harbour Road and Salt Lake. NDRF teams cleared parts of Esplanade, Red Road, Harish Mukherjee Street and some locations in Dhakuria. KMC chairperson Firhad Hakim said Kolkata’s arterial thoroughfares had been cleared for vehicular movement. However, bottlenecks remained. Mobile service providers and broadband operators, how-ever, failed to provide any time-frame about clearing voice and data logjam. Cable TV screens have been flickering in and out of life across the city, even as wires kept getting snapped in eff-orts to remove uprooted trees. Services remain suspended across most of south, east and north Kolkata; numerous pockets where it had been restored suffered another blackout on Sunday as efforts to remove road debris were stepped up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-mission-turnaround-after-amphan-misery/articleshow/75957954.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: After storm damage, huge cost of repairs strikes home||KOLKATA: A massive reconstruction work awaits thousands of families in Kolkata, Salt Lake and Howrah, whose standalone residential buildings suffered extensive damage during Cyclone Amphan’s march through south Bengal on Wednesday. Most of these families are still busy getting back basic services — power, water, internet and cable TV links — but many of them have already drawn up the estimated cost of the repairs that can wait for a few days, but cannot be put off indefinitely. And the bills, for many of these families, would easily top the Rs 1-lakh mark. Homemaker Debjani Roychowdhury, a resident of Lake View Road in south Kolkata, has been running from pillar to post to get two full-grown trees removed from her building. These trees fell on the first and second floors of her four-storeyed home on Wednesday night. “We have been spending sleepless nights since then,” she said. “Window glass panes were broken and the glass ceilings of the staircase were shattered. Cracks have appeared on the outer walls.” Roychowdhury wants the trees to be removed to ascertain the actual extent of the damage caused by the uprooted trees. She also wants KMC to compensate her loss. At Moore Avenue in Tollygunge, a 50-year-old banyan tree fell on Anirban Basak’s home, a three-storeyed building. Basak said the tree caused “multiple damages” to the building, wondering whether he would at all be able to undo the damage. At Manton, Behala, a two-decade-old banyan tree fell on the one-storey house of Sutirtha Basu, severely damaging the kitchen, washroom and two bedrooms. The family itself was miraculously saved because no one was home during the storm. “A local plumber managed to saw off a few branches of the tree. But we have no clue as to how much we would have to spend to repair all this damage,” he said. Krishnendu Lodh of James Long Sarani counted himself lucky that the damage to his house was confined to the garage and the car parked inside, sparing his main home by a hair’s breadth, when a huge tree came crashing down. The uprooted tree’s base “raised the level” of his garage, and the walls and roof caved in on their car inside. “We were fortunate that just the garage and the car got damaged,” said Lodh, a retired teacher. But he, too, is staring at an expensive repair bill. ‘We were watching TV when the roof caved in’In magazine Colony near the Ordnance factory at Dum Dum, Krishna Singh’s two-roomed house was smashed to pieces after a large banyan tree fell on it. While seven other houses nearby were damaged as well, Singh’s home has been reduced to rubble. “We were watching TV and my wife was cooking in the kitchen, when we heard a deafening sound. Before we could even react, I saw the roof of my house caving in. I quickly grabbed my kids and went under the bed. The next thing I remember was my neighbours pulling us out from under the debris,” Singh recounted. Singh, a fruit stall owner, and his family have been spending nights at a local acquaintance’s home since then. “I need to save up money again, as the house has to be built from scratch,” he said. “We will have to buy everything — including clothes, utensils, furniture and my kids’ textbooks. The total cost would be a few lakhs, I guess. I may have to sell my land in Bihar to pay for it.” At Howrah Ramrajatala, the roof and walls of transporter Pranab Banerjee’s residence has given in after a banyan tree fell on it. The family has since relocated to their in-laws’ place. “All the furniture inside got damaged in the rain and storm, and we have no clue when our house can be repaired,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-storm-damage-huge-cost-of-repairs-strikes-home/articleshow/75957955.cms||Saikat Ray
May 25, 2020||Ranchi||Pakur on Covid-19 map as state records 27 new cases||RANCHI/RAMGARH/JAMSHEDPUR/ HAZARIBAG: Jharkhand on Sunday recorded 27 fresh cases of Covid-19, including four from Pakur, taking the total tally in the state to 377. Pakur now becomes the 22nd of the state’s 24 districts to be hit by the virus. Among the new cases, four each are from East Singhbhum and Hazaribag, three each from Dhanbad, West Singhbhum, Garhwa and Ramgarh, two from Koderma and one from Ranchi. The state has now 225 active cases and 149 patients have recovered. Three persons have also died with the virus. All three fresh cases in Ramgarh were migrants who have returned from Maharashtra. DC Sandeep Singh said, “One is a middle-aged man from Dulmi block and had returned from Pune three days ago. The others returned from Mumbai and we are finding out their details In Hazaribag, four more migrants who had returned from Mumbai tested positive. “They are residents of Bishnugarh, Barkagaon and Katkamdag blocks and include three men between 22 and 40 years of age and a 14-year-old girl,” Hazaribag DC B P Singh said. Three more migrants who had returned from Mumbai and Surat to Garhwa also tested positive in the district, civil surgeon Dr N K Rajak said. He added, “Two are from Korwadih and one from Sadar block. All of them returned on May 17.” Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said, “All three cases were kept in PMCH isolation ward since their return from Mumbai and tested positive on Sunday Koderma’s two fresh cases had returned from Mumbai and New Delhi. “They were kept at an institutional quarantine centre at Satgawan and Jainagar blocks have tested positive for the virus and had returned from Mumbai and New Delhi,” Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap said Ranchi’s lone new case is a 27-year-old migrant who has returned from Mumbai. “He is a resident of Bundu block and was in home quarantine since his arrival,” an official said Kolhan region, too, detected seven new cases on Sunday with four from East Singhbhum and three from West Singhbhum. All four cases in East Singhbhum had returned from Ranchi, Kolkata in Bengal and Ara in Bihar. They are residents of Baridih and Sidhgora areas. “We are tracing the contacts of the trio. Two were in home quarantine and their areas will be converted into containment zones,” East Singhbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla said. In West Singhbhhum, three migrants from Mumbai tested positive. “All three men were put in three separate institutional quarantine centers in Chakradharpur upon their arrival,” an official in the district health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pakur-on-covid-19-map-as-state-records-27-new-cases/articleshow/75955097.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 25, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers waiting for migrants in Punjab slam 14-day quarantine||BATHINDA: The Punjab government’s decision to impose 14-day compulsory quarantine on everyone entering the state has been criticised by farmers who are impatiently waiting for migrant workers to arrive for paddy transplantation. The farmers have been hoping that migrant workers, who make an annual trip every summer specifically for paddy field work, would arrive before the transplantation window closes. However, the 14-day quarantine has put a spanner in their plans. Migrant labourers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, start arriving in Punjab and the rice-growing areas of Haryana by the first week of June for paddy transplantation, which usually begins by June 15 in both the states. Punjab even allowed paddy transplantation to start from June 10 this year to beat labour shortage. The farmers have tie ups with labour contractors who bring in migrant workers specialising in paddy transplantation to do the job at a pre-decided rate. Wage negotiations leading to frictionThey also lure the migrant workers by providing for food, lodging and other facilities to ensure they come back each season for paddy transplantation as the local labour in Punjab and Haryana is not that efficient and charges more money. Transplantation rates varied between Rs 2,600 and Rs 3,000 per acre last year. The farmers were expecting the migrants farm labourers would start returning to Punjab after trains start operating from June 1. However, the 14-day compulsory quarantine would leave very little time for paddy transplantation, which ideally should be completed before end of June. Only Basmati can be transplanted in July. The shortage of migrants means the farmers need to convince locals to work in their fields when paddy transplantation rates are soaring — to Rs 4,000-4,500 per acre. The wage negotiations between local labourers and farmers have already led to friction in many areas of the state as some have even started demanding up to Rs 6,000 per acre. “We were in touch with labourers in Bihar, who have been coming to our village for the last many years. They were ready to come to Punjab if they get trains or other mode of transportation but that changed today when we told them about the condition of 14-day quarantine. They are now reluctant, saying they will confirm after consulting others,” farmers Harnek Singh and Mangal Singh from Bathinda told TOI. Similarly, farmers Ram Singh and Gurnam Singh from Mansa said labourers from Western UP “had assured us a few days ago that they would convince their family members and come but in the latest circumstances we are pessimistic now.” A Punjab agriculture department official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The arrival of migrant labourers is crucial for transplantation. The farmers are making efforts for engaging local labourers by settling wages but despite that role of the migrant labourers cannot not be minimised as they have skills to transplant paddy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-waiting-for-migrants-in-punjab-slam-14-day-quarantine/articleshow/75960185.cms||Neel Kamal
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||CPCB slaps monthly Rs 10.80 crore fine on Haryana’s thermal plants||CHANDIGARH: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has slapped a fine of nearly Rs 10.80 crore per month on Haryana’s four thermal power plants for not putting in place measures to reduce air pollutants. It has directed the Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL) to ensure that the remissions are made by the fifth day of every month. In an order issued on May 8, CPCB chairman Ravi S Prasad and member secretary Parshant Gargva have asked the managements of Panipat, Hisar, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar thermal power stations to start releasing the payment by calculating the fine since January this year. CPCB action stems from the 2017 study on air pollution in New Delhi by IIT Kanpur, called ‘Air Pollution and Green House Gases in Delhi’. The study blamed 11 thermal power plants within Delhi’s 300km radius for its air pollution. These power plants produce 11,000 MW units of electricity daily. ‘Corrective measures by Jan 2021’Based on its submission, the ministry of environment and forests had directed all the power generation companies and state governments to introduce corrective steps and submit a compliance report. Being the nodal agency for compliance of orders, CPCB in 2018 had directed the thermal plants to submit action report or compliance report. In the absence of follow-up report, CPCB issued a show cause notice in January this year to HPGCL and all the plants blamed for pollution in the study. It also warned of closure of units and imposition of fine, to be realised as compensation. In reply, HPGCL and power plants submitted the action plan, while claiming that measures will be put in place by next January. “This was consequent to the undertaking that the apex authority decided to impose fine. This will continue till the measures are put in place and are functional,” sources said. The officials confirmed to have received CPCB directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cpcb-slaps-monthly-rs-10-80-crore-fine-on-haryanas-thermal-plants/articleshow/75960399.cms||Manvir Saini
May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Measures in place, Bengaluru's KIA ready to fly||BENGALURU: With domestic flights set to resume on Monday, Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), Bengaluru will zoom to life with 215 flights – 108 departures and 107 arrivals – expected. The first flight out – an Air Asia aircraft to Ranchi will depart at 5.15am, while the first arrival will be a flight from Chennai at 7.35am. Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), which operates KIA, said it will have a minimum 10-minute interval between flights to ensure social distancing. It has also promised contactless travel for passengers, besides safety measures for food and beverage and retail outlets, taxis and parking areas. F&B outletsFood and beverages can be preordered using ‘FSTR by BLR’ tab the BIAL website (www.bengaluruairport.com) or selfordered at FSTR kiosks or by scanning the QR code displayed across the terminal. Customers can have their orders delivered at a location of choice at the terminal. Menus are digital and payments can be made digitally. Cutlery will be sterilised after each use. TaxisElaborate safety measures have been put in place for airport taxis. Vehicles will be sanitised and drivers screened before arriving at the pick-up zone. Able-bodied passengers are advised to load their luggage into the car without the driver’s assistance. Masks are mandatory and passengers without masks will not be allowed to board the vehicle. Penalties will be levied on drivers spitting in public places. Each taxi will accommodate a maximum of two passengers beside the driver. BMTC buses will operate at 50% capacity. Parking facilityParking of self-driven cars will be contactless from entry to exit. A machine will dispense a ticket at the gate, capturing time and date. At the exit, passengers will have to scan the ticket against a machine and pay using a digital platform. In case of card payment, the card will be sanitised before it is returned to the customer. No curfew curbsAir passengers will be allowed “unhindered/unrestricted” movement even during curfew hours between 7pm and 7am and Sunday, a government order has stated. Passengers must produce valid air tickets on demand. The government has also exempted airline and staff and crew members from curfew, although they must carry valid identity cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/measures-in-place-bengalurus-kia-ready-to-fly/articleshow/75960401.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana districts see Covid-19 cases rise as migrants come home||HYDERABAD: Districts that have managed to combat the coronavirus since the pandemic broke out a couple of months ago are now witnessing a surge in number of positive cases as migrant workers return. While about half a dozen districts have been registering migrant workers' cases, Yadadri-Bhongiri, Jagityal and Mancherial districts have become hotbeds in the past 20 days. Of the 137 migrant positive cases reported till Saturday, the three districts contributed 94. Thousands of migrants have arrived in Nalgonda, Sircilla, Mahbubabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Janagaon districts in the past few weeks, keeping health officials on tenterhooks. Yadadri, Jagityal and Mancherial districts, having a population of eight lakh, 10 lakh and nine lakh respectively, have now registered over 90 cases in the past 10 days. Officials said the situation was due to huge influx of Telangana migrant workers from other states, especially from Maharashtra. Most migrants lived in Dharavi, BandraAccording to health department officials as many as 2,300 migrant workers have returned to Yadadri-Bhongir from Mumbai since May 1. The district had zero cases for almost 40 days and started reporting cases after government allowed migrant workers. Now, the district has 37 cases. These cases are from Atmakuru, Narayanpur, Valigonda and other mandals. Jagityal was second in the migrant workers’ cases with 30 cases. About 5,200 people have reached the district from Mumbai since May 1. While 800 workers came to Dharmapuri mandal, 470 to Velgatur mandal and 426 to Gollapally mandal. “The district has 32 positive cases since the beginning. While four cases were related to Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi, the rest 28 positive cases were migrant workers who had returned from Mumbai. On Friday alone, we got nine Covid-19 cases. All the active cases are migrant workers,” P Sridhar, Jagityal district medical and health officer (DMHO) told TOI on Saturday. He said most of the migrant workers had lived in Dharavi, Bandra and Vile Parle, and worked as maids, flooring (tiles) workers and some even sold toddy. Mancherial district had only one case till recently and now has 27 (total 28 cases) migrant workers cases. Around 2,500 people arrived in the district belonging to Hajipur, Jannaram, Luxettipet and Dandepally mandals from Maharashtra. “The district reported six positive cases on Friday from Kistapur and Rotiguda villages in Jannaram mandal. All of them have been sent to Gandhi hospital today,” Mancherial incharge DMHO Neeraja said. Cops have now started house-to-house survey of people who had returned from Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-districts-see-covid-19-cases-rise-as-migrants-come-home/articleshow/75960410.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab doubling rate reaches 102 days, highest till date||CHANDIGARH: With 15 new positive cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, Punjab’s doubling rate of cases (number of days taken to double Covid-19 cases) has reached 102 days, which is highest till date. India’s doubling rate is just over 13 days. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Punjab improved from three days on May 5 to 102 days on May 24, giving the state much needed relief. Similarly, the recovery rate of patients also crossed 92% on Sunday. It is highest among the states and UTs with over 50 cases. India’s recovery rate is 41%. Out of 2,060 positive cases recorded in Punjab till Sunday, only 122 are active cases. As one Covid-19 positive patient died in Amritsar on Sunday, the total number deaths in Punjab reached 40. The state has 2% case fatality. Seven new positive cases on Sunday were reported from Pathankot, four from Hoshiarpur, two from Gurdaspur and one each from Amritsar and Jalandhar. Except for one new case each from Amritsar, Pathankot and Jalandhar, all the other 12 cases are contacts of positive patients. At the same time, 28 patients were discharged from hospitals after their recovery on Sunday. Out of these, 18 were from Ludhiana, three from Fazilka, two each from Nawanshahr, Patiala and Mansa, and one in Faridkot district. Dr KK Talwar, Punjab government’s adviser on health issues and former director of PGIMER at Chandigarh, says Punjab’s doubling rate is best in the country. “If the doubling rate crosses 90 days, this means that the reproductive number has almost flattened,” said Dr Talwar. Punjab laboratories have a total testing capacity of 1,460 per day. The state is presently doing 1,998 tests per million population. Dr. Talwar said that the state government has also improved the testing facility and it is further going to increase in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-doubling-rate-reaches-102-days-highest-till-date/articleshow/75960412.cms||Sanjeev Verma
May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Village sealed, ryots dump milk in drain||BENGALURU: Dairy farmers in Chikka Korati, a village near Hoskote, dumped about 4,000 litres of milk into drains and on anthills on Sunday, alleging the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) refused to collect the milk because a pregnant woman in the village had tested positive for Covid-19. The village was sealed off on Friday and three of the woman’s family was sent to institutional quarantine. The incident is an embarrassment since the government has been urging people not to stigmatise patients or their contacts. “In Hoskote taluk, we lead in milk production,” Guru Korati, a local, told TOI. “There are around 130 families in the village, but we have two milk producers’ cooperative societies (MPCSs) – Chikka Korati MPCS and Dinne Korati MPCS. Our village produces more than 4,000 litres per day. The KMF refused to collect milk from both societies after they learnt about the positive case. Frustrated, we poured the milk down the drain.” Guru wanted the government to address the village’s problems. “We are not only struggling to sell milk, but we also cannot transport vegetables which we cultivate,” he said. Veerabhadrappa, from Chikka Korati in Bayala Narasapura gram panchayat, said: “Several families have cows enough to yield more than 50 litres of milk. What will they do with such a huge quantity of milk?” Mehaboob Sab, panchayat development officer (PDO) of Bayala Narasapura GP, said, “We aren’t sure how the woman contracted Covid-19. A family member had visited Tamil Nadu and the woman also frequently visited a hospital in Kolar for checkups. We are still tracing her contacts.” A KMF official said: “We are not sure what happened. We will look into it.” The official insisted there is no policy on not collecting milk from villages where cases have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-village-sealed-ryots-dump-milk-in-drain/articleshow/75960404.cms||---
May 25, 2020||India||'When will mama come for me?' Covid puts adoptions in limbo||Adoptions can be long and frustrating affairs with prospective adoptive parents (PAPs) having to navigate bureaucratic rules, paperwork and legal availability of children but the Covid-19 lockdown is really testing their patience. After a threeyear wait, Sandeep Kishore and Vidya Venkataramanan, academics based in Chicago, were finally set to bring home a one-and-a-half-yearold child from Maharashtra. All their paperwork was done, and the child’s passport was ready. But then, the world shut down. And the couple couldn’t fly in to take custody of the boy. Vidya says that a baby shower that her office organised for her had to be cancelled. Clothes bought for him have been sitting on a cupboard shelf as the child slowly outgrows them. “I haven’t set up his room because it’s just too painful,” she adds. Their only communication with their child is the rare WhatsApp video call coordinated between the agencies in the US and India. “He’s babbling now and has started to walk,” Kishore says. But this separation is killing them. “It’s been the most challenging phase of our life so far,” he says. Maryland-based software engineer Nalin (name changed) is a tad luckier. After initiating the adoption process in November 2018, he and his wife found a match in November 2019 — a baby girl at an adoption home in Delhi. After the formalities, Nalin landed in Delhi in early March for the final court order on adoption. “Our daughter suffers from mild-to-severe hearing loss so I thought I will come a bit early and start on her hearing therapy. My wife was supposed to join us later,” says Nalin. The final court order was expected on March 24, so the adoption home gave him the child for foster care. But the lockdown came before the court date. “The adoption home made an exception in our case and allowed me to fly her to Chennai where my parents live. Otherwise fostering happens in the same city as the adoption home,” Nalin says. On the flight to Chennai, the baby was crying out aloud and he didn’t know what to do. “Thankfully, a co-passenger suggested I give her some milk and it worked. I couldn’t think of something so basic,” adds Nalin, who desperately misses his wife. “I am woefully falling short of what she could have done for her.” But Nalin is learning. The first month was definitely tough — feeding her, changing her diapers, putting her to bed — it’s become better now, especially with his parents’ help. “She has started to walk around, gained weight, become confident and even developed a taste for idlisambar like a pukka Tamil kid,” says Nalin. But he’s worried whether his July 2 hearing date will stand. “The government has issued guidelines to give preference to cases related to women’s safety and child custody when the courts reopen. I am worried that adoption cases may get pushed to a later date… I am desperate to fly back with my daughter,” he says. Deepak Kumar, CEO of CARA (Central Adoption Resource Authority), says that this shouldn’t be too much of a concern. “In certain states courts are pretty quick in dealing with adoption cases,” says Kumar. CARA had stopped all adoption processes at the start of the lockdown but it’s slowly resuming work. “We will start referring children to prospective parents as soon as travel restrictions are eased. We have also re-started registrations for intercountry adoptions,” says Kumar. Adoption agencies, however, feel that CARA should take steps to speed up the processes. Radhika Dalvie who runs Arun Aashray, a home for homeless children in Pune, says it’s important that procedures and permissions should be granted online as it would help speed up the process. “If the initial process is complete then children can at least be matched with PAPs, who are waiting anxiously. I hope and pray that these children are also treated as a priority and not just as an afterthought,” says Dalvie, who is taking care of Archana, a seven-year-old special needs child whose adoption by an American couple has been delayed due to the pandemic. “Archana has interacted with her prospective parents on video calls and she asks me in Marathi ‘when will mama come to get me?’ I just hope that the adoption goes through. She’s made a connection with this family, she’s attached to them now,” says Dalvie, adding that Archana has faced rejections earlier because of her special needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/when-will-mama-come-for-me-covid-puts-adoptions-in-limbo/articleshow/75960421.cms||Shobita Dhar
May 25, 2020||Goa||‘Rules differ for Goans, visitors’||Panaji: GFP on Sunday slammed chief minister Pramod Sawant for leaving the management of the Covid-19 pandemic in the hands of state executive committee (SEC). GFP chief Vijai Sardesai alleged that standard operating procedures were being tweaked to allow easy entry for domestic flight arrivals, most of whom are tourists, even as seafarers have to undergo paid quarantine. As per the SOP announced by the health secretary Nila Mohanan on Saturday for domestic flight arrivals, passengers were given the option of either opting for 14-day in home quarantine or producing a certificate stating that he/she is Covid-19 negative. On Sunday, the chief minister modified this to add a third option, that of paying Rs 2,000 for a test. Sardesai questioned the logic behind the home quarantine option saying, “are they (domestic arrivals) really tourists, or family members of babus from Delhi or relations of BJP higher-ups from Delhi”. In light of the SOP, he also alleged that the 1,500 seafarers, who are set to return to the state this week, are being discriminated. “For them quarantine is paid and compulsory while for the ‘Delhiwallas’ coming in from Monday, there are easier options, which could prove dangerous for Goans,” he said. He said when it comes to non-Goans, Mohanan and revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar, on behalf of the SEC, say that they will have a different SOP from the Centre. “This means they are willing to change the SOP for Goa from that given by the National Executive Committee,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rules-differ-for-goans-visitors/articleshow/75957705.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||In 3 days, 99 returnees test Covid-19 positive in Karnataka||CHIKKABALLAPURA: With 100 Covid-19 positive cases being reported from Chikkaballapura district in the last three days, the number of those infected from the district now stands at 126. According to deputy commissioner R Latha, 99 of them had gone to Mumbai to eke out a livelihood, while the source for the other patient is under investigation. Six buses ferrying the people from Mumbai to their villages in Gauribidanur and Gudibande taluks were stopped at Chikkaballapura border on Wednesday. They were not allowed to enter initially as they didn’t have permission, but later 265 persons were quarantined at Gudibande and Bagepalli and their throat swabs were collected for testing. Most of the returnees stayed in slums in Mumbai where the incidence of Covid-19 is high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-3-days-99-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnataka/articleshow/75960417.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
May 25, 2020||Noida||Patients’ family put in home isolation, villagers protest||GREATER NOIDA: Residents of Bisada village in Greater Noida were up in arms on Saturday night after a health department team allowed a few family members of three Covid patients to remain in home isolation. The protesters said they feared the family members, too, could be Covid carriers and other villagers might come in contact with them. They gathered around an ambulance, which was carrying the team of two doctors and a pharmacist from the Dadri community health centre, and refused to let it leave the area. Hariom, whose wife Kaushalya Devi is the village pradhan, said it was around 10pm when the health department team arrived to check on the patients’ family. An Oppo employee, his father and sister have tested positive from that house. “The villagers were anyway scared that they, too, might contract the infection. Even after 24 hours since they tested positive, the authorities hadn’t bothered to even seal the area in the vicinity. The villagers demanded that all seven members of their family be sent to a quarantine centre,” he said. What added to the anxiety of the villagers was that the Oppo employee’s mother had fainted after hearing that her son, husband and daughter had tested positive for Covid. Though she did not have any virus-like symptoms, neighbours feared she, too, might be ill from the infection. “According to the latest ICMR guidelines, if the contacts of a Covid patient are asymptomatic, they should be asked to remain in home quarantine. However, since the woman fainted at home, it sent out a signal among the villagers that she might be infected, too. We were ready to take the woman to a quarantine centre as the villagers were anxious,” a health official said. The villagers’ anxiety was not unfounded as there have been instances of people roaming on the streets despite being asked to stay in home isolation, the latest of such cases being reported in Cholas. The protest started when the health department team decided against taking five children of the family to a quarantine centre. “There is a risk of infection among children at quarantine centres,” the official said. The villager didn’t let the ambulance leave until all the family members were taken away. The team relented and took all the other family members to a quarantine centre at Galgotias University. SDM (Dadri) Rajiv Rai said the village would be sealed by Sunday night in keeping with guidelines for containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/patients-family-put-in-home-isolation-villagers-protest/articleshow/75956312.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 25, 2020||Business||ITC to acquire spices major Sunrise Foods||KOLKATA: FMCG-to-hospitality-to-tobacco major ITC has entered into a share purchase agreement (SPA) to acquire 100% of the equity share capital of Sunrise Foods (SFPL), a company primarily engaged in the business of spices under the trademark ‘Sunrise’. The deal size though was not being revealed yet, but as per the available information, Sunrise has a turnover of around Rs 600 crore and a paid-up equity of Rs 4 crore. Kolkata-based Sunrise is a market leader in eastern India in the fast-growing spices category with a rich heritage and brand legacy of over 70 years. SFPL though has not disclosed the deal value said that it has an EBIDTA of Rs 105-110 crore (generally, the valuation comes to three-four times of EBIDTA). Mayank Bharadwaj, MD and the third generation of the family, said that the company is exiting because they wanted to bring in professionalism in the company which ITC can do. “Going by the market value of the brand, the deal could be worth anywhere between Rs 300-400 crore,” added an analyst. Founded by Sharma family, Sunrise has manufacturing facilities, spread across India, including modern factories in Kolkata, Agra, Jaipur, Bikaner, Sumerpur and Erode. The spice giant in eastern India has made inroads into the rest of India, Bangladesh and Nepal. “The company is poised to engage in lucrative business opportunities in countries such as Japan, France, Germany, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, the US, the UK and the west Asia,” a source close to the company added. The proposed acquisition is aligned with ITC’s strategy to rapidly scale up its FMCG businesses in a profitable manner, leveraging its institutional strengths such as deep consumer insight, wide distribution network, agri-commodity sourcing expertise, cuisine knowledge, strong rural linkages and packaging know-how. It is also learnt that J M Financial was the banker and Khaitan & Co was the legal advisor for SFPL for the deal. ITC’s Aashirvaad range of spices is already a market leader in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and the company is one of country’s leading producers and exporters of high-quality food. “The proposed acquisition will augment the company’s product portfolio and is aligned to ITC’s aspiration to significantly scale up its spices business and expand its footprint across the country,” the company added. Commenting on acquisition, ITC has said that the deep consumer connect and distribution strength of SFPL in the focus markets, together with synergies arising out of the sourcing and supply chain capabilities of the company’s agri business and its pan-India distribution network, will provide significant value creation opportunities for the company. “The proposed transaction is also in line with ITC’s philosophy of enhancing the competitiveness of agri value chains in India while making a meaningful contribution to enhancing farmer incomes. Finalisation of the SPA along with related processes was completed during lockdown conditions, reflecting the company’s agility and resilience in dealing with the new normal,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itc-to-acquire-spices-major-sunrise-foods/articleshow/75955403.cms||Udit Mukherjee
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport reopens today, gets five new aerobridges||MOHALI: Five new aerobridges (passenger boarding tunnels) and five new conveyor belts will be made operational when the Chandigarh international airport resumes operations from Monday, said Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) chief executive officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj on Sunday. He said the airport was working with just two aerobridges. The rest of the passengers had to walk through off-contact walkways to board the flight. Also, passengers had to wait for long for their baggage because only a single conveyor belt was operational. “Now, we have five aerobridges with direct contact for passengers boarding flights. We have a capacity for nine aircraft to dock at a single time. But to start with, we will only be using three to four aircraft docking facilities,” said Bhardwaj. Secondly, five conveyor belts have also been made functional to make passengers wait for less time and help in clearing the rush, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic protocol, he added. Bhardwaj said the airport is heading towards providing international standards all other facilities like world-class cafeterias, duty free shops and waiting lounge will be soon made functional. Meanwhile, all passengers belonging to Punjab will be tested for Covid-19 at the airport. If tested negative, they will have to undergo mandatory home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/airport-reopens-today-gets-five-new-aerobridges/articleshow/75960420.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Woman delivers on Shramik special||BENGALURU: For superintendents on Shramik train No. 02691, an uneventful journey to Delhi suddenly turned dramatic on Sunday when a 25-year-old woman went into labour. Happily for all concerned, the woman, who occupied seat No. 33 in coach B2, delivered a healthy baby girl. Fozia, from Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, was due on May 27, but went into labour at around 4am. Her husband immediately alerted superintendents, who contacted the control room. “They told us the woman could deboard at Agra where a medical team would be waiting, but the family refused since they would be stranded in Agra,” said S Ravi, one of the superintendents. Delhi was still two hours away and the control room asked the superintendents to manage till then. Word spread and a lady doctor from coach B5 volunteered to help. “With the help of the doctor and co-passengers, Fozia delivered a baby girl between Faridabad and Tuqhlakabad station around 5.30am. We reached Delhi by 6.30am and they were taken to a hospital,” Ravi said. The woman, her husband and elder child, a boy, stayed back in the hospital, while the others went to UP. “This is the second time I’ve had to handle a delivery on the train. Thankfully, there were no complications,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-woman-delivers-on-shramik-special/articleshow/75960435.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 25, 2020||Noida||Pass for home arrives, man tries to flee quarantine unit||GREATER NOIDA: The pass to go home had arrived, the Covid report hadn’t. Krishan Kumar approached doctors, but they told him to wait. He picked up his bag, sneaked out of the room and managed to give guards the slip. But the escape was shortlived. The 31-year-old Krishan was caught by guards at the main gate while trying to flee a quarantine centre at Galgotias University on Sunday. Originally from Jharkhand, Krishan worked at a factory in Faridabad and stayed in Gijhodh village in Sector 53. After a man from his locality tested positive, he was brought to the quarantine centre on Friday as part of protocol. Desperate to go home, Krishan had applied for an e-pass seven days ago. But before that arrived, he was sent to quarantine. On Sunday, he came to know that his pass had arrived and approached the authorities at the centre with an appeal to discharge him. “He approached the doctors, but was told to wait. According to the new guidelines, he could have been discharged since he was asymptomatic. However, he did not wait for that and slipped out of his room on the third floor. He had reached the main gate and was about to flee when the guards noticed him and brought him back,” said Dr Anil Gupta, in-charge of the centre. A police team arrived at the centre and lodged a case against Krishan under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) on the complaint of a policeman who had chased him. Since an FIR has now been registered against him, a decision would be taken on Monday on whether to allow Krishan to go home anytime soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/pass-for-home-arrives-man-tries-to-flee-quarantine-unit/articleshow/75956415.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||37,000 migrants from Panchkula want to return home||PANCHKULA: More than 37,000 daily wagers have registered with the administration to be sent back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja said out of the 37,173 registered with them, 23,000 want to go back to Uttar Pradesh, 8,000 to Bihar and 900 to Madhya Pradesh. The rest of people have applied for other states. As many as 3,000 migrant labourers left for Uttar Pradesh in 94 buses on Saturday. All of them were medically examined. Panchkula-based labourers were screened at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, while those from Kalka, Maddawala, and Saketri at their nearby health centre. Four buses left for Bareilly from Maddawala, two for Moradabad from Kalka and the rest for Etawah and Aligarh from Panchkula. Ahuja said they had sought permission from the Uttar Pradesh government before sending the buses. The migrant labourers were divided into four groups and sent free of cost. All were given food and water by Radha Swami Satsang and Kamdhenu Gaushala volunteers. All of them were told to maintain social distancing and the buses were sanitised. On May 16, 1,000 labourers from Kalka went to their hometowns in Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, in 33 Haryana Roadways buses from the bus stand. On May 21, 152 migrant labourers were sent to Muzzafarpur, Uttar Pradesh, in eight buses from Panchkula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/37000-migrants-from-panchkula-want-to-return-home/articleshow/75960636.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
May 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: 60-year-old killed in hit-and-run||MOHALI: A 60-year-old man lost his life while crossing the Chandigarh-Ambala road on Friday. He was hit by a speeding car. The deceased has been identified as Paras Ram, who hails from Sambhal in Moradabad, and was living here on rent on the Chandigarh-Ambala road with his family. According to the police officials, the victim was crossing the road around 8.30 pm when an unidentified speeding car rammed into him and fled from the spot. “Ram was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared him dead. He used to work as a labourer,” said ASI Jaswinder. A case have been registered under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code at Zirakpur police station. Meanwhile, the post-mortem of the deceased has been conducted and the body has been handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-60-year-old-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/75960683.cms||---
May 25, 2020||Kolkata||Four days after storm, vegetable prices double in Kolkata markets||KOLKATA: A shock was awaiting the Kolkatans in local bazaars, four days after Cyclone Amphan hit the state. Those who went to the market on Sunday morning returned with only a few vegetables which, too, were of questionable quality. The prices, too, shot through the roof. Vendors from different markets admitted it was difficult to bridge the demand-supply gap. In coming days, the crisis may deepen, with severe shortage of vegetables, felt vendors. “The veggie plants went under water and will rot faster. Also, the price at which we are buying the stock is shocking. For some vegetables, prices jumped over 100% over the past four days,” said Shankar Adhikari, a Barisha bazaar vendor. Till Saturday, the markets managed to sustain the supply with pre-Amphan stock but with serious constraint in transportation of goods. On Sunday, vegetables started coming in from districts after some roads were cleared of the uprooted trees. Amphan has damaged a lot of vegetables across south Bengal. Most farmers lost 70% of the crop because their fields were flooded. Crops grown on elevated rafters were blown away. “The situation is so bad that most farmers would think twice before starting sowing for the next cycle,” said Tarun Naskar, who runs campaign for organic farming among South 24 Parganas farmers. “The vegetables we got from the suppliers on Sunday were not enough and not of good quality. It was understandable that most of them were under water for a long time. Because of the supply crisis, the prices were very high. If the supply remains thin, the prices would go up further. We may have to bring vegetables from Bihar and Jharkhand to meet the demand,” said Dilip Mondal, secretary Gariahat Vegetable Vendors’ Association. Anuradha Majumdar, a buyer from Santoshpur, said: “There was hardly any good-quality vegetable in the market. The prices, too, are abnormally high. Do no know what’s there in store for us in coming days.” “Amphan caused unprecedented damage for the vegetables. Majority of the plants were completely torn apart by the cyclone. Bengal, being one of the biggest vegetable producers in the country, supplies vegetables to most of the states,” said Kamal Dey, president West Bengal Vendors Association. Koley Market, one of biggest wholesale market for vegetables in the city on Sunday received 90 trucks of perishable items, while on an average day 300 trucks arrive at the market with 20 tonnes of vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-days-after-storm-vegetable-prices-double-in-city-markets/articleshow/75955575.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
May 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP government to set up migration panel to ensure job security||LUCKNOW: In a bid to provide employment and social security to over 23 lakh migrant workers who have come back to the state from various states in the past two months, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced to set up a migration commission. The commission, Yogi said, would provide social security to the migrants including insurance, in what would pave way for a mechanism wherein other states would be required to take UP government's permission before taking back the migrant labourers after lockdown is fully lifted. The CM took the decision while presiding over a review meeting with team 11 at his official residence. Yogi said the state government would not only resort to scanning of migrant but would also skill map them and would assist wherever a migrant moves across the country. “Energy of a worker from UP needs to be channelized for the progress of the state,” he said. Later, speaking at a webinar, the CM said: “This is being done to save the migrant workers from exploitation in other states. Any state hiring them back in future would have to provide an insurance cover to them to ensure social security." Yogi said that this would protect the labourers against the inhuman conditions in which the migrants of UP were forced to survive so far. “We have seen how the migrants of Uttar Pradesh were surviving in inhuman conditions and discrimination, especially, during the lockdown in other states. They were craving for basic human necessities like food, water and a shelter over their head,” the CM said. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that the commission would ensure minimum job guarantee for the migrants. While the structure of the commission is yet to be formalised, sources said, it was likely to have on its board top officials from departments like labour, revenue, industries and rural development. “The state government is committed to bring back the migrants safely and free of cost,” he said, underlining on the need of the migrants getting linked with the state economy, while providing sops including insurance and other facilities. The move comes days after the Yogi Government announced profiling of migrants for their skills for being roped in different category of jobs including the Centre’s flagship scheme, Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). Awasthi said that many migrants may also be provided jobs in the agriculture and dairy sector. He said that nearly 23 lakh migrants have returned to UP, of which 15 lakh alone have returned with the help of as many as 1,113 trains. The rest 8 lakh have returned with the help of buses and other mode of transport, while many have come back on foot. Awasthi said that the state government has also given its nod to arrival of another around 200 trains in the next couple of days, taking the number of trains bringing migrants to over 1300. The UP CM also asked the officials to send a proposal for construction of new housing units under the Central assistance of 20 lakh crore. This would also include the proposal to provide house on minimal rent to the needy. The proposal would be prepared by the housing and urban planning department. The ACS said that with the increase in the number of migrants, the role of surveillance committee has increased in both urban and rural areas. He said that the state government has decided to provide face masks to those who are fined for not wearing one while coming out. He said that the CM also stressed on increasing foot patrolling and patrolling by 112 PRV vans of police as a prevention escalating measure in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-government-to-set-up-migration-panel-to-ensure-job-security/articleshow/75960702.cms||Pankaj Shah
