May 26, 2020||India||'Some PPEs feel like we're wearing plastic rice bags'||Trussed up inside a plastic bag in the summer heat with sweat pouring down the body but afraid to drink water as it is impossible to take a loo break. This is how a nurse described the experience of wearing a personal protective equipment (PPE) suit. While there is no dearth of PPE any more, doctors and nurses say the quality is such that it's like wearing a plastic bag. Doctors say hospitals are besieged by companies offering PPE kits. "The quality of most of what is offered is horrible. The fabric of many is like chawal ka thaila. There is zero breathability and so health workers find it impossible to wear it for long. That reluctance could endanger them," said a senior doctor. The WHO guidelines on PPE strike a balance between protection against infection and allowing health workers "ease, dexterity, comfort and minimal heat-associated stress". However, the guidelines framed by the ministries of health and textiles only focus on the need to prevent blood or fluid penetration but have nothing about breathability. So, manufacturers focus on thickness of the plastic rather than the wearer's comfort. "In the initial rush to overcome the shortage of PPE, it is understandable that the ministry did not think of all aspects. But it is unacceptable to allow people to use this opportunity to make money by supplying abysmal quality PPE and endangering the lives of health workers. The government should immediately issue clear-cut guidelines on quality of fabric and stitching and weed out the fake manufacturers cashing in on the sudden demand for PPE," said a doctor in a Covid hospital. According to a manufacturer of protective wear, cheap plastic laminated fabric costs just Rs 150-200 per kilo. "So even with the cost of stitching, a poor quality PPE suit would cost only Rs 100- 200 to make but is sold for Rs 500-800. With such huge margins, getting even one small order for 10,000 PPE suits would mean a profit of at least Rs 30 lakh. This is why there is a such a huge rush of people getting into PPE making," he explained Eight labs identified by the textile ministry to do quality checks on PPE have so far issued over 900 Unique Certification Codes (UCC), mandatory for PPE sellers, especially to land government contracts. The government says there are 600 companies manufacturing 4.5 lakh PPE suits per day. Many with the UCC have little or no experience in making protective wear. They include chemists, lingerie and footwear manufacturers, tent or tarpaulin makers, wholesale traders of drugs, small-time pharma companies, and even a food company. "Anyone who has a garage to store the stuff can buy some fabric and organize some tailors to copy a PPE suit," said an industry insider. "One PPE lot supplied to us had electrical insulation tapes used to seal the seams. Obviously, they started coming off when we moved around," said a doctor in a private hospital. Another doctor in a government Covid hospital pointed out that the government only tested the coverall, but other components like face shields or goggles that came with it were substandard. Almost all hospitals seem to have PPE horror stories to narrate. The government is at pains to reiterate that its certification is only for the coverall and that only a Synthetic Blood Penetration Test (SBPT) has been conducted. Every UCC states that the certificate is based solely on the sample submitted by the applicant. It goes on to state: "The procurement agency is advised to conduct prior due diligence before placement of supply agreement...including periodical sample tests." "They have pushed the responsibility of periodically lifting samples from the lots delivered by a PPE seller and sending it for testing on individual hospitals or on government procurement agencies. How feasible is it for individual hospitals to do that?" asked a doctor in charge of procuring for his department. The only safeguard is a ministry notification on April 22 threatening manufacturers with criminal prosecution if any sample was found to be substandard. However, with a flood of manufacturers getting into PPE kit production, the eight labs that test samples are swamped. According to some kit makers, it takes about three weeks after submitting a sample to get a certificate. On April 21, the DRDO lab had put up a notice stating, "Due to overbooking of samples, it may be noted that report may not be served before five weeks after sample submission." Most hospitals cannot afford to wait that long for a report before procuring PPE for their staff. Meanwhile, health workers struggle to work wearing these poorly quality PPE. "Many young nurses had boils on their back from the heat and intense sweating inside the PPE. They will also be vulnerable to fungal infections," said a senior nurse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-ppes-feel-like-were-wearing-plastic-rice-bags/articleshow/75983992.cms||Rema Nagarajan
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||Congress MP writes to CM Chouhan on alleged unlawful detention of Briton||BHOPAL: Rajya Sabha MP and eminent lawyer Vivek Tankha on Monday shot a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan claiming that a British national identified as Sohail Hughes has allegedly been “unlawfully” detained by the state police, kept under quarantine and has been repeatedly tested for Covid-19, even though his reports were negative. Sohail Hughes is presently lodged in Bhopal Old Central Jail and has been denied bail by court. “I am writing this letter to you on an issue which has transnational ramification,” Tankha wrote to Chouhan. “It directly affects the relationship of Madhya Pradesh government with the United Kingdom,” he said. Tankha reminded Chouhan that the high commissioner of UK has also approached the state government through the MEA (Ministry of External Affairs) regarding Sohail Hughes. Tankha said that British national Sohail Hughes was on an “extended holiday” and visiting his family in Gujarat. “His family petitioned British government against what they perceive as unlawful detention of a British national by Indian officials. Hughes’ sister Aatika said that her brother was forced to take refuge in a mosque in Bhopal where he was visiting and was held-up because of the lockdown, which gave no time for foreign nationals to leave India,” Vivek Tankha’s letter said. The sister also complained that Sohail Hughes’ passport was seized and he was placed under quarantine. “While in quarantine, Hughes has been repeatedly tested for Covid-19 and his tests were always negative. The family, British government and the British media complains that a British national has been detained for spreading Covi-19 and violating visa regulations after being caught in a mosque with other people, when in fact he has been repeatedly tested negative for the infection. They blame government of India for not giving an opportunity to Sohail Hughes to leave the country on announcement of lockdown. Sohail is lodged in Bhopal Old Central Jail and his application for bail has been rejected by court,” the letter said. Tankha argued that Sohail Hughes story is “an example of how government and police have in their exuberance unlawfully detained a foreign national without any justifiable reason”. He added, “In the ineterst of justice and international comity, I petition the Madhya Pradesh government to immediately withdraw the unjustified prosecution of Sohail, to get him discharged from court proceedings and to permit him to travel back to the UK,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-mp-writes-to-cm-chouhan-on-alleged-unlawful-detention-of-briton/articleshow/75984007.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 26, 2020||India||BJP to hold 1000 virtual conferences on anniversary of Modi-2 govt||NEW DELHI: To mark the first anniversary of the Modi-2 government, the BJP will hold virtual rallies across the country and organise over 1,000 conferences online. The events will begin on 30th of this month with party president JP Nadda inaugurating the event virtually through social media platform of the party. Party sources said a letter of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, addressed to the people of the country, will also be delivered through social media to the people in Corona affected areas. Party will deploy over 1-crore booth level workers to distribute PM’s letter in the regions, which have not affected by the virus. Sources said party leaders will talk about how the government has fought against the virus spread and also about significant parts of the Rs 20000 crore was relief package in the wake of the virus spread. Besides, focus will be on “Self Reliant India” campaign launched recently by the PM to help country recover from the Corona aftershocks. It was learnt that the party will organise e big virtual rally reaching out to people through social media and after that senior leaders will hold interactions with the people virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-to-hold-1000-virtual-conferences-on-anniversary-of-modi-2-govt/articleshow/75984438.cms||Akhilesh Singh
May 26, 2020||Indore||Covid-19: Manufacturing companies too opting for work from home model||INDORE: Crippled by the Covid-19 pandemic, industries are re-engineering to adopt customized work from home (WFH) model as an alternative to survive the slump and reduce operation cost. Following cues from information technology firms, many manufacturing industries of Pithampur are transitioning to WFH concept to keep business alive in crisis. Industries are drafting customized models of WFH suiting their production line and requirement to keep production running in safe environment amid limited resources. Many firms have even commenced online training for employees for remote assistance. Saurabh Sangla, vice-chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Madhya Pradesh State Council and ED, Signet Group said, “We have set a WFH model for our company which is a new concept for any manufacturing industry. Employees from sales, marketing, branding and accounts will operate from home while people involved in manufacturing will report to work place. This will give flexibility to employees and as well as keep operations running in crisis time.” Manufacturing industries have asked support, accounts, human resources, finance, sales and marketing team to work from remote locations excluding production team. Many industries said they noticed a sudden jump in productivity and commitment from workers in this new work arrangement while some industries claimed WFH model is not feasible for manufacturing units and pharmaceuticals. Pratibha Syntex, vice president, human resource HS Jha said, “Based on our experience and work model, we have come up with WFH policy for our employees. We are calling just about 40 per cent employee to factory every day while rest coordinate from home. Our work efficiency has improved and this is reflecting on our work and decision making capacity.” Industry players said, WFH will give flexibility to employees and aid industries in reducing the cost of operations by curtailing on electricity, transport facility, housekeeping, security and other meager arrangements that combined together make up a large sum of expenses. Dinesh Mishra, head of corporate affairs at SRF Ltd said, “Keeping in view of Covid-19 and MHA guidelines, we are adhering to the policy of minimum manpower in plant. Being a manufacturing plant, we can allow only a reasonable chunk of employees to operate from home engaged with purchase, payroll, finance and dispatch departments.” A few pharmaceutical companies said they have trained their marketing teams to connect with doctors and dealers through online mode for product marketing avoiding door-to-door visits for at least 4-5 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-19-manufacturing-companies-too-opting-for-work-from-home-model/articleshow/75984548.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP government extends parole of 2,257 convicts by further two months||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the parole of 2,257 convicts, sentenced to seven years or less and also those awaiting trial entailing less than seven-year imprisonment, by another eight weeks following a Supreme Court directive to decongest jails in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In last week of March, the apex court directed states and union territories to consider releasing convicts sentenced to seven years or less and also those awaiting trial entailing less than seven-year imprisonment. Acting on the directions of which the state government had also set a target of releasing over 12,000 prisoners to deongest jails. The prisoners were also ferried by state roadways buses to their home districts and provided with masks and pamphlets detailing ways to avoid coronavirus infection. Additional inspector general, prisons, VK Jain said that the decision to extend parole of 2,257 convicts to another two-months was taken by the high-powered committee while their term had finished on May 21. "It was observed that the condition of Covid-19 spread has not stopped," he said. Prisons department also said that the extension of others on parole and whose terms expire will be further increased. Uttar Pradesh Prisons department on the directions of the court had given the parole to 17,158 convicts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-government-extends-parole-of-2257-convicts-by-further-two-months/articleshow/75984600.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
May 26, 2020||India||Coronavirus: As migrants go home, ICMR ramps up testing||NEW DELHI: Taking cognisance of the expected surge in Covid-19 cases due to influx of migrant workers in states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is working to scale up testing facilities and capacities. Testing capacity - already increased to 1.4 lakh samples per day - is now being further raised to 2 lakh samples per day, the council said. It said the government has devised an "intelligent testing strategy" to remain ahead of the virus by scaling up its preparedness to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, after taking lessons from the 2009 swine flu outbreak which had "exposed glaring gaps" in the country's diagnosis infrastructure. Although the country's public health infrastructure still remained inadequate to the enormity of the pandemic, the difference this time was the improvisations and additions the government made as it tried to tackle a virus whose behaviour remains uncertain. The country now has 610 laboratories - 432 public and 178 private ones - which are testing 1.1 lakh samples daily. Keeping in view the revised understanding of the virus and the research work being done in India and elsewhere, testing criteria has been progressively widened to include returnees from abroad, migrant labourers and Covid-19 frontline workers. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news ICMR said most states have been working with the National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP) to deploy TrueNAT machines for Covid-19 testing. Through this machine, testing is done in such areas or districts where modern virological laboratories in private or public sectors don't exist. "All possible institutions, both in the public sector or private, like laboratories, universities and private medical colleges were identified," a source said, pointing out that "intelligent testing strategy" to trace and track the virus and anticipate where testing would be required also involved resources like labs in defence facilities, centres engaged in S&T development as well as veterinary labs being "repurposed" to suit the need. This also resulted in relief to the testing infrastructure as it was not overwhelmed in any state. "No state has a significant backlog of samples to be tested," the ICMR said, adding, "More labs are being set up and additional machines are being deployed in states like UP, Bihar, West Bengal as well as the rest of the country to meet possible higher requirements." Sources termed the "difficult decision of lockdown" as part of the larger plan to slow down the spread of the virus and use the time thus gained to prepare healthcare infrastructure "to trace, track, test, quarantine, treat and save precious lives of people". The results can be seen in the steady increase in the number of labs, growing availability of locally developed testing kits and a pool of personnel equipped to carry out not just tests but also handle biomedical waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-migrants-go-home-icmr-ramps-up-testing/articleshow/75984797.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar CM asks officials to increase beds in isolation wards in wake of migrant workers' return||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asked officials concerned to increase number of beds in all isolation wards and dedicated Covid hospitals in Bihar in view of return of large number of migrant workers from different parts of the country. Holding a high-level review meeting on Covid-19 with chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials here, the CM said protecting people from the virus and providing employment to the returnee migrant workers were the top priorities of the state government in the current scenario. “Lakhs of migrant workers have already returned to the state and several others are on way. Some returnee migrants have been tested positive for Covid-19. Under the circumstance, it is necessary to increase the number of beds at the isolation wards and dedicated Covid-19 hospitals,” the CM said. Nitish said the government has set the target of testing at least 1,000 people per day in the wake of arrival of migrant workers. He asked the officials concerned to ensure availability of sufficient RT-PCR, TrueNat, CB-NAT machines and testing kits at the medical institutions to accelerate the state’s testing capacity. The CM asked the chief secretary to ensure that there should be continuity in supply of PPE kits and other necessary equipment to the dedicated hospitals besides availability of necessary medicines. He once again asked the officials to provide employment to the migrant workers who have completed their 14-day quarantine period. “All related departments should ensure that migrant workers are provided employment,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/increase-number-of-beds-in-isolation-wards-nitish/articleshow/75981709.cms||Madan Kumar
May 26, 2020||India||Covid-19: India sees over 6,000 new cases, 150 deaths||NEW DELHI: India recorded more than 6,000 fresh Covid-19 infections for the fourth day running on Monday, but the count was slightly less than the numbers reported over the past three days, mainly on account of a drop of over 600 in Maharashtra as compared with Sunday's record high of 3,041 cases in the state. With the addition of 6,087 cases, India's Covid-19 count surged to over 1.42 lakh, as per data collated from state governments. Nagaland became the 34th state/Union territory to report coronavirus infections, when three people who had returned from Chennai tested positive in the state. A cross the country, 150 virus-related deaths were reported, the second consecutive day when the toll was 150 or more, with Maharashtra recording 60 deaths (38 in Mumbai alone), Gujarat 30, Delhi 15 and Madhya Pradesh 10. A s many as 28 states/UTs reported Covid-19 cases during the day, probably the highest number so far, indicating the spread of the virus across the country. Only the UTs of Lakshadweep and Daman & Diu remain free of the virus, with no cases so far. In a more cheerful development, the number of people who have recovered from the infection went past the 60,000 mark at 60,699. This translates to a recovery rate of 42.6%, the highest so far. Maharashtra, by far the worst-hit by the pandemic, reported 2,436 new cases on Monday, a drop from the previous day's figure of over 3,000. Of these, Mumbai accounted for 1,430 fresh infections, taking its case count to 31,972, out of the state's total of 52.667. Deaths in the city crossed into four-figures at 1,026. The state's toll has risen to 1,695. Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 surge continued unabated with 805 more cases detected on Monday, taking its tally to 17,082, and health authorities blamed it on the inflow of people from other states, especially Maharashtra. The death march of Covid-19 continued unabated in Gujarat as 30 more people succumbed to the virus in 24 hours, pushing the toll to 888. The state recorded 405 positive cases, taking the total tally to 14,46 8. In Rajasthan, four people died of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the death toll in the state to 167, while 272 people tested positive for the virus. The count of positive cases has risen to 7,300. Watch Covid-19: India sees over 6,000 new cases, 150 deaths||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-sees-over-6000-new-cases-150-deaths/articleshow/75985089.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Youth rams SUV into high-tension tower, escapes unhurt||NAVI MUMBAI: A 21-year-old college student speeding an SUV along the Palm Beach road lost control near Satra Plaza Commercial Complex in Sector 19, Vashi and crashed into a high-tension electricity transmission tower abutting the road at around 8.30am on Monday. Fortunately, the youth escaped unscathed. But the impact of the crash uprooted the transmission tower that got tilted, but did not collapse as the SUV got stuck at the base of the tower acting as a support, said APMC traffic inspector Abhay Mahajan. Mahajan further said, "The MSEDCL officials claimed that the supply to the transmission tower automatically gets disconnected in case it gets damaged. Hence, the SUV driver did not get electrocuted. He even escaped unscathed despite his SUV yanking off the road, somersaulting and then crashing into the transmission tower. When we reached the spot, the SUV driver had gone to Vashi police station to inform about the accident. We summoned a hydraulic crane and gave support to the transmission tower to prevent it from collapsing on the road." Senior inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said, "We have registered an FIR against the SUV driver Tejas Bhalerao for rash and negligent driving and causing damage to government property under relevant IPC sections and Motor Vehicle Act."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-youth-rams-suv-into-high-tension-tower-escapes-unhurt/articleshow/75984934.cms||George Mendonca
May 26, 2020||Business||Last-minute cancellations cause chaos as air travel resumes||NEW DELHI: Domestic air travel had a bumpy take-off on its comeback on Monday after two months of being grounded, thanks to an already sanitised first-day schedule being almost halved at short notice to leave hundreds of stranded flyers marooned again in a mess of last-minute coordination between the civilian aviation ministry and states. Day One saw 532 flights operate, ferrying 39,231 passengers to various destinations. While many of these flights had rows of empty seats, thousands of flyers were left agonising over roughly the same number of flight cancellations. The schedule for Monday was finalised after talks between the aviation ministry and some states ended late Sunday night with the decision that some airports like Kolkata, Bagdogra, Vijaywada and Vishakhpatnam will open only later this week while others like Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad would have a strict cap on the number of flights," a senior official of a private airline said. He said the airline started informing passengers about cancellations or changes in flight timings only around midnight on Sunday. "There was utter confusion till just hours before flights were to recommence. Passengers who were to travel on Monday's cancelled flights blamed us, not realising that it was not our fault that they had to suffer." The night curfew from 7pm to 7am added to the chaos, with some passengers turning up at the airports on Sunday night itself. "Some Kolkata-bound passengers arrived at Delhi airport's Terminal-3 on Sunday night. Around 8pm, when it became known that Kolkata airport would open for scheduled flights only from Thursday (May 28), we informed them that their flight had been cancelled," another airline official said. State-specific quarantine protocols, too, seemed to leave flyers wary and confused. Uttarakhand, which has made 10 days of paid quarantine in various categories of hotels mandatory for all flyers, reported only three arriving passengers on a morning flight from Delhi. An IndiGo A-320 flight from Bengaluru to Goa had just 30 passengers. In Goa, a flyer can go home directly only if the person is carrying a Covid-negative certificate issued by an ICMR-recognised lab not more than 48 hours earlier. Everyone else has to pay Rs 2,000 for a test and be quarantined at home or opt for 14 days of institutional quarantine. Times ViewWith each state following its own protocol for air travellers (TOIcarried a detailed graphic in yesterday’s edition), there are almost as many different protocols as there are states. Some of them seem prima facie to be unworkable, like the demand for Covid negative certificates at a time when individuals can’t just choose to get tested. In any case, to expect each person wanting to take a flight to be tracking what protocols apply to him or her in the state from which the flight originates and the one in which it lands is unrealistic. While the general principle of allowing states greater leeway in deciding what measures they take to protect their citizens cannot be faulted, there are situations in which it can become impractical. This is one such. It would be best if there were asingle set of rules applicable for all air travel across the country. In devising those rules, what needs to be kept in mind is that there are, at the moment, broadly two kinds of people wanting to take flights — those who were stuck in the wrong city because of the lockdown and want to get back home, and those who need to travel for work or business. The two categories can’t be treated similarly. Those returning home may not mind home quarantine for a week or two (at the most), but clearly a business traveller can’t afford it. Some states have made this distinction and exempted business travellers from quarantine. That should become the national norm. Also, given that no protocol is foolproof, the effort should be keep the guidelines simple, liberal and practical.Watch Domestic air travel's bumpy take-off on its comeback||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/last-minute-cancellations-cause-chaos-as-air-travel-resumes/articleshow/75985548.cms||Saurabh Sinha
May 26, 2020||India||Maharashtra has a 'completely broken administration': Goyal||MUMBAI: A day after challenging Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray's claim that the Centre had sent an inadequate number of trains to ferry migrants despite the state's demand of 80, railway minister Piyush Goyal escalated his criticism of the state government, saying it had "a completely broken administration".  Soon after Thackeray on Sunday accused the Centre of providing only 40 trains, Goyal had put out a series of tweets saying the railways would send 125 trains on Monday if Maharashtra sent it a list of migrants to be transported. At 2.11am on Monday, Goyal tweeted, "Where is the list for 125 trains from Maharashtra? As of 2am, received list of only 46 trains of which 5 are to West Bengal and Odisha which cannot operate due to cyclone Amphan. We are notifying only 41 trains for today despite being prepared for 125!!!" On Monday evening, Goyal said, "Since 7:15 (on Sunday), after every hour, I kept asking the state for the list of details, which went on till 12:30. At 12:30, they give a list of 46 trains... The reality is Maharashtra government has no list, no details of migrants, no clarity on who wants to go where. It is a completely broken administration." Goyal said 65 trains had been placed at stations in Maharashtra in the last few days but they "had to be cancelled because the Maharashtra government did not even bring passengers to stations." Wishing that the opposition "worked to serve the nation instead of (playing) petty politics," Goyal praised the UP and Bihar CMs for "welcoming their brothers and sisters from the state and not creating hurdles". He added, "That is what true leadership is." BJP member Narayan Rane on Monday met governor B S Koshyari and asked him to recommend President's rule in Maharashtra, while NCP minister Jitendra Awhad tweeted that Goyal had released more tweets than trains.  Responding to Goyal's criticism, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said, "Several trains had left from Pune, Nagpur, but lists were not required or demanded then. It is surprising and sad that a minister representing Maharashtra in the Rajya Sabha is asking for the list. It seems they are asking for a list of migrants only from Maharashtra. He (Goyal) should not stretch things too much. The Centre should avoid considering Maharashtra as a state where opposition is in office and see it as a normal state, which would help to resolve issues."  Raut had said on Sunday that Maharashtra would send a list to the Centre but railways needed to make sure that the trains did not go to Odisha if they were bound for UP, a reference to the lengthy routes taken by many of the Shramik Specials owing to what the railways called congestion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-has-a-completely-broken-administration-goyal/articleshow/75985909.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 26, 2020||India||China to evacuate citizens from India||NEW DELHI: In what seems like a political move in the midst of strained relations and a military stand-off in the Himalayas, China has said it will evacuate its citizens, stranded due to the lockdown in India, from next week in case they are facing difficulties. According to reports, China has arranged flights from Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata to Shanghai, Chongqing, Jinan, Guangzhou and Zhengzhou, starting June 2. The Chinese embassy on its website asked citizens wishing to return to book themselves on the flights. MEA sources said they would facilitate the return of the Chinese as they had with over 60,000 foreigners till last week. Given that China’s announcement that it will repatriate its citizens comes at a time when ties have dipped with India deciding to scrutinise Chinese investments, backing moves for an inquiry into the origin of coronavirus and stepped up confrontations in east Ladakh, the move set off a fresh round of speculation. Though Indian and Chinese troops have settled into a stalemate of sorts, the Indian forces are on high alert. The visit of Army chief Gen M M Naravane to the region signalled a heightened level of alertness. Chinese troops have infiltrated into Indian territory in parts of Ladakh, which has resulted in standoffs in four-five locations. Watch Covid-19: China to evacuate citizens from India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-to-evacuate-citizens-from-india/articleshow/75986103.cms||---
May 26, 2020||India||ICMR sits on proposal to try Rs 5 arthritis drug in Covid cases||CHENNAI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is sitting on a proposal for a clinical trial of an affordable and time-tested anti-inflammatory arthritis drug that has the potential to prevent thousands of deaths due to Covid-19. Indomethacin has been used to prevent cytokine storm - an abnormal immune reaction that kills Covid-19 patients - in people with other health conditions. The drug costs Rs 5 a capsule, while Tocilizumab, a drug now used to treat cytokine storm, costs Rs 60,000 per dose. C hennai-based kidney transplant surgeon Dr Rajan Ravichandran, who used indomethacin on his transplant patients first in 1989 to prevent cytokine storms, wrote to ICMR and its counterparts in the US and the UK on April 29 suggesting a clinical trial. While the UK department of health wrote back saying the proposal has been forwarded to its Therapeutic Taskforce, ICMR is yet to act on it. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  I CMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava told TOI that the council has received about 185 such proposals. "ICMR, along with department of science and technology, department of biotechnology and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research are looking into them one by one," he said. I n the US, meanwhile, doctors have found the drug to be effective in some 60 Covid-19 patients, often better than hydroxycholorquine. Dr Jonathan Leibowitz, a primary care physician in Brooklyn, who used indomethacin on his patients in an email to TOI , said indomethacin "seems to have a clear positive effect and needs further investigation," and indicated it was not being given the importance it deserve s. Dr Ravichandran said it could be used on Covid-19 patients as a repurpose drug, but a largescale clinical trial is imperative, given the affordability and the promising results several studies on the drug have shown.  Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-sits-on-proposal-to-try-5-arthritis-drug-in-covid-cases/articleshow/75986257.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Civil Hospital surgeons mend 11-year-old’s broken neck||AHMEDABAD: Eleven-year-old Lakshmi, a resident of Vatva, was playing at her school in March. A small accident brought along major consequences. When she could not move her neck, experts suggested thorough tests, and the results showed that her third disc in the neck had been severely damaged. “She already had the condition known as cervical kyphosis because of which a person cannot straighten his/her neck,” said Dr J P Modi, the superintendent of Civil Hospital, adding that it’s an unusual condition in a child. “The accident caused her neck to fall on one side and also caused neurological damage,” Modi said. “She had lost control over her motions and movement of hands and legs.” Lakshmi, the daughter of a loading autorickshaw driver, was admitted to Civil Hospital, but the lockdown increased the time frame of the treatment. Eventually, a halo-vest was constructed specially for her and a series of procedures involving orthopaedic and neurosurgeons ensured that she recovers from the condition. The contraption ensures that the patient doesn’t move the neck much, helping in the healing procedure. Two surgeries were also performed on her. “A bone from her leg was used to create a bracket for her neck,” said a surgeon. “Earlier, her neck could bend as much as 45 degrees. But the process would ensure that she can lead a life with her head held high,” said Dr M M Prabhakar, OSD at Medicity. “As she also has heart ailment, she has been admitted to UN Mehta Heart Hospital where she is recuperating.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-hospital-surgeons-mend-11-year-olds-broken-neck/articleshow/75984302.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||Bharti to sell 2.75% stake in Airtel for $1bn, reduce debt||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Bharti Telecom, the Indian promoter of telco major Bharti Airtel, is set to sell a stake of up to 2.75% in the mobile services provider through block deals on Tuesday to raise $1 billion, or nearly Rs 7,600 crore. Currently, Bharti Telecom, the holding company of the Mittal family, has a 38.8% stake in the telco, while Singtel, the foreign promoter, has 20.2%. Bharti Telecom’s move is aimed at reducing its debt. According to the term sheet for the deal, up to 15 crore Bharti Airtel shares are being offered at a minimum price of Rs 558 each. The floor price is at a 6% discount to the stock’s Friday closing price of Rs 593 on the NSE. After the transaction, the promoters together will hold about 56% in India’s fifth-most valued company with a market capitalisation of Rs 3.2 lakh crore. The block deal has been planned through the accelerated book-building process and is being handled by JP Morgan’s India arm. Under this process, the broker, after the close of the day’s trading, sends out the term sheet to large institutions to express their interest to buy shares from the block. Once the book is built, the shares are traded the next day in allotted lots on the bourses’ platforms. This is the second large block deal taking place in the Indian market this month. On May 7, global pharma major GlaxoSmithKline group had sold about 6% in FMCG major Hindustan Unilever (HUL) for about $3.5 billion, or around Rs 26,000 crore. JP Morgan was one of the brokers in that deal too. According to sources, the fund-raising will help in paring the Indian promoter’s debt. The move may also turn it into zero-debt at the promoter level. Part of the debt had accrued to the promoter when it wanted to subscribe to Airtel’s Rs 25,000-crore rights offering exactly a year ago. “This creates full capacity at Bharti Telecom for any further capital or shareholder support requirement at Airtel,” a source said. After the rights offer, the company had also raised another Rs 21,240 crore, or about $3 billion, through a combination of foreign currency convertible bonds ($1 billion) and institutional placement of shares ($2 billion). These fund-raisings —QIP and FCCB — were mainly to meet regulatory dues that were charged to almost all the telcos after the Supreme Court order in October 2019 on their adjusted gross revenue (AGR), totalling about Rs 1.7 lakh crore. Some of the global financial services majors and leading private equity funds had participated in Airtel’s fundraisings. The stock has more than doubled from its October 2018 low of Rs 262 to current value of nearly Rs 600.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bharti-to-sell-2-75-stake-in-airtel-for-1bn-reduce-debt/articleshow/75983714.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: FIR lodged against nine for changing quarantine centre||MADHEPURA/PATNA: Nine migrant workers, who had returned to their native villages under Kumarkhand block in Madhepura district last week, have been booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for shifting to a different quarantine centre without obtaining permission from the authorities concerned. SHO of Srinagar police station Ravish Ranjan said an FIR was lodged against the nine migrant workers hailing from different villages under Ramnagar Mahesh panchayat on the statement of Kumarkhand circle officer Jai Prakash Rai. Legal action against the migrant workers was initiated after a video went viral on social media on May 20 in which migrant workers were seen blaming the local administrative officers for their plight at a quarantine centre set up on the campus of a government high school. The migrant workers claimed in the viral video, the authenticity of which TOI has not verified, that they were staying in 14-day quarantine without any assistance either from the local mukhiya or the district administration. The migrants were supposed to stay in a quarantine centre located at the government middle school and not in the high school, where they were found. “At present, these migrants are staying in a quarantine centre at the block headquarters,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fir-lodged-against-nine-for-changing-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75982003.cms||Deo Narayan Saha
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat woman’s last call: Lying in faeces, nurses won’t help||AHMEDABAD: The last words of a 44-year-old woman, uttered in a call to her son, describes abject helplessness — she says she lying in her faeces, with nobody to help her at the Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI). Ruqsanabano Ansari died on Sunday in the Covid ward of the institute, on the Civil Hospital campus in Asarwa, after making the call. She had told her son that she was shivering; she could not clean herself because her hands would not move. Ansari had told her son, Saddam, that staff members refused to help her. She is heard saying in the recording of the call that the nurses had told her that it was not their job to clean her. Then her voice suddenly lowers and a deathly silence descends on the line. Saddam, 21, is heard crying “Hello… hello”. Ansari, a resident of Ajit Mill area, was admitted to the Covid ward at the GCRI on May 18. She had mild cough and fever. “My sister boarded an 108 ambulance on her own. Later, her condition began deteriorating,” said her brother, Naushad Ansari. “Late on Saturday evening she called Saddam and told him that she felt paralyzed and that she had passed stool but nobody was at hand to clean her.” On Sunday morning, Saddam was informed that his mother had died. Ansari’s family had to wait for about six hours to get her body. “The local councillor, Iqbal Shaikh, pursued the matter with GCRI director Shashank Pandya and the body was eventually released at around 5.15pm,” said Naushad. He alleged that the hospital staff was callous. He said that last week another relative had died, in the newly set up Covid facility on the Civil Hospital campus. “Her ornaments were stolen. This is the state of affairs at the hospital now,” he said. Shaikh said that the hospital staff and doctors responsible for ‘inhuman behaviour’ should face legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/final-call-shivering-uncleaned-uncared-for/articleshow/75984596.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad Covid-19 tally rises to 43 as four more test +ve||Hubballi: Three people who came in primary contact with those who had returned to Dharwad from Maharashtra and a 33-year-old man who returned from Mumbai tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday, taking the tally of the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 43. A two-and-a-half-year-old child is among the four who were confirmed infected. A 33-year-old woman and a 17-year-old boy are the other two who tested positive in the district. While the 33-year-old man who returned from Mumbai had been in institutional quarantine, the other three have been shifted to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubballi. As many as 10 people have recovered from the infection and have been discharged from KIMS so far, said deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-covid-19-tally-rises-to-43-as-four-more-test-ve/articleshow/75979622.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Patna||Domestic flights resume in Patna after 2 months||PATNA: Domestic flight operations resumed after two months at Patna airport here on Monday with 11 flights connecting various cities, including New Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, among others. Airport director Bhupesh CH Negi told this newspaper on Monday that the first flight landed here at 7:40am. “Around 11 flights operated to and from Patna airport on Monday. As GoAir will resume services from June 1, the number of flights at the airport is comparatively less as of now,” Negi said. He added, “The standard operating protocols regarding prevention of spread of Covid-19 virus were implemented. Thermal screening of arriving passengers was done by state health department personnel. Departing passengers were screened by the airport authorities.” Airlines executives claimed they received good response on the first day of resumption of domestic flights. “Even though only one flight of Air India arrived at the Patna airport on Monday, we are happy with the response,” said an Air India executive. “It feels good to see the aviation sector functioning again. Besides, people in huge numbers are booking tickets,” said an Indigo executive. Manmohan Tiwari, a senior GoAir official at Patna airport, said, “The airline is ready to begin operations from June 1. We are just ensuring that every passenger receives a safe experience.” Flyers returning to the city were elated to meet their family members after months after landing here on Monday. Seema Kumari, who was stuck at her Delhi hostel for the past two months due to the lockdown, broke down when she met her father at the city airport. “I didn’t even get the ticket for the special Shramik trains. I booked my flight ticket as soon as I got to know about the resumption of airline services,” she said, adding, she felt safe on board as proper social distancing was maintained at both the airports. Others, however, claimed they faced some hassles due to the delay in flight timing. Boring Road resident Shubhashish Kumar, who was stranded in Delhi, said he had to face several problems at the Delhi airport. “The system is quite new for all of us, including the crew members and ground staff of the airlines, due to which my flight got delayed by an hour,” he said. Sanjeev Kumar Ojha, who along with his wife was leaving for Pune, said he came to his hometown Patna in March during Holi but got stuck following the lockdown. “I work in Pune so cannot stay here any longer,” he said. A 61-year-old passenger with kidney problems said she couldn’t go to Delhi for her check-up for the last two months. “I am happy that I will be able to seek my doctor’s help as I have got several complications,” she said. 146 people arrive at Gaya from Doha: Gaya International Airport director Dilip Kumar told this newspaper that altogether 126 people- 122 natives of Bihar and four of Jharkhand- arrived at Gaya airport by a special flight of Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission on Monday. “The natives of Bihar were sent to 14-day quarantine in private hotels. A few monasteries in Bodh Gaya have also come forward to allow quarantine in their premises,” he said. More special flights are scheduled to arrive from Kazakhstan, Yangon, Dhaka and Moscow among other at least till June 6, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/domestic-flights-resume-in-patna-after-2-months/articleshow/75981854.cms||Archi Rani
May 26, 2020||Patna||Patna, Gaya record highest temp of year||PATNA: The ongoing summer, which was tad cooler in Bihar so far, seems to have intensified in its last lap before monsoon as Patna and Gaya recorded the highest maximum temperature of the year on Monday. Patna recorded maximum 40.2 degrees Celsius and Gaya 45 degrees C on Monday. An official at Patna Meteorological Centre said the previous highest day temperature in Patna this year was recorded 40.0 degrees C on May 17. The meteorologist said a heatwave warning has also been issued for several districts in southwest Bihar, including Rohtas, Kaimur, Aurangabad and Buxar, till May 27. As per meteorology, heatwave conditions prevail at a place when the normal temperature is 40 degrees C and above and the actual temperature continuous to be 4.5 notches above the respective normal for two consecutive days. “Temperature will continue to surge till May 27 owing to clear skies. Apart from being hot, the weather is also humid owing to moist easterly winds blowing in the region and moisture incursion due to the impact of cyclone Amphan. The weather is, however, expected to be slightly cool after May 27 following showers in few northeastern states,” the official said. As per a district-wise weather forecast bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre, several areas in southwest Bihar and Gaya in south central parts of the state are likely to witness heatwave conditions till May 27. However, residents may expect some respite from the scorching heat thereafter, as rainfall with thunderstorm is expected in all the 38 districts on May 28 and 29. Even though the sweltering heat gave tough time to residents, experts claim higher temperature is favourable for the onset of southwest monsoon, which is expected around June 13-16 in Bihar. The Patna weather bulletin on Monday evening stated that conditions were becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, Andaman Sea and adjoining central Bay of Bengal around May 27. It further stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at one or two places over northeast and north central parts of the state during the last 24 hours. PATNA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-gaya-record-highest-temp-of-year/articleshow/75981738.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 26, 2020||Patna||Many help needy and poor celebrate Eid amid lockdown||PATNA: Most people from the Muslim community celebrated Eid on Monday by helping those in need of food and other items. Shabana Imam (38), a resident of Raja Bazar, distributed food to hundreds of poor people on the occasion. “The essence of celebrating the festival lies in feeding the needy and poor, especially at a time when several people are going hungry,” she said. Sadia of Sabjibagh said instead of letting the pandemic dampen their festivity, they decided to do something for the poor, especially those living in the slum areas. “We fed them with home-cooked meal, including chicken korma, and biryani,” she said. With mosques closed and gatherings prohibited owing to nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 spread, people remained confined to their homes. From sharing virtual hugs to sending ‘Eidi’ via online platforms and visiting only close relatives, people observed the festival in a different way this time. Even the congregational prayer service held at Gandhi Maidan every year on Eid was missing this time. Maulana Shibli Qasmi, general secretary of Imarat-e-Shariah, said: “It is the responsibility of every citizen to ensure social distancing and take precautionary measure to stop the spread of Covid-19. It was for the first time that special prayer service was not conducted at the mosques. But nothing is more important than life. Hence, we encouraged people to celebrate the festival at home.” But that turned out to be an opportunity for many Muslim men and women to offer two rakats (units) of Eid special prayer at home with their family members this year. Phulwarisharif resident Md Talha (28) said: “Unlike every year, all my family members, including my mother and sister, offered namaz together.” Few people, on the other hand, conducted small prayer service in their residential societies. Md Shamshad (54) of Boring Canal Road offered prayer along with other residents in the building. “As we were not allowed to visit the mosque, we decided to offer special prayer on our building premises while following social distancing norms,” he said. Meanwhile, the aroma of the traditional dishes like biryani, sheer khurma and sewaiyan prepared on Eid pervaded the air on Monday. Amir Khan (33) of Bank Road said the lockdown gave him a chance to celebrate the festival in a different way. “In a bid to help my mother, I cooked sheer khurma this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-help-needy-and-poor-celebrate-eid-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75982876.cms||Archi Rani
May 26, 2020||Patna||Rush for vehicle passes continues||PATNA: Two months into lockdown, stranded people and those having medical emergencies are still filing applications to get passes for interstate and inter-district movement. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said at least 600 to 700 applications are filed everyday for interstate movement and 400 for inter-district movement. He said majority of those applying for vehicle passes are the ones stranded in the city due to lockdown. “Many people are also seeking vehicle passes on medical ground,” the DM added. He added that the process of issuing passes has been simplified. “However, we still issue only 150-200 passes per day for interstate movement,” he said, adding those applying for vehicle passes to go to other places for joining job and attending last rites of their near and dear ones are also being entertained. People have continued to make a beeline for S K Memorial Hall where district administration officials headed by city magistrate Shailendra Bharti and doctors conduct medical screening of applicants before issuing vehicle passes to them. One of the magistrates, Bipin Sharma, said there were instances when many members of a same family had applied for passes. “We reject such applications,” he added. Sharma called upon the applicants to follow social distancing norms during medical screening. “ Four young deputy collector-rank officers, who are still on probation, are involved in scrutiny of applications. One of the woman officers said it was a great opportunity for them to learn and serve people in these challenging times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rush-for-vehicle-passes-continues/articleshow/75982847.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 26, 2020||Ludhiana||City-Delhi flight resumes with contact-free checks||Ludhiana: After more than two months, the only flight connecting the city with Delhi resumed its operations on Monday. The flight landed six minutes before its arrival time (at 2.39pm instead of 2.45pm) with 11 passengers at Sahnewal airport. It flew back to Delhi with five passengers on board at 3.25pm. All the incoming passengers were screened by a medical team at the airport. None showed Covid-19 symptoms and were allowed to go after a nose swab test, the result of which will be out in three days.All the inbound passengers were told to home quarantine themselves for 14 days. Strict security arrangements were in place at the airport, where DCP Akhil Chauhdhary was present during the flight’s landing and take-off.According to passengers, arrangements at both Delhi and Ludhiana airports — ranging from security, cleanliness and availability of cab services— were satisfactory. Speaking to the TOI, city resident Varun Bansal, who works in Chennai and was able to return home after six months, said, “I feel so relieved to be home. I flew from Chennai to Delhi on Monday morning and then from Delhi to Ludhiana. Both the flights were on time and I faced no problem. There was tight security at Ludhiana airport and a medical team, too, was stationed for screening passengers. No one was allowed to leave the airport without the test and complete details of passengers were noted down by the staff. We were made to sign a self-declaration form at the airport before flying to Ludhiana, in which we declared that we will undergo quarantine if Covid-19 symptoms are found.” Dev Narayan, another passenger who reached Ludhiana after a gap of three months, said, “I had gone to Delhi in March for a family visit and got stuck. Unlike before, the flight was on time and new contact-less security and screening measures were in place. We had to download Arogya Setu app and fill online health certificate form before taking the flight. As far as arrangements at Ludhiana airport are concerned, the check-out was very smooth after medical screening and a prepaid cab was available. Overall it was a hassle-free experience for the passengers.”SK Saran, Sahnewal airport director, said, “We had made all necessary arrangements to ensure smooth functioning of the airport. Eleven passengers arrived from Delhi and five departed from here. Thermal scanning of both inbound and outbound passengers was done.”WHAT TO EXPECTDEPARTUREPassengers must reach the airport two hours before Arogya Setu App is mandatoryBoarding pass and form will be filled at the check-in counterBoarding pass will be issued by airline personnelSocial distancing must be followedOne handbag allowed Sanitiser, facemask will be given by the airline. Entry to the airport terminal will not be allowed without a facemask Boarding pass will not be scanned at gate ARRIVALThermal screening at terminalBaggage to be picked up while maintaining social distancingThroat or nasal swabs taken from those arriving from hotspots at health desksHome quarantine if there are no flu-like symptoms. If no facility at home, institutional quarantine is mandatoryThose with symptoms to be moved to hospitalsFLIGHT RULESFlight to operate on four days: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and SaturdayTimings: Will depart from Delhi at 1.30pm and land in Ludhiana at 2.45pm. It will depart from Ludhiana at 3.25pm and reach Delhi at 4.40pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-delhi-flight-resumes-with-contact-free-checks/articleshow/75982422.cms||Mohit Behl
May 26, 2020||Mysuru||Mandya MLA alleges mix-up in test reports||Mandya: JD(S) MLA C S Puttaraju has made an allegation against the district administration, saying a mix-up on the part of officers has led to serious lapses with regard to the treatment of two girls, aged seven and 11. According to the MLA, the 7-year-old, despite not having the infection, was wrongly declared as positive and sent to the isolation ward. On the other hand, the 11-year-old girl, whose throat swab was also collected on the same day, was wrongly declared as negative and sent to a quarantine centre. The samples of the girls from Ranebennur and Mumbai were collected on May 18, and the results were out on May 21. “The mix-up has landed the girls at wrong places. Worse still, the district administration has concealed this glaring lapse in its health bulletins,” Puttaraju said, seeking to know as to how the Ranebennur girl was wrongly declared as positive, and the other, as negative. “The tests results were swapped, and the officers behind this must be punished. A thorough inquiry must be conducted,” he said. However, DC Venkatesh rejected the charge, saying: “There is no truth in the MLA’s allegation. When we tested the girl from Mumbai, her test result turned out to be negative. But she was positive when we tested her again as per Covid-19 protocol. Since Covid-19 testing process cannot be accurate — as it always depends on the incumbent period of coronavirus — the throat swab test of the Mumabai girl may not have turned out to be positive when she was tested for the first time. As far as the Ranebennur girl is concerned, her test was proved positive. When both the tests of both the girls are positive, what is there to hide from the public?” Venkatesh asked. Meanwhile on Monday, the district registered two positive cases, taking the total to 252. So far, 26 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital. The authorities are awaiting the test results of 1,609 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mandya-mla-alleges-mix-up-in-test-reports/articleshow/75981358.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||SBI revamps MSME credit delivery biz||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: State Bank of India (SBI) has revamped its credit delivery model for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). As part of the exercise, the bank is creating a separate SME regional business unit within every administrative office (AO), which will be treated as a separate branch with a new branch code. Although the bank had made plans to increase focus on this sector much before the Covid-19 lockdown, it has now decided to go ahead with the restructuring exercise in step with the government decision to boost the flow of credit to MSMEs. SBI’s SME loan book stood at Rs 2.78 lakh crore as of December 2019, which is 14% of the bank’s advances. TNN Non-performing loans in this segment stood at Rs 26,054 crore, which is around 9.37% of the total. This is, however, better than the non-performing assets in corporate loans, which was over 12%. In a communication to all circles, the port of call for SME business will be a new position of assistant general manager (SME credit) who will have powers of a regional head. SBI has AOs throughout the country, with each one controlling branches covering a few districts. There will also be new positions like chief manager for SME business development, and another chief manager position for monitoring of loans. Meanwhile, all public sector banks have started releasing emergency credit to small enterprises in keeping with the government directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-revamps-msme-credit-delivery-biz/articleshow/75983576.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 26, 2020||Business||Kotak gets shareholder nod to raise over $1bn||Mumbai: Kotak Mahindra Bank is set to raise over $1-billion worth of capital by issuing fresh equity following an approval by shareholders. The private lender on Monday informed stock exchanges that shareholders have, by way of a postal ballot, consented to a special resolution for issuing 6.5 crore equity shares of Rs 5. According to industry sources, having rushed through the approval process, the bank is likely to hit the market soon. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank had closed at Rs 1,160 on Friday. At current prices, an issue of 6.5 crore shares would result in a mop-up of Rs 7,541 crore. All bank scrips had taken a beating in the stock market crash in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kotak’s shares had hit a high of Rs 1,739 earlier this year after the lender arrived at a settlement with the RBI where the promoters agreed to cap their voting rights and the central bank agreed not to penalise them further. The proposed capital-raise will decrease the promoter holding in the bank by 1 percentage point to 29%. The bank has to further reduce promoter shareholding to 26% later this year. While the promoter holding could come down faster if there is a stake sale instead of fresh issuance, the bank is playing it cautiously in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis and increasing its tier-1 capital, which is already 17% of assets. At the same time, the bank has gone slow on loans and tightened its credit underwriting. Although it is pursuing a strategy of growing retail deposits, the bank is chasing growing its account base and reducing dependence on bulk deposits. On Monday, the bank also cut interest on savings account by 50 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). This is the third time in recent weeks that the private lender has cut interest rates on deposits. The bank now offers 4% on deposits over Rs 1 lakh as against 4.5% earlier. On deposits below Rs 1 lakh, the bank will offer 3.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-gets-shareholder-nod-to-raise-over-1bn/articleshow/75983591.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||New industrial policy likely from June||Gandhinagar: To boost the industry in the state and attract investment amid the major slowdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Gujarat government plans to announce a new industrial policy for 2020-2025 in June, to attract fresh investment and generate jobs.The term of the industrial policy 2015-2020 ended in December-January, but was extended by six months until June this year. The new policy is likely to be announced soon on the basis of reports filed by various sectoral sub-groups and suggestions received from industry associations and trade bodies. The policy will also incorporate inputs from the Hasmukh Adhia-headed expert advisory committee (EAC) formed to revive the state’s economy after the Covid lockdown. Manoj Das, principal secretary to the chief minister and in-charge principal secretary of the industry and mines department said, “The CM directed the administration to announce the new industrial policy as soon as possible after wide consultations, covering the situation before and after Covid-19. We are likely announce the new policy in June.” Listing the focus areas of the new policy, Das said, “Our focus is clearly on the renewable energy industry as well as other emerging industries. We are focusing on strengthening our core competence of manufacturing as well as on emerging opportunities in the service sector. We are focusing heavily in attracting Japanese, American and European industries which are trying to shift base from China. We will focus on providing plug and play facilities for these industries. With the help of GOI, we are aggressively trying to attract these industries,” he added. Sources in the government said one common bit of feedback from industry has been that land costs are exorbitant in Gujarat. Also, clearances regarding land take too long. “The government, in the new policy, has decided to offer large chunks of land on long-term leases at nominal rates. This will help industries begin production quicker,” an official said. The state government is also expected to continue a number of benefits offered in the current industrial policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-industrial-policy-likely-from-june/articleshow/75984271.cms||Kapil Dave
May 26, 2020||Pune||Police perform last rites||Pune: The Deccan Gymkhana police recently performed the last rites of a security guard, who died on May 5 of multiple organ failure at the Sassoon General Hospital. The relatives of the deceased did not have the means to hire an ambulance and take the body to their native place nor did they have the resources to procure a travel pass, police said. Police had admitted security guard, K R Kamble (45), to Sassoon hospital on April 30 after he was found lying in an unconscious state on FC Road. Kamble was employed with a private security agency. The cause of his death was stated to be multiple organ failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-perform-last-rites/articleshow/75984598.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shramik Special leaves for Tripura||Ahmedabad: A Shramik Special train left for Agartala, Tripura from Ahmedabad city on a journey of 3,277km. The train will have facility to detrain the train at Guwahati in Assam and Bhairabi in Mizoram. The train left late in the night on Monday and will reach its destination, Agartala, on Thursday. Railway officials said that this was the longest train journey from Gujarat covering over 3,000km. Officials said that in the past no passengers were allowed to get down before destination. But on Monday, three destinations were combined to get adequate number of passengers. The train will run on end-to-end basis and a halt is provided at Bhopal and detraining halts at Guwahati and Bhairabi stations. The train will halt at 14 other stations only for operational purpose and crew change. Officials said that from May 2 till Monday, Western Railway has sent 1,031 Shramik Special trains while following all norms of social distancing. Out of the these, Mumbai division has run 550 trains and Ahmedabad division has run 243 trains, while the remaining were operated by Vadodara, Bhavnagar, Rajkot and Ratlam divisions of Western Railway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shramik-special-leaves-for-tripura/articleshow/75984331.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Congress to start memorandum drive over lockdown woes||GANDHINAGAR: The state unit of the Congress has announced that it will hand over memorandums at all the district headquarters of the state, highlighting the difficulties faced by various sections of the society because of the lockdown. The Congress has said that if the government does not respond to its representations, the party will approach the Gujarat high court, seeking its intervention. GPCC president Amit Chavda said, “Trade, business and industry are facing an existential crisis in Gujarat. The state government is responsible for the panic created among the industries.” He added that the party will demand the waiver of electricity bills for the period between March and June, the waiver of water and property tax for poor and middle-class families and the waiver of first-quarter school fees. ‘Probe Namaste Trump event' The Gujarat Congress has also planned to demand the formation of a SIT to investigate lapses made by the Gujarat government in hosting the ‘Namaste Trump’ event, which possibly caused the spread of coronavirus in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-to-start-memorandum-drive-over-lockdown-woes/articleshow/75984323.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||Tatas seek 1.5bn-pound aid from UK govt to counter Covid, may give stakes||MUMBAI: The Tata Group, which has a large presence in the UK through its automotive and steel units, has sought financial assistance from the government there to help the diversified enterprise recover from the collapse in car and metal sales brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. While the Tatas have not specified the support package sought, British media reported that the group has requested for a bespoke loan in excess of 1.5 billion pounds. Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) is in talks for a temporary state funding of 1 billion pounds, and Tata Steel UK has asked for a support of 500 million pounds. Reports also said that the financial package for JLR could entail conversion of loans into equity shares of the UK company. The government, through an asset resolution fund, plans to hold equity interests in companies accepting state aid. JLR said that it is in regular discussion with the government on a “whole range of matters” and the content of their private discussions remains confidential. Revenues of JLR and Tata Steel UK have been majorly hit due to the lockdown triggered by the health crisis. A government spokesperson said that the state department is in regular contact with car manufacturers to assist them through the current crisis. “We recognise the challenges facing the industry as a result of coronavirus and companies can draw upon the unprecedented package of measures, including schemes to raise capital, flexibilities with tax bills, and financial support for employees,” the spokesperson was quoted as saying in the UK media. Following a reduced demand for its products in the wake of the lockdown, JLR and Tata Steel UK had halted production activities at their plants. JLR, which was acquired by Tata Motors in June 2008, also furloughed half of its workforce of over 36,000 people. It recently restarted production activities at its factories. Tata Steel UK, which was acquired by the Indian conglomerate in 2007, employs more than 8,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-seek-1-5bn-pound-aid-from-uk-govt-to-counter-covid-may-give-stakes/articleshow/75983675.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan seeks President’s award for Darbhanga girl||PATNA/DARBHANGA: Accolades have been pouring in for Jyoti Kumari, who pedalled her bicycle for 1200km with sick father Mohan Paswan as pillion from Delhi to Sirhulli in Darbhanga amid nationwide lockdown. LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Monday wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, requesting him to confer a national award on Jyoti on January 26 next to commemorate her courage. Chirag wrote to the President that Jyoti’s feat is being talked about not only in India but abroad as well. “It’s my request that she be conferred with President award on January 26 (Republic Day),” Chirag wrote. The Jamui MP also sent a copy of his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Thanking Chirag for his recommendations, Jyoti told this newspaper in Darbhanga: “It will be the highest honour for me as President Award will be more than any other support people are offering me. I am very thankful to Chirag bhaiya and will like to meet him someday,” she said. Even US President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka in her tweet mentioned Jyoti’s courageous journey. Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju has tweeted on Sunday that he will ask the Sports Authority of India officials and Cycling Federation of India to report to him after conducting her trials. Former Bihar CM and RJD national vice-president Rabri Devi, along with her son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav held a videoconference with Jyoti on Sunday and assured his mother to support her daughter in studies and marriage. It took seven days for the Class IX student Jyoti to return to her village on a bicycle with her father, who used to earn his livelihood by driving an e-rickshaw at Gurugram but had become unemployed in the lockdown. Jyoti, who had left studies after Class VIII due to family compulsions, has got admission in Standard IX in a government school in Singhwara block of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-seeks-presidents-award-for-dbhanga-girl/articleshow/75981777.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
May 26, 2020||Business||Wanted: Leaders who can bounce from crises||MUMBAI: Resilience has emerged as the most important trait in a leader steering an organisation. The last two months of uncertainty, brought on by the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, has resulted in a deep introspection among business leaders. Whatever they have learnt in management schools and the qualities they have imbibed during the course of their careers — be it foresight, experience, humility or courage — have all been put to test. Very few may stand up and say they have not come unstuck. Experts said, going forward, resilience will be the key quality organisations will gauge in prospective leaders. Resilience is the ability to bounce back from adversity or endure hardship. Gits Food Products director (sales & marketing) Sahil Gilani admits the metrics he measured himself against as a leader have changed entirely during the current crisis. “At this point, I am as new a leader as anyone else would be. It no longer matters whether you have more experience than others in the traditional ways — the measurement tools are totally different with the current situation. The kind of resilience you need today as a leader are different from what it was two months ago,” said Gilani. In the pre-Covid era, leaders were chosen based on a set of traits, key among which were humility, ethics, courage, experience and execution. Egon Zehnder managing partner Pallavi Kathuria said resilience stands out among a host of others as this is the key trait that will help leaders not just cope but transform as they come out of this crisis. “During a crisis, leaders need to lead themselves and others with resilience. Resilient leaders and organisations led by them recover more quickly from a crisis and learn from disruption.” Prabir Jha People Advisory founder & CEO Prabir Jha said, “Resilience is a psychological and emotional state to withstand criticism, defeat, setbacks, disappointments and contradictory stakeholder expectations. In the post-Covid world, the ability to take these in your stride and bounce back each time will be vital. The moving parts will be just too many. And we will not always win, we will not always have answers.” During the lockdown, manufacturers faced a peculiar situation of getting permissions from every state they operate in, and district magistrates were taking decisions on whether a plant could function or not based on Covid-positive cases in their area, and every day was a new day. “Regardless of hurdles of workforce, transport, materials — all of which had to be arranged with great difficulty — one never lost patience or cool and had to have stellar resilience levels to combat the situation, keep the entire team and all stakeholders positive, confident, charged up and convinced at all times,” said Parle Products executive director Arup Chauhan. Resilient leaders, said Kathuria, don’t see a crisis — they see a transition. “It is a three-phase process from stabilise to cope, to learn, and transform that people go through as they internalise and come to terms with the details of the new situation that the change brings about,” said Kathuria. Even at the workplace earlier, all leaders had to do was spend time outside their cabin and talk to employees. “My intuition led to gauge people based on their body language. One could sense whether or not an assigned work would be carried out. However, it’s difficult to read a person or understand a situation on a videoconference. Leaders will have to imbibe new skills to do that,” said Gilani. Jha said leaders must look beyond themselves. “Beyond accenting some dimensions like courage and humility, I would look at resilience, comfort with ambiguity, and willingness to be vulnerable as key shifts. There will be situations galore where you will need to think and behave in the moment and what you think, say and do consistently will really define leadership. Unfortunately, there are no cookie cutter formulae any more,” he said. Going forward, Kathuria said CEOs will need to balance the ‘doing’ aspect of their work — quickly, considering and executing all the business requirements the crisis presents — and the ‘being’ aspect, which embodies compassion, empathy, energy, and resilience of spirit that their followers need to feel safe and motivated. Till date, CEOs were used to applying the ‘being’ side of their role in large part to serve the `doing’. “Given the enormity of this crisis and the need to actively attend to its massive human effects with empathy and care, while trying to protect and save the business, it presents a new leadership mandate that requires vigilance to keep the two in perpetual balance moving forward. Several critical considerations are rising to the fore, all of which draw upon the ‘being’ and ‘doing’ functions of great leadership,” said Kathuria. Kathuria said while the fundamental framework and methodology of leadership assessment and development will not change, there would now be more focus on assessing resilience and management of ambiguity, while adding that the experience of leading turnarounds will become more relevant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wanted-leaders-who-can-bounce-from-crises/articleshow/75983683.cms||Namrata Singh
May 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: NDRF busy creating awareness on Covid-19||PATNA: The 9th battalion personnel of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), deployed in several districts to help the local administration in its fight against coronavirus, are busy conducting awareness programme at quarantine centres about the necessity for migrant workers to stay there for at least 14 days instead of directly going home. NDRF 9th battalion commandant Vijay Sinha said the migrant workers returning from other states were being made aware about the risk and health problems their families might face if they are allowed to go home instead of staying quarantined. “These migrant workers are being told how to maintain hygiene by washing hands to contain Covid-19 spread. They are also being told about using mask and its benefits in the present situation,” he said. Sinha said all these awareness programmes are being run on the directions of state disaster management department and the district administration concerned where NDRF teams are deployed for area sanitization, supporting authorities in handling migrant workers and transporting any Covid suspect to hospital. Sinha said NDRF had started conducting awareness programmes on Covid-19 in schools and public places in Patna and other districts from March 5. “We organized several such awareness programmes in government and private schools in Patna and other districts, dry port at Bihta, Patna and Gaya airports and later in quarantine centres. NDRF also conducted training for doctors, police and paramedics in state to prepare them for Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Sinha said words like quarantine and isolation might be new for many, but not for the NDRF men. “Those who had participated in the mock drill at Patna airport last year on handling chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) crisis were also made aware of these concepts that time. The Airports Authority of India staff and Central Industrial Security Force personnel, city doctors, airline employees, firefighters and district administration people were imparted training in handling a person infected with any kind of pandemic and the steps required for isolating and quarantining such people. An NDRF officer, preferring anonymity, said the Patna airport drill was monitored by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), which is a laboratory of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). “Their authorities had stayed in Patna for five days to overlook the training-cum-mock drill operations at the airport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ndrf-busy-creating-awareness-on-covid/articleshow/75982819.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Wind returns, weathermen predict rain later this week||KOLKATA: Gusty winds returned to cyclone-battered Kolkata on Monday. The sky remained cloudy and the mercury dropped to 29.2°C, two notches below normal. The breeze brought back horrors of inclement weather with the scars of Amphan still fresh. But weathermen dispelled fears of heavy rain in Kolkata.  However, light to moderate showers are likely between Thursday and Saturday, they said. Several north Bengal districts on Monday received thundershowers under the impact of a low-pressure. Kolkata recorded a maximum temperature of 32.1°C on Monday. A low-pressure trough between Uttar Pradesh and Assam triggered thundershowers across north Bengal. It was aided by a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal which supplied moisture and led to the breeze. “The wind from the sea travelled from south to north across Kolkata which led to the breeze in the city. It will continue as long as the low-pressure in north Bengal exists,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. He added that while Kolkata would remain windy on Tuesday, showers are imminent from Thursday. “A cyclonic circulation is set to form over Jharkhand around Thursday. It will attract moisture from the sea and lead to rain. The showers could be light on Thursday but might get moderate over the weekend,” said Das. He said the rain could be light but may continue till June 1. Meanwhile, Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, North and South Dinajpur received thundershowers on Monday. The districts were lashed by 30kmph-40kmph wind. The wind and cloud floated into south Bengal from the low-pressure trough between Uttar Pradesh and Assam. That didn’t lead to rain, though. “The wind blew at a reasonably good speed but it had nothing to do with cyclone Amphan,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wind-returns-weathermen-predict-rain-later-this-week/articleshow/75983775.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||NAAC inspection of Gujarat University likely in July-August||AHMEDABAD: The inspection for accreditation of Gujarat University (GU) by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) is likely to be held in July or August this year, said GU sources.The inspection process for GU was earlier scheduled for May but has been deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the countrywide lockdown. The authorities are worried about an inspection when the varsity is yet to get a full-time vice-chancellor (VC). NAAC accreditation is mandatory for academic autonomy and central government funding. The committee to select the next VC hasn’t been able to finalize three names to send to the state government for final selection due to the lockdown. Earlier this year, the varsity spent crores on renovation and building new infrastructure. “It appointed a full-time registrar and filled various other posts.The GU authorities spent crores on road widening and other projects,” said an official. The assessment is held every five years and the varsity last received a B+ grade. This time round it is aiming for the highest standard, an A+ grade. GU and its affiliated colleges are presently closed for students due to the lockdown. The varsity has begun administrative work with limited staff according to the state government’s directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/naac-inspection-of-gu-likely-in-july-august/articleshow/75984351.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||Health products get a boost as desis look to build immunity||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: As the coronavirus pandemic rages, health has become an important element even in food and grocery items. Indians are warming up to the idea of building immunity and maintaining healthy diets to prevent a Covid-19 infection. Products such as olive oil, soya oil, mustard oil, fortified bread & biscuits, and powdered chocolate drinks are in huge demand. During normal times, such products would grow at just 5-10% annually, but now they are registering annualised growth of 20-40%, industry executives say. “Health has taken more share of the mind thanks to app-led information and lots of WhatsApp forwards on health/immunity and even Instagram/TikTtok posts leaning towards health. People are trying to increase immunity, leading to higher consumption of branded healthy eggs, health oils, health mixes, energy/health bars, chyawanprash and even branded health salt,” said Devendra Chawla, CEO of Spencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket. Dabur, whose chyawanprash sales hit the roof after the outbreak of coronavirus, has strengthened its immunity-boosting portfolio with the launch of new products. ‘People are paying 20-30% extra to eat healthy food’We have been working on two fronts. On the one hand, we have enhanced production of our existing immunity building products; on the other, we are introducing ready-to-use immunity-booster products such as tulsi drops, amla juice, giloy-neem, and Ashwaganda, to name a few,” said CEO Mohit Malhotra. Biscuit brands Unibic and Parle are seeing a 50% growth in their healthy segment such as oats-based and digestive biscuits. Srini Vudyagiri, CEO, Unibic, said May would see the highest growth in the healthy segment since they began operations. “People are even paying 20-30% extra to eat healthy,” he said. Also read: Home consumption drives up household grocery billsBengaluru-based food startup Sproutlife Foods, which sells under the Yoga Bar brand, has seen 100% growth in muesli and breakfast protein bars, as people try to include more protein and fibre in their food, chief operating officer Suhasini Sampath said Marico’s health segment too has got a boost. “We have continued to witness strong growth in the healthy foods portfolio, led by Saffola Plain and masala oats. Select offerings in the Saffola Fittify Gourmet (including green coffee, moringa green tea, hi-protein meal replacement soups and shakes) and the Coco Soul range have also trended well,” said Sanjay Mishra, chief operating officer - India sales and Bangladesh business. Hemant Malik, divisional CEO of ITC Foods, said such portfolio shifts are happening as people consume more at home. “People are looking at little more connotations on health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/health-products-get-a-boost-as-desis-look-to-build-immunity/articleshow/75983966.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Cop’s TikTok video leads to reunion of Telangana family||Ludhiana: When 26-year-old constable of Ludhiana police Ajaib Singh was making a TikTok video while giving food to an old man begging near Lakkar bridge, he had little idea that this would lead to reunion of a Telangana family.Hearing and speech impaired Roddam Venkateshwarlu of Bhadradri Kothagudem district had gone missing on April 27, 2018. His family had lodged a complaint with the police, but later lost hopes of getting him back. But now, after two years, this Punjab Police constable has come in their life as an angel whose TikTik video helped reunite the family.On Sunday morning, Peddiraju, son of Venkateshwarlu, reached city and took his father back. “My father started crying when he saw me. He was missing for two years and we had lost all hopes of meeting him again. I thank the constable who made his TikTok video and I could reach my father,” said Peddiraju while speaking with TOI over phone. He said his sister borrowed money to arrange the taxi to bring their father back.Venkateshwarlu worked as a labourer and has four children and wife. On April 27, 2018 he had gone to work, as usual, came home for lunch and left again, but did not return. A missing complaint was lodged with the police, but the elderly man remained untraced.On May 21, a villager showed the TikTok video with 1.8 million views to Venkateshwarlu’s daughter Kanakadurga, who recognised his father in the video. Thereafter, the local police contacted of Ajaib Singh and collected details of Venkateshwarlu. Constable Ajaib Singh said, “I had never thought that my TikTok video could lead to reunion of a family after two years. I feel fortunate enough to be the reason of this reunion. A couple of months back, I saw this elderly man begging near Lakkar bridge and gave him food. He used to live under that bridge only.”For the past two years, constable Ajaib Singh has been helping the needy. From providing ration to poor families, helping elderly couples to providing medical assistance, he has always been in the news for good reasons. During the lockdown, the constable and his team have distributed ration to nearly 1.5 lakh families in Ludhiana district. On May 10, he was also awarded the DGP’s commendation disc for helping the needy. His Facebook page Goldy PP has 3.8 lakh followers.Asked about the demand to ban TikTok video in India, the constable said, “That has to be decided by government. But I feel people should use it in a good manner and for a cause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-tiktok-video-leads-to-reunion-of-telangana-family/articleshow/75982440.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 26, 2020||Business||HDFC Q4 net falls 22%, no bank dividend||TNN Mumbai: HDFC reported a 22% drop in net profit to Rs 2,233 crore for the quarter ended March as against Rs 2,862 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. The corporation attributed the drop in net profit to the absence of any dividend from HDFC Bank, which resulted in dividend income falling to Rs 2 crore from Rs 537 crore in the previous year. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the RBI had advised banks to conserve capital and avoid dividend payouts. The corporation also recorded lower profit on sales of investment and its margins were hit by its decision to maintain a substantial amount of cash. The corporation set aside provisions that were much more than what was required by the National Housing Bank as a measure of caution. Speaking to TOI, HDFC VC and CEO Keki Mistry said that the company has decided to remain liquid during the current situation. As part of this strategy, HDFC has maintained Rs 30,000 crore in cash despite this resulting in a negative carry (where cost of funds is more than returns). “We are going to raise funding from every possible source, including the liquidity facility from the National Housing Bank,” said Mistry. He said that while 95% of borrowers pay loan EMIs electronically, around 5% required personal follow-ups, which took a hit during the lockdown. “The gross non-performing loans as on March 31, 2020 stood at Rs 8,908 crore. This is equivalent to 1.99% of the loan portfolio. The non-performing loans of the individual portfolio stood at 0.95%, while that of the non-individual portfolio stood at 4.71%,” HDFC said. Around only 21% of borrowers have opted for a moratorium. Mistry said that he did not expect the number to go up. He said that the corporation has made liberal provisions for any unexpected risks and the total provisions were Rs 6,800 crore in excess of what was prescribed by regulations. According to Mistry, even if real estate prices were to crash, the loans would have significant equity as the average loan-to-value ratio was 70%. He said that over 76% of the lending was to individual home buyers with the average home loan size remaining unchanged at Rs 27 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-q4-net-falls-22-no-bank-dividend/articleshow/75983492.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Patna||7,000 migrants identified for govt loan to buy vehicles||PATNA: The state transport department has identified around 7,000 migrant workers staying in quarantine centres after their return from other states to provide them financial assistance for purchasing commercial vehicles like e-rickshaw and autorickshaws for livelihood. Secretary (transport) Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told TOI on Monday that they have been identified through skill survey done at the government quarantine centres in different districts. “These people were running autorickshaws, taxis, cabs or other rented vehicles in other states. They would be provided financial assistance under Mukhyamantri Gram Parivahan Yojana and other schemes to buy their own vehicles and earn livelihood for their families,” Agarwal said. He said subsidy up to 50% of the vehicle price or maximum Rs1 lakh is given to the applicants under the scheme. The applicants under Mukhyamantri Gram Parivahan Yojana can purchase four to 10-seater vehicles. Five vehicles can be purchased in each panchayat under the scheme. “We have a target of 45,000 vehicles to be procured under the scheme by March 2021 and so far we have approved applications for 22,000 vehicles,” Agarwal said. The transport secretary said around 8,000 applications have already been received from migrant workers willing to avail the benefit of the scheme. “Though the scheme is only for people from EBC, SC and ST categories, but we will provide financial assistance to migrant workers from other categories as well. Besides, we will provide training to some of them at the heavy motor vehicle training institute in Aurangabad district,” he said. “The applicants are required to make online application under the scheme. Besides, district magistrates have been told to make announcements at quarantine centres and get hard copy of the forms filled up by the willing people,” Agarwal said. Citing an example, he said: “In one of the videoconferencing sessions between chief minister and the inmates of quarantine centres in different districts, one migrant worker told the CM that he has already applied for the scheme and will run his own autorickshaw here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7000-migrants-identified-for-govt-loan-to-buy-vehicles/articleshow/75982723.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 26, 2020||Patna||Reverse migration: Lessons from nature||Urban development over the years has led to largescale human migrations that have raised various ecological and economic issues and one of the most disturbing among them is the abysmal living conditions of migrants. While we are obsessed with the skyline of cities, it’s time we get a ‘groundline’ view of the migrant clusters and their problems. Lessons in this regard can be learned from how nature manages its biodiversity by physically locating species in colonies with communication between them done through signalling instead of mass transfer of inhabitants based on the concept of energy transfer instead of mass transfer. If mass transfer takes place beyond a point, nature tries to revert to its natural state. The current reverse migration that we are witnessing — especially the return of lakhs of migrant workers to Bihar— is probably nature’s way of correcting the wrongs. Nature has created order by colonising different species of microbes in different parts of our body benefiting both the ‘host’ and the organisms (migrants) themselves. For example, in a healthy individual there are various types of microbe inhabiting in their respective locations inside the body. They help in creating various signals, which not only impact the host location cells or organs, but also the cells and organs in distant locations, thus executing functions that benefit the entire body. However, if there is a significant migration or change in the number of microbes of a particular region, it leads to diseases. For instance, when bacteria from colon move to the small intestine in significant numbers or there is an excessive increase in population of bacteria in the small intestine, it leads to small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, which can eventually lead to various problems related to digestion, immunity and other complications. This analogy works for human migration as well. Clearly, modern day developments have led to migration of people from their home states to far off cities, which is against nature. It’s critical to understand the problem and explore options to provide opportunities to migrants locally, which does not necessitate largescale human migrations. Nature is indeed our best teacher. We now need to fathom the science behind nature’s true inter-connectivity instead of the fake inter-connectivity glorified in the name of development and globalisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/reverse-migration-lessons-from-nature/articleshow/75982590.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara airport starts partial flight operations||Vadodara: Even as Vadodara airport resumed operations on Monday, the first flight to land at the airport from Mumbai got cancelled. However, three others from and to Delhi and Bengaluru were on schedule. Indigo airlines cancelled the flight between Vadodara and Mumbai for two days, including Monday and Tuesday, citing “operational reasons”. The flight was scheduled to arrive at Vadodara airport at 4.40 pm and depart for Mumbai at 5.20 pm. However, early cancellation saved passengers of airpor thassles. Sources said the flight was cancelled as Maharashtra government on Sunday announced that only 25 flights will be operated in and out of Mumbai airport. “The journey was very good,” said Pooja Patel, who landed in Vadodara from Delhi through an Indigo flight later in the day, but also appealed people to fly only if there is an emergency. “Some co-passengers carrying infants had to face a lot of difficulties managing luggage and infants in absence of trolleys,” she said. Siddharth Chatterjee, working in an MNC at Noida, flew in to stay with his parents in Vadodara. “Since the company has allowed work from home, I will be staying with my parents,” he said adding that both airports took adequate precaution for safety of all the passengers. A native of Panipat, Haryana, Narendra Singh, who works with Indian Oil Corporation, could reach Vadodara his workplace after a long span. “The staff was co-operative and passengers were following all rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-airport-starts-partial-flight-operations/articleshow/75982928.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||4,000 booked for lockdown violation in Porbandar||Rajkot: In the past two months, Porbandar district police have booked 4,000 people for the alleged violation of the lockdown order imposed to fight the spread of Covid-19 infection. At present, there are 1,800 cops including six deputy superintendents of police, seven police inspectors, 31 police sub-inspectors and 500 jawans from police, SRP, TRB and home guard who are engaged in Covid-19 duty. “In our fight against Covid-19, we have ensured that senior citizens are transported to the hospital if they are in need. We have also organized health check-ups camps for general public. In order to provide entertainment to the public, we have installed DJ system on vehicles and relayed songs by popular artists of Porbandar,” said Parthrajsinh Gohil, Porbandar district superintendent of police. “In order to provide mental and physical relief to our cops on duty, we have conducted Yoga training in association with Ramakrishna Mission,” said Gohil. The Porbandar district police have also conducted the distribution of masks, hand sanitizers, gloves and face shields among people. That apart, the Porbandar district police have distributed monthly ration kits among 500 families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4000-booked-for-lockdown-violation-in-porbandar/articleshow/75982457.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Containment-zone spike to control Amphan impact on virus spread||Kolkata: The city’s containment list now has 286 zones, 19 more than the earlier list. However, the Kolkata list, unlike that of Salt Lake, is not graded along the green, orange and red zones. Mapping Kolkata into orange and green zones has been delayed as the Kolkata Police is focused on mitigating the impact of Cyclone Amphan, sources said. “The containment zone list has been prepared according to case prevalence in specific localities. This will be extended based on the orange, or buffer, zones and the green, or clean, zones,” a senior official said. On Monday, Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators (BOA) governing the KMC, said, “We are conducting as many as 10,000 Covid-19 tests every day. While Burrabazar has registered a decline in Covid-19 positive cases, the deadly virus is spreading in some other areas. We are bringing those areas under micro-planning zones.” According to an earlier state notification, Kolkata has allowed shops and retailers to resume business in green zones from May 21. From May 27, more exemptions will be in place, including for autos and hawkers. These, according to plans, will be allowed in orange and green zones. “Several new places in south Kolkata now figure on the containment map. These include Alipore Road, Sunny Park, Lake View Road and Kasba. There are 43 KMC wards which have two containment zones,” a source said. Health experts feel the worst impact of Amphan on Covid-19 containment measures in the city is yet to come. The surge in number of infected people is expected to spike rapidly in about a week or two. “The impact of the cyclone on essentials, like food, electricity and water, has taken the upper hand over the fear of Covid-19 — even in people who were otherwise quite conscious of the preventive measures. We will start feeling the impact of this violation of social-distancing norms in the next two weeks,” said paediatric intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri of Institute of Child Health. Doctors said that incubation period of the virus ranges from 1-14 days, with a median estimate of five to six days. Sources at the health department said they were expecting samples from suspected patients to rise abruptly in the next few days. “We were already aiming to ramp up the number of tests to 10,000 a day. Now, in the aftermath of this cyclone, we may need to increase it further. We are preparing to press all laboratories to full capacity,” said a health department official. Of the 33 functional laboratories for Covid testing, 18 are in Kolkata. A few more laboratories are expected to get permission in the next few days. (With inputs from Saikat Ray)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/containment-zone-spike-to-control-amphan-impact-on-virus-spread/articleshow/75983741.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 26, 2020||Business||Firms use Covid as launch pad for new products, services||Chennai: For marketers every crisis is also an opportunity. The Covid pandemic has thrown up a host of products and services customized to cater to the specific needs of consumers battling the epidemic. FMCG products, health security systems, wellness kits, software solutions, vehicle disinfection packages — a range of pandemic-related products and services have flooded the market. FMCG brand Marico has launched ‘Veggie Clean’ vegetable wash for perishable products, while auto major Kinetic has introduced fogging and spraying electric vehicles for disinfecting factories, malls and office premises. Garage equipment manufacturer and distributor ATS has debuted vehicle sterilization solutions like Ozone Air Sterilizer while online auto portal Droom on the other hand is offering its Germ Shield Service (antimicrobial coating for automobile and real estate) in the form of a franchise opportunity on a pan India basis targeting 20 cities and 200 franchisees. Others like Dabur, ITC and Cavinkare are tweaking their existing portfolio to tap the boom in health and sanitization products. “In the wake of the Covid outbreak, Dabur has strengthened its immunity-boosting portfolio with the introduction of new ready-to-use immunity-booster products,” said Dabur India CEO Mohit Malhotra. These include Tulsi drops, Amla juice, Giloy-Neem-Tulsi juice and Ashwagandha capsules, to name a few. The company has also launched a 6-in-1 Immunity Kit comprising its immunity booster products. Other FMCG players like ITC and Cavinkare, for instance, have introduced hand sanitisers in 50 paise and Re 1 satchets for bottom of the pyramid customers. ITC has extended its Savlon brand to offer surface disinfectant sprays for tables, door knobs, chairs, sofas, etc in homes and commercial areas that are touched by several people. Services too are offering Covid-specific solutions from garages to home offices. Garage equipment manufacturer and distributor ATS ELGi has launched a new range of vehicle sterilization solutions - Ozone Air Sterilizer which uses ozone (a natural form of activated oxygen) to eliminate bacteria, virus, moulds, allergens, odours and pollutants in vehicles. Said Praveen Tiwari, MD, ATS ELGi: “Disinfecting a mid-size car or a commercial vehicle cabin ranging from SCV, LCV to HCV is possible in approximately 10 minutes, while an SUV or a van would complete the process in 20 minutes.” Others like Godrej Security Solutions have announced their entry into the health security segment with the COVID Defence Security Range of products — Vigi-Guard turnstile with sanitizer dispenser and the Dual Sensor Thermal Camera for elevated body temperature screening. “The product restricts the entry of any person who has not disinfected their hands and can also be retrofitted to existing Godrej turnstiles and flap barriers,” said the company in a statement. “It also can be used alongside Godrej’s Facial recognition system with Temperature Sensing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/firms-use-covid-as-launch-pad-for-new-products-services/articleshow/75983998.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||ICMR finds beta-Cov2 in two bat species||Ahmedabad: Scientists have always been intrigued by bats which are a natural reservoir for many viruses, of which some are potential human pathogens.The recent SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus that causes the Covid-19 disease is also suspected to have originated from these mammals. Recently 22 scientists working in various divisions of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) took rectal and throat swabs from two species of bats — Pteropus medius and Rousettus, 508 of them from seven states including Gujarat, for presence of beta-CoV 2 virus.  The said virus shares 93% to 96% similarity to the virus causing the current Covid-19 disease. None of the Gujarat samples showed presence of the beta Cov2 virus, but those taken from Kerala (12), Himachal Pradesh (2), Puducherry (6) and Tamil Nadu (1) had tested positive for the virus. The study spanned 2018 and 2019. The scientists, however, have now warned that such studies were necessary to understand the coronavirus CoV circulation in Indian bats. “Detection of potentially pathogenic CoVs in Indian bats stresses the need for enhanced screening for novel viruses in them. ‘One Health’ approach with collaborative activities by the animal health and human health sectors in these surveillance activities should be used in the interest of public health,” claimed the report published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research in March. The report claimed that such periodic exercise of testing will help in the “development of diagnostic assays for novel viruses with outbreak potential and be useful in disease interventions. Proactive surveillance remains crucial for identifying the emerging novel viruses with epidemic potential and measures for risk mitigation,” the report has insisted. The scientists who were part of the study belonged to ICMR’s Maximum Containment Laboratory (MCL), Diagnostic Virology Group (DVG), Enteric Virus Group (EVG), Entomology division, Poliovirus Group, National Institute of Virology, Pune, NIV , Alappuzha, and Division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icmr-finds-beta-cov2-in-two-bat-species/articleshow/75984294.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Jobless for two months, painter attempts suicide||Pune: A painting worker from Alandi Road tried to hang himself from a ceiling hook in his house on Sunday night after the lockdown rendered him jobless for two months.  A Bhosari police officer said the worker was facing financial issues as he had not got work. On Sunday, he had an argument with his wife as he couldn’t give her money for essentials. She went to her brother-in-law, who was their neighbour. After a while, she found her house door locked. She broke the window glass and saw her husband hanging. She raised an alarm and her brother-in-law and neighbours took her husband to the hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jobless-for-two-months-painter-attempts-suicide/articleshow/75984587.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||Cos look within for new woman leaders||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com Mumbai: A firm recently decided to recruit a woman as the HR head. However, despite running the best possible search, it failed to find the right candidate. Organisations accept that there’s only a limited pool of women ready to take on leadership roles. And that the only way to get more women leaders is by developing talent internally. Long tenured learning and development interventions are being launched by organisations to help women break the glass ceiling. One such programme called ‘Accel’ has been curated by Godrej Group for its 32 high-performing women managers. In this year-long programme, managers are mentored by key women leaders from the group, including Nisaba Godrej, and other internal leaders as well, with the focal areas being learning strategy, emotional, social awareness and, more importantly, influencing. Godrej Industries Limited and Associate Companies (GILAC) group head (rewards, diversity & people productivity) Shefali Kohli said, “Given that there is an attrition of women at certain mid-levels, we said rather than reaching out and hiring women laterally, why don’t we develop them and build them from within our talent pool.” While at the manager cadre entry level, women representation stands at 30-35% for GILAC, at the leadership level it is around 17%. A leaky pipeline is a major reason why most organisations have fewer women leaders. “Research tells us that women are fairly sticky in their jobs. However, they prefer to work in immediate vicinities of their homes and it’s tough to retain them,” said Kohli. Some women also struggle with networking and managing politics at work. “There’s a confidence versus competence issue. That’s why they say men take the plunge even if they’re 60% ready, while women do not even at 80% readiness,” said Kohli. At the end of the tenure, when the group does an assessment of the shifts that were triggered by the development on the basis of inputs from managers and other key stakeholders, the women identified as ‘ready now’ would be considered for next level of roles as and when these emerge. Pidilite Industries plans to create a programme to develop women leaders and is currently under discussion with the SP Jain Institute of Management & Research (SPJIMR). “We are committed to helping our women leaders at middle management grow to the next level of leadership roles and progress in their careers,” said Pidilite Industries CHRO Rahul Sinha. Uber has rolled out a diversity and inclusion (D&I) sponsorship programme of six-12 months, targeting cohorts of 15-20 high-performing women who will be sponsored by director-plus level leaders at the firm. Uber India & South Asia HR business partner Neha Mathur said, “Having a sponsor, a career champion, and someone who advocates on their ‘sponsee’s’ behalf is a game-changing asset that is especially empowering for female professionals.” “While men may inherently find it easier to form professional relationships and organically find sponsors for themselves, women can benefit from formal programmes to match them with sponsors. The rationale behind this programme is not depriving men from opportunities in the workplace but to create a level playing field and cultivate an environment that enables women to tap into company resources that can help develop and advance their careers equally,” said Mathur. A few years ago, the Mahindra Group had started on a journey to mentor and coach 300 women in five years through its first Women Leaders Programme. A classroom learning in collaboration between Mahindra Leadership University and SPJIMR, the programme is said to have helped some women managers move up the career trajectory. SPJIMR professor of marketing and chairperson (postgraduate management programme for women) Ashita Aggarwal said, some of the identified areas of interventions for women’s leadership programmes include negotiating confidently, managing stress, conflict resolution and understanding of business to be able to lead. “We have to accept that unconscious and conscious biases exist at workplaces. Such programmes help women understand their strengths and, more importantly, be comfortable with their own style of managing and leading. Women should not try to be like ‘male leaders’ because what they bring to organisations is unique.” Aggarwal questioned the need to only upskill women to move to senior roles and not men, when both have invested same time in gaining experience and come with same educational backgrounds. “Probably more programmes are needed for men on ‘building inclusive organisations’. We need a mindset change and not just upskilling,” said Aggarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-look-within-for-new-woman-leaders/articleshow/75983425.cms||Namrata Singh
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Suzuki Motor resumes production at Hansalpur||Ahmedabad: Suzuki Motor Gujarat Private Limited (SMG), a 100% subsidiary of Japanese auto major Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC) has resumed manufacturing operations at its plant located at Hansalpur, some 60km from Ahmedabad.“Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) has been informed by SMG that they would re-start production of vehicles from May 25, strictly in accordance with the government regulations and guidelines and by observing the company’s own concern for the highest standards of safety,” MSIL on Monday stated in a regulatory filing with the stock exchange. SMG manufactures cars on a contract basis for MSIL. SMG had suspended production at the Hansalpur plant on March 23 pursuant to the government directive to check the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suzuki-motor-resumes-production-at-hansalpur/articleshow/75984281.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC launches 104 and Mango Festival||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided that the annual Mango Festival will be organized at the GMDC ground for 15 days from Tuesday. The AMC has also launched 104 service for medical facilities at doorstep for people who cannot go to hospital or urban health centres.Rajiv Gupta, ACS, forest and environment, who is in charge of activities to control further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad said that on Monday the AMC had launched the 104 service. On calling 104 a doctor and a paramedical staff and ambulance will reach the caller’s residence and treat him and if required he would be taken to the nearest hospital or urban health centre.Also, a meeting was held on Monday and it was decided that the sale of mangoes will be held at GMDC ground. The AMC and cooperative department of the state government have joined hands for the purpose. On Tuesday mayor Bijal Patel will formally declare the Mango Festival open. Gupta said about 100 farmers are expected to take part in the festival. He said not just Talala’s famous Kesar mango but even the Hafoos from Valsad and other varieties will be available from one place.Gupta said that in the last five days a total of 50,000 patients have been checked by the Dhanvantari and Arogya raths. As a part of the active surveillance drive about 80-odd Dhanvantri Raths (ambulances) which have ayurveda, homeopathy and allopathy doctors along with lab technician, pharmacists and paramedical staff are moving in the city to keep a check on the spread of Covid-19.Gupta said that one rath will be in an area for two hours and will examine and treat about 120 patients in a day, thus the AMC will screen nearly 5,000 to 6,000 persons in a day. Also, these raths will identify co-morbid patients who have blood pressure and diabetis. He said that so far over 50,000 people have been screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-launches-104-and-mango-festival/articleshow/75984341.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||Nokia Siemens Network factory shut||Chennai: The factory of telecom equipment maker Nokia Siemens Networks, in Sriperumbudur has been shut as some of its employees tested positive for Covid 19. In an email confirmation to TOI, Nokia Siemens spokesperson said, “The safety of our employees is Nokia’s key priority. We had been operating at a highly restricted level for the past few weeks and implemented a suite of measures to limit the risk of infection within our factory. All of the these were put in place in compliance with local regulations and Nokia’s own internal processes. We have now temporarily suspended operations and undertaken further fumigation and sanitization activities, and will continue to monitor the situation closely.” The spokesperson however did not mention when the factory would resume operations. “We are undertaking further fumigation and sanitisation activities and hope to resume operations soon,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nokia-siemens-network-factory-shut/articleshow/75984029.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Patna||PRS counters garner mixed response||PATNA: Altogether 56 computerized passenger reservation system (PRS) counters at different railway stations falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR), which resumed operations from May 22, have garnered mixed response during the last three days. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, 15 PRS counters in Danapur, 20 in Dhanbad, 9 in Samastipur, 8 in Sonepur and 4 in Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay divisions have started functioning again. “The railways has reopened the PRS counters because a large number of common people have not been able to book online tickets through the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation,” he said and added that full refund for cancelled tickets for special trains, which are scheduled to run from June 1, would be provided at the counters from Tuesday. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said, “Altogether 817 tickets were booked at the PRS counters of the Patna Junction on May 22, which yielded Rs 4,15,565. On the other hand, 1,200 tickets were booked at the counters of different stations under the Danapur division, yielding Rs 6.36 lakh, on May 23 and 24.” Adequate number of Railway Protection Force personnel have been deployed near the PRS counters who ensure that social distancing norms are followed. Besides, health care staff sanitize all the people buying tickets. The PRS counters at Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction, Gaya, Dehri-on-Sone and Anugrah Narayan Road stations (Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay division) and Darbhanga, Samastipur, Saharsa, Madhubani, Jainagar, Raxaul, Sitamarhi, Bettiah and Bapudham Motihari stations (Samastipur division) have been made functional. The counters at Muzaffarpur, Hajipur, Begusarai, Barauni, Dalsinghsarai, Khagaria, Naugachhia and Sonepur stations (Sonepur division) as well as Patna Junction, Danapur, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patliputra Junction, Ara, Buxar, Dildarnagar, Rajgir, Biharsharif, Bakhtiarpur, Patna Sahib, Lakhisarai, Mokama, Jehanabad and Jhajha stations are also functioning smoothly now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prs-counters-garner-mixed-response/articleshow/75982991.cms||Kumod Verma
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||State seeks damage report from varsities||Kolkata: The state has sought a report from vice-chancellors of all varsities on damage suffered by the campuses because of Cyclone Amphan. The VCs were sent a form on Saturday and asked to provide a brief description of the damage, along with a tentative estimate for repairs and information regarding power being restored at the institutions. The report will have to be submitted to the higher education department at the earliest. At Jadavpur University, the preliminary estimate is likely to be around Rs 2 crore, said a senior JU official. “We are waiting for the faculty and researchers to provide us with details of loss of electronic machines and scientific research apparatus in the laboratories and in individual departments, which will be checked over the next two days. Apart from this, we have estimated the infrastructural loss,” he added. “Walls on the complex have collapsed because of the cyclone,” said registrar Snehamanju Basu, adding that the campus has also lost several trees. In Presidency University, registrar Debajyoti Konar said they were drawing up an estimate and the university has sought help from PWD. “A laboratory, two auditoriums, some museum exhibits and glass windows have been damaged and several trees and electric poles have been uprooted. We will now start the estimation of damage incurred by the science laboratories,” he said. VC Anuradha Lohia pegged the loss at exceeding Rs 1 crore. “We had a submerged ground floor. The books on the lower racks of the library have been destroyed. Also, water has seeped into equipment. Even the second campus has sustained damage. Years of research may be lost,” she said. Calcutta University, across its 14 campuses, 16 hostels and several Centres of Excellence and Schools, has lost around Rs 2.5 crores of property. “Apart from infrastructure loss, the power cut has spoiled chemicals, antibodies, cell lines and cell culture reagents, especially in Ballygunge Rajabazar Science College. Besides, many computers, laboratory equipment, printers, photocopy machines and gadgets have been destroyed,” said a report sent by CU officials to VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-seeks-damage-report-from-varsities/articleshow/75983746.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Journey to and from IGI smooth, cabbies happy to be back in business||New Delhi: With domestic flight operations resuming after nearly two months, cab drivers at Indira Gandhi International Airport were glad once again to be the preferred mode of transport for fliers. Passengers arrived in taxis at the airport well ahead of departure times on Monday to beat any possible glitches in the check-in process. Those coming from Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad faced no problems at the borders, the online ticket proving sufficient for their passage. At the airport on Monday morning, TOI saw a heavy rush of taxis, both arriving and leaving IGIA. With Delhi Metro yet to run, most passengers relied on cabs, with even the kaali-peeli cabs finding a large number of takers. The taxi drivers took precautions to quell passenger jitters, installing machines to disinfect the vehicles before and after completing a trip. “Eight taxis went from the airport to Bareilly in the morning. Cabs have gone even to Mansa in Punjab and Alwar in Rajasthan,” said Naveen Kumar of the taxi union at IGIA. The fares were fixed and included toll amounts. “A ride to Bareilly will cost you Rs 5,500, to Mansa Rs 7,000 and to Alwar around Rs 3,200,” Kumar disclosed. Other than Ola and Uber, other cab aggregators like Mega and Meru are also present, functioning as usual through the pre-paid counters. “Our fares haven’t changed. We are charging Rs 23 per kilometre and we’ve already had several bookings in the morning,” informed a Mega cab executive at the airport. A Meru cab executive similarly said that the company hadn’t changed its rates and wasn’t charging any additional amount over the rate. However, a few passengers complained of high fares and preferred to book Ola and Uber cabs, which charged relatively lesser but involved a longer waiting time. “Those cabs take very long to reach the pick-up point, and passengers are being forced to wait in the heat,” the Meru executive said. He added that there were many passengers who opted for Meru and didn’t mind paying an extra Rs 100 because they were getting a quick getaway from the airport. “Besides, we are regularly disinfecting the vehicles and ensuring that it’s safe for both passengers and drivers to ride in our cabs,” the executive said. P C Sharma, who reached Delhi from Nagpur, was among those using cabs to reach home. “I wasn’t sure if there would be cabs available,” Sharma said. “On disembarking, I checked the options and chose the one charging me the lowest fare.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/journey-to-and-from-igi-smooth-cabbies-happy-to-be-back-in-biz/articleshow/75984581.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 65 special trains bring back 95,000 stranded people||PATNA: At least 95,000 migrant workers and other stranded people reached different places in Bihar by 65 Shramik Special trains from 10 states on Monday. According to the railway officials, nearly 12 lakh migrant workers have so far reached Bihar by 952 special trains since May 2. They said the railways would continue bringing back stranded people from other parts of the country till May 28. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said 13 special trains reached Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) with about 18,000 migrant workers and other stranded people on Monday. Special trains from Tiruvallur in Tamil Naidu; Panvel, Chhatrapatti Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Mumbai, Palghar, Pune and Lokmanya Tilak station in Maharashtra; Jodhpur and Alwar in Rajasthan; Junagarh and Surat in Gujarat and Secunderabad in Telangana reached Danapur, Buxar, Jehanabad and Ara stations. According to the DRM, railway staff arranged food packets and water bottles for the migrant workers at Danapur station with the help of IRCTC. “The passengers were served with banana and bread before they boarded buses for their respective destinations in the state,” the DRM added. ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said 24 special trains from Vapi, Bharuch, Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Surat, Bhavnagar and Udhna with about 35,000 migrant workers reached Madhepura, Purnia, Darbhanga, Bhagalpur, Samastipur, Kishanganj, Madhubani, Katihar, Gaya, Siwan, Bettiah, Muzaffarpur, Barauni, Chhapra and Sasaram stations. Special trains from Pune, Bandra, Mumbai and Vassi Road in Maharashtra also reached Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Bhagalpur, Bettiah and Katihar. Six special trains from Secunderabad in Telangana, carrying about 10,000 migrant workers, reached Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Darbhanga. A special train from Chennai reached Darbhanga with migrant workers while one each special train from Bengaluru and Palghat in Kerala reached Bhagalpur and Bettiah with the stranded people. Special trains from Hassan and Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh reached Katihar and Barauni and three other special trains from Bhiwani in Haryana, carrying about 5,700 migrant workers, reached Bettiah, Motihari and Araria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/65-spl-trains-bring-back-95000-stranded-people/articleshow/75981759.cms||Kumod Verma
May 26, 2020||Patna||Ease hurdles for setting up units: Industry bodies||PATNA: The trade and industry bodies on Monday welcomed CM Nitish Kumar’s invitation to industrialists to set up their units in the state keeping in mind availability of skilled workers here. “The invitation is praiseworthy. The need of the hour is proper implementation of the proposal,” former Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president K P S Keshri said. The CM had on Sunday promised all necessary assistance to the industrialists willing to set up their units in the state. Encouraged by the return of lakhs of skilled migrant workers to the state due to the lockdown, the CM had said there was a tremendous scope for setting up industries related to fabrics, tussar silk, shoes, leather, bag, furniture and cycle in Bihar. Around 12 lakh migrant workers have so far returned to the state from different parts of the country. Among the returnee migrant workers, there are tailors, carpenters, construction workers and those engaged in textile and fabrics industries. Earlier, the state government had also made an appeal to the industry circles to employ these migrants in the already functioning units in the state. The industry circles said the officials concerned should start the work on CM’s proposal in right earnest. “Authority should be delegated to the concerned to take up follow-up actions immediately as the opening of new units would take three to six months,” said Narendra Kumar, national vice-president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations. He added there should be commitment to clear the hurdles to facilitate opening of new units, especially with regard to land and registration. Industry department sources said the idea mooted by the CM on Sunday to open new-age industries was nothing new as the then principal secretary of the department S Siddharth had called for it some years ago. The industry circles felt that if the government did not immediately act on the proposals of the CM, the skilled migrant workers would start returning to their previous workplaces once the Covid-19 threat subsides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ease-hurdles-for-setting-up-units-industry-bodies/articleshow/75981891.cms||Abhay Singh
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Walled in on Eid: No new clothes, empty streets and namaz at home in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Tayyiba, a Class VI student, was very unhappy as she was wearing her old clothes and couldn’t go out to meet her friends on Eid. Her father decided to lift her mood by taking her out to buy gulab jamun. With no prayers being held at Jama Masjid owing to the lockdown, the sight was very sombre in the Walled City as usually thousands would assemble there to pray on the festive day. People chose to stay at home and offer namaz. While the streets were empty, people were also not seen giving the traditional “Eid Mubarak” hugs. When namaz started at 7.30am, there were more policemen than local residents outside. “We prayed at 6.30am at home as we wanted to open our shop,” said Mohammad Naved of Kallan Sweets, a shop opposite Jama Masjid. Naved remembered how the stairs leading to the mosque and the road in front would be filled with mats and cloth sheets with thousands scrambling for space to pray. While Jama Masjid has a capacity of 25,000, almost a lakh people would turn up there. “We used to prepare hot jalebis as it is customary to eat something sweet on Eid ul-Fitr. But this year it looks like we are in a ghost town,” he added. Mohammad Sulaiman, a motor parts businessman, said he prayed with his family at 5.45am at his house. “Though Eid prayers are held in a congregation, we were asked to avoid it. To follow social distancing, I only hugged my family members. When I went out to buy milk, I met many friends. But I neither hugged them nor shook hands,” he added. Mohammad Arshad and Farooque, two friends residing in Gali Kebabiyan, the narrow bylane that leads to the famous Karim’s restaurant, stood outside looking at policemen conducting a march on Matia Mahal Road.The friends said that every year after the Eid namaz, which ended around 8am, there would be thousands of people in the lane buying sweets, vermicelli, milk and other snacks. “This year it seems like nobody wants to buy anything, even though some sweet shops are open,” said Arshad. At Kamal Sweets, Aslam Pehelwan lamented how despite the lockdown restrictions being eased business had been poor. “We are also very scared about a crowd assembling outside the shop as that can turn harmful and we could get reprimanded by police,” he added. The Tughlaq-era Jami Masjid at Firoz Shah Kotla, where hundreds of people used to pray regularly, was also deserted on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/walled-in-on-eid-no-new-clothes-empty-streets-namaz-at-home/articleshow/75984683.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 26, 2020||Goa||Damage by pipeline work irks Quepem locals||Quepem: The residents of Tanki, Quepem, are upset over the repeated damage caused to the water pipeline by PWD while carrying out excavation work to lay a new 400mm JICA-funded pipeline. Residents said that not only do taps in the area run dry every time the pipe bursts, but the newly hotmixed Tilamoll-Curchorem road has also been damaged. “Due to haphazard excavation of road, the existing 150mm pipe was damaged twice in just four days and around 50 houses had no drinking water for more than two-and-half days,” Christanand Pednekar, a social activist and a resident of Tanki, said. The PWD had cut across the road at Tanki to replace the damaged pipe, but failed to restore the road. A family travelling to Quepem from Curchorem with a one-year-old on a two-wheeler met with an accident on Sunday evening at the same spot after the rider lost balance and collided with a four-wheeler. The mother and child sustained minor injuries. Citizens have demanded that PWD plumbers be stationed on site to restore water supply whenever the existing pipeline gets damaged. They alleged that the labourers are unnecessarily digging the road with heavy machinery. When TOI contacted PWD’s technical assistant engineer Amit Borkar, he agreed there was a delay in restoring the damaged part of the pipeline. “We had given clear instruction to the supervisors not to excavate the road in the middle if space is available outside the hotmixed area,” Borkar said. He said that a 7km stretch of 33km-long pipeline, from Sirvoi to Gudemoll and Sanguem to Batti, is yet to be completed. He said the entire damaged road will be hotmixed after laying the pipeline. Stating that only half the road can be used for traffic as excavated mud is dumped on the other half, residents said they feared accidents as this road is also used by ore-laden trucks. They have demanded that the mud be cleared from the drains to avoid flooding during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/damage-by-pipeline-work-irks-quepem-locals/articleshow/75985580.cms||Johnny M
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Seven criminals held in Rohini after shootout||NEW DELHI: The son of a wrestler and six others has been arrested after a brief exchange of fire in outer Delhi’s Rohini late on Sunday night. The accused killed in April a 30-year-old man who had survived their assault in 2017 and was a witness in that attempt-to-murder case, police said. “They have been identified as Mohit alias Chichad (21), Ajay (21), Mohit (20), Akshay (21), Manish (21), Abhishek (21) and Ansh Malhotra (18). They were involved in six cases of robbery and two cases of murder apart from a case of Rs 50-lakh extortion demand from a cumin seed businessman in outer Delhi,” said P K Mishra, Rohini DCP. The gang was intercepted when they were going to threaten the businessman in a car robbed from a man at gunpoint. Chichad was a wanted criminal while Akshay, a wrestler’s son, himself was also a wrestler. Following a tipoff that Chichad, who got bail in January, was hiding in Jain Nagar, police went there but the criminals managed to flee and join other members waiting in a Honda City car. As the cops surrounded them, Chichad opened fire. “Two bullets hit the bulletproof jackets of ACP Brahamjeet Singh and ASI Anil Kumar. Chichad also received a bullet injury on his leg,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-criminals-held-in-rohini-after-shootout/articleshow/75984622.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shops in Pimpri Chinchwad shut early despite relaxations||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Almost all essential shops in Pimpri Chinchwad down their shutters by 2pm, despite relaxations in timings by the authorities. Even fuel stations follow the old timings. Last week, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) announced a series of measures to kickstart businesses as it sought to tell citizens that "life and the virus have to co-exist". It said that most shops could remain open from 9am to 5pm, and some others for a longer period of time. However, most shopkeepers have stuck to the 10am to 2pm timing. "We don’t get enough business in the afternoon and people are now used to buying in bulk," said Kanataben Parmar, a grocer. She said that most people do not want to stay out in the open for long. Satish Chavan, a fuel refiller, said that there was no staff to keep the station open till 5pm. "There are five kiosks, but only one is operational. All the workers left for their home village and are unwilling to come back," he said. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said that no restriction had been imposed by the civic body. “If they don’t feel comfortable, let them remain open till 2pm, There are challenges like labour shortages, among others," he said. In the process, however, there is crowding in some shops which patrons feel can be avoided by spacing out the timings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-in-pimpri-chinchwad-shut-early-despite-relaxations/articleshow/75984640.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 26, 2020||Ludhiana||ICMR identifies 10 dist clusters for serosurvey||Ludhiana: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has identified 10 clusters (four villages and six wards) in Ludhiana district for serosurvey.A 14-member team of ICMR will collect 400 blood samples from people living in these 10 clusters under the “Community transmission surveillance programme’ and conduct their rapid antibody tests to find the community transmission stage of Covid-19.  The 10 clusters include Ghungrali village in Khanna, Bajra village, Khaira village in Samrala, Majri, Ward 11 on Tibba Road in Doraha, Ward 12 in Karamsar Colony, Ward 29 in Jamalpur, Ward 51 in Miller Ganj, Ward 65 in Guru Nanak Colony and Ward 1 in Baddowal.To date, Ludhiana district has reported 179 Covid-19 positive cases, including seven deaths. The ICMR chose Ludhiana for the survey as the source of infection is unconfirmed in several cases.Besides the industrial hub, three other Punjab districts under this programme are Patiala, Jalandhar and Gurdaspur along with a part of Pathankot that has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Under the serosurvey, Punjab health department will send 400 samples from each of the four districts to National Institute for Research in Chennai to monitor the trends of Covid-19 transmission in community. The blood samples will be tested through rapid antibody test kits and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test kits developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune.”“The survey will help understand how the transmission of infection has been so far and how it is taking place in the later stages. It will also reveal if a sampled person was ever infected by Covid-19. Even if the person tests negative, the study can show if (s)he was infected with the disease in the past 20 days or not,” Bagga added.Vishal Chopra, nodal officer for ICMR survey in the state, was in Ludhiana on Monday.Chopra, who is from Government Medical College, Patiala, department of pulmonary medicine, said, “We have already completed the ICMR survey in Patiala, Jalandhar and Gurdaspur along with a part of Pathankot. We will start it in Ludhiana on Tuesday with the help of local authorities. We will collect 400 samples from 10 clusters, that is from 40 houses in each cluster.”District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said, “Random sampling is being conducted to find out if Covid-19 is spreading in community or not. Over 100 people are being tested randomly through pool testing every day.” Its objectivesThe information will help plan lockdown strategy at district level. The objectives of serosurvey are to estimate and monitor the trend of seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the general population and high-burden cities, determine the socio-demographic risk factors for infection and delineate its geographical spread in the general population and hotspot cities.How sampling will be done Serum will be separated after centrifugation in a local health facility and transported to the laboratories in designated ICMR institutes. Detection of SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG antibodies will be performed using an ELISA-based test as per the specified optical density cut-off value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/icmr-identifies-10-dist-clusters-for-serosurvey/articleshow/75982464.cms||Mehak Jain
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Cos, banks give big push to healthcare at state’s tertiary care hosp||Jaideep.Shenoy@timesgroup.com Mangaluru: In a massive boost to healthcare infrastructure in the region, the new super speciality block of district Wenlock Hospital is all set to get state-of-the-art ICU. The nearly 160-year-old hospital is tertiary care centre for people not just from Dakshina Kannada, but also Kodagu, Chikkamgaluru, Shivamogga, Udupi and Kasaragod district in the neighbouring Kerala. The hospital has now sought help from donors for the much-needed ventilators for the new 37-bed ICU. Leading this healthcare pitch, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel at a meeting of bankers, corporate companies and stakeholders on Monday urged them to dip into their CSR funds for this project. Response to the request was enthusiastic, and the companies and banks despite fall in their profits, assured to positively revert with their contribution. The new addition at the super speciality block of district Wenlock Hospital is part of area-based development under Mangaluru Smart City mission. While this facility will initially be used to handle critical life support system that the global pandemic could bring forth, it will be used to handle regular medical emergencies later. The hospital is trying to source state-of-the-art ICUs that will serve needs of the people for at least 15 years. Dr Sadashiva, district surgeon and superintendent, district Wenlock Hospital told TOI that ICU facility in super speciality block will complement the existing 23 ICU facility in the old block of the 160-year-old hospital. “To start with, existing ventilators from the old block will be shifted to new ICU facility. Since Mangaluru Smart City Ltd gave funds for infrastructure, the hospital has approached donors to purchase new ventilators,” he said. The ventilators that hospital has sought is priced between Rs 12-15 lakh. Nalin Kumar assured prospective donors that the district administration will solve technical, administrative issues they might face in directly procuring ventilators sought by the hospital. R Selvamani, CEO, DK zilla panchayat said the ICU is a long-term investment for health care needs of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cos-banks-give-big-push-to-healthcare-at-states-tertiary-care-hosp/articleshow/75973816.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ludhiana||17-year-old farm worker found murdered in Jagraon||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 17-year-old farm worker was found murdered at a field in Jagraon’s Punjabi Bagh on Monday morning.Sanjay, who hailed from Odisha, was an employee of a farmer, Manjeet Singh.Jagraon police station SHO inspector Jagjit Singh said, “Manjeet, a resident of Punjabi Bagh, had employed Sanjay in February. The teenager was looking after his fields and living at his house. On Saturday evening, he went out and did not return. Manjeet looked for him everywhere, but to no avail. He then lodged a complaint.” When a villager saw the body in the field on Monday morning, he sounded the police. “The body was identified as that of Sanjay. There were strangulation marks on the neck. A piece of rope was also recovered from the spot. It seems to be a case of murder. Autopsy will make the cause of death clear,” the SHO added. Manjeet said, “After winding up work in our field, Sanjay would return home. I do not know if he had an enmity with anyone. He did not have many friends.” A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/17-year-old-farm-worker-found-murdered-in-jagraon/articleshow/75982450.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Mom, child’s bodies found||Pune: The bodies of a 25-year-old woman from Sanaswadi near Koregaon Bhima and her three-year-old daughter were recovered from the Bhima river on Monday afternoon. Police said the woman had jumped into the river with her daughter on Sunday afternoon following an argument with her husband, who works with a private company in Sanaswadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mom-childs-bodies-found/articleshow/75984605.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||Married woman raped at knifepoint||Rajkot: A married woman was allegedly raped by a man at knife-point in Saypar village of Rajkot taluka. Though the woman was raped twice in the past two and a half months, the complaint in this connection was lodged on Sunday night. Police said the accused, Dinesh Kiyada (30), had barged into the house of the survivor and had allegedly raped her at knife point first time, two and a half months ago. “The crime was committed when the survivor’s husband had gone out for work. The survivor was raped for the second time on the afternoon of May 15. After this, the survivor told her husband who took her to police and lodged the complaint,” said M C Vala, inspector with Kuvadava Road police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Kiyada who went absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/married-woman-raped-at-knifepoint/articleshow/75982485.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Pareek now ADCP-1||TNNLudhiana: In the transfer orders released on Monday, Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Deepak Pareek has been posted as Ludhiana ADCP-1. He has replaced Gurpreet Singh Sikand, who has been given the charge of ADCP (Industrial Security) in Ludhiana commissionerate.Mohali assistant superintendent of police Ashwani Gotyal is now ADCP (headquarters).Besides, ADCP-4 Ajinder Singh has been posted as Ropar SP (Investigation). He has been replaced by Kuldeep Sharma, who had earlier too served as ADCP-4 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pareek-now-adcp-1/articleshow/75982475.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Trial court dismisses bail plea of paedophile||MADURAI: The special court for exclusive trial of cases under Pocso Act, Madurai, dismissed the bail plea of a man who was arrested on charges of sexually assaulting minor boys in Madurai district. According to the prosecution, R Nithiyanandham had developed acquaintance with a 16-year-old minor boy. He took the boy to a secluded place and sexually assaulted him. Nithiyanandham has also shown pictures of him committing similar acts with other boys. On March 13, when Nithiyanandham again sexually assaulted the boy, he escaped from the spot and lodged a complaint with the police. Nithiyanandham, who was arrested and remanded in judicial custody and moved court seeking bail. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that a false case was registered and he is under judicial custody for more than 67 days. The special public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner had repeatedly involved in sexual assault with the victim and other minor boys. Observing that the statements of the victims, medical examination of the petitioner were not completed and investigation is pending, sessions judge of the special court J Flora dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trial-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-paedophile/articleshow/75984671.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Two more Covid-19 cases surface in dist||Ludhiana: Two new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on Monday, taking the number of positive cases in the district till now to 267, including 88 from outside.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, "As many as 123 samples were sent for testing, of which two are positive, while the rest are negative."The two testing positive for Covid-19 are a couple — 37-year-old male and 27-year-old female — from Khanpur in Dehlon of the district. They had returned from West Bengal on May 23. Their samples were taken on May 24 and sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. They have been isolated at Meritorious School in Civil Lines here.Meanwhile, seven patients were on Monday discharged from the isolation ward of civil hospital, Khanna. Dr Rajinder Gulati, senior medical officer, said, "Six of them were admitted to the isolation ward 10 days back after testing positive for Covid-19. Two of them belong to Kaddon and four to Doraha. These patients were discharged as per the revised discharge policy for the Covid-19 patients." Dr Gulati said all these patients remained asymptomatic with stable vitals during their stay in the isolation ward. “They will now remain in home isolation for seven days and will be visited by rapid response team daily from their respective areas,” he added.The care givers of these patients at home will take hydroxychloroquine tablets as prophylaxis. Attendants of the patients were also counselled at the time of discharge and advised that the patients should strictly follow the advisory for the home isolation. Gulati also said the seventh patient, an accused brought by the police, tested negative two times in a row after remaining in isolation ward for about four weeks. He was finally discharged and handed over to the police. As per the latest status, two accused are admitted to the isolation ward of Khanna civil hospital and their test report is awaited.To date, total 6,027 samples have been collected in the district, out of which 5,580 have tested negative, while reports of 182 are awaited. The total number of patients from Ludhiana is 179, with 88 patients from other districts and states. Seven persons from Ludhiana and five from other districts have lost their lives. In all, 142 patients from district Ludhiana have been discharged so far after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-more-covid-19-cases-surface-in-dist/articleshow/75982490.cms||Mehak Jain
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC begins surveying the elderly||Ahmedabad: A total of 25 deaths because of Covid-19 occurred within the municipal limits of Ahmedabad on Monday. Two were in the western part of the city, a 63-year-old in Vasna and a 60-year-old woman from Vejalpur. The maximum deaths were reported from the Gomtipur and Danilimda areas of the city, with four each. Only five of those who died in AMC limits had no co-morbid conditions. Apart from a 35-year-old male, the rest of the victims were between 62 and 71 years old. Of the 25 deaths, six deaths took place at SVP Hospital, five at Asarwa Civil Hospital, three at IKDRC, four at GCRI Hospital and one each at SCL Hospital and Tapan Hospital. Meanwhile, the AMC has begun aggressive house-to-house surveying of the elderly and vulnerable and those with comorbid conditions. Some 89 vans are in the city with health teams have fanned out in various areas, including those in danger of becoming future hotspots. “We have increased random sampling in many areas in the western part of the city. Contact tracing too is on. But we are concentrating on the vulnerable population now as death rates are high in this category,” says a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-begins-surveying-the-elderly/articleshow/75984667.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Eatery staff turn robbers to buy liquor in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Desperate to buy alcohol, three men, including two restaurant managers, took to crime during the lockdown. As the restaurants were closed, they planned to rob a man at knifepoint. The duo also roped in an alcoholic relative. However, they were arrested after the very first crime — they had robbed a delivery boy of his mobile phone in Amar Colony. The accused have been identified as Sumit Kumar (25), Sushant Kumar (24) and Nishant Kumar (21). “They were arrested within 48 hours and the mobile phone was also recovered,” said R P Meena, South East DCP. Nishant and Sushant are brothers and worked at two different restaurant as managers, one in CP and the other in Zamrudpur, while Sumit worked as a salesman at a hardware shop. “All of them are first-time offenders,” said Meena. They told police that after liquor shops opened, they wanted to drink but didn’t have money. On Thursday, they reached near a park in Aashtha Kunj and stopped the delivery boy on the pretext of asking a direction. As he didn’t have any money, they took his mobile phone. During the scuffle, they stabbed him on the back with a kitchen knife and ran back home. A case was registered on the basis of the victim’s statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eatery-staff-turn-robbers-to-buy-liquor/articleshow/75984687.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Court grants bail to Covid positive prisoner||MADURAI: The Madurai judicial magistrate (JM) V court granted bail to a man who was arrested and remanded in judicial custody by the Madurai city police after it was informed that he had tested positive for Covid-19. The court cited that the man needed proper medical care and keeping him under custody would cause the spread of the virus. According to the FIR, the petitioner along with seven other men assaulted M Praveenkumar and four others due to previous enmity near Sandhanamariamman temple at Thideer Nagar in Madurai on May 18. Based on Praveenkumar’s complaint, the Thideer Nagar police had registered a case against the petitioner and seven others under Sections 147, 148, 341, 294(b), 323, 506(ii) of the IPC. Afterwards, the petitioner moved court seeking bail and the case was heard recently. His counsel submitted that the petitioner had tested positive for Covid-19, and should be granted bail. Hearing the plea, judicial magistrate E Pravin Kumar said the petitioner needed proper medical care and keeping him under custody might cause the spread of the infection. The magistrate said keeping the larger interest of the society in mind, the court granted bail to the accused. The magistrate said the superintendent of Theni district prison shall release the accused on executing a bond for Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-grants-bail-to-covid-positive-prisoner/articleshow/75984717.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘85% of students against open book test’||NEW DELHI: The opposition to Delhi University’s proposed online open book exam (OBE) has gotten louder with 85% of 51,452 students surveyed saying they are not ready for such an arrangement. As the novel coronavirus outbreak and subsequent lockdown has impacted academic activities across the globe, DU has planned to let its students take the semester exams from home to mitigate the loss. However, many students claim they don’t have the necessary study materials, preparation and digital infrastructure to take the OBE, something for which the university didn’t even conduct a pilot test. On Sunday, TOI had highlighted how many students won’t be able to take the OBE owing to multiple factors. In a survey conducted by DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA), it was revealed that a large number of students couldn’t access study materials sent by teachers and over one-third of them weren’t able to attend online classes. Just 27.8% of the respondents said they could attend about 50% of the online classes. As per DU’s plan, a student would have to download the question paper, write down the answers, scan and mail it back. For this, a student would need a digital device, a scanner, and internet connectivity. The survey showed that 8.3% of the students didn’t have digital devices and 6.7% any sort of internet access. Over 36% of those with internet access were dependent on 2G and 3G connectivity. About 90% of the students claimed that they weren’t currently prepared to take exams in any form. The reason for this was attributed to failure in attending online classes and not being able to access study materials provided to them by their teachers because of poor connectivity. DUTA president Rajib Ray said that teachers weren’t against the use of technology in education, but DU’s plans were not inclusive and would lead to malpractices. “OBE is a faulty method of examination as it discriminates against those without access to books, notes and online resources, encourages malpractice and penalises honest students. It also doesn’t take care of the special needs of many students, especially the differently abled,” he added. The findings of the survey would be presented by DUTA to the varsity administration and the HRD ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/85-of-students-against-open-book-test/articleshow/76015830.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Garbage Scam: Revenue dept finds excavation at BVG parking site||Nagpur: The revenue department inspection of parking space of BVG India, one of the door-to-door garbage collection operators, revealed 1,800 cubic metres of land excavated from the parking lot at Bhandewadi. Following complaints from Shiv Sena city coordinator Nitin Tiwari against the garbage lifting firm that it was mixing mud with garbage to increase weight, the revenue department officials from the Nagpur district collectorate’s revenue officials on Monday measured the dug up land. TOI has reported the allegation on Monday. Tiwari on Monday brought up the issue of illegal excavation of soil with Nagpur city tehsildar Suryakant Patil, who asked patwari Ajay Chauhan along with divisional officer Sanjay Anawane and talathi Prashant Sahare to inspect the parking space of BVG India near Bhandewadi garbage dumping yard. The team found 1800 cubic metres of land excavated and around 12,133 cubic feet soil removed, stated the panchama report of the revenue official. The inspection report of the revenue officials clearly reveals illegal excavation of soil and Tiwari said he will be meeting police commissioner Bhushan Kumar Upadhaya and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday to demand an inquiry. Tiwari had claimed that every day about 150 to 200 brass of mud was being mixed with garbage. “It caused financial loss of Rs 1950 per metric tonne for the civic body which comes to around Rs 15 lakh,” Tiwari claimed. Following complaints by Shiv Sena, NMC’s deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) department Dr Pradip Dasarwar on Monday issued a show cause notice BVG India, the contractor asked him to submit a reply on allegations leveled by Tiwari in 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-scam-revenue-dept-finds-excavation-at-bvg-parking-site/articleshow/75984726.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Man held for marrying minor||Madurai: A 22-year-old man hailing from a village near Thirumangalam was arrested for marrying a minor girl from the same village on Sunday. R Alagar, 22, from Chinnaulagani village, married a 17-year-old girl who is studying in Class XII. He had approached the girl’s father a week back expressing his wish to marry her. As he refused, he threatened him and left. Alagar eloped with the girl on Sunday and took her to a temple in Virudhunagar district, where they got married. The couple returned to the village after marrying. A dispute broke between Alagar’s family members and the minor girl, which was pacified by fellow villagers. Based on a complaint from the girl’s father, a case was registered with the Thirumangalam all women police station under sections of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. While Alagar has been arrested, an inquiry is underway to find out those who helped conduct the marriage. Farmers protest against power bill Thanjavur: Opposing the Centre’s decision to privatise power distribution through the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, a section of farmers staged a protest by carrying black flags on agriculture lands in Thanjavur on Monday. A section of farmers affiliated to Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, headed by secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan protested on an agriculture field carrying black flags and raised slogans against the bill. They said the bill would be against the welfare of farmers and weavers across the country. They expressed fear that the amendment would deny free power to farmers and weavers and the free 100 units of power now provided to domestic consumers. They also alleged that the move by the Union government was to take away the rights of states by unilaterally deciding to draft a new electricity bill and circulate it to states. They appealed to the state government to vehemently oppose the bill on behalf of lakhs of farmers and weavers benefiting from the scheme. Over 500 students apply for e-quiz Trichy: The e-quiz organised by the statistics department of Periyar EVR College in Trichy received an overwhelming response as 500 students applied while only 100 were given access as the rest were asked to try again on Tuesday. A set of 25 questions on fundamental of statistics were asked and e-certificates were issued for those who secured over 60% marks. “When the ministry of human resource development urged colleges to engage students through online classes, it wasn’t easy to make them use their smartphones for attending online classes which they have been using only for leisurely activities so far,” said B Senthil Kumar, coordinator of internal quality assurance cell of Periyar EVR College. “It wasn’t easy to focus on curriculum while sitting at home. But this e-quiz was interesting which provoked me to improve my understanding of the subject,” said D Soundararajan, a student from the college. “We will increase the difficulty level in the coming days for the e-quiz,” said Senthil Kumar. The college is planning to extend the e-quiz to other department and has asked them to submit their questions. Spl buses for evaluation duty Trichy: TNSTC will operate 15 special buses to help teachers assigned for evaluating answer scripts of the higher secondary board examinations to reach their centres in Trichy district from Wednesday. The 15 buses assigned for ferrying school teachers will have a conductor who will verify the ID cards of the teachers and other government employees. Except for government staff, others will not be permitted to board the buses. Facemasks are mandatory to travel in these special buses, TNSTC said. Only about 30-35 people will be permitted to travel against the average seating capacity of 55. “We will register the details of passengers with their ID proof. The travel is not free, passengers have to pay the ticket fare,” a TNSTC official said. With over 2,000 teachers expected to take part in evaluation duty across 13 centres, the buses will connect Manapparai, Musiri and other towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-marrying-minor/articleshow/75984757.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||Grade separator at Goa airport ready for use||PANAJI: Six years after work began, the Rs 41-crore grade separator outside the Goa International Airport at Dabolim is ready for use. Chief minister Pramod Sawant is expected to inaugurate the two U-shaped structures on Tuesday. The project had missed several deadlines due to technical and bureaucratic hurdles. Shifting of an existing petroleum pipeline along the rail track also delayed it for a considerable amount of time. The grade separator is formed by a 686m approach road towards Verna and a 579m flyover on the Sada side. Once open, the grade separator, along with the slip road, is expected to solve traffic problems outside Goa’s lone airport. The Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) said it will ease traffic movement towards the airport from Verna and Vasco. It will also prevent congestion near the traffic signal in front of the airport. When former chief minister Manohar Parrikar laid the foundation stone for the project in February 2014, it was slated for completion in 11 months. However, the contractor, M Venkata Rao Infra Projects Pvt Ltd, missed successive completion dates. Work picked up pace only last year, when directions were issued to the PWD, the National Highways Authority of India and GSIDC to remove all hurdles and complete the project. Originally conceptualised at Rs 75 crore, the project was reworked during Parrikar’s tenure after certain difficulties in the earlier design cropped up. The structure will benefit vehicles arriving at Goa International Airport as well as vehicles that are exiting the airport and heading to Margao. “Due to the steady growth in air and vehicular traffic, the grade separator remains essential,” a GSIDC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grade-separator-at-airport-ready-for-use/articleshow/75985672.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Man booked for throwing bricks at stray dogs in Nagpur||NAGPUR: In another case of cruelty against animals, a first information report (FIR) has been registered against a resident of Hanuman Nagar for beating stray dogs with bricks. Residents of Hanuman Nagar Manish Trivedi noticed his neighbour Ravindra Baajanghate throwing bricks at a pack of stray dogs sitting nearby. As per the given information, the dogs were not aggressive and did not pose any threat to the residents. “He would hurt the dogs for no reason. Some dogs also got injured,” said Trivedi. The recording shows Baajanghate coming out of the house and going towards a heap of bricks kept outside his house. He picks up a few bricks and starts throwing them at a pack of stray dogs nearby. The incident got captured in the CCTV cameras outside Trivedi’s house. He sent the recordings to animal activist and member of Nagpur Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals (SPCA) member Karishma Galani. Based on the recordings, Galani filed a complaint against Baajanghate at Ajni police station. As per police officials, action will be taken under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. FIR has been registered under Section 11 of the act. According to Galani, hurting animals was a punishable offence as per the act. “Due to the lockdown, the stray dogs are already suffering from starvation. People should be considerate towards them. Hurting them with bricks is brutality,” she said adding that this was the first case in the city in which FIR has been registered based on CCTV footage. Galani, along with other activists, is feeding stray dogs of different areas every day. “We appeal to people to provide food and water to stray animals at this time of distress. We are coming across dogs that are starving and getting sick,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-booked-for-throwing-bricks-at-stray-dogs/articleshow/75984751.cms||Manka Behl
May 26, 2020||Madurai||217 guest workers from Virudhunagar district sent back to their native state||MADURAI: Around 217 guest workers from Jharkhand, who were working in Virudhunagar district, were sent back to their native places in a special train from Madurai Junction railway station on Monday. Following the announcement by the government to operate special trains to take back the guest workers to their native states, as many as 240 guest workers, who were working in different places in Virudhunagar district, expressed their willingness to the district administration officials to return to Jharkhand. Since most of these workers were involved in construction-related activities in Virudhunagar district, 30 of them decided to stay back as they got employment while arrangements were made to send the remaining 217 guest workers. Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said that all guest workers were brought to the Virudhunagar railway station where they were screened by the health department officials. He said that food packets and water bottles were distributed to them and added that they were sent in eight vehicles to Madurai Junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/217-guest-workers-from-virudhunagar-district-sent-back-to-their-native-state/articleshow/75984734.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||Elderly couple attacked over land dispute||Rajkot: An elderly couple was injured after they were attacked with an iron rod by an assailant over a land dispute in Dhutarpur village on the outskirts of Jamnagar on Sunday. Police said the accused, identified as Ashok Chauhan, had attacked Chaku Rathod (72) and his wife Mani Rathod (70), over a land dispute. “Chauhan staked claim to a plot of land which Chaku used to use as a cattle shed. On Sunday afternoon, Chauhan asked Chaku to vacate the plot. When Chaku refused, Chauhan, who had come prepared with an iron rod, hit him with the rod on his head. When Mani intervened, she too was attacked,” said D P Chudasma, sub-inspector with Jamnagar Panchkoshi A division police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Chauhan who went absconding after committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/elderly-couple-attacked-over-land-dispute/articleshow/75982596.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Lawyer moves HC to release ‘eligible’ prisoners||Nagpur: In view of the global coronavirus outbreak, a lawyer has approached Nagpur bench of Bombay high court praying for release of eligible prisoners from jails across the state to save them from getting infected. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar issued notices to Maharashtra government through its home department principal secretary and other respondents by asking them to reply by June 5. Inspector General of Prisons in Pune along with DIG and superintendent of prisons in Nagpur are other respondents in the case. Terming Covid-19 outbreak as most emergent and urgent health crisis ever faced by the administration, petitioner Nitish Samundre contended that protection of health and welfare of prisoners is of utmost importance. Quoting provisions of Prisons Act, 1894, and Maharashtra Prisons (Remission System) Rules, 1962, the lawyer, who argued in person, demanded declaration of remission for all eligible prisoners, who are facing lesser punishments. “Inmates who’re undergoing up to seven years of imprisonment, of which those who have completed two to three years behind bars, should be released. Also those, whose remaining term is less than one year, should also be granted remissions, with a view to reduce the burden on overcrowded jails and stop spread of virus,” he argued. The petitioner prayed for directives to respondents for at least granting special remission of one year under Maharashtra Prisons (Remission System) Rules, 1962, to the eligible inmates so that they could be protected from Covid-19. He also demanded preventive measures for the remaining inmates to save them from the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lawyer-moves-hc-to-release-eligible-prisoners/articleshow/75984754.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||No clarity on full pay for govt staffers this month||Hyderabad: The government is in a catch-22 situation on full payment of salaries to its employees. While there has been representation from the employees’ unions to pay full salaries from this month, there was no big improvement in revenues even this month too. The state’s revenue is Rs 10,800 crore a month, while the salary bill is about Rs 3,500 crore. Official sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said salary bills have been prepared with cuts to various categories of the employees as there were no fresh instructions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on payment of salaries without deductions. “We have sent bills to the state treasury with cuts in the salaries as being implemented for the past two months,” a senior official of the finance department said. Official sources said the government is still trying to pay full salaries to the employees. “While the state revenue a month normally is about Rs 10,800 crore, we have received about Rs 3,000 crore revenue this month. The salaries and pension bill alone comes to about Rs 3,500 crore during normal times. But the government is making every effort to revive full salaries,” a senior government official said. Telangana government employees’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) leaders — Karam Ravinder Reddy and Mamata — are still hopeful of revival of full salaries to the employees. “Monday and Tuesday being government holidays, we are hopeful getting full salary,” Ravinder and Mamata told TOI on Monday. With the draft fall in the state-owned tax revenues (SOTR), thegovernment in the last week of March announced 50% salary cut for government employees, 60% to the All India Services (AIS) officers such as IAS, IPS and IFS officers and 75% deduction for all elected representatives, including CM, ministers, MLAs, MLCs, corporation chairmen and other elected representatives of local bodies. For class IV, outsourcing and contract employees, 10% cut was imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-clarity-on-full-pay-for-govt-staffers-this-month/articleshow/75984002.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 26, 2020||World||BJP MPs 'attend' Taiwan event, irk China||NEW DELHI: Asking India to refrain from interfering in its "internal" affairs, the Chinese have taken umbrage at BJP MPs Meenakshi Lekhi and Rahul Kaswan's "virtual participation" in the swearing-in ceremony of Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen on Wednesday.  Lekhi and Kaswan had "virtually attended" Tsai's swearing-in and sent congratulations after she was sworn in for a second term. The two MPs were among 92 dignitaries, including US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, representing 41 countries, who virtually participated in the ceremony.  Liu Bing, counsellor (parliament) of the Chinese embassy in New Delhi, registered a protest against India's participation in the ceremony by writing to Lekhi and Kaswan. In his complaint, Liu called Lekhi and Kaswan's congratulatory message to Tsai "utterly wrong" which, he sought to be "corrected".  "The one-China principle, enshrined by the UN Charter and its relevant resolutions, is a generally recognised norm in international relations and a general consensus of the international community," he said. The Chinese indignation is significant in view of its tensions with Taiwan and India's support for Taiwan's claim for re-admission to WHO.  However, Kaswan defended his action and said it was consistent with India's stand. He said the facts were being "twisted" by the Chinese and "blown out of proportion". "I had sent a congratulatory message to the Taiwan president, which I feel doesn't violate India's stated position on the subject," Kaswan said, refraining to comment any further saying the issue was between two nations.  Even as the Indian government did not take part in the event officially, presence of the two MPs had irked Chinese authorities, who raised objections the same day, although they didn't name the two MPs. The Chinese foreign ministry had said its country hoped that everyone would "support the just cause of Chinese people to oppose the secessionist activities for Taiwan independence and realise national reunification". Liu reminded the BJP MPs that "Indian governments have pledged to adhere to one-China principle since bilateral ties were established 70 years ago".  "Any wrong signals" including the message of congratulation to President Tsai, Liu warned, "will encourage those separatists to go even further on the wrong and dangerous track, which would undermine peace and prosperity of the region". He urged the BJP MPs to "refrain from such acts and instead support China's great cause of unification".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/bjp-mps-attend-taiwan-event-irk-china/articleshow/75986927.cms||---
May 26, 2020||India||BJP MPs 'attend' Taiwan event, irk China||NEW DELHI: Asking India to refrain from interfering in its "internal" affairs, the Chinese have taken umbrage at BJP MPs Meenakshi Lekhi and Rahul Kaswan's "virtual participation" in the swearing-in ceremony of Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen on Wednesday.  Lekhi and Kaswan had "virtually attended" Tsai's swearing-in and sent congratulations after she was sworn in for a second term. The two MPs were among 92 dignitaries, including US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, representing 41 countries, who virtually participated in the ceremony.  Liu Bing, counsellor (parliament) of the Chinese embassy in New Delhi, registered a protest against India's participation in the ceremony by writing to Lekhi and Kaswan. In his complaint, Liu called Lekhi and Kaswan's congratulatory message to Tsai "utterly wrong" which, he sought to be "corrected".  "The one-China principle, enshrined by the UN Charter and its relevant resolutions, is a generally recognised norm in international relations and a general consensus of the international community," he said. The Chinese indignation is significant in view of its tensions with Taiwan and India's support for Taiwan's claim for re-admission to WHO.  However, Kaswan defended his action and said it was consistent with India's stand. He said the facts were being "twisted" by the Chinese and "blown out of proportion". "I had sent a congratulatory message to the Taiwan president, which I feel doesn't violate India's stated position on the subject," Kaswan said, refraining to comment any further saying the issue was between two nations.  Even as the Indian government did not take part in the event officially, presence of the two MPs had irked Chinese authorities, who raised objections the same day, although they didn't name the two MPs. The Chinese foreign ministry had said its country hoped that everyone would "support the just cause of Chinese people to oppose the secessionist activities for Taiwan independence and realise national reunification". Liu reminded the BJP MPs that "Indian governments have pledged to adhere to one-China principle since bilateral ties were established 70 years ago".  "Any wrong signals" including the message of congratulation to President Tsai, Liu warned, "will encourage those separatists to go even further on the wrong and dangerous track, which would undermine peace and prosperity of the region". He urged the BJP MPs to "refrain from such acts and instead support China's great cause of unification".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-mps-attend-taiwan-event-irk-china/articleshow/75986912.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Anand records its 10th Covid death||Vadodara/Anand: Anand recorded its 10th Covid-19 death on Monday even as total number of positive cases in the district reached 96. A 61-year-old resident of Khambhat’s Pith Bazaar area succumbed to Covid-19 late on Sunday, taking toll in the district to 10. The man was suffering from co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity. Counting the deceased and another 58-year-old man from Kadiya pole of Khambhat, the total number of positive cases in Anand district reached 96 by evening. So far, samples of 1,842 individuals have been tested of which 1,746 came negative. Of the 96 positive cases, 78 patients have been discharged from three hospitals while seven are still undergoing treatment. Of the seven patients, four are being treated at cardiac care centre, Khambhat, two at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad and one at general hospital, Anand. Of these, one patient is on ventilator and five are being treated with oxygen support. Condition of one patient is said to be stable, district health officials said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-records-its-10th-covid-death/articleshow/75982946.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||VVS Laxman doffs hat to Covid-19 hero feeding hungry truckers in Telangana's Sadashivpet||HYDERABAD: Not just on the field, but off it too, VVS Laxman has shown that he’s got a keen eye. The hardship caused by the pandemic was not lost on the Hyderabadi stylist as he lauded the service of a certain Syed Amjad, who feeds lorry drivers and their helpers in Sadashivpet. The cricket legend is a consistent presence on social media and his post “Syed Amjad and his family have been feeding 180 lorry drivers and cleaners in Sadashivpet, Telangana. It is so wonderful to see the common man doing incredible service in these challenging times. Hats off to Amjad and everyone who is doing their bit,” evoked plenty of likes and many retweets on Monday. “Feeding the needy is the best kind of service,” Laxman told TOI. “In tough times, the general tendency is to hoard but for Syed to go out of his way to help is amazing and means a lot.” But how does he unearth these stories? “I get to know of these stories through my Foundation (VVS Foundation), friends and family. It is one way of recognising unsung heroes -- a recognition of human spirit. What truly inspires me is that they’re not giving it out of plenty, but from their limited means.”  “There’s been a lot of time for everyone to introspect life – career, relationships – and approach life in a better perspective. Many people are struggling to make ends meet. We’ve seen migrants dying, weather in the east has not been kind. So if this lockdown was spent realising that nature is the boss, it would’ve been well spent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/laxman-doffs-hat-to-covid-19-hero-feeding-hungry-truckers/articleshow/75984013.cms||JAC Gladson
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Only one flight from Madurai airport today||MADURAI: Domestic services resumed from Madurai airport on Monday with 12 services connecting Madurai with Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram. This is half the number of domestic flights Madurai handled before the lockdown. The new schedule will be in place till the end of June, officials said. However, all services, except for SpiceJet which will arrive Chennai at 11am and return at 12pm, have been cancelled for Tuesday. Officials say poor occupancy could be a reason for cancellation by operators. Swab samples of all passengers who arrived on Monday were sent for testing and they were sent to hotels for institutional quarantine. All those who test negative will be sent to home quarantine otherwise taken to hospital. Of the 12, six are between Madurai and Chennai. There was high security and intensive checking by health teams at the airport. Airport director S Senthil Valavan said that medical teams checked every passenger for Covid-19 symptoms, whereas a team deployed by the district administration checked for e-pass, which was made mandatory. “All the standard operating procedures laid down by the central and state governments are being strictly followed. Baggages were disinfected thoroughly while airlines issued necessary protective gears to passengers. Markings were made for passengers to maintain social distancing,” he said. Airport sources said that occupancy of seats for flights bound to Madurai was only between 30-50%, while the departing flights had occupancy of 60-80%. Travel agents said that there were last minute cancellations due to uncertainty of connecting flights and fear of institutional quarantine in some states. Indigo service (Chennai - Madurai - Chennai), supposed to be the first flight on Monday, was cancelled due to low occupancy. B S G Mustafa, former president of Travel Club, said that many used to book tickets on the way to airport, but they now have to make advance bookings so that they can apply for e-pass. “Registration on the Aarogya Setu app makes the process even complicated. It will take up to a week for things to settle down. The government should come forward to simplify the process,” he urged. N Sriram of Balika Tours and Travels, said that despite issues a good number of people have decided to fly, which itself a positive sign. Empower, a Tuticorin-based forum, has sent a petition to the chief minister to allow domestic services from Tuticorin airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/only-one-flight-from-madurai-airport-today/articleshow/75984765.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 34-year-old drowns after saving friend||HYDERABAD: A 34-year-old auto driver drowned after rescuing his friend at Deverayamjal lake on Sunday evening. The victim, E Vasu, was from Ayodhya Nagar in Shapur, Quthbullapur. On Sunday evening, Vasu, his brother Vasanth and their friends — Vikram, Shiva and Kiran — went to Devarayamjal. After consuming liquor there, they went to the lake and Kiran accidentally slipped into the water while standing on a rock. His friend reacted immediately, and jumped into the lake to save him, the he successfully pushed him to safety, he himself drowned during the incident. “Vasu jumped into the water and pushed Kiran on to the bank, but in the process he drowned,” Pet Basheerabad police said. A case was registered under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/34-year-old-drowns-after-saving-friend/articleshow/75984009.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Locals kick up a stink at dumpyard||Hyderabad: Around 300 residents living around the Jawaharnagar carried out a black mask protest from their homes on Monday protesting against the stench emanating from the dumpyard. Shanti Reddy, a resident of PS Rao Nagar, said, “We have been suffering from foul smell and leechate polluting our groundwater. The state government has not taken any action. We demand and condemn this. The government must acknowledge our rights as humans.” Residents from colonies such as PS Rao Nagar, Shashank Enclave, Maruti Enclave, MLR colony have been struggling with the foul smell for years. “The air we are breathing causes headache. A slew of complaints to the pollution control board yielded no response. As the problem has become unbearable we were forced to take to the streets. It seems as if the authorities are waiting to see that we would lose momentum and end our protest,” said Vidayanadhan, a resident of Sai Srinivasa Enclave. Elderly as well as young children participated in the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-kick-up-a-stink-at-dumpyard/articleshow/75984021.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Lockdown hurdle for Ganesh and Durga idol-makers||HYDERABAD: Idol artisan Kailash Singh Hazari’s workshop at Dhoolpet is usually buzzing with activity at this time of the year with half-ready idols lined up at one side, waiting for the final touches and the last coat of paint. With the lockdown getting extended, Singh is not able to source raw materials to complete the idols and deliver it to customers and pandal organisers. To get Ganesh idols ready by August, the work starts as early as January, said the idol-maker. “In January, we buy raw material like plaster of Paris, jute, glue ,etc., during that time, as prices go up during the monsoon. We also book workers, especially the artist who specialises in drawing details like eye, hand folds, lips, etc by paying advance by February,” Singh added. He had booked nearly 15 workers and artists from Maharastra, Karnataka and West Bengal, paying amounts ranging between 5,000 and 15,000 each, apart from another 3 lakh for the raw materials. He is now falling short of money with the lockdown extended. He fears that he might not get any profit selling the idols this year. A member of Hyderabad Ganesh Idol Artisans’ Welfare Association said that most artists earn during festivals. “The last couple of festivals like Ugadi and Ram Navami were a low-key affair. Even the size of Khairtabad Ganesh idol, which was expected to be more than 60 foot tall, has also been reduced drastically,” Raj Kumar Singh, another idol-maker and president of Dhoolpet Ganesh Idol Artisans’ Welfare Association, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-hurdle-for-ganesh-and-durga-idol-makers/articleshow/75984024.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 26, 2020||Madurai||4 olive ridley turtles rescued from poachers||TUTICORIN: Four olive ridley turtles, each weighing nearly 200 to 250kg, were rescued from poachers by people in Vellapatti and Tharuvaikulam villages in Tuticorin district on Sunday night. A gang caught these turtles for their meat. A man was arrested and a case registered against a gang under several sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. Forest department personnel said a mini goods carrier with a notice ‘On Duty Essential Service Sector’ was first spotted by villagers. They found the accused shifting the turtles from a fibre boat to the vehicle. While the prime accused, Jagadesh Kumar and his accomplice, Wellington of Tuticorin fled the spot, vehicle driver S Kumar, 45, of Indira Nagar was caught. Villagers alerted the marine police and forest department officials. A team of 10 personnel led by forest range officer R Raghuvaran rushed to the spot. “The turtles were kept upside down and tied to the vehicle to restrict their mobility,” an officer said. Olive ridley turtles are among the five critically endangered turtle species in the Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park. “The nesting season is from December to March when the females come to the shore and are occasionally caught in nets. These poachers might have caught them from the deep sea using a fibre boat and brought them to the shore,” the officer said. Officials checked the four turtles for any injuries and released them back into the sea around 11pm. “The turtles were too heavy to be lifted. So they were taken in the same goods carrier to Tharuvaikulam and then released,” the officer added. Prime accused Kumar, who managed to escape, was earlier booked for poaching turtles in 2008. The fibre boat, mini goods carrier and a two-wheeler were seized. Driver Kumar was was produced before the Vilathikulam judicial magistrate and remanded in judicial custody on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-olive-ridley-turtles-rescued-from-poachers/articleshow/75984767.cms||M K Ananth
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||Only three board 70-seater aircraft||Rajkot: TruJet started operation with its 70 seater aircraft between Ahmedabad and Porbandar with only three passengers, of whom only two came to Ahmedabad, according to airport authority. The Alliance Air return flight between Diu and Mumbai got cancelled. Airport director in Diu, A A Ansari said that the 72 seater aircraft left with seven passengers from Bhuj for Mumbai, while six landed at the Bhuj airport on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/only-three-board-70-seater-aircraft/articleshow/75982726.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Swarms of locust attack crops in Ngp, Amt and Wardha||Nagpur: Even as farmers in Vidarbha are reeling under Covid-19 shock, they were caught unawares by locust attack on Monday. According to state officials, swarms of the insect are being seen in the region for the first time after 1974. The locust swarms first struck tehsils in adjoining Madhya Pradesh from where they entered Morshi, Asthi, Wadala, Sahur and other towns in Amravati and Wardha districts. According to Anil Ingale, the Wardha district agriculture superintendent, the locusts were in found in at least a dozen villages in Amravati and Wardha districts for five hours till around 12 noon. “These locusts damaged vegetable and orange crops. Farmers resorted to shouting and spraying of insecticides to get rid of them. We distributed insecticides in six villages in Ashti tehsil. Now the locusts have entered Nagpur district and can be seen in Narkhed and Katol areas,” said Ingale. NCP leader and Nagpur zilla parishad member Salil Deshmukh has asked the district administration to take steps to fight the locust attack. Deshmukh called on district collector Ravindra Thakre to take immediate steps. Till the filing of report, Deshmukh was at the spot with district officials reviewing the situation after locusts invasion in the two tehsils. The NCP leader also discussed the issue with divisional agriculture official Rajendra Bhosale and planned spraying of insecticide on the locust swarms. “During the current year, locust swarms have entered India earlier than their normal time of June and July. States are adopting various means to control the swarm of locust,” said a spokesperson of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. The pests, which entered Rajasthan from Pakistan on April 11, have been travelling towards the southern and eastern districts of the state in search of food. They have also entered Uttar Pradesh and from there on to Madhya Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh Agriculture Department on Sunday informed Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and bordering districts of the state about the possibility of locust attack and asked them to take preventive steps accordingly. (with agency inputs) Watch Nagpur: Locust outbreak in Katol Narkhed puts crops in imminent danger||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/swarms-of-locust-attack-crops-in-ngp-amt-and-wardha/articleshow/75984776.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Home quarantine must for all inter-state passengers||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is focusing on compulsory home quarantine for all foreign returnees and inter-state passengers. As the number of Covid-19 cases in the district comes under control, officials are keeping track of persons with home quarantine stamps to contain the spread of the virus. With domestic flight services to and from the state resuming today, the district administration will collect passenger details of those arriving in the city. Passengers will be stamped with the home quarantine mark and date on their hand and be counseled to not venture outside until the completion of the 14 day quarantine period. Volunteers and health secretaries of specific wards will be alerted and ensure instructions on home quarantine are followed. The district administration and the VMC are also directing efforts to ensure social distancing at business units is maintained after restrictions were relaxed in lockdown 4.0. Special teams are inspecting shops and warning establishments that are not following guidelines. Safety gear such as masks and hand sanitizers have been made mandatory at every business unit. Meanwhile, Vijayawada city reported only three positive Covid-19 cases on Monday, causing much relief to officials who have been battling to bring down the numbers. District authorities said a majority of Covid-19 cases in the district are stable and the number of active cases is coming down. Officials are looking to bring down the number of cases in KL Rao Nagar and Patamata Lanka which have seen a recent rise in numbers. Sanitation activities continue at Machavaram and Krishna Lanka, two major hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/home-quarantine-must-for-all-inter-state-passengers/articleshow/75982729.cms||Venu Lanka
May 26, 2020||Goa||Oily substance takes over beaches from Cavelossim to Colva||Colva: The popular Cavelossim-Colva beach stretch has been rendered unsafe for visitors after an oil-like subtance washed ashore last week. The sea water along certain portions of the beach has turned dark brown due to the frothy, black deposit. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said that such phenomena is an annual occurance which could be attributed to oil spills from vessels in the high seas. Former NIO scientist Virupaxa Banakar said that the substance appears to be oil discharge which can be toxic to marine life, and cautioned people against venturing into the sea. He also said that water sampling needs to be carried out to determine the exact composition of the pollutants. Drishti Lifeguard officials said that they informed the authorities concerned about the oil-like substance last week, and have been dissuading beach goers from swimming or taking dips in the water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oily-substance-takes-over-beaches-from-cavelossim-to-colva/articleshow/75985683.cms||Nisser Dias
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Anxiety-ridden consultant leaps to death in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 55-year-old software consultant suffering from ill health ended his life by jumping off a multi-storied apartment in KPHB Colony on Monday. According to KPHB police, the deceased V Ganga Venkata Sathi Raju, was a software consultant at Virtusa Consulting company in Gachibowli. Sathi Raju’s son, V Pramod (27), a software engineer employed at Microsoft in Gachibowli, lodged a complaint with KPHB police stating that his father had committed suicide in the wee hours of Monday. “The complainant stated that his father was suffering from diabetes, sleeping problems and depression since a long time. According to Pramod, Sathi Raju was being treated for ill health and was worried thinking that something would happen to him,” KPHB SI, T Subramanyam said. At around 10 p.m on Sunday, Sathi Raju slept in the bedroom of their apartment located in Indu Fortune Fields Gardenia. At about 4 a.m, Sathi Raju woke up, got dressed and left the flat leaving the door ajar. At 7 a.m, Pramod saw the photos of his father’s body posted in Telegram by apartment president. Pramod rushed to the spot beside the lobby and saw his father lying dead on the floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anxiety-ridden-consultant-leaps-to-death/articleshow/75984027.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Maiden excavation at Sivagalai begins||TUTICORIN: The Tamil Nadu state department of archaeology (TNSDA) on Monday kick-started the maiden excavation at the megalithic Sivagalai excavation site in Eral taluk in Tuticorin district. The excavation was initiated by A Manickam, 44, a history teacher from the village. Simultaneously, the sixth phase of excavation at Adichanallur where excavations have been ongoing since 1876 – followed by 1902, 1905, 2004 and 2005 – also began on Saturday. The government has sanctioned Rs 31 lakh for Sivagalai and Rs 28 lakh for Adichanallur. The first phase excavation on a vast area of barren land in Sivagalai hopes to discover artefacts that would help track the rich history and lifestyle of the people who lived a few thousand years ago. The excavation began on a 10X10sqm trench. Deputy director of TNSDA, R Sivanandam launched the work in the presence of Sivagalai excavation director M Prabakaran, archaeological officer T Thangadurai and a team of 10 researchers. Eight locals were engaged to carefully dig the soil using small pickaxes. TNSDA expect urns within a depth of one or two metres. Once retrieved, the artefacts will then be sent for carbon dating to ascertain the age. It first began in 2015 when he observed similarities between the Adichanallur burial site and Sivagalai. Manickam found over a hundred interesting artefacts including urns made of limestone and mud, bronze utensils, pottery, remains of iron knives and weapons and stone weapons that showed signs of civilisation in that stretch where Thamirabarani river once flowed. He shared his findings with the commissioner of TNSDA, T Udhayachandran and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in September 2017. Meanwhile, Sivagalai received the attention of the Madras high court, where the state government presented interesting facts of the megalithic site and initiated the excavation. In the first week of February, experts from Bengaluru and TNSDA conducted a ground penetrating radar survey on more than 500sqm at two habitations and a burial site. Based on the findings, excavation was supposed to begin the same month but delayed. The work is expected to continue till September. “This excavation is not only about digging deep into history but also to prove my friends and well-wishers wrong”, said Manickam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/maiden-excavation-at-sivagalai-begins/articleshow/75984778.cms||M K Ananth
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC changes Covid-19 strategy||HYDERABAD: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, multi-disciplinary teams have decided to approach each case in a different manner. Officials are taking a week’s time to retest, track the travel history and check for symptoms among people, who were in touch with those who tested positive. “After a senior citizen in an apartment of 10 flats located in Allwyn Colony (Kukatpally ward) passed away due to coronavirus, we immediately tested his driver but he was asymptomatic. After a week when we approached him again he tested positive,” said a GHMC official. The marking of the containment zone has also changed. While Alijapur in Narsingi was sealed following six new positive cases on Saturday, in Moosapet circle where a 24-year-old doctor, working in a reputed hospital, was tested positive officials contained only the floor of the apartment. “Infrastructure, entry/ exits points, common areas such as lift, cellar etc are taken into consideration before the containment area is marked,” said a GHMC official. Where positive cases are detected, staff members, who are pressed into service to sanitise the area, are taking inputs from the family of the patient, resident welfare associations and apartment associations. “We have instructed to spray sodium hypochlorite solution twice a day in the vicinity of the building where a positive case has been tested, but spraying is also being done based on the commuting route and frequently visited places by the person who tested positive,” said a GHMC official from the entomology wing. On an average, GHMC is getting five calls every day where people say that their body is showing symptoms of coronavirus and around three people ask for an ambulance. “ We are also probing the callers who report medical conditions to us,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-changes-covid-19-strategy/articleshow/75984033.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Banks lagging in implementing flagship schemes to be denied bulk govt deposits||Mangaluru: Both private and nationalised banks that do not take an active interest in promoting and implementing the government’s flagship schemes will face a major financial squeeze in Dakshina Kannada. Banks vie for bulk deposit of government funds allocated to various departments, and there is healthy competition among them for the same. Disbursals are made through banks to end beneficiaries by way of direct benefit transfer. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting that Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel chaired on Monday, to review implementation of flagship schemes of the government of India on Monday. Taking note of the abysmal progress by a few banks in implementing schemes such as lending to medium small and micro enterprises (MSMEs), Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), Nalin directed authorities of the lead district bank – Canara Bank—to ensure that these banks do not get bulk government deposits in future. He also instructed Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat CEO R Selvamani to withdraw any bulk deposits that government departments have kept in such non-performing banks. The various flagship programmes of the government are a crucial cog in efforts of the Union government to roll out relief measures to people affected by the pandemic, and shortcomings by banks in this matter cannot be tolerated, he said. Praveen M P, lead bank manager, said a few banks, especially those in the private sector, are not updating information on the progress in implementing flagship schemes of the government. These banks are also not deputing officials or representatives to the district level bankers committee meeting, a forum where their performance is reviewed at the highest level, Praveen said, adding this transgression has been brought to the notice of the state level bankers’ committee (SLBC) and the RBI. Nalin said on the other hand, banks that have achieved their targets under these schemes should be patronised. He directed B Yogish Acharya, general manager, Canara Bank, to report the non-performance of banks to the SLBC, that state chief secretary heads, and get the banks to fall in line. “Banks should also take keen interest in explaining benefits of various schemes to the people, so that benefits of the schemes reach the intended beneficiary,” the MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/banks-lagging-in-implementing-flagship-schemes-to-be-denied-bulk-govt-deposits/articleshow/75982773.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||28 test positive after landing at RGIA||HYDERABAD: Though evacuation flights started landing at Hyderabad airport a fortnight back, it is only now that foreign evacuees started testing positive, with 28 testing positive for Covid-19 in the last three days alone. Among the returnees at least six have travelled back from Kuwait, while the others have reach Hyderabad from Germany and Dubai. Interestingly, a majority of returnees who tested positive had stayed in the same hotel quarantine facility in the city. “Many of the foreign returnees who tested positive for the virus had stayed at the same paid hotel quarantine facility in Gachibowli. Although they returned from three different countries, they came to Hyderabad within a gap of 1-2 days,” as per a source. For international travellers 14 days paid hotel quarantine had been compulsory (now seven days). With foreign evacuees testing positive now, in addition to the already large number of migrant labours testing positive, health authorities have a dual task for containing the spread. “Apart from the ones who tested positive, test report of few more are awaited. All 28 are currently at the Gandhi hospital. The evacuees from other countries that are arriving at Hyderabad by designated flights are being screened at the airport and the symptomatic passengers are tested for Covid-19. Asymptomatic passengers were put on 14 days compulsory quarantine and are being regularly checked during the period. Now despite the central guidelines, foreign returnees might be required to be followed up for longer by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) teams,” said an official from the state health department. Authorities are paying special attention to inbound passengers from Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/28-test-ve-after-landing-at-rgia/articleshow/75984038.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 26, 2020||Agra||‘God as business partner’: Man donates several lakhs to Banke Bihari temple in Vrindavan||AGRA: A businessman, also a devout who considers Banke Bihari his “business partner”, made a large donation running to the tunes of several lakhs of rupees to Vrindavan’s Banke Bihari temple on Sunday, even as temples in the city remained closed due to the lockdown. While temple authorities refused to comment on the amount of donation, sources claimed that it was more than Rs 1 crore. Former president of the temple management committee Nandkishore Upmanyu said, “Vivek Chand Sehgal, the founder of the Samvardhan Motherson group which manufactures motor parts, has been visiting the temple for two decades and donates a large sum of money every year.” “I have seen him donating to the temple during my tenure in the management committee,” said Upmanyu, adding that the temple is now under the jurisdiction of the court. “As the story goes, the businessman has made Banke Bihari Ji his business partner and donates his profit share to the temple every year. Although the temple receives donations from devotees from time to time, this businessman is a consistent single-largest donor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/god-as-business-partner-man-donates-several-lakhs-to-banke-bihari-temple-in-vrindavan/articleshow/75982757.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Thousands pay homage to friendly last ‘raja’ of Singampatti zamin||Tirunelveli: Throwing rules to the wind, thousands of people came on Monday to pay their last respects for T N S Murgadoss Theerthapathy Maharaja, the last zamindar of Singampatti, who died on Sunday.Earlier, revenue minister R B Udhayakumar, Tirunelveli MP S Gnanathiraviam (DMK), BJP state vice-president Nainar Nagendran, MLAs and representatives of various political parties also paid homage. Nearly 1,500 took part in the final procession to the banks of Thamirabarani river where his body was cremated.On Monday, police had told his family that not more than 30 people should take part in his final rites, but police were helpless as more than 5,000, mostly without masks, visited the village.The humble and easily approachable 90-year-old ‘raja’ as he was fondly called was born on September 29, 1931. He assumed the throne in 1936 when was just four years old.He later went to Kandy in Sri Lanka for schooling in Trinity College. “He completed SSC (at par with SSLC here) and was ready to leave for Oxford for higher education but had to discontinue and return home,” said his assistant P Kittu, 75, who joined the zamindar as a 15-year-old. Kittu recalls how Murgadoss used to visit his friends in Sri Lanka every five years, till last year. Discontinuing education at a young age did not hinder his love for English language and the command over it. He read English newspapers till the end and referred the dictionary multiple times a day.An active LIC agent for nearly three decades, he used the earnings towards the fees of several children every year and temple activities. “The palace was open to all. We played cricket with his children. It used be the only house with the a big antenna for televisions and we watched cricket with the raja’s son,” recalls A Mathivanan, a villager and wildlife conservationist.Murgadoss was also known as a man of punctuality, authoring many spiritual books and a wildlife conservationist. Married to Sethu Parvathavarthini when he was 21-years-old, the couple had five children including three daughters. Following his death, social media was flooded with messages from different corners, with people recalling their interactions with him and how he inspired them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thousands-pay-homage-to-friendly-last-raja-of-singampatti-zamin/articleshow/75984773.cms||M K Ananth
May 26, 2020||Bareilly||PTR to get Rs 2.25 crore for chain link fencing in 10-km stretch||Pilibhit: The State Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) of Uttar Pradesh has approved a sum of Rs 2.25 crore for installing a chain link fencing in a 10-km stretch in Mala range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. The fund is expected to be released by the central government soon. A brainchild of then conservator of forest of Bareilly circle, Pinaki Prasad Singh, the project proposed in 2018, envisaged installing a chain link fencing in a 148-km stretch on the inner periphery of PTR to separate villages adjoining the forest. It was aimed at addressing permanently problem of man-tiger conflict. “The solution to man-tiger conflict in surroundings of PTR lies only in a 8-foot high chain link fencing fixed on the 2.5-foot high bricked wall with grouted iron pipes in the entire sensitive and highly sensitive grids,” said Singh who is now chief conservator of forest, Jhansi. He said the total cost of the project had been assessed at Rs 51.80 crore. with an outlay of Rs 35 lakh per km. Contrary to this, field director of PTR, H Rajamohan said CAMPA had approved the chain link fencing in a 10-km stretch. “We will set it up in sensitive parts of Mala forest range between village Mala and Goel Colony, where fatal incidents of man-tiger conflict have been reported in the recent past.” The standards of fencing as proposed by Pinaki Prasad Singh were not possible to meet in the sanctioned budget, he admitted. The department would therefore modulate the height and other parameters of the fence, Rajamohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-to-get-rs-2-25-crore-for-chain-link-fencing-in-10-km-stretch/articleshow/75982772.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||On a wing and a prayer: This family is home in time for lacklustre Eid||NEW DELHI: It was a homecoming marked with mixed emotions. After two years, Mohammed Nawaab was able to offer the Eid namaz with his parents in his village in Katihar district, Bihar. But this time there were no new clothes, not much to eat and hardly any reason to celebrate owing to financial distress amid the lockdown. Nawaab was one of the 20 “returnee migrants” from Delhi who worked at a construction site in Vasant Kunj till March 24. In a story being tracked by TOI for two months, 29-year-old Nawaab, his wife (25) and two children, Nazish (7) and Sameen (2), finally chose to return to Kasthabar village in Mansahi Block as repeatedly seeking support for rations to sustain themselves through the uncertainty was becoming a difficult burden to shoulder. An evasive contractor who deprived him of wages and no work possibilities in the near future forced him to join the rush of migrants leaving Delhi. Nawaab had been working as a mason in south Delhi’s upscale neighbourhoods like GK-II, Defence Colony and South Extension since 2007. Back in his village, the reality of no work and families struggling for food has already hit home. The migrant reached Katihar railway station on Sunday night anticipating to be sent to a quarantine facility, but no one referred the family there. Late at night, they were asked to go to their village where his elderly parents welcomed them. The elderly couple banked on earnings sent by Nawaab and his brother, who works in Bengaluru. This time, however, Nawaab had nothing to offer to his parents. He was counting every penny he had spent since he boarded the Shramik Special train from Delhi on Friday evening. All he had was Rs 3,000 which the contractor had paid with great difficulty and after the intervention of a voluntary organisation. Speaking to TOI, Nawaab said, “I will buy wheat with this money and look for some work as a farm labourer. If that doesn’t happen, I’ll have to borrow money from fellow villagers. But now I’m among my own people.” He also felt that being around his parents in the midst of the pandemic had given him the opportunity to take care of them till work opportunities opened up and he could return to work in cities like Delhi. Nawaab wanted to admit Nazish to a school in Delhi, but failed. He has been left wondering if he’ll be able to give her a good education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-a-wing-a-prayer-this-family-is-home-in-time-for-lacklustre-eid/articleshow/75984786.cms||Ambika Pandit
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Water released from Vaigai dam to augment supply in Madurai city||MADURAI: Water from the Vaigai dam was released into the Vaigai river on Monday evening, which will help augment drinking water supply to various local bodies including Madurai Corporation. Officials from the public works department said that a total of 216 MLD (million litres a day) of water would be released for three days. About 1,000 cusecs was released on Monday, followed by 850 and 300 cusecs respectively on Tuesday and Wednesday. Usually, water is released during the grand entry of Lord Kallalagar into river Vaigai during April-May. With the Chithirai festival cancelled, water was not released this year. Water level in Vaigai dam stood at 41.88ft out of its capacity of 72 feet on Monday. It had just 35.91ft the same day last year. Officials said the water level will come down by five feet once water is released for three days. The main source of water for Madurai Corporation is Vaigai dam (115 MLD), followed by Cauvery Combined Drinking Water scheme (10 MLD) and infiltration wells (25 MLD). Corporation is getting only 5 MLD from infiltration wells at present. “Twenty MLD of water from infiltration wells will be restored after wetting the river. Corporation is getting only around 125 MLD of water instead of 150 MLD as water sources have shrunk. However, we continue to supply water on alternative days,” an official said. Some tail-end areas face difficulty in getting water due to reduced pressure in pipe as a result of shortage of water. The issue will be solved once water availability is increased. They can supply more water to 28 added areas of the corporation, he added. There are also many village panchayats and municipalities in Madurai and Dindigul districts whoich will get more water through infiltration wells. Meanwhile, Mullaperiyar dam level stood at 112.80ft out of 142 feet. The dam had 112.20ft water the same day last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-released-from-vaigai-dam-to-augment-supply-in-madurai-city/articleshow/75984779.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Ensure social distancing at airports, Andhra Pradesh CM tells officials||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is ready for flight services in the state starting from Tuesday. Though the services were originally scheduled to begin on Monday, they were deferred by a day as the government was not prepared yet for the movement of the people through the airports. The state government has ordered the officials to follow Covid-19 and lockdown norms at all airports in the states from where flight services are starting. The airports of Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Rajamahendravaram and Tirupati are ready for operations. The Kadapa airport is likely to be ready in a day or two, sources said. The airports would observe physical distancing at the booking and checking points besides using sanitizers at every stage. Only the passengers with mask would be allowed to board the flight even if they have a ticket booked online, the sources said. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy asked the officials to ensure that the Covid-19 norms are strictly observed at the airports. He wanted the officials to conduct Covid- 19 tests on all passengers before boarding the flight or after alighting. The test records would be maintained with the officials till the results are available and the persons concerned would be sent to quarantine if they reported positive. Meanwhile, the chief minister enquired about the edema (swollen legs) disease in parts of East Godavari district. He directed the officials to provide better treatment to all the victims of the disease. He also directed deputy chief minister and minister for health Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas to visit the area and meet the victims. He also told the deputy chief minister to send medical teams to the areas to provide treatment. Similar cases were reported in the district in 2016 and again in 2018. The chief minister has told the officials to study the issue and find reasons to arrest its recurrence. The chief minister wanted medical teams to provide a permanent solution to the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-social-distancing-at-airports-jagan-tells-officials/articleshow/75982785.cms||Gopi Dara
May 26, 2020||Goa||SIT begins analysis of permits issued to 126 mining leases||Panaji: As part of the Goa police’s investigation into the Rs 35,000 crore illegal mining scam, the special investigation team (SIT) has started analysing documents submitted by the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) with regards to 126 mining leases. Crime branch SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said, “Once the analysis of the documents submitted by DMG is complete, we take approprite action.” Goa police has distributed the investigation of the 126 mining leases among four police inspectors to speed up the investigation. SIT had sought answers to 19 questions from DMG about the mining leases that were operational from 2007 to 2012. The documents provided to the SIT include environmental clearances (EC) to the leases, quantity of iron ore extraction per plot, the permitted limit for extraction among other details. SIT investigating officer Dattaguru Sawant in a letter to the mines department had sought details of applications and execution of mining companies along with documents enclosed for the first and second renewal of mining leases. The SIT also requisitioned details of mine operators’ licences with the terms and conditions of a reconnaissance permit under the act and the rules to each of the mining leases. It had also sought information on the state forest department’s approval, which is a statutory condition as per the EC issued by the government of India. SIT directed mines department to “provide order of delay condonation, if any, order of amalgamation of different mining leases and order of transfer of mining lease as per Section 37 of MMDR Act”. On July 26, 2013, the mines department had filed a criminal complaint in the case with the crime branch, seeking for it to fix criminal liability against those involved. The department had also requested police to file an FIR against persons identified in the reports of the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee, the Shah Commission and the Public Accounts Committee. On August 19, 2013, the crime branch registered an FIR against politicians, bureaucrats, mine owners, mines department officials and others identified in the three reports, and the case was later transferred to SIT. The FIR was registered under Sections 120(b) (conspiracy) and 166 (public servant disobeying law) of the IPC, Sections 13(1) (d), 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, the Mines and Mineral Development Act, Mineral Concession Rules, Mineral Conservation and Development Rules and the Goa (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation, Storage of Minerals) Rules, 2004.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sit-begins-analysis-of-permits-issued-to-126-mining-leases/articleshow/75985692.cms||Murari Shetye
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Man held for raping woman with disability||MADURAI: The Usilampatti all women police station have arrested a 45-year-old man for raping a woman with learning difficulty. The accused was identified as V Botharaj, a farmer from a village near Usilampatti. He is married and lives with his wife and children. Botharaj recently abducted a 21-year-old woman with learning difficulties to a nearby jasmine farm and raped her. As the woman was not aware that she was sexually assaulted, she complained to her parents about pain in her private part. Her mother took her to a private hospital where doctors said that she was raped. She immediately alerted the local police, who guided her to the AWPS. Based on a complaint from the mother, a case was registered under IPC sections 37(2)(k) (control or dominance over a woman, commit rape on such woman) and 506(ii) (threatening with dire consequences) and under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. Usilampatti deputy SP Raja conducted an inquiry and arrested Botharaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-raping-woman-with-disability/articleshow/75984780.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Pak’s ISI creates fake Aarogya Setu app to snoop on Indian officials||Nagpur: The ISI-sponsored Pakistani hackers have launched phishing attack on India’s cyberspace through Aarogya Setu app and their links were sent into the accounts of several government and army officials. The development was noticed by Maharashtra cyber intelligence and analytical cell that alerted other security agencies across the country about the threat. An advisory was also released statewide by the agency. The information was relayed to the state home minister Anil Deshmukh too. Special IG, Maharashtra cyber security, Yashasvi Yadav, said Pakistani hackers launched the phishing attack from across the borders sometime back by preparing a fake ‘Aarogya Setu’ App. A senior police official said the popularity of the Covid-19 tracking app created by National Informatics Centre which is part of the Ministry of electronics and information technology seemed to have attracted the Pakistani spy agencies. The agency unleashed its hackers to capitalize on the pandemic panic for stealing India’s data through the health app. The Aarogya Setu app has been downloaded most by government officials and agencies with many having made downloading it compulsory for their staff. The Maharashtra cyber cell is learnt to have sent an emergency alert regarding the attack through Aarogya Setu app to mitigate the effect in the view of the increased numbers of commoners too now downloading the app for air travel and other requirements. Yadav said malware has a look completely similar to original app. “Once one downloads this fake app created by the Pakistani hackers, the entire data of the user’s mobile phone is transferred to the online crooks across the border. We have taken necessary action as soon as the malware masquerading as the fake Aarogya Setu app came to our notice,” he said. “It would be very damaging if some senior officials of sensitive departments or agency download the fake app,” he said. Yadav said the fake app sends all the data to its creators. “It activates the microphone of the mobile phone of the victim and the conversation could be heard by the app creator,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/paks-isi-creates-fake-aarogya-setu-app-to-snoop-on-indian-officials/articleshow/75984781.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 26, 2020||Bareilly||Road rage: Father-son shot dead after bike collision in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A brawl over a minor accident took an ugly turn when a youth along with his aides allegedly shot dead a father-son duo in Shahjahanpur city on Sunday night. Nikhil Mishra, one of the accused, accompanied by five of his aides, allegedly shot dead Kailash Verma (51) and his son Akash (17) in an ensuing brawl over a bike collision in Chinnor area. However, according to police, the killing appeared to be an act of revenge as Akash and his brother Prakash had allegedly beaten up Nikhil after the accident. Police said victim Akash and his brother Prakash were on their way home after work when their bike was hit by Mishra who was riding motorcycle in inebriated condition. As the drunk Mishra started misbehaving with the brother duo, locals soon gathered at the spot and thrashed him, said police, adding that Mishra left the spot threatening the brothers of serious consequences. He, however, soon returned to the spot with his aides. Meanwhile, when Akash’s father came to know about the incident, he too rushed to the spot, requesting other party to end the matter. However, Mishra friend Prabhat snatched his father’s gun and fired shots at Akash and his father in a fit of rage, said police. “Both were rushed to the hospital where they succumbed to their bullet injuries during the course of treatment.” The bodies were handed over to the family after postmortem. Upon getting information, senior police officers rushed to the hospital and also visited the spot to take stock of the situation. Suspecting that the matter could be escalated in a group clash as both parties belonged to the same locality, police beefed up security in Chinnor area. The killing, meanwhile, sent a shock wave in the locality. Station house officer (SHO) of Sadar Bazaar police station Kiranpal Singh said, “Prabhat, his father Ganga Prasad and brother Rohit along with Nikhil, Vinod Kumar and Adarsh Yadav have been booked under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 149 (guilty of offence committed in prosecution of the common object by every member of unlawful assembly), 279 (rash driving), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), following a complaint lodged by Akash’s mother Geeta Devi. We have detained Vinod and Adarsh and police are questioned them. Other accused are still on the run, but they will be held soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/road-rage-father-son-shot-dead-after-bike-collision-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75982838.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: New SOP akin to surrendering to Covid-19, worried citizens say||PANAJI: Citizens are wary of Goa’s revised standard operating procedure (SOP) for travellers that came into effect from Monday. They fear that the state may witness a further rise in cases as most travellers are likely to opt for home quarantine instead of spending on Covid-19 tests. As per the new SOP, all entrants to the state will have the option of providing a Covid-negative certificate from a laboratory approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “Testing has to be absolutely mandatory. Only those testing negative for Covid-19 ought to have been home quarantined. The tweaking of SOPs is not right. We now run a grave danger of community transmission,” city physician Dr Oscar Rebelo says. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the test should be conducted 48 hours before arrival in the state. Those who do not have such a certificate can either pay Rs 2,000 to get a Covid-19 test, or be home-quarantined for 14 days. Incidentally, of the 67 Covid cases reported in Goa till Sunday, 66 patients had travel history. “Everyone has set their sights on business. The central and state governments want to give the economy a push without the slightest thought of how Goa will manage the situation if there is a rise in cases. I am worried,” a senior government doctor says. Subhas Salkar, general secretary at the Indian Red Cross Society, Goa, says the state’s new SOP “is nothing but surrendering to the Covid-19 situation”. He is also apprehensive that the options given to travellers may cause community transmission of the virus, which the state has so far been able to contain by testing all visitors till Sunday. While the relaxation of travel restrictions is likely to help restart the tourism industry — which has been the biggest casualty of the pandemic in the state — stakeholders are concerned. “The government’s decision is hasty and untimely. By opening our borders, we are heading towards a scary situation. The government must rethink and modify the SOP so that all are tested,” John Lobo, a shack operator, says. Former president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, Savio Messias, concurs. He says there has been a lack of application of mind in the formulation of the new procedure. Many have also been questioning the state’s preparedness in dealing with Covid-19 during the fast-approaching monsoon, when flu cases increase. “Nobody knows how the coronavirus will behaves during rains. I would like to know from the government how it plans to fight the pandemic during the rains. For now, it seems to be in a haste to resume economic activities by allowing easy access to travellers,” Amelia Fernandes, a citizen from South Goa, says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-sop-akin-to-surrendering-to-covid-19-worried-citizens-say/articleshow/75985691.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Minor fire breaks out in SBI ATM||Vadodara: A minor fire broke out at a State Bank of India’s ATM near Sangam crossroads on Harni Road on Monday morning. Fire department sources said the fire broke out due to a short-circuit in the air-conditioner inside the ATM booth. The security guard posted at the ATM noticed the flames and informed fire brigade. Locals made an unsuccessful attempt to douse the fire by sprinkling water. On reaching the spot, firemen doused the flames using extinguisher. “The ATM machine was unaffected by the fire and we believe the money inside the machine would also be safe,” said a fire official. He added that prima facie it seemed that a short-circuit in the air-conditioner had sparked the fire. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/minor-fire-breaks-out-in-sbi-atm/articleshow/75982966.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||32 cases in Udupi, four in DK reported in highest combined surge for coastal districts||Mangaluru/Udupi: It was yet another grim day for coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada, with the two cumulatively accounting for 36 Covid-19 cases on Monday, the highest single-day surge for undivided Dakshina Kannada. Udupi, which had been a ‘green’ zone district at the beginning of the month, registered a spike of 32 cases while Dakshina Kannada had four. Over 85% of the cases – 31 – reported in the two districts on Monday were of people who had returned from Maharashtra and Dubai. The only local in Dakshina Kannada who was confirmed infected on Saturday, and had a history of cirrhosis of the liver, succumbed later in the day. His swab reports on Monday confirmed him to be positive. The 31 cases reported on Monday pushed Udupi’s overall tally beyond the century mark to 108, with 104 of them being active. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that two people who had returned to the district from Dubai had tested positive, while one of the locals had contracted the infection from another Covid-19 patient. “One local who tested positive had SARI, while the remaining 28 people who tested positive had returned from Maharashtra,” he said. All the people who tested positive in Udupi have been shifted to TMA Pai Hospital, designated Covid19 hospital, while the district administration has notified four containment zones – two in Karkala, and one each in Tenkanidiyoor and Vaddarse. Udupi zilla panchayat chief executive officer Preethi Gehlot said that a member of her staff, confirmed infected on May 19, had come to the office on May 16. “We have disinfected the place where the staff used to sit, and we are following the safety protocol scrupulously. Four contacts thought to be at high risk have been tested, and a decision on sealing down ZP office will be taken on Tuesday,” she said. Gayathri Nayak, in-charge of the Dakshina Kannada Covid-19 bulletin, said that the 43-year-old who succumbed to the infection on Monday had been admitted to the district government hospital on May 23. “We received the results of his test on Monday. His last rites were performed at the Boloor electric crematorium in accordance with protocol,” she added. Of the 37 active cases in Dakshina Kannada, 21 have returned from abroad, while most of the other people have come to the coastal district from other states, Gayathri added. In a related development, the 17th shramik special from Mangaluru junction with 1224 passengers left for Jasidih. Till date, 23,236 migrant labourers have return to Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and UP from Shramik Specials leaving from Mangaluru junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/32-cases-in-udupi-four-in-dk-reported-in-highest-combined-surge-for-coastal-districts/articleshow/75979891.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Landing home after two months of lockdown, a big sigh of relief for many||BHOPAL: Flyers onboard an IndiGo flight, that reached Bhopal airport after 61 days of lockdown, heaved a sigh of relief as they landed at Raja Bhoj airport on Monday. Most of them had been waiting to return home. Shahran Ahmed returned to the city two months after losing his job in Delhi while it was a big day for Manipur’s Shaizafi who lost a family member during the lockdown. She avoided talking to the media, but only said “I am keen to meet my mother”. Passengers lauded the airlines for providing them with face shields, sanitisers and masks before boarding the plane. “It was a good approach by them. Several passengers reached the airport without carrying sanitisers with them. In fact, it is a good habit to keep a sanitiser,” said a traveller, Ashish. About the social distancing and other Covid norms inside the flight, passengers said that the cabin crew was very cooperative during the journey. “Everyone was concerned about the ongoing situation. During the journey, both passengers and crew were sensitive about wearing masks and following the guidelines,” said Sumedha, who was meeting her parents after two months. Passengers also felt that there was a need to start more flights. “Several people are stranded in cities like Delhi and Mumbai. They want to come back. Flight is one of the best ways to reach home,” said another passenger Apoorva. A few passengers were not keen to interact with the media. “Is it necessary to talk with you? I am already in trouble as I was fed up after being stuck for almost two months in Noida,” reacted a traveller without wishing to be named. A few passengers were seen carrying their babies. “I can’t take my a year-old baby by train. Travelling by air was the best available option for me,” said a mother on condition of anonymity. Passengers were happy to go through the thermal screening. “This is a good way to detect people who are suspected to be Covid-infected. Stopping them at the airport is a precautionary step taken by the authorities,” said another passenger. Passengers also welcomed the state government’s decision about allowing asymptomatic travellers to go home directly. “I was worried about what will happen to me once I land at Bhopal airport. I was told that several states have made it mandatory to be in isolation after reaching the home state. Thankfully, MP has not done it,” said Saurabh Sharma, a traveller. Friends and relatives reached the airport to pick up the flyers. As online booking of cabs is currently not allowed, a few were seen asking about vehicles to reach their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/landing-home-after-two-months-of-lockdown-a-big-sigh-of-relief-for-many/articleshow/75984792.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 26, 2020||Madurai||59 new Covid-19 positive cases in south TN, three in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: With 44 influx cases from other states and 15 local cases in the southern districts on Monday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the region has now gone up to 1,289. The central districts recorded three more cases, including a pregnant woman in Trichy, taking the total in the region to 844. Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts continued to see a spike in influx cases with more migrants coming in by road or by train. The two districts together accounted for 30 influx cases from Maharashtra. The remaining two cases were from Gujarat. Further, 15 people under railway quarantine who had travelled in the special train from Ahmedabad to Tirunelveli tested positive. Virudhunagar district also saw as many as 13 influx cases on Monday, with 12 from Maharashtra and a lone case from Kerala. The district also had four local cases. A 27-year-old eight months’ pregnant woman from Somarasampettai area in Trichy rural tested positive As she had fever, the woman got admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital a few days back. Since pregnant women came under the high-risk category, doctors tested her for Covid-19. Results confirmed that she was positive. Doctors at the MGMGH said the woman had fever but was stable and her health condition is being closely monitored. Public health department officials said they had no concrete clue about the source of infection but they could not rule out the possibility of her getting infected from positive patients in Somarasampettai area. Till Monday, MGMGH had 10 patients from Trichy, three from Perambalur, one from railway quarantine and one from Theni under treatment. A 30-year old tanker truck driver from Chennai tested positive in Chennai. He returned to his native Vilangudi village near Thiruvaiyaru a few days ago. He has been put under quarantine at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. With that, the total number of positive cases has risen to 84. A 51-year-old man tested positive in Tiruvarur and was sent to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur for treatment. Ramanathapuram recorded five cases, including a 11-year-old boy, all with contact history. In Theni, two cases were recorded of which one was that of a contact of Covid-19 patient. The other case was a person from Seelayampatti in Theni who had returned from Koyambedu in Chennai and is currently undergoing treatment at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai. Kanyakumari district, meanwhile, reported two local cases with contact history and one influx case. No fresh cases were reported in Sivagangai, Madurai, Dindigul, Tenkasi and Nagapattinam districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/59-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-south-tn-three-in-central-districts/articleshow/75984782.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Protecting mental health of kids responsibility of teachers, parents||Madurai: Clinical psychologists and counsellors in the city have reiterated the fact that parents and teachers will play a big role in taking care of mental health of the children once schools reopen as the next academic year could prove to be very challenging. “Emotional behavioural issues in children will definitely increase. Summer holidays are different from lockdown. Anxiety is common amid such uncertain circumstances. Children have become irritable, lonely and restless being stuck at home,” said Dr N Suresh Kumar, a clinical psychologist and secretary, Tamil Nadu association of clinical psychologists (TNACP). With children not playing outdoors, they have become more dependent than ever on smart phones and laptops during lockdown. “We got many calls on helpline numbers which indicated worsening interpersonal relationships at home. There were complaints about teen children of being aggressive and not listening to what parents say. In some cases, it has resulted in abuse by parents and even children sometimes wanted to harm parents. All these behaviours will reflect when they return to schools,” added Dr Suresh Kumar. Teachers and school counsellors are also worried about how academic pressures this year will affect the children. “This year, students will surely have to cope with and pick up their studies faster than usual. It will be hard for them to quickly adapt back to jam-packed school schedules ,” said R Nivethitha, a teacher and counsellor. Psychologists and counsellors are hence urging for schools to ensure proper counselling of students on return to schools and ease students’ fears and pressures when it comes to academics. “The challenge would be to identify issues that students are facing and those who need counselling. Students are also more aware these days of what is going on around them. While we may not have to worry about academic pressures for younger students, for higher classes from Class VIII to XII, we may have to consider ways to keep them motivated,” said M Senthilnathan, principal of a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protecting-mental-health-of-kids-responsibility-of-teachers-parents/articleshow/75984787.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 26, 2020||Goa||Goa opens its skies after 2 months amid SOP confusion||PANAJI: Even as India’s skies opened for domestic flights on Monday, just six of the 30 scheduled flights operated at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, as the day was marked by multiple cancellations, empty cabins and confusion over Goa’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for fliers. The Goa government was expecting around 2,000 passengers to enter the state through the airport, but fewer than 100 eventually arrived in the state. However, around 300 passengers flew out of the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant later tried to take credit for the poor passenger numbers in a tweet to Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri. “Thank you @HardeepSPuri for considering my request to restrict the number of flights coming to Goa to bare minimum. With stringent measures in place, we expect that all non-essential travel to the state will be discouraged, thereby strengthening Goa’s fight against Covid-19,” said Sawant at 7:46pm, after the last flight had taken off. Airline sources attributed the last-minute changes in the flight schedule to differences between the Central and state governments, while passengers admitted that the multiple changes in Goa’s SOP for arriving passengers had led to confusion and stress. “Last night, it was a little confusing because they said a Covid-19 certificate was required. So I was a little tense,” said IT professional Dency Fernandes. To add to the confusion of arriving passengers, after the first flight landed, the state government informally tweaked its SOP and asked Airports Authority of India (AAI) and health department officials to test all arriving passengers for Covid-19. Fernandes, along with a CISF inspector returning from Bengaluru, were called back for compulsory testing for Covid-19 even though the two opted for 14-day home quarantine and had already left the terminal. Only after senior officials intervened did the screening and testing team revert to the revised SOP as announced by health minister Vishwajit Rane and chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday evening. “It is a good decision of the government to restart flights so we could be back home,” said Savia Rodrigues. “It was a little disturbing, and over here at the airport, it is actually good and nothing like what we had heard.” Another male passenger who did not want to be named said that the SOP for arriving passengers could have been planned better to avoid last minute confusion. The first domestic flight to land at Dabolim after the two-month hiatus was the IndiGo Bengaluru to Goa flight 6E345, which landed at 1:20 pm carrying 33 passengers. The flight took off at 3:20 pm with 84 passengers. The last flight of the day was an Air Asia flight to Bengaluru, I51335, which took off at 7:46pm. The cancelled flights included the Goa-Delhi Vistara flight UK848, SpiceJet flight SG454 to Mumbai, Alliance Air flight 9I896 to Mysore, Vistara flight UK847 from Delhi, IndiGo 6E905 from Hyderabad, and an Alliance Air flight from Mysore. “Majority of the flights were from Mumbai, but because of NOTAM (notice to airmen) restrictions there are limited departures and thus there were cancellations,” said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. “The flights that were to come from Delhi had also to be cancelled because the passenger load was too low.” He said that of the flights the airport had to handle, just three arrived and three departed. According to sources, the state government tweaked its SOP more than three times on Sunday, and the final SOP for arriving passengers was conveyed to airlines just before midnight. Private budget airline IndiGo issued an advisory for all fliers informing them that state governments have announced different measures for passengers arriving at their respective airports. “Before you travel, we strongly recommend you to check the quarantine guidelines, E-pass and/or any other regulations of the city/state you are travelling to and comply with the same so as to ease your travel plans. Read the state-wise regulations before you travel,” said the IndiGo advisory. The Goa airport, which used to handle around 180 flights daily, has been relatively silent since March 25, except for foreign repatriation flights, medical evacuation flights and cargo operations, due to the nationwide lockdown. “The number of flights will improve and the passengers will also increase,” Malik said. “The departure load is higher, some flights had 92 passengers, some had 110.” The Centre announced last Thursday that one-third of earlier domestic flights would operate from May 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-opens-its-skies-after-2-months-amid-sop-confusion/articleshow/75985687.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||In just a week, excise dept earns Rs38.97cr from liquor producers in dist||Nagpur: After prohibition on sale of liquor was lifted, over enthusiastic tipplers have helped the exchequer earn a whopping of Rs38.97 crore in just a week from May 15 to 21 solely from Nagpur district’s liquor producers. The excise department office here also received the distinction of receiving the highest number of applications for liquor permit at 30,000 in Maharashtra, through which it earned a revenue of Rs1 crore (approx). In fact, through sale of application forms for permit, the department collected Rs15 lakh during the same period. “The entire team of excise department which covers Nagpur district did a commendable job last week. For their hard work, I have given them a letter of appreciation,” collector Ravindra Thakare told TOI. The department, under superintendent Pramod Sonone, added another feather in its cap by conducting the highest number of raids during the prohibition period among all districts in Maharashtra. “We raided 429 places in the district after receiving a tipoff and lodged equal number of offences. Nowhere in the state is such a large number of raids was carried out during the prohibition period. We’ve arrested 314 persons for various offences related to illegal liquor possession and sale. About 173 vehicles were seized, along with material worth Rs1.79 crore,” Sonone told TOI. During the prohibition period, the department officials encouraged liquor manufacturers to produce 20,000 litres of sanitizer and coordinated in distributing it free to hospitals, hostels, police stations and ashram schools among others, Thakare’s letter mentioned. Talking about the large number of permit applications, Sonone said earlier, they used to receive hardly 50 applications in a month. “As many as 30,000 applications within eight days were too much to handle for our team. Now, we’re working round the clock to clear them. Two computers and ten employees are deployed for this work only. On the other hand, we received over 70,000 applications for one-day permit, which we had cleared. We never saw such a huge rush,” he said. The SP added that online delivery of liquor was largely successful in Nagpur, while in Mumbai and Pune, the government had allowed chains like Zomato and Swiggy to distribute it since the last couple of days. “The department officials were helped by home guards and police teams during raids,” he said. Liquor sale from May 15 to 21 in district Date----------Country liquor--------Foreign liquor -----Beer May 15 -------------58,504-------------10,137-------------1,183 May 16-------------59,816-------------15,691-------------13,884 May 17-------------60,607-------------29,847-------------17,892 May 18------------54,547-------------19,985-------------13,167 May 19-------------53,955-------------24,055-------------20,894 May 20------------51,252-------------22,510-------------16,369 May 21------------45,809-------------12,748-------------9,669 Total----------------3,84,490-------------1,34,973----------93,058 *All figures in Rs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-just-a-week-excise-dept-earns-rs38-97cr-from-liquor-producers-in-dist/articleshow/75984803.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Another Covid hospital at S’kulam||Visakhapatnam: The government is planning to set up a second Covid hospital in Srikakulam keeping in view the increasing number of migrant workers returning or passing through the district from other cities and states. As of now, the district has a 860-bedded hospital to handle Covid cases. District collector J Nivas recently visited Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Balaga to study the feasibility of setting up a 500-bedded facility for Covid patients. The government also recently issued a notification to recruit specialist doctors to work in Covid hospitals in the district. “The existing hospital is located in a private area. The new hospital is being planned at RIMS. We expect it to be ready by the end of this week,” said Dr A Hemanth, superintendent of the existing Covid hospital. Thousands of people from the district migrate to other parts of the country annually in search of livelihood. Many of them are still stuck in cities like Chennai, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore due to the lockdown. “Till May 25, nearly 12,000 people have returned to Srikakulam. The number is likely to increase now as lockdown norms have been eased, and trains and buses have started running,” said a district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-covid-hospital-at-skulam/articleshow/75982818.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 26, 2020||Agra||13 booked for violating lockdown rules by trying to offer Eid prayers in mosque||Agra: Aligarh police on Monday booked over more than 12 people from the same community for their involvement in a clash that took place after one group allegedly tried to offer Eid prayers inside a mosque in Dado area of Aligarh in violation of lockdown rules to maintain social distancing. A police force was deployed in the area after the clash. According to station house officer of Dado police station, Yawar Abbas, around 9:30 am, a group of 50 people allegedly tried to enter the mosque for offering Eid prayers. The clash took place when some local youths stopped them from offering prayers inside the mosque in view of government’s lockdown order. Abbas said, 13 persons from both sides had been booked under sections 151, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/13-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules-by-trying-to-offer-eid-prayers-in-mosque/articleshow/75982813.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Madurai||Eid celebrations spread positivity across Madurai dist||MADURAI: The Muslim community across the district witnessed quieter Eid celebrations this year due to lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. Special prayers for Eid were held at homes instead of mosques or open grounds this year. However, during these difficult times, Eid celebrations even from homes spread positivity in the air, said people. “Our family of around 15 members offered special prayers for Eid from the terrace of our home. The current Covid-19 pandemic has caused everyone distress and we prayed for the welfare of all. This festival has always motivated us to help those in need,” said Mohammed Asraf from Kalai Nagar in Madurai. While mutton biryani is one of the highlights of this festival, this year, sales of mutton were less at the district’s mutton stalls. “Compared to last year, we had only half as much sales of mutton on the day of Eid. The prices had not gone up either and remained normal. Usually we have many among the Muslim community buying mutton on Eid to make biryani in large amounts. But, this year, people were buying only for their respective families,” said S Muthukrishnan, member of the city mutton retail merchants’ association. Eid celebrations across the district spread positivity among all members of the Muslim community, including the local Tabighi Jamaat members and those who recently made full recovery from Covid-19. “We greatly miss the large gatherings where many families would come together. However, we spread the message of love and peace from our homes this year,” said Sheikh Dawood, a Tablighi Jamaat leader from Melur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eid-celebrations-spread-positivity-across-madurai-dist/articleshow/75984796.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Popular opinion: Work from home works for air||NEW DELHI: More than 80% of urban professionals feel that work from home (WFH) will help in reducing air pollution in their cities. In addition to the environmental benefit associated with WFH, people also recognise practical benefits such as saving money and time and 72% want to continue working from home post-lockdown. These were revealed by a public perception survey across 10 Indian cities — Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Pune and Surat — to analyse the emerging trends from the lockdown and the steps citizens are willing to take to maintain the inadvertent gains from the lockdown, in the form of clean air, clean cities, less traffic and the co-benefits of health. However, half of the surveyed individuals identify lack of proper infrastructure at home, irregular routine schedule and reduction in team bonding as their top struggles, the survey conducted by Climate Trends and global market research firm, YouGov, has revealed. “Despite challenges, majority of them are willing to continue working from home even after the lockdown is lifted. This willingness might be good news for employers who also see benefits of WFH — 9 out of 10 think that their company saved on operational expense on account of WFH. This is, perhaps, why they are willing to encourage their employees to WFH if proper work infrastructure is in place, and productivity is maintained,” it said. According to the survey, which was conducted online because of the complete lockdown with a sample size of 1,082 urban professional respondents from across 10 largest cities in terms of population, 72% said they are willing to continue WFH even after the lockdown ends. Also, one in 2 respondents indicated that they suffer from air pollution-related health problems like respiratory, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. “This explains why individuals are willing to take steps to maintain this unintended reduction in air pollution triggered by the Covid-19 lockdown.” Close to 49% of the respondents said they will be willing to buy an electric vehicle provided the charging infrastructure is in place across the country and the prices are made affordable. The percentage in favour of electric vehicles increased in some cities such as Jaipur (62%) and Delhi (56%). Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson, Dialogue and Development Commission, Delhi government, while speaking at the webinar during the launch of the report on Monday, said the reduction of air pollution in the lockdown has shown the importance of tackling emissions at source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/popular-opinion-work-from-home-works-for-air/articleshow/75984821.cms||Ritam Halder
May 26, 2020||Agra||Food and water stalls remain shut at railway station even after order to open||AGRA: Scores of food and water stalls continued to remain shut at almost every railway station of North Central Railway zone, fearing of being robbed by passengers travelling in Shramik Specials. On Monday, a fresh video surfaced online, in which passengers were found running away with water bottle carts from Prayagraj junction. Last week, the railways had asked the stall vendors to reinstate their business, so that passengers can buy edible items during journey. In NCR, stations like Agra Cantt, Mathura, Agra Fort, Aligarh junction, Tundla junction, Kanpur junction, Allahabad junction, Fatehpur and Mirzapur junction have been selected for opening up stalls. Prayagraj divisions PRO Sunil Gupta said, “Very few stalls have opened, as only few trains are operating per day. Apart from that, the railways is already providing water and snacks to passengers. We expect that June 1 onwards all stalls will start operating.” Acknowledging the fear of stall vendors of being robbed by passengers, Gupta said, “RPF and GRP teams are available round the clock to protect them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/food-and-water-stalls-remain-shut-at-rly-stn-even-after-order-to-open/articleshow/75982828.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Chennai||ICMR sits on proposal to try Rs 5 arthritis drug for Covid-19||Chennai: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is sitting on a proposal for a clinical trial of an affordable and time-tested anti-inflammatory arthritis drug that has the potential to prevent thousands of deaths due to Covid-19. Indomethacin has been used to prevent cytokine storm an abnormal immune reaction that kills Covid-19 patients in people with other health conditions. The drug costs Rs 5 a capsule, while Tocilizumab, a drug now used to treat cytokine storm, costs Rs 60,000 per dose. Chennai-based kidney transplant surgeon Dr Rajan Ravichandran, who used indomethacin on his transplant patients first in 1989 to prevent cytokine storms, wrote to ICMR and its counterparts in the US and the UK on April 29 suggesting a clinical trial. While the UK department of health and social care wrote back saying the proposal has been forwarded to its Therapeutic Taskforce, ICMR is yet to act on it. ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava told TOI that the council has received about 185 such proposals and requests on the use of different pharma products. “ICMR, along with department of science and technology, department of biotechnology and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research are looking into them one by one,” he said. In the US, meanwhile, doctors have found the drug to be effective in some 60 Covid-19 patients, often better than hydroxycholoroquine. Dr Jonathan Leibowitz, a primary care physician in Brooklyn, used it on his patients after his colleague Dr Robert Rothstein referred a 2006 study that showed the drug was effective against human SARS-CoV and canine coronavirus. When another colleague of his, Dr Aline Benjamin, tested positive for Covid-19, Dr Leibowitz asked her to try out the drug. Dr Benjamin later said she had a dramatic reversal of symptoms cough and fever after one dose of indomethacin. “If we had used indomethacin earlier, many patients would not have gone to the emergency room,” Dr Leibowitz said in a recent interview with Medical Update Online. Dr Rothstein wrote in the British Medical Journal on May 17: “We have found that treatment with indomethacin relieves the pain, stops coughing, and leads to a feeling of general wellbeing. Patients report ‘not feeling sick anymore’ … We have not seen this beneficial effect with hydroxychloroquine treatment or with ibuprofen and we have formed the impression that it is specifically related to indomethacin.” Dr Leibowitz, in an email to TOI, said indomethacin “seems to have a clear positive effect and needs further investigation,” and indicated it was not being given the importance it deserves. “Medicine has been invaded by big businesses and refuses to consider drugs that don’t make money they are not sexy (while) trials are focused on Remdesivir and plasma, both of which, while having some effects, are clearly not penicillin.” Dr Ravichandran said it could be used on Covid-19 patients as a repurpose drug, but a largescale clinical trial is imperative, given the affordability and the promising results several studies on the drug have shown. A 1992 study found the effectiveness of indomethacin in transplant patients who suffer cytokine storm after administration of anti-rejection drug OKT3, something Dr Ravichandran had recorded in 1989. Another laboratory study in China has found the drug brought down the viral load in SARS patients. “The drug has to be used early to save lives,” said Dr Ravichandran. “Going by initial anecdotal evidence, this can save lives and turn many patients asymptomatic within 48 hours, so they could be sent home to reduce the pressure on hospitals and treatment cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/icmr-sits-on-proposal-to-try-rs-5-arthritis-drug-for-covid-19/articleshow/75984816.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||Covid closure costs 140 mkg tea worth Rs 2,100cr in Bengal, Assam||Kolkata: The outbreak of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown for 62 days have caused a total loss of 140 million kg (mkg) tea leaves worth Rs 2,100 crore as estimated by the Indian Tea Association (ITA), the oldest and the largest planters’ body in India. “Based on feedback received from ITA member gardens, it is estimated that in Assam and West Bengal, the total loss in production for the months of March, April and May would be around 140 mkg, which would entail a loss in revenue of more than Rs 2,100 crore based on last year’s North India auction prices,” the premier tea industry body said in a release. The industry has lost entire first flush and a part of second flush output. According to ITA, the huge loss in revenue has aggravated the financial stress of the ailing tea sector with cost of production increasing rapidly. As the lockdown has hurt the industry’s ability to fulfil its financial and statutory commitments, Tea Inc has urged the Union commerce ministry as well as the state Governments of Assam and West Bengal for extending a financial package to the tea sector in terms of interest subvention, enhancement of working capital limit, relief in payment of electricity charges and payment of PF dues. The various relief packages announced by the government has so far yielded little for the tea industry, ITA said. The tea industry for the last few years has been witnessing continuous rise in cost of production without corresponding price increase. While input costs in the last five years have increased a CAGR of 7%-10%, the growth in prices have been 1% resulting in large number of tea estates incurring losses. Teas continue to sell well below the cost of production leading to severe distress among the producing community. In North India, production in Assam and West Bengal has been estimated to have declined by 65% for the period of March-April and it is estimated that production would further decline by 50% in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-closure-costs-140-mkg-tea-worth-rs-2100cr-in-bengal-assam/articleshow/75984057.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bareilly||10-day-old infant dies as family tries to return home from Haryana||Bareilly: A day after a migrant from West Bengal gave birth to twin stillborn daughters inside a private bus on her way home after lockdown, a woman lost her 10-day-old boy at a shelter home in Transport Nagar in Bareilly district on Monday morning.The woman was travelling with her husband and child from Rewai in Haryana to Rae Bareli in UP in a state Roadways bus. The bus had stopped at Bareilly on a scheduled break, where the infant’s condition deteriorated. The family was immediately sent to the district hospital, where doctors declared the infant dead on arrival. Suresh Kumar of Rae Bareli used to work in Himachal Pradesh and had come to Haryana to visit his pregnant wife Nisha, when the lockdown announcement caught him unawares. In the intervening two months, he stayed back in Haryana. Just over a week ago, Nisha gave birth to her first child. The couple decided to return to Rae Bareli and accordingly took a bus. Their bus had reached Bareilly at 5am on Monday, from where they were supposed to catch another bus for their home town, when suddenly the infant’s condition deteriorated and they sought medical help.SDM (Sadar) Ishaan Pratap Singh said, “As soon as we heard that a 10-day-old baby of a migrant worker had fallen ill, at a collection point in Bareilly, we arranged for the family to be transported to hospital in our vehicle. But the baby died before we could reach the hospital. The family from Haryana was supposed to change bus for Rae Bareli from here. After the infant died, the couple wanted to return home at the earliest, so we booked a private vehicle for them at our expenses to drop them at their doorstep. We’re still investigating the reason behind the baby’s death, especially considering we had a medical team at the Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-day-old-infant-dies-as-family-tries-to-return-home-from-haryana/articleshow/75982832.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Six of eight active Covid cases in Karumandapam||TRICHY: The active Covid-19 positive cases in Trichy city have increased to eight as on Sunday, out of which, seven have either returned from Chennai or were in close contact with the Chennai returnees. Meanwhile, Karumandapam locality in the Trichy Corporation alone accounts for six of the eight active cases, but the civic body is unlikely to establish a containment zone there citing the revised protocols. Ward number 45 alone has six active cases while an active positive case each is reported at Thiruverumbur and Vayalur road. The corporation said that a survey is on to trace the contacts. “The houses of the active cases were isolated. There is no community spread as the source of infection was identified. There is no need for a containment zone,” a senior corporation official said. The civic body is also surveying whether neighbours display any symptoms. Disinfection process through sanitary workers is underway near the houses of the active cases. Till May 18, the city had only one active Covid-19 positive case. However, in the past week active cases quickly surged to eight. Karumandapam locality in the past two months had recorded four cases as on May 22. On Sunday, three family members of a Covid-19 patient hailing from Karumandapam tested positive. A 52-year-old man, who visited Chennai to bring back his parents, who were both found positive on May 22, also tested positive. The man’s wife and son also tested positive. All three are asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/six-of-eight-active-covid-cases-in-karumandapam/articleshow/75984813.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Eid: Charity begins online for many Muslims in Trichy||Trichy: Members of the Muslim community in Trichy turned to online mode to give zakat (charity) to the needy on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on Monday. Meanwhile, Muslims stayed away from the conventional mass gathering at open grounds, and celebrated Eid within the confines of their homes.Many people celebrated Eid with a realisation that charity is more important now than it was before as several people have lost jobs due to the lockdown.They preferred online transaction to help the needy and transferred the money to the bank accounts of charity homes. Also, some of them distributed essential items to the needy in their locality.“It is a different Eid from those we celebrated before. We still managed to do the charity amid the lockdown,” Mohamed Isham, a resident said. The open grounds near Thennur Uzhavar Sandhai and Eid Ka ground in Cantonment that usually accommodate mass prayers appeared deserted as people refrained from praying in groups as part of precautionary measures to ward off Covid-19.Special prayers were performed on rooftops, backyards and inside home in the morning. Several restaurants also witnessed brisk business as many families placed bulk orders for biryani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/eid-charity-begins-online-for-many-muslims-in-trichy/articleshow/75984808.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Class X English paper emerges as a gift that keeps on giving||PANAJI: A day after the Goa Board’s Class X English paper went viral for including a conversation that suggested that seeking a Portuguese passport is a good option due to the lack of job opportunities in Goa, teachers and politicians pointed out that that wasn’t the only controversial and judgmental part of the question paper. In the first question of Section A, a passage mentions two friends who go sailing and get caught in a storm. Left with only one plank to hold on to for survival, both friends debate which one of them should let go. The passage then proceeds to suggest that the unmarried friend chooses death, as he has no wife or child to support. Former Goa Board chairperson P R Nadkarni said that the unsaid rules of paper setting require that such unpleasant and judgemental passages be avoided. “There are some rules of paper setting, and not all of them are written down in black and white,” he said. “It is understood that anything that can lead to controversy in terms of caste or ethnicity, and social or political commentary, should be avoided. The chief paper setter serves as the editor of question papers, and it was his duty to see that anything controversial was avoided as per the guidelines.” In question 7C, students were asked to rewrite a given sentence by nominalising the underlined verb, but the verb was not underlined as suggested. Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said that this was a printing error. Already, the board has referred another six-mark question to its scrutiny committee after students pointed out that it was not mentioned how many of the options provided needed to be answered. A passage provided as part of question 3, which attempted to speak about avoiding narcotics, used a bizarre analogy. “It is dangerous to try tobacco products, alcohol or narcotics to rid ourselves of depression. They will only add insult to injury. It will be like pouring diesel to put out the fire of depression,” the passage read. Another statement in a question read “Corruption has affected Goans in Goa”, and asked students to change the voice of the sentence. Former Panaji MLA and BJP spokesperson Sidharth Kuncalienker objected to this. “Is @goacm @DrPramodPSawant led @BJP4Goa agreeing that “Corruption has affected Goans in Goa? (Another sentence on the same SSCE paper) R v being portrayed as corrupt society??” he tweeted, tagging the PMO. In question 7A, students were asked to fill in the blanks with a suitable word and were provided with a statement which read “Modern education has failed...”. Another question stated that panchayats should not be given more powers as they may be misused. Yet another stated “Going for tuition has become a fashion and matter of pride for some parents”. Meanwhile, Samant said that with regards to the controversial question with commentary on unavailability of jobs in Goa, the process of inquiry has been initiated against the paper setter and others involved. “Any action like issuing of notices will take three to four days,” said Samant. An English teacher, Vrushali Kelekar, posting on social media, objected to the question paper. “It is the moral duty of a teacher to support a healthy mindset in young teenagers. I wonder what the paper setter was thinking while setting the paper. I also wonder what the teacher in charge of proofreading was doing,” she wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-x-english-paper-emerges-as-a-gift-that-keeps-on-giving/articleshow/75985693.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Gyms raring to go, pitch for resuming operations with safety measures in place||Trichy: While most services and commercial establishments have resumed business post lockdown relaxations, fitness enthusiasts and gym owners in Trichy have prepared individual standard operating procedures (SOP) for reopening the fitness centres. After autorickshaws and salons were permitted to operate with restrictions, gyms sought a similar relaxation for them. With up to 100 active members per gym, the instructors said that they can slot them in different batches throughout the day, allowing them to use the fitness equipment during the stipulated time. The gym owners also assured that all fitness equipment will be sanitized once a batch is done. They added that they will ensure that only 5-10 people use the facility at a time. “Our clients call us on a daily basis to inquire about the availability. We are willing to test the body temperature and deny entry for those displaying symptoms,” said Vignesh Ramanathan, a gym owner from Thillai Nagar, Trichy. By keeping the gyms opened between 7am and 7pm, gym instructors said that at least 50 people can use it per day. “Every gym owner has to vouch for mandatory safety measures in their facilities. The operational cost may spike but we cannot keep our gyms closed forever, we should adapt to the new normal,” said M Sivakumar, secretary, Trichy district bodybuilders association. To avoid surface contact, gym owners said that hand gloves will be made mandatory. As per the SOP, users will be told to bring an extra towel to spread over the fitness equipment to avoid contact. Face masks will have to be removed while working out, gym owners added. Air conditioners will be switched off compulsorily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gyms-raring-to-go-pitch-for-resuming-operations-with-safety-measures-in-place/articleshow/75984815.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 26, 2020||Agra||Heatwave intensifies in many parts of UP; Prayagraj hottest at 47 degrees Celsius||Agra/Bareilly/Meerut: Blistering heat gripped many parts of Uttar Pradesh on Monday. Prayagraj was the hottest place in the state where the mercury soared to 47 degrees Celsius, followed by Allahabad where the maximum temperature touched 46 degrees Celsius. Dust and thunderstorms are likely in several parts of north India on May 29-30, bringing the much-needed relief from the intense heatwave, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD had on Sunday issued a red colour-coded alert for north India for May 25-26 when the prevailing heatwave conditions were expected to peak. Agra remained in the grip of intense heatwave on Monday at 46.3 degrees Celsius with humidity levels crossing 45%. While the maximum temperature was recorded four degrees above normal, the minimum temperature remained at 27.9 degrees Celsius which was one degree above the normal limit. The maximum temperature in Agra region will remain above 45 degrees Celsius for the next few days. Similarly, Bareilly recorded a maximum temperature of 42 degrees Celsius on Monday – three degrees above normal. The minimum temperature stood at 25 degrees Celsius while the relative humidity was recorded at 43%. Recording the hottest day of the season on Monday, the maximum and minimum temperatures in Meerut were 42.8 and 28.8 degrees Celsius respectively – both four notches above normal. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 34% and 18% respectively. Day temperatures rose appreciably over Varanasi, Faizabad and Lucknow divisions. The weatherman has predicted dry weather in the state, with warnings of heatwave at isolated places over the next few days. "Due to prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, present heatwave conditions are very likely to continue to prevail over these areas till May 28 with peak intensity on May 25 and 26," the IMD said in its daily bulletin. It, however, emphasized that dust and thunderstorms will bring some to respite to northern India from the blistering heat on May 29 and 30. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/heatwave-intensifies-in-many-parts-of-up-prayagraj-hottest-at-47-degrees-celsius/articleshow/75982841.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Around 4,000 wildfire alerts across country in past 7 days||Dehradun: The Forest Survey of India (FSI) has sent out around 4,000 fire alerts across the country in the past one week through both satellites MODIS and SNPP-VIIRS. The FSI data, accessed by TOI, indicates that in the past one week, from May 18 to May 25, 3,971 fire alerts have been sent out to all the states. Of the 3,971 alerts, the maximum 746 were from Chhattisgarh, followed by 618 from Madhya Pradesh, 438 from Maharashtra, 422 from Andhra Pradesh and 410 from Telangana. The Director General (DG) of Forest Survey of India (FSI), Subhash Ashutosh, attributed the high number of forest fires to the rising temperatures. He said, “Due to intermittent rains and good moisture on the forest floor, wildfires are lesser this year. But with the rising mercury, more forest fires are likely in the coming days. For Central India next one month is going to be crucial given IMD's alert regarding the heat wave condition.” Incidentally, the same week in 2019 recorded 6,500 fire alerts from across the country. This year, the number has been 38% less due to intermittent rainfall. The situation in Uttarakhand, which boasts of over 70% forest cover, is also better than the last year. BK Gangtey, chief conservator of forests & state nodal officer (forest fire) of the forest department, said that in the past one week, the state has recorded only 15 fire alerts. He said, “Since February this year, the state has reported 55 incidents of forest fire, in which around 71.46 hectares of forest cover was gutted compared to the last year’s damage to 1,590 hectares in the same period. Forest fire alerts from FSI are playing a crucial role in managing the fires on field.” The FSI data added that neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have reported 74 and 102 wildfire incidents in the past one week. The alerts could, however, be further worrisome for states such as Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh that are fighting to contain the Covid outbreak. The two satellites capture fires in forest areas and its fringes too. While in some cases, the forest department carries out controlled burning of leaves to clear the fire lines but the satellites also capture these as forest fires. Hence, the forest department often claims that all fire alerts sent by FSI are not correct, which has been a long-standing conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/around-4000-wildfire-alerts-across-country-in-past-7-days/articleshow/75982840.cms||Shivani Azad
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Lockdown flattens crime graph, but house break-ins & vehicle thefts rise||BHOPAL: The city’s crime rate has fallen to a large extent during the lockdown period, but since lockdown 4.0 has started, the crime graph — especially for theft and vehicle theft cases — has shot up. Although the number of cases of crime against women has fallen, molestation and rape cases are still being reported. In May, two murders, including the recovery of an unidentified man’s decomposed body stuffed in a sack with hands and legs tied was found from a well in Nazirabad and the killing of a 65-year-old railway employee by unidentified thief in Chhola, shocked the city. In both the cases, police have been clueless till date. The cases have also raised questions over the police monitoring during the lockdown. Burglary from locked shops at Gurukripa Tower at Sarvdharm on the main road in Kolar also raised questions on police vigil as the accused barged thrice into the same shops and were caught on CCTV cameras, but are still on the run. Now with relaxations given in lockdown, criminal elements have also started coming out and police are facing problems in identifying them as they come out wearing masks. Cops, however, claimed that the situation is under control. An 85% decline has been recorded in crime against women, including rape, abduction and molestation cases reported during the lockdown period. The number of other serious offences, including attempt to murder, loot, theft and vehicle theft also declined sharply by more than 50% in all the categories. More than two dozen house break-in cases and around a dozen theft cases were reported in the month of May till now. Around two dozen vehicle theft cases have been reported in the city in May till date. Despite the lockdown and strict police enforcement, a rise in cases of illegal liquor supply was seen in the city. DIG Irshad Wali said that strict enforcement of lockdown by police and constant monitoring has resulted in a decline in the crime rate. He said that the police were monitoring history-sheeters and habitual offenders using criminal tracking techniques. Their record will be made and man-to-man monitoring will be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-flattens-crime-graph-but-house-break-ins-vehicle-thefts-rise/articleshow/75984811.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||Sweet truth: This mango won’t let sugar levels spike||RAJKOT: There’s some sweet news for diabetics who refrain from gorging on mangoes fearing spike in blood sugar. After nearly five years of consistent efforts, ‘Tommy Atkins’ variety of mango has been successfully cultivated in kesar hubs of Junagadh and Gir-Somnath districts. This exotic mango variety, originally from Florida, US, is globally famed for having 75% less sugar content than the usual varieties and experiments to grow them in north India since 2010 have been successful. Vishal Gandecha, a progressive mango farmer in Maliya taluka of Junagadh, said, “It was in 2015 that I bought the seedling from my friend Naresh Boghra. We nurtured the plants by using organic farming. It worked and started giving fruits from last year.” The tree starts bearing fruits after five years and yields around 15 kg per tree once it’s seven years old. “This mango is in high demand among diabetics. I have select customers who order this fruit,” said Gandecha Boghra, a nursery owner, said, “I had got grafts of Tommy Atkins from a relative who came from the US 10 year ago and started the experiment by selling mother plants in Junagadh.” Junagadh farmers are now gradually exploring opportunities to export this variety to other countries. Gafoor Qureshi, a mango grower in Talala, said, “This variety was first brought in Malihabad in UP in 2010 and was successfully grown. Our experiments also have yielded fruits after five years.” Professor D K Varu, head of fruit science department, Junagadh Agriculture University (JAU), told TOI, “Tommy Atkins is the world’s leading mango variety. It tastes a bit acidic but has less sugar.” Varu said there are just about 25 to 30 trees of this variety in Junagadh and Gir-Somnath districts and the variety is available only in select malls of metro cities. However, as the climate is conducive, there is a huge potential for farmers to experiment with this variety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sweet-truth-this-mango-wont-let-sugar-levels-spike/articleshow/75982864.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 26, 2020||Goa||In a first, Goa uses imported kits to crack tigers poaching case||NAGPUR: When a tiger is poisoned and carcass highly decomposed, it becomes difficult to get clinching evidence that the animal died due to poisoning, but Goa forest officials used imported kits to determine that 5-6 days old carcasses of four tigers were indeed poisoned. Veterinarians say it is difficult to prove poisoning if the carcass is more than 78 hours old. In January first week, a tigress and her three cubs were found dead under mysterious circumstances within a gap of 3-4 days inside Mhadei wildlife sanctuary. Forest officials were baffled as this was first such case of poaching they were handling. Five persons were arrested for suspected poisoning as a carcass of buffalo was also spotted. The accused were released on bail in 15 days. Goa officials took help of NTCA regional office in Bengaluru and also sent multiple set of samples to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in UP and also to Karnataka vet and forensic expert Dr Prayag HS. NTCA inspector general of forests (IGF) NS Murali said, “As it was a very complicated case, Karnataka forest department suggested name of Dr Prayag HS, who is assistant professor of genetics and breeding. His team used imported kits to determine the tigers were poisoned. This might perhaps be the first case when such an in-depth investigation has been done to nail the culprits.” “We have received report from IVRI and report from Karnataka team is awaited. There is clinching evidence these tigers were poisoned. Now our case will stand in the court. Otherwise it would have been difficult to prove,” said Goa chief wildlife warden Santosh Kumar. Nandakumar E Parab, assistant conservator of forests (ACF) and investigating officer, said, “Though I had a gut feeling that all the tigers were poisoned, with traditional method of investigating samples it was difficult to prove. We imported these kits by spending Rs 2 lakh. I don’t think this was done earlier.” Dr Prayag said, “Our team conducted tests for each tiger’s individual samples but with traditional method the results were negative and we were at a dead end.” “On search of literature we came to know about advanced Elisa Kits that were then imported from US before lockdown. Using these kits, spleen samples gave positive results for the first time in our professional service,” he added. “Now we know even decomposed samples can be tested for poisoning in organs like spleen. We feel it will help in conviction of all accused and we thank NTCA and Goa officials for trusting and spending so much money, logistics and time with us at every stage,” said Dr Prayag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-goa-uses-imported-kits-to-crack-tigers-poaching-case/articleshow/75985697.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 26, 2020||Bareilly||Hosp staffers distribute sewai, sweets among Covid patients spending Eid without family||Bareilly: For a 33-year-old Covid-19 patient, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital, it was the first Eid when he was not with his family. The man who tested positive upon returning to Bareilly from Maharashtra’s Dhule said, “The lockdown rendered me jobless and I faced with many problems. However, I decided to return home as I wanted to be with my family on Eid. A vehicle owner charged Rs 2,500 and dropped me at the Delhi border. I then walked down to Rampur, from where police sent me to Bareilly in a vehicle. Although I was suffering from acute pain while walking, I continued with my journey as I wanted to be with my family, especially during the festival. But to my disappointment, I was sent to Bareilly and hospitalised. I am missing my family a lot on Eid. However, I felt better when hospital authorities served us sewai and sweets along with the lunch.” Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “As patients undergoing treatment at Covid-19 level-1 hospital could not be with their families to celebrate Eid, we distributed sewai and sweets among them to make them happy.” A 29-year-old patient from Shahjahanpur said, “Though the factory in Mumbai got closed in the lockdown, I managed to survive with the help of locals. However, I decided to go home only to be with my family on Eid. After changing three vehicles in three days and shelling out nearly Rs 6,000, I reached Shahjahanpur on May 14. I directly went to a hospital to get myself examined as I didn’t want put my family at a risk. I was quarantined in Shahajahanpur, but later shifted to Bareilly after I tested positive.” He added, “I didn’t even get to see my family members. I thought that this Eid would be without sewai as no one from the family would be able to send sewai here. I was, however, surprised by the sweet gesture of the hospital authorities.” A 24-year-old patient who returned from Mumbai to Bareilly said, “This is my first Eid when I am not with my family. However, I am happy that my family members, who were institutional quarantined at another hospital, were discharged from the hospital on Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hosp-staffers-distribute-sewai-sweets-among-covid-patients-spending-eid-without-family/articleshow/75982869.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Village secretariat will bring government to people’s doorsteps: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday said that the establishment of village secretariats has given him immense satisfaction in the last one year. He said that these initiatives were being welcomed and appreciated by several persons across the country. Interacting with people at his camp office in Tadepalli, the CM said that the government was made to be present at the door steps of the people though the village secretariats. “Imagine a village having a secretariat at its disposal addressing the needs of the people in no time. You name any service of the government; it is available in the village. What more do we need?” Jaganmohan Reddy asked the gathering. He said that these village secretariats would bring Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and village clinics shortly serving the agriculture and health needs of the people. The RBKs will address every issue concerning the farming sector, he said. He also referred to the reverse tendering system, which had saved about Rs 2,800 crore to the state exchequer. The chief minister also referred to the initiatives towards imposing prohibition in the state and said that his government had closed over 43,000 unauthorised liquor shops in the state. Jaganmohan Reddy told the village volunteers and the staff of the village secretariats to reach out to the real beneficiaries and serve them with true spirit. “Transparency in governance is given top priority. People are asked to make calls to toll free numbers to complain about corruption,” he said. The chief minister also told them that the government had released a calendar for rolling out all welfare schemes for the second year, starting May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/village-secretariat-will-bring-govt-to-peoples-doorsteps-cm/articleshow/75982860.cms||Gopi Dara
May 26, 2020||Goa||In a novel move, bio activists put discarded oyster shells in Zuari bay||PANAJI: In the Zuari bay, a rich oyster crop has been plundered during the last few weeks. But, in a novel exercise, a group of discerning bio activists deposited the shells back on the river bed on Monday. The unusual ritual, which was carried out at low tide, took three hours. Thirty-odd enthusiasts participated in the restorative effort, putting back sack loads of empty shells discarded by rampaging pickers after extracting oysters. “We are hoping to heal the wounds and help rejuvenate the water body after the ecological damage caused to mother nature by such unsustainable practices,” a local resident and human rights activist Cyril Fernandes said. The damage had been already done during three phases of summer low tide in April and May. Hordes of pickers arriving in cars, tempos and scooters picked and carried away bags full of oysters with the mother shells. Oysters are to be broken open and extracted on site and hadde (mother shells) left in situ. But pickers carried both away and dumped the shells along the highway and open spaces after extracting oysters. Oyster shells host larvae of oysters, which cling to them and grow in two years.  “The mother shells, which are baby seeds, cling to them, survive and grow in large numbers,” retired chief scientist, biological oceanography, NIO, Baban Ingole said. Ingole, who was present, explained the importance of oysters to the bay ecosystem. He said that unbridled extraction and removing mother shells may cause permanent damage to the water body and disrupt the breeding process. “The depositing of shells is likely to help rejuvenate the water body and the marine life of the area,” Fernandes said. The human rights activist has played a pivotal role in motivating biodiversity management committees (BMCs) of Chicalim and Sancoale to work out strategies to halt the rampaging pickers. The Chicalim panel headed by Rui M Costa Araujo has largely prevented damage to the clam habitat at Vareg island. Chicalim parish priest Fr Bolmax Pereira also appealed in videos to locals to allow nature to rejuvenate, as the abundant crop indicated a regrowth. Participants covered the shells with a net to protect them. “The Sancoale BMC will inspect the site to observe the impacts on shells during the next couple of weeks,” a villager said. With a helping hand by a group called Chicalim Bio-crusaders and environment lovers, the event was coordinated by Fernandes, local panch Succorine Vales, Johnson Stephen, and Sancoale BMC chairman, Navin Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-novel-move-bio-activists-put-discarded-oyster-shells-in-zuari-bay/articleshow/75985695.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 26, 2020||Agra||Agra: Pregnant woman in labour told at CHC to get gloves first, baby dies||AGRA: A pregnant woman, who had to suffer labour pain for over 10 hours, lost her child after being denied treatment at a community health centre (CHC) in Etmadpur block allegedly due to the unavailability of surgical gloves. In a complaint to the Agra district magistrate, the woman’s husband alleged that the CHC staff refused to provide her treatment due to the lack of gloves. He added that he could not arrange a pair of surgical gloves in time as the market was closed. A resident of village Chawali under Etmadpur block, 39-year-old Anil Kumar Chauhan is a farmer. On May 18, his 35-year-old wife Guddi Devi suffered labour pain and she was taken to the local CHCat 9:30 pm in an ambulance. Anil said, “A woman staffer at the hospital who examined her asked me to take her home and come the next day. I pleaded with them to admit her as she was in pain and start the treatment, but to no avail. Later, I called the Etmadpur sub-divisional magistrate for help. On getting directions from the SDM, the staffers at the CHC misbehaved with me for complaining to the officer.” “Around 11 pm, I was asked to bring a pair of surgical gloves before they could begin her treatment. Due to the lockdown and this being the late hour, I was not able to get the gloves even after searching for more than an hour. Denied any treatment at the hospital till 3 am, I took back my wife home. Early on May 19, she fell unconscious. I took her to a private hospital in the city. After conducting an ultrasound, the doctors told me that the child had died in the womb. She could be saved after two days of treatment at the private hospital.” “My child could have been saved if she was provided treatment at the CHC. I hope authorities will take cognizance of the matter and ensure strict action,” Anil Kumar added. Following the complaint, Etmadpur SDM Jyoti Rai has issued a notice to the CHC administration. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh has also ordered a probe into the incident to be conducted by joint director (health) Mukesh Kumar Vats. The DM said, “On basis of the probe report, action will be taken against those found guilty.” Child rights activist Naresh Paras said, “Since April, at least five children have died in Agra due to unavailability of timely medical assistance. Every time, the district administration ordered a probe but failed to take action.” In May, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights issued two notices to the district administration following complaints of the death of children due to medical negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pregnant-woman-in-labour-told-at-chc-to-get-gloves-first-baby-dies/articleshow/75982865.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 26, 2020||Agra||No Eid namaz at Taj for 1st time in history||Agra: For the first time in its history, Eid namaz was not offered at the Shahi mosque inside the Taj Mahal on Monday due to the ongoing lockdown. Pesh Imam of the Shahi mosque inside the Taj Mahal, Syed Sadiq Ali, who claimed that his ancestors had been appointed by the Mughal emperors to lead the namaz at the mosque here, said that it was for the first time in its 368 years that the Eid namaz was not offered at the monument. According to the clerics, the tarawih (additional ritual prayers performed by Muslims at night after the Isha prayer during the month of Ramzan) was also not held at the Taj Mahal due to the closure of the monument during the lockdown. According to Taj Mahal Masjid Intezamia Committee president Syed Ibrahim Hussain Zaidi, though the mosque has remained closed on earlier occasions too, it’s for the first time that namaz had not been offered here during Ramzan. “The mosque was shut during the 1978 floods and the 1971 Indo-Pak war, which lasted for 13 days in December, but never during the Ramzan festivities,” he said. A senior archeologist told TOI that the ASI had records of unhindered Ramzan prayers at the Shahi mosque at least since the British period. The Taj’s main mausoleum is flanked by two similar looking buildings to its east and west. The western building is a mosque and the other is the jawab (answer), thought to have been constructed for architectural balance although it may have been used as a guesthouse. The floor of the mosque is laid with outlines of 569 prayer rugs in black marble. The mosque’s basic design of a long hall surmounted by three domes is similar to others built by Shah Jahan, particularly the Masjid-i Jahan-Numa, or Jama Masjid, in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-eid-namaz-at-taj-for-1st-time-in-history/articleshow/75982853.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||At 82%, Nagpur’s recovery rate one of the best in country||Nagpur: Due to the aggressive containment and quarantine activities in city, detection of Covid-19 positive patients is happening at an early stage and most of them are recovering from the disease too. Till Monday, 351 patients out of 428 total cases in city have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The recovery rate comes up to 82%, which is one of the best in the country. The 11 districts of Vidarbha too has an excellent recovery rate. Out of the total 1300 cases registered till Monday, 810 have recovered — a recovery rate of around 62%. Entire Maharashtra’s recovery rate is 30% while the national recovery rate is 42%. In a way, Vidarbha low percentage is contributing in helping Maharashtra improve its recovery rate. Pro-active containment, effective treatment in hospitals, changed discharge strategy are some reasons behind improved the recovery rate. Even Akola, the worst-hit district of Vidarbha region, has registered 62% recovery rate. Yavatmal’s recovery rate is highest in Vidarbha at 87%. Amravati is the only district in Vidarbha having more than 100 cases and recovery rate less than 50% (45%). All other districts in Vidarbha have less number of cases and many patients are recovering. Districts like Gondia, Bhandara, Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur were not having more cases of Covid-19 till May 20. Some of these districts reported a surge in cases after May 20 and many of them are on the road to recovery. The recent positive patients are mostly returnees from Mumbai, Pune, Malegaon and other red zones. They were mandatorily checked and many of them were found positive. But, they had less viral load and mild to very mild symptoms. Most of the returnees are young, physically fit and below 45 years of age and have all chances to recover. They are yet to complete their 10-day hospitalization and monitoring of symptoms is on. By next week, most of these patients are likely to recover. Buldhana has 44 cases and 26 have already recovered. The recent patient discharged was a five-year-old girl from rural Buldhana. The highest recovery rate in the districts having more than 100 cases is in Yavatmal. Here, 98 out of 113 confirmed positive cases have recovered and discharged. These cases in Yavatmal include an elderly patient who was on ventilator support for more than 10 days and tested Covid-19 positive repeatedly five times. Apart from the best recovery rate, Yavatmal has not reported a single death due to Covid-19 till date. Recovery rate (as on May 25) District | Details| RR Nagpur| 351/428| 82 Akola| 251/415|61.82 Amravati| 80/178| 44.94 Yavatmal| 98/113| 86.72 TOTAL Vidarbha | 810/1300 | 62.30 Maharashtra total: 15786/52,667| 29.97 National Recovery rate: 58216/1,40,215|41.51 Note: RR — recovery rate in %||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-82-nagpurs-recovery-rate-one-of-the-best-in-country/articleshow/75984827.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Spl buses for teachers on evaluation duty||Trichy: TNSTC will operate 15 special buses to help teachers assigned for evaluating answer scripts of the higher secondary board examinations to reach their evaluation centres in the district from Wednesday. The 15 special buses assigned for ferrying school teachers will have a conductor who will verify the ID cards of the teachers and other government employees. Except for the government staff, others will not be permitted to board the buses. Facemasks are mandatory to travel in these special buses, TNSTC said. Against the average seating capacity of 55 people, only about 30-35 people will be permitted to travel. Alternative seat arrangements and other measures to maintain social distancing will be ensured in the special buses. “We will register the details of the passengers with their ID proof. The travel is not free, passengers have to pay the ticket fare,” an official source with TNSTC said. With over 2,000 teachers expected to take part in the evaluation duty across the 13 centres in the district, the special buses will connect Manapparai, Musiri and other towns as sought by the school education department and the district administration. The bus crew will wear facemask and hand gloves as a part of the safety measure. To ensure more seats, mofussil buses shall be utilized for special services. TNSTC sources said that based on the response they face on Wednesday, alterations will be made to ensure smooth travel for the teachers and other government staffs travelling within the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-buses-for-teachers-on-evaluation-duty/articleshow/75984823.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 26, 2020||Agra||Man booked for celebrating wedding silver jubilee amid Covid-19 lockdown||AGRA: Aligarh police on Monday booked a local caterer for violating lockdown rules as he was found celebrating his 25th wedding anniversary with friends and relatives in a Covid-19 containment zone.  A video of the event went viral on social media, forcing the cops to take action. According to police, the caterer, Pavan Varshney, had thrown a party on Sunday and about 15 people were present at the event held in the containment zone of Sansigate. Even though there was a 100 per cent lockdown in the area, Varshney celebrated without following social distancing norms.  In the video, it is clearly seen the people participating in the celebration are not wearing facial masks even as they dance together outside the house. Watch UP: Man booked for celebrating wedding silver jubilee amid Covid-19 lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-booked-for-celebrating-wedding-silver-jubilee-amid-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/75982848.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Local hockey enthusiasts remember Balbir Singh Senior as sporting hero||Dehradun: Legendary hockey player Balbir Singh Senior (96) passed away in Chandigarh on Monday morning after battling multiple health issues for over past two weeks. Singh was one of the most glorified players of Indian hockey as he played an important role in the Indian team which won three consecutive Olympic gold medals from 1948 to 1956. On his death, Singh was fondly remembered by the local residents who shared their fond memories of the legendary hockey player with TOI. Family of the late hockey player Hardyal Singh remembers some fond memories of the two players as they both played together for a considerable amount of time. The two played together in the gold medal winning team of the 1956 Melbourne Olympics. “Whenever my grandfather used to tell me any hockey-related story, he always mentioned Balbir Singh Senior’s name in it. He believed that Balbir sir is among the best players to ever to grace the hockey field. My grandfather told me an interesting anecdote that he got the chance to play a match in 1950s after Balbir sir suffered an injury. Eventually, he scored 9-10 goals in that game and India won the match. From then on, my grandfather used to thank him for “getting hurt”. He was truly a legend,” said Sunny Singh, a resident of Dehradun and grandson of Hardyal Singh. Another former hockey player Syed Ali, who grew up in Nainital but currently lives in Lucknow, told TOI that it was a treat to get some tips from the legendary hockey player. “He was the manager of our team in 1982 Asian Games in Delhi. We lost the final game against Pakistan. In our next game against Pakistan a few months later in Australia, we defeated them and I scored a goal in that match. He got so happy that he hugged me tight and kissed me hard on my cheeks. However, the kiss was quite painful as his beard poked my cheek,” remembers Ali laughingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/local-hockey-enthusiasts-remember-balbir-singh-senior-as-sporting-hero/articleshow/75982882.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||With 40 new cases, U’khand’s Covid tally touches 357||Dehradun: With 40 new cases reported on Monday, the Covid tally in Uttarakhand has now reached 357. Of the 40 new cases, 14 are passengers of the Mumbai-Haridwar Shramik Special which had reached Haridwar last week. According to the health department, Nainital and Haridwar reported nine new Covid-19 cases each on May 25, followed by nine new cases in Tehri, five in US Nagar and three in Pauri. While Chamoli and Champawat reported two new cases each, Pithoragarh and Dehradun reported one new Covid positive each on Monday. “Of the nine patients from Haridwar, six are passengers of Shramik Special. Till now, the total count of positive cases from the Mumbai-Haridwar Shramik Special has reached 101,” said Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 control room at the health directorate. With the rise of over 250 cases in past 10 days, the doubling rate of Covid cases in the state is now 3.98 days while the recovery rate has dropped to 17.68%. Meanwhile, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, which claimed to have 1,500 samples pending, has started deep-freezing the new samples being given to them. The premier institute has also transferred three Covid patients to Doon Hospital. Authorities of Doon Hospital said that the patients were transferred from AIIMS due to unavailability of beds in the Covid ward at AIIMS. However, public relations officer of AIIMS (Rishikesh) Harish Thapliyal refuted the allegations that the patients were moved to Doon Hospital becaus there was paucity of beds at AIIMS. He pointed out that the hospital has been made a ‘super facility’ Covid treatment centre for five districts and even patients of Dehradun are being moved to AIIMS which is why some patients were sent to Doon Hospital. “We have 25 positive cases under treatment while 65 suspected cases are in isolation in the 100-bed facility. We are expecting a spurt in cases in the next few days, hence, we have already mooted a plan to increase 100 beds each for positive and suspected cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-40-new-cases-ukhands-covidtally-touches-357/articleshow/75982881.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 26, 2020||Agra||Agra: SP leader booked for violating lockdown rules||AGRA: Samajwadi Party's state unit secretary of the youth wing Salman Shahid along with 24 other people was booked on Monday for allegedly violating lockdown rules by organizing a large gathering for distributing food packets on the eve of Eid-ul-fitr in Aligarh. According to the FIR, SP leader Shahid, along with village head Noor Hassan and others, including 10 women, distributed food packets without following social distancing norms. All of them have been booked under section IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act at Madrak police station Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sp-leader-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75982873.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Boy held for attempted rape, murder of 9-yr-old girl||Trichy: A nine-year-old girl, who was found with severe head injuries in a jasmine farm in Krishnasamudram near Manapparai, died at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital in Trichy late on Sunday. The police have arrested a 14-year-old boy on charges of attempting to sexually assault and kill her. The girl was found unconscious with head injury in the farm close to her house on Sunday afternoon. She was rushed to the government headquarters hospital in Manapparai and shifted to MGM in Trichy later for critical care treatment. Her health condition failed to improve and died later. She was a Class 3 student in a government school in the area. The Manapparai all women police station (AWPS) is investigating the case. A boy, who was a neighbour of the girl, was the first one to inform everyone in the area about the girl lying unconscious. As the police were baffled without any clue about the accused, the needle of suspicion pointed to the boy. As the boy gave contradictory statements to the police, further enquiry confirmed his role in the murder. The police said that the boy was studying in Class 9 in the same school where the girl studied. The boy coerced the girl to come with him to the jasmine farm near their house on Sunday afternoon. When the girl went there, he attempted to sexually abuse her but the girl fought back. In a fit of rage, the boy hit her head with a stone few times. She fell unconscious. He went to his house and informed others. The police also recovered the boy’s blood stained shirt and pants which were abandoned near the spot. SP Zia Ul Haque said that the police booked the minor for murder under IPC and sexually harassment under Pocso Act. The boy was arrested and sent to government observation home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-held-for-attempted-rape-murder-of-9-yr-old-girl/articleshow/75984829.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bareilly||Man returning home to celebrate Eid dies after jumping off Shramik Spl||Bareilly: Mohammed Rashid, 22, had almost reached home and was looking forward to celebrate Eid with his family. Though Eid was a muted affair this time, his family was eagerly expecting for him on Sunday morning. He had boarded a Gorakhpur-bound Shramik Special train in Ghaziabad on Saturday. The train had a scheduled stoppage in Hardoi, nearly 60 km from his home, but his eagerness to meet his family early prompted him to jump off the speeding train when it reached the Shahjahanpur railway station late on Saturday night and was crushed under the wheels.Rashid used to work at a Delhi factory that manufactures jeans and had got stuck in the national capital because of the lockdown. He was a resident of Hathithan locality under the jurisdiction of Sadar Bazaar police station here. The information about his death came as a shock for the family. Rashid’s mother Naseem had spoken to him a few hours before his death and prepared food for him. The family had decided to offer Namaj on Eid together and celebrate the festival with neighbours but tragedy arrived instead. Neighbours too forgo Eid celebrations to join the family in mourning.“My brother was the sole earning member in the family. He was very happy that he was returning home to celebrate Eid with us, but fate had something else for us all,” said Rashid’s sister Soni. The body has been kept in isolation and samples have been sent for Covid-19 test as the deceased was returning from another state. The health department has clarified that the body would be handed over to the family once the report arrives and the autopsy is done as per the guidelines.GRP SHO of Shahjahanpur Arvind Pandey said, “A youth was killed after he fell off a running Shramik Special train. We are investigating to find out whether he jumped off the train by his own voli0tion or he accidentally fell down. We have recovered a valid ticket from his pocket, and all his belonging were handed over to his family.”This is the third reported incident from Shahjahanpur where migrant workers have jumped off running trains in a hurry to reach home. Earlier, five people jumped off running trains at Roza railway station on May 24 and May 8. They were, however, held by government railway police and the sent to quarantine shelter.end||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-returning-home-to-celebrate-eid-dies-after-jumping-off-shramik-spl/articleshow/75982879.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Passengers disembarking at Sambra Airport not asked for epasses||Belagavi: Passengers who disembarked off the flight from Ahmedabad that landed at Sambra Airport in Belagavi on Monday were asked only to fill the self-declaration form at the terminal before being ferried to the government quarantine centres. Interestingly, the officials at the airport did not ask the passengers to furnish epasses, which the Karnataka government has made mandatory for people entering from other states. In keeping with the directives of the Karnataka government, those coming to the state from Covid-19 hotspots such as Ahmedabad, will be quarantined at a government facility for seven days, following which they will have to isolate themselves at home for another week. On arrival at the Sambra Airport, the passengers were asked to declare their willingness to be quarantined for the prescribed period. Rakesh M, one of the passengers who arrived in Belagavi by flight on Monday, said that he had not been able to get an epass on the Seva Sindhu app. “I had applied for epass for myself and my family on Sunday, but they had not been generated in time for the journey. But I had no trouble and was taken to the quarantine facility,” he added. Despite state government mandated e-passes for the returnees traveling from outside to enter the state, the air passengers landed at Sambra airport on Monday were allowed inside without having one. The guidelines issued by the state government on May 23 mandates that people coming into Karnataka have with them an epass to exit bus stands, railway stations and airports. Interestingly, officials did not allow more than 300 people stranded at the Koganoli checkpost on the Maharashtra border to enter Karnataka citing the lack of epass. They were allowed entry only following outcry in the media. Belagavi assistant commissioner Ashok Teli admitted that not one of the passengers from Ahmedabad had an epass, before adding that he had been given directions to allow them entry. “They must, however, register themselves on the Arogya Setu app to be permitted entry to Karnataka,” he added. Anil Parameshwara, another passenger on the flight, questioned the need for the pass when there was an app that could track their movement. MLA Priyank Kharge, who has filed a writ petition in the high court to bring Karnataka residents back from neighbouring states, pointed to the lack of uniformity in the standard operating procedure across the country. Vasy HV, an activist, meanwhile, alleged that the Karnataka government was not too concerned with ensuring the safe return of labourers stranded in neighbouring states. “This shows the state’s discriminatory attitude. Government policies must guidelines must favour vulnerable sections during a humanitarian crisis,” he said. ‘Quarantine apps compulsory’ We are entering details of passengers entering the state by air if they do not have epasses. But all people coming to Karnataka must download the quarantine app. TM Vijay Bhaskar | Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/passengers-disembarking-at-sambra-airport-not-asked-for-epasses/articleshow/75980941.cms||Shreyas HS
May 26, 2020||Chennai||‘Dairy products may lower risk of diabetes, hypertension & obesity’||Chennai: Research studies from Chennai-based nutritionist show two helpings of full fat dairy products a day may lower the risk of metabolic syndrome, the scientific term for three disorders – diabetes, hypertension and obesity – which trigger heart diseases. The international study – which analysed case sheets of 1,90,000 people aged between 35 and 70 from across 21 countries, including India, China, Iran, Philippines, Pakistan, Brazil, Canada, Sweden, Turkey and UAE, as a part of Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology (PURE) study – was published in the medical journal BMJ Open Diabetes Research and Care. “While many skip milk, curd, butter and ghee in their daily diet thinking it can cause harm but more studies are showing how much we have misunderstood the benefit of the whole fat,” said one of the first authors Bhavadharini B, now in Canada. “Increasing dairy consumption may be feasible and low-cost approach to reducing metabolic syndrome – hypertension, diabetes. Ultimately, cardiovascular disease events, particularly in developing countries like India, may reduce.” she said. As a part of the research, scientists analysed their intake of milk, yogurt, yogurt-based drinks, cheese and dishes prepared with dairy products – full or low fat – along with their medical history, drugs taken, body weight, height, waist circumference, smoking habits, blood pressure and fasting blood glucose. Analysis showed that on an average dairy consumption was 179g, with full fat accounting for around double the amount of low fat. During the nine-year tracking period, 13,640 people developed high blood pressure and 5, 351 developed diabetes. “Full fat dairy was associated with a lower prevalence of most components of metabolic syndrome,” said senior diabetologist Dr V Mohan, who was part of the study. A person who has two servings of full fat dairy a day had 28% lower risk of metabolic syndrome compared to no daily dairy intake. Among people consuming total fat milk it is 24%, after tracking case sheets for about nine years. By having two servings of total dairy the risk of diabetes and hypertension came down by up to 12% and it went up to 14% if the serving size was increased to three. Scientists feel enzymes in milk, bioactive peptides and amino acids produced through fermentation of yogurt or cheese improve insulin sensitivity and post-prandial insulin response. “Hypertension did not increase beyond three servings. There were similar trends in diabetes too. It shows continuous benefit, but we need large and long-term trials to confirm this. If they do, then dairy consumption could be one way to prevent or slow down diabetes, hypertension and ultimately cardiovascular disease events worldwide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dairy-products-may-lower-risk-of-diabetes-hypertension-obesity/articleshow/75984909.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Hotspots and nearby areas add to new cases||Vadodara: Despite new Covid-19 cases surfacing in the city, Monday brought major relief for Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) because they were reported from hotspots or nearby areas. With 18 fresh Covid-19 cases reported since Sunday evening, total number of persons infected in the city and district rose to 873. The fresh cases included 17 that were reported from Panigate, Wadi, Navapura, Yakutpura, Baranpura, Rajmahal Road, Fatehpura and Patthargate areas of the city. Only one case from Manjalpur area was from a locality that has not witnessed Covid-19 cases earlier. The western zone of the city that had been witnessing a steady trickle of cases since the past few days did not see a single case on Monday. The east, north and south zones of VMC reported eight, seven and three cases. Of the 873 cases registered in Vadodara, 32 are from rural areas outside VMC limits while five are from outside the district itself. The positive cases since Sunday evening were of 127 tests for which reports were available. The toll remained at 38 as VMC did not declare any more deaths despite more Covid-19 positive persons having succumbed to viral infection or other comorbidities. Sources said death audit reports of some cases had also been submitted. Twelve Covid-19 patients were discharged in the city on Monday. These included four each from SSG Hospital, GMERS Gotri Hospital and home isolation. The total number of discharged patients now stands at 511.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hotspots-and-nearby-areas-add-to-new-cases/articleshow/75983066.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||Taxi owners in Calangute-Candolim belt not in favour of resumption of flights, trains||CALANGUTE: Taxi owners in the Calangute-Candolim belt said the resumption of flights and trains is not a healthy move and should have been deferred at least till the coronavirus count reduces. Speaking to TOI, vice-president of North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners Association (NGTTOA), Ravindra Vengurlekar, said, “I don’t think anybody will operate their taxis. A taxi driver has to also handle the luggage of passengers, so it becomes very easy for them to get infected by the virus. Why would any taxi driver unnecessarily jeopardise his and his family’s health? It is better to manage with whatever we have than to die,” he said. Vengurlekar said that as per their understanding the coronavirus remains on clothes and in the air for 24 hours, while on plastic and other surfaces it remains for three days. “We have discussed this and we think the government should not allow flights and trains. No tourists will come, only coronavirus will come,” he said, referring to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Goa, all of which are people who have come from outside the state. The NGTTOA also wants the plans to restart tourism deferred until the situation improves, Vengurlekar said. “If hotels are opened, they will be flooded with tourists from Delhi and Mumbai, and then the virus could spread and cause havoc,” he said, adding that the government can think about restarting tourism when the cases start reducing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taxi-owners-not-in-favour-of-resumption-of-flights-trains/articleshow/75985698.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Cops thrash youth for violating lockdown in Haridwar, video goes viral||HARIDWAR: A video showing three policemen thrashing a local youth for violating lockdown restrictions in Haridwar has gone viral on social media platforms. The incident reportedly took place in Kankhal area of Haridwar on Monday night. Police officials have taken cognisance of the video and have said that they are investigating the authenticity of the video and will thereafter, take further action. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “We are trying to ascertain the identity of the victim and police personnel who were patrolling the area at that time. CO (city) has already launched investigation into the incident. Strict action will be taken against those who are found guilty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-thrash-youth-for-violating-lockdown-video-goes-viral/articleshow/75982897.cms||MS Nawaz
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||RTC advances start time to 6 am due to heat wave||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) buses will start to ply from 6 am instead of 7 am after the RTC rescheduled its timings on Monday following the rise in maximum temperatures across the state. RTC will also ensure long-distance travellers reach their destination before night curfew sets in at 7 pm. Speaking to TOI, APSRTC executive director C Ravi Kumar said they changed the bus timings from Monday as per a government order. “We had started operations with 17 per cent buses. Now, we are operating 35 per cent of buses. We have nearly 2,800 buses in Vizianagaram zone,” Ravi Kumar said. Another RTC official said occupancy ratio in buses between 11 am to 3 pm had fallen as passengers were unwilling to venture out in the heat. “We operated buses on certain routes with one or two passengers since we resumed services on May 21,” the RTC official said. Authorities at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and AP State Disaster Management Authority said sultry weather conditions would continue till the end of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rtc-advances-start-time-to-6-am-due-to-heat-wave/articleshow/75982898.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Rising Covid-19 cases leave people in tandas worried||Hubballi: Yadgir district was categorised under the green zone with not a single Covid-19 case when most of the districts in the state were hit by the pandemic. However, the picture of the district has changed after May 17 when it had reported three fresh positive cases. Compared to other districts in the state, cases are rapidly increasing in Yadgir as it has crossed a grim 100 mark within a week. The district also saw 72 cases on Saturday, which was the biggest spike in the recent days in North Karnataka region. On Sunday, the total number of infected jumped to 111 in Yadgir and on Monday, again it reported 15 fresh cases, taking the total of infected to 126. The biggest worrying factor is that most of the infected are from tandas in Yadagir district. About 90% of the total 126 are from tandas. Now, people in tandas are facing a bleak future after most of their family members who had been to Maharashtra and Bengaluru to work are now living in government quarantine facilities. Manohar Pawar, director, Tanda Development Corporation, Yadagir, told TOI that there are more than 250 tandas in Yadagir district. About 80% tanda people migrate to Mumbai and Pune while 20% of them migrate to Bengaluru for their livelihood. There will be huge exodus of people to Maharashtra from tandas in September and October. All migrated people will work as construction labourers in Maharashtra and earn Rs 700 to 800 daily. Usually, couple will migrate by leaving their aged parents and children behind. They usually return to their tandas before monsoon to begin agricultural activities. After kharif season, they again head back to Maharashtra or Bengaluru in search of jobs. When hundreds of migrated people came back to Yadgir from Maharashtra by Shramik train, they were put under quarantine in facilities provided by the government. Now most of them are testing positive. Of the 126 cases, 115 are from the tandas. This has created panic among people in the tandas. Once they recover and return to the tandas, they won’t be having any work on hand and will be extremely hard for them to manage their families. So, the government should come to the rescue of the tribe by ensuring regular jobs for them under MGNREGA and other developmental works. A special package should be announced for the benefit of the people in the tandas, Pawar said. Sources said that Allipur tanda has so far reported 26 positive cases, Yaragol Dodda tanda 20, Bacahapur 14, and Mudnal 5 cases. Cases have also been reported from Basanatpur, Ramsamudra, Chintanhalli, Yampur, Arakera, Naikal, Kurakunda and other tandas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rising-covid-19-cases-leave-people-in-tandas-worried/articleshow/75982602.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Entire village quarantined after man who died in Pauri’s isolation centre found Covid +ve||Dehradun: Sample of the 48-year-old man, who died in a quarantine centre in Pauri’s Pabo block on May 21, tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. Soon after, the district administration sealed the entire village and every local has now been placed under home quarantine. All the cops deployed in the Pabo police post have also been sent for quarantine. According to reports, the man had returned from Ghaziabad and was put up at a quarantine centre for a couple of days before he died. The health department, which had initially claimed that he died of heart attack, has now refused to comment on the cause of death saying that it couldn’t be ascertained in autopsy. However, the officials maintained that his viscera have been preserved. The department has collected the samples of his family members — his mother, wife, and children — and also of those doctors and policemen who were involved in his postmortem examination. As many as 60 people in the village were discovered as primary contacts of the deceased Covid-19 patient. “We have sent the seven cops, who handled the body of the deceased, in quarantine and have filled the death report,” said deputy SP Vandana Singh, while adding that cops from other police stations are being called to work in Pabo police post. So far, Pauri district has reported 10 Covid-19 cases. Among them, eight are active cases, one patient was treated and discharged, and one patient has died. Notably, this is the fourth death of a Covid-19 positive patient in Uttarakhand. However, the state government has been constantly claiming that none of the deaths were directly an outcome of Covid-19. In all these cases, the officials attributed the deaths to pre-existing conditions (or co-morbid illness). The first two deaths took place at All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Rishikesh and their causes were told to be “heavy blood discharge in brain” and “cancer” respectively. The third death was of a Covid-19 positive seven-month pregnant woman at Doon Hospital. The health department says that she died of tuberculosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/entire-village-quarantined-after-man-who-died-in-pauris-isolation-centre-found-covid-ve/articleshow/75982896.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Naidu back ‘home’ after two months||Vijayawada: Former chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu arrived in the state after a gap of two months. He reached his rented house on the banks of river Krishna in a motorcade accompanied and greeted by his party workers. Naidu had remained in his Hyderabad house due to the lockdown for the last two months. He was working from Hyderabad, mostly holding video and teleconferences. The TDP chief wanted to visit Visakhapatnam to console the victims of the LG Polymers gas leak. He had written to the Union home ministry seeking permission for his visit. However, he could not make it as the Union home ministry did not respond to the letter for unknown reasons. Even on Monday, he wanted to visit Visakhapatnam directly from Hyderabad and sought permission from the state police. The police too have issued permission for him and his son Lokesh to visit Visakhapatnam by flight and return to Vijayawada by road. As the state government deferred operation of flight services in the state for the day, his visit to Visakhapatnam was also deferred and he came to his rented house. — Gopi Dara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-back-home-after-two-months/articleshow/75982886.cms||Gopi Dara
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown halts survey to record bat species in K’taka||Belagavi: In a first, conservationists are carrying out a diversity survey of bats across Karnataka. A team of Bat Conservation India Trust (BCIT) will create a database on the various species of bats for the state forest department. The team started the survey in January at Bhimgad National Park which is home to the rare Wroughton’s free-tailed bats. According to Belagavi deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Amarnath MV, a three-member team surveyed bats in January and February, but the study was halted due to the lockdown. Earlier surveys of bats have been conducted by photographing the animals in some habitats. However, the new three-year project panning across the state will be done more scientifically by laying mist nets, measuring skull sizes and taking tissue samples from wings to record the DNA of the species, said Amarnath. The team has so far conducted the survey at Bhimgad and Chorla. As the monsoon is approaching, the team will conduct the survey in plains. Once the rainy season ends, they will continue their activities in the Western Ghats. Rajesh Puttaswamaiah, a citizen scientist and trustee of BCIT, said as per the preliminary studies there are around 42 species in the state. But they have been recorded only through pictures. “In Belagavi, the recorded species are 11, but there are around 20 species in Bhimgad,” he pointed out. During its survey, the team used mist nets to capture two species of bats - Hipposideros speoris and Rhinolophoidea - and took measurements. In the coming days, skull measurement and tissue samples collection will be done, said Rajesh. “Five-six members are currently involved in the project and if needed, more students studying in the streams of wildlife biology will be roped in. The team will revisit Bhimgad and Choral, probably after the monsoon,” he added. Rajesh said recording species will help in their conservation. “There are some endangered bat species, and when the survey finds the habitats of such species, those places can be conserved. For example, Barapede Caves which house Wroughton’ free-tailed bats is now being protect carefully,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-halts-survey-to-record-bat-species-in-ktaka/articleshow/75980406.cms||Shreyas HS
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Passengers disembarking at Sambra Airport not asked for epasses||Belagavi: Passengers who disembarked off the flight from Ahmedabad that landed at Sambra Airport in Belagavi on Monday were asked only to fill the self-declaration form at the terminal before being ferried to the government quarantine centres. Interestingly, the officials at the airport did not ask the passengers to furnish epasses, which the Karnataka government has made mandatory for people entering from other states. In keeping with the directives of the Karnataka government, those coming to the state from Covid-19 hotspots such as Ahmedabad, will be quarantined at a government facility for seven days, following which they will have to isolate themselves at home for another week. On arrival at the Sambra Airport, the passengers were asked to declare their willingness to be quarantined for the prescribed period. Rakesh M, one of the passengers who arrived in Belagavi by flight on Monday, said that he had not been able to get an epass on the Seva Sindhu app. “I had applied for epass for myself and my family on Sunday, but they had not been generated in time for the journey. But I had no trouble and was taken to the quarantine facility,” he added. Despite state government mandated e-passes for the returnees traveling from outside to enter the state, the air passengers landed at Sambra airport on Monday were allowed inside without having one. The guidelines issued by the state government on May 23 mandates that people coming into Karnataka have with them an epass to exit bus stands, railway stations and airports. Interestingly, officials did not allow more than 300 people stranded at the Koganoli checkpost on the Maharashtra border to enter Karnataka citing the lack of epass. They were allowed entry only following outcry in the media. Belagavi assistant commissioner Ashok Teli admitted that not one of the passengers from Ahmedabad had an epass, before adding that he had been given directions to allow them entry. “They must, however, register themselves on the Arogya Setu app to be permitted entry to Karnataka,” he added. Anil Parameshwara, another passenger on the flight, questioned the need for the pass when there was an app that could track their movement. MLA Priyank Kharge, who has filed a writ petition in the high court to bring Karnataka residents back from neighbouring states, pointed to the lack of uniformity in the standard operating procedure across the country. Vasy HV, an activist, meanwhile, alleged that the Karnataka government was not too concerned with ensuring the safe return of labourers stranded in neighbouring states. “This shows the state’s discriminatory attitude. Government policies must guidelines must favour vulnerable sections during a humanitarian crisis,” he said. “We are entering details of passengers entering the state by air if they do not have epasses. But all people coming to Karnataka must download the quarantine app,” said Karnataka chief secretary Vijay Bhaskar. Four land, 30 leave as first flight after lockdown lands in HubballiIt was an anticlimactic moment when a mere four passengers disembarked from the first flight that landed at the Hubballi Airport after almost two months. The Star Air flight from Bengaluru, bound for Hindon (Delhi), had a stopover in Hubballi. All the passengers who arrived in Hubballi on Monday were subjected to a preliminary screening. One of the passengers who arrived on the flight to Hubballi, had arrived in Bengaluru on another from Chennai, a Covid-19 hotspot. He was given the choice of opting either for quarantine at a government facility or pay for isolation at a private institution. He opted for the latter. The remaining three passengers were stamped with indelible ink and directed to quarantine themselves at home. On the other hand, the airport staff said that 30 passengers boarded the Hindon-bound flight from Hubballi. The staff added that arrangements had been made to ensure sufficient distance between passengers entering the terminal, while a hand sanitiser was kept at the entry. Passengers boarding flights from Hubballi arrived at the airport three hours prior to departure, and have all their bags disinfected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/passengers-disembarking-at-sambra-airport-not-asked-for-epasses/articleshow/75981271.cms||Shreyas HS
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi, DK police stations Will Be Sanitised, says IGP (western range)||Mangaluru: State police top brass has dashed off instructions to frontline corona warriors across Karnataka to enhance personal safety while discharging their duties. With Udupi now emerging a new trouble spot for the department, head of state police force Praveen Sood is keen that all personnel put a premium on their personal safety and adhere to new stringent SOPs that been drafted in this regard. It is no longer enough if the policemen wear masks and face shields and sanitise themselves regularly, Sood told TOI. “I have instructed all police unit chiefs to ensure that policemen also wear gloves in addition to other PPEs they have been using since they were pressed in to the frontline in war against the epidemic,” Sood said adding this is important as policemen are manning the check posts and are on duty at the institutional quarantine centres. Allaying fears over stations being sealed down over positive case among station staff, Sood said this is a temporary measure and stations do not become non-functional. “It is just that, for a mandated period police station will function from different premise when the station is being sanitised,” he said. Noting that policemen are quarantined as precautionary measure, he said additional staff can be drafted from other stations or districts if need for it arises. “We saw this in Bagalkote two months back when four tested positive after they entered a mosque to stop namaz and 83 people had to be quarantined. This was the case in Shivamogga, KGF and even Hebbagodi in Benglauru. Other policemen and officers are sent as reinforcement in such cases,” he said, adding 90% of police work in last three months has been related to Covid-19. As on date there are seven policemen positive and it shows they are as vulnerable as medical professionals, he said. Devajyoti Ray, inspector-general of police (Western Range) said superintendents of police in Udupi and DK have been instructed to sanitise police stations in their districts in a phased manner and SPs of Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru that forms part of the Western Range have been asked to take a call on doing so. “Hebri police station in Udupi was sanitised as part of this process and not because of any positive case emerging from staff there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-dk-police-stations-will-be-sanitised-says-igp-western-range/articleshow/75981399.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 26, 2020||Mysuru||Migrants without Aadhaar cards denied ration under Atma Nirbhar scheme||Mysuru: Scores of migrant labourers without Aadhaar cards are a disheartened lot as they are not eligible for the free ration at the fair price shops announced under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme. Under the scheme, each member of a migrant family will be given 5 kgs of rice in May. In June, it will be 10 kgs of rice and other grains supplied by the central government. The rice distribution for May will start on Tuesday. Migrant families can visit the nearest fair price shop and show their Aadhaar cards to get the ration. Each beneficiary will be provided with allocated grains and rice after verifying their Aadhaar number and seeded mobile number. Migrant families which do not have any ration card in any part of the country are eligible to get benefit under the scheme. Migrants who move from one taluk to another taluk, between the districts and the states are also considered for the benefits under the scheme. P Shivanna, deputy director, department of food and civil supplies, Mysuru, confirmed that Aadhaar number is mandatory to get rice and other grains under the scheme. “Ration for the month of May will be distributed from Tuesday. Only those members of a family who have Aadhaar numbers will get the provisions under the scheme,” he said. When asked what if a family or a few members of a family do not have an Aadhaar card, he explained that they will not able to get the benefit of the scheme. Volunteers working with the migrant families said many of these families may not able to get the benefit of the scheme as they don’t have Aadhaar cards with them. Most of the families have left their documents back home. Naturally, they will remain out of the scheme. The best thing is to issue temporary/ duplicate Aadhaar cards to the needy, said Aarti R, a volunteer working for the cause of migrant families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/migrants-without-aadhaar-cards-denied-ration-under-atma-nirbhar-scheme/articleshow/75982233.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bareilly||26-year-old widow found hanging from ceiling fan||Pilibhit: A 26-year-old widow, the mother of two children, was found hanging with her saree from a ceiling fan inside a room of her house in Barkhera town on Monday morning. After receiving the information from the mother-in-law of the deceased, police reached the spot and sent the body for autopsy, although they have not been presented with any complaint in the matter. SHO of Barkhera police station, Umesh Kumar Solanki, said the deceased, who lived in ward no. 1 of Barkhera, has been identified as Maya Devi. Her husband Dal Chand died six years ago, since when she has been living with her son, daughter and mother-in-law in her husband’s house. Police said they will wait for the autopsy report to ascertain if it was a suicide or something else.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/26-year-old-widow-found-hanging-from-ceiling-fan/articleshow/75982894.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bareilly||Asymptomatic patients shifted to Covid-19 care unit||Bareilly: The first Covid-19 care unit of Bareilly division has become functional in Pilibhit for treatment of asymptomatic patients. On Monday, 17 patients from Pilibhit who were undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 level one hospital in Bareilly were shifted to Covid-19 care unit in Pilibhit. Besides, 28 other asymptomatic patients from Bareilly division were shifted here on Sunday.Officials said Covid-19 care unit which has been set up at the building of government ayurvedic college has 150-bed currently. Officials said the work of adding another 250-bed here is under process.Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The asymptomatic patients of Bareilly division, including Bareilly, Budaun, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur, will now be under treatment at Covid-19 care unit in Pilibhit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/asymptomatic-patients-shifted-to-covid-19-care-unit/articleshow/75982905.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||23-year-old found murdered in Haridwar, live-in partner at large||HARIDWAR: A 23-year-old woman was found murdered in her rented accommodation on Monday in SIDCUL area of Haridwar. She was living with her live-in partner, who is at large. The victim has been identified as Sonam, a native of Gawalior district in Madhya Pradesh. She worked in a local company. SHO SIDCUL police station Prashant Bhauguna told TOI, “Her body was found in a bag in her bathroom. The crime came to fore when locals informed officials about the foul smell coming from the victim’s room. Her body has been sent for postmortem while his partner Rohit remains absconding. We have learnt that another woman is accompanying accused Rohit. We are trying to nab both of them. Meanwhile, a case is being registered against the accused and further investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/23-yr-old-found-murdered-live-in-partner-at-large/articleshow/75982919.cms||MS Nawaz
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor DFO, ranger feud out in open as they trade charges||Bijnor: A raging feud has surfaced between Bijnor's divisional forest officer (DFO) M Semmaran and ranger Sharad Gupta, with both trading charges against one another. While ranger Gupta has alleged that the DFO "might kill me", Semmaran claimed that the former was hand in glove with poachers and land mafia involved in grabbing fertile government land along the Ganga. "He (Gupta) is levelling such charges against me because of the ongoing inquiry against him relating to allegations of corruption," claimed Semmaran. The dispute between the two forest department officers came to the fore after ranger Gupta filed a complaint against the DFO with the chief conservator. In his complaint, Gupta alleged that DFO Semmaran was siphoning off government money. "When I unearthed his irregularities, he got angry. He may get me killed. The DFO also gets a cut from contractors," the ranger alleged. Refuting the allegations, the DFO alleged, "The ranger is indulging in corruption. He is colludimg with land sharks and poachers. He has collected money from 'khadar' areas. His did not fulfill his target of planting saplings. He takes French leave and shows deriliction in duty. There are serious charges against him. I have already sounded senior officers about it. When I took action against him, he tried to tarnish my image. All allegations levelled by him against me are baseless."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-dfo-ranger-feud-out-in-open-as-they-trade-charges/articleshow/75982913.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Evaluators get centres far from home, allowed to get them changed||TRICHY: Higher secondary school teachers, who have been allotted evaluation centres far from their residences, can get it changed by approaching the centres on Wednesday. More than 2,000 teachers will be taking part in the answer script evaluation for Class XI and XII state board students in Trichy district from Wednesday. Meanwhile, few teachers have been allotted centres away from their homes. For instance, a government school teacher will have to travel over 50km from Manapparai to Trichy city if her centre is not changed. Mobility is a big issue because of Covid-19 and travelling over 100km on a daily basis for at least 20 days would be a challenge, she said. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district chief education officer (CEO) S Santhi said that teachers were allotted suitable centres for evaluation. But we have obtained requests from few teachers seeking change of centres. We have asked such teachers to get permission letter from concerned district education officer and submit it to the concerned centres that they want to opt, she said. According to A Venkatesan, Trichy district president, Tamil Nadu higher secondary post graduate teachers association (TNHSPGTA), close to 100 teachers have requested for change of centre in Trichy district. Further, 120-130 teachers working in Trichy schools, who are residing in neighbouring districts, too, have sought permission for change of centres, he said. Many teachers said they were not consulted while allotting centres. Majority of government school teachers reside in the city and go to the outskirts and even neighbouring districts for work. Trichy camp is likely to swell up now and if teachers for a subject in a centre are found to be excess in numbers, they will have to find space in other centres with requirement for evaluator of that subject, said a government school teacher. While evaluation of answer scripts has been suspended in a few districts including Chennai for being in the red zone, the answer scripts will flood to other districts like Trichy that are relatively safe. “Unlike last year when a room used to accommodate up to 24 evaluators based on the size of the room, we have now reduced it to eight evaluators to ensure social distancing,” said Santhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/evaluators-get-centres-far-from-home-allowed-to-get-them-changed/articleshow/75984841.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Maharashtra returnees blamed as Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 17,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 surge continued unabated with 805 more cases detected on Monday, taking its tally to 17,082, and public health authorities blamed it on the inflow of people from other states, especially worst-hit Maharashtra. Of the 93 returnees who tested positive on Monday, 87 were from Maharashtra. The toll touched 118 after seven people died at various hospitals in Chennai, which reported 548 cases, mostly from containment zones in Royapuram, Thiru-vi-ka Nagar and Puliyanthope. As resumption of domestic flights brought in more people from other states,health minister C Vijayabaskar said natives returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and MP by road and rail made up 5% of the caseload in the past 10 days. Since May 9, 942 returnees had tested positive, he said. “This includes 726 people from Maharashtra, 21 from Gujarat, 15 from Delhi and 19 from West Bengal. We have been able to stop all these people at the check posts or on arrival at railway stations, test and isolate them,” he said. However, with 25 flights expected to land in Chennai alone every day, the risk of infections will go up, he said. As per the revised protocol, TN will continue to screen passengers on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maha-returnees-blamed-as-tn-covid-tally-crosses-17k/articleshow/75984842.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 26, 2020||Erode||Maharashtra returnees blamed as Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 17,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 surge continued unabated with 805 more cases detected on Monday, taking its tally to 17,082, and public health authorities blamed it on the inflow of people from other states, especially worst-hit Maharashtra. Of the 93 returnees who tested positive on Monday, 87 were from Maharashtra. The toll touched 118 after seven people died at various hospitals in Chennai, which reported 548 cases, mostly from containment zones in Royapuram, Thiru-vi-ka Nagar and Puliyanthope. As resumption of domestic flights brought in more people from other states,health minister C Vijayabaskar said natives returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and MP by road and rail made up 5% of the caseload in the past 10 days. Since May 9, 942 returnees had tested positive, he said. “This includes 726 people from Maharashtra, 21 from Gujarat, 15 from Delhi and 19 from West Bengal. We have been able to stop all these people at the check posts or on arrival at railway stations, test and isolate them,” he said. However, with 25 flights expected to land in Chennai alone every day, the risk of infections will go up, he said. As per the revised protocol, TN will continue to screen passengers on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/maha-returnees-blamed-as-tn-covid-tally-crosses-17k/articleshow/75996533.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||10-year-old dies of snake bite at Nainital’s quarantine centre||NAINITAL: A 10-year-old girl, quarantined with her family at a school in Malli Sethi village of Betalghat block in Nainital district, died of snake bite on Monday. Speaking to TOI, victim Anjali’s family said that the serpent attack took place at around 5 am when the family was sleeping. “The incident happened early in the morning when she was sleeping. The snake bit near her ear. We dialed the ambulance service but it arrived hours later. Then, she was taken to Betalghat’s primary health centre where the doctor declared her brought dead,” said Khim Singh Rawat, Anjali’s uncle. The body was being taken to BD Pandey Hospital in Nainital for postmortem at the time of filing this report. Watch Uttarakhand: Minor girl dies of snake bite at a quarantine centre in Nainital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/10-yr-old-dies-of-snake-bite-at-nainitals-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75982907.cms||Prashant Jha
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||1.6k Nepalese workers stranded in India sent to Nepal||Pithoragarh: After a two-month-long wait, around 1,600 Nepalese workers stranded in different parts of India were sent to Nepal through Banbasa bridge on Monday. Earlier, these Nepalese workers were brought to Champawat’s Banbasa and Tanakpur camps in Uttarakhand roadways buses. “The stranded workers were sent to their home country in 35 buses. Later, they were handed over to Nepalese officials,” said Saraswati Dayanand, SDM Purnagiri. The official added that the district administration had made food and lodging arrangements for the workers as Indo-Nepal borders were closed due to the lockdown. The development comes after talks were held regarding the same between Champawat and Kanchanpur (Nepal) district administrations. Notably, the workers had been protesting for their home-return for about a month now. “The workers have been quarantined in different camps for now and they will be sent to their respective districts after they complete their isolation period,” a Nepalese official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-6k-nepalese-workers-stranded-in-india-sent-to-nepal/articleshow/75982906.cms||Prem Punetha
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Bengaluru flight service resumes at Trichy airport||TRICHY: After a gap of two months, domestic flight operations resumed at the Trichy International Airport here on Monday. On Monday, IndiGo Air arrived at 9.05pm carrying 66 passengers from Bengaluru. The flight returned from Trichy with 52 passengers to Bengaluru after a halt of 30 minutes, airline sources said. Indigo also cancelled two of its services scheduled to operate between Trichy-Chennai sector on Monday at the last minute. IndiGo Air is the only carrier operating four domestic services from Trichy. As per security protocol, all the passengers were screened using thermal scanners and made to maintain social distancing with markings at the airport. E-pass, which has been insisted by the government, was verified by district administration officials. All the passengers were asked to quarantine themselves for 14 days at their homes after completing the screening process. Earlier, around 60 passengers had booked for the Trichy-Chennai services on Monday. Some restrictions imposed by the Tamil Nadu government forced the carrier to cancel two services, airline authorities said. Instances of chaos were reported at some of the airports due to miscommunication between flight operators and passengers about the cancellation of flights, sources added. “In Trichy, all the passengers of the two IndiGo Air flights were properly informed in advance about the cancellation at around 2am on Monday,” a senior staff from IndiGo Air in Trichy said. “Some passengers arrived at our office to reschedule their travel plan. So, there was no confusion or delay in intimating our passengers about the cancellation of our two services on this sector”, the staff added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bengaluru-flight-service-resumes-at-trichy-airport/articleshow/75984843.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Planning to start two more Covid-19 test labs in Uttarakhand: Trivendra Singh Rawat||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand government has sought permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Government of India to set up two more coronavirus test labs in the state, informed chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday. CM Rawat and state’s chief secretary Utpal Singh were on a visit to Kumaon region to take stock of the situation after Nainital reported almost 90 Covid-19 positive cases in just two days. Speaking to media persons after holding a meeting with local officials, CM Rawat said that the state is planning to start a Covid-19 test facility in Almora to increase the testing capacity of the disease in the state while adding that the test lab at Indian Institute of Petroleum will become functional by the end of the month. “As coronavirus cases are on a rise, we are planning to ramp up its testing and therefore, we have sought permission from the Centre and the ICMR to start a testing facility in Almora. We also expect the lab at the IIP Dehradun to become functional by the end of the month,” he said. At present, the state has three testing labs — Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital (STH) in Haldwani, Doon Hospital in Dehradun, and AIIMS Rishikesh. CM Rawat argued that the testing facility at Almora will ease the burden on STH, Kumaon’s only testing facility. When asked about the high court’s order to first establish quarantine centre at the border and then, test symptomatic people after a week, CM Rawat said that the government is doing whatever is possible and the court will also be informed about it. CM Rawat added that the state is equipped to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and the surge in the cases will be controlled as most of the patients are migrant workers coming from other states. “The state is well equipped to tackle the pandemic. Till now, the spread among the local population has been minimal and the surge will soon be controlled,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/planning-to-start-two-more-covid-19-test-labs-in-state-cm-rawat/articleshow/75982918.cms||Prashant Jha
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Lockdown effect: Third time in 800 years, no Eid namaaz at Meerut Eidgah||MEERUT: For the third time, since it was built 794 years ago, no Eid namaaz was offered at the Eidgah here on Monday. The Eidgah was built in the early Sultanate period by Sultan Shamsuddin Iltutmish's son, Nasiraruddin Mahmud. Over the past eight centuries, the Eidgah witnessed no prayers in 1982 and a decade later, in 1992. Meerut was under curfew due to communal riots on both occasions while this time, it is the coronavirus pandemic that forced devotees to keep away. Jainus Sajidin, sheher qazi, whose family has been serving at the Eidgah for centuries, said, "Our family has been serving at the Eidgah for the last 300 years. I took over in 1991, after the death of my father who served for 50 years. Prayers are offered at the Eidgah only during the festival of Eid. According to the records and my knowledge, only on two occasions in the past - 1982 and 1992 - prayers were not offered at the Eidgah. Its the third time on Monday." Relating its history, Sajidin revealed, "Meerut's Jama Masjid and Eidgah were constructed almost at the same time. The Eidgah was constructed by Ghiasuddin Balban at the behest of Nasiruddin Mahmud, the son of first Sultan of Delhi, Shamsuddin Iltutmish, in 647 Hijri (1226 AD)." Interestingly, historians shy away from pinpointing the date when the Eidgah was built, but when it comes to assessing its age by architecture, they too associate it with early Sultanate period. "While the entire structure has been renovated, a small portion at the front is still reminiscent of the bygone era. Those were the days when bricks were prepared with inscriptions written on them and these are still visible in the exposed old structure. The architecture is very similar to Quwwat-Ul-Islam mosque, considered to be the first mosque to be built in Delhi during early Sultanate period in late 12th century and the beginning of 13th. So it can be safely assumed that the structure was built at that time," said Dr KK Sharma, associate professor, department of history, Multani Mal PG College, Modinagar, and co-writer of "History and Culture of Western Uttar Pradesh".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lockdown-effect-3rd-time-in-800-years-no-eid-namaaz-at-meerut-idgah/articleshow/75982939.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Farmers protest against power bill||THANJAVUR: Opposing the Centre’s decision to privatise power distribution through the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, a section of farmers staged a protest by carrying black flags on agriculture lands in Thanjavur on Monday. A section of farmers affiliated to Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, headed by secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan protested on an agriculture field carrying black flags and raised slogans against the bill. They said that the bill would be against the welfare of farmers and weavers across the country. They expressed fear that the amendment would deny free power to farmers and weavers and the free 100 units of power now provided to domestic consumers. They also alleged that the move by the union government was to take away the rights of states by unilaterally deciding to draft a new electricity bill and circulate it to states. They appealed the state government to vehemently oppose the bill on behalf of lakhs of farmers and weavers benefiting from the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-protest-against-power-bill/articleshow/75984845.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Docs move SC after HC rejects writ to 'extend age of retirement'||Meerut: Days after the Allahabad High Court rejected the writ to extend the retirement age of medical officers from the current 62 years to either 65 or 70, the doctors have now moved the Supreme Court (SC).The writ comes at a time when the coronavirus crisis has affected large parts of the country. While the Allahabad HC rejected their writ earlier this week, it also sought a response from the state government in this regard in the next four weeks.“Despite the central government's announcement that the retirement age of doctors should be 65 years, it has not been followed in UP until now. I am set to retire on May 31 – at a time when there is a shortage of doctors in the state amid the coronavirus crisis. While the HC has sought a reply from the UP government, my writ has been rejected. This is why I have now filed a writ in the SC,” said Dr Prem Singh, additional chief medical officer, Meerut.The writ read: “At present, there is a shortage of around 7,400 medical officers/ doctors in UP against the sanctioned 18,000 and the process of retirement of the serving medical officers is going on and are retiring at the age of 62 while the retiring officers can very well serve up to the age of 70. Thus, if the medical officers are allowed to be retired at 62, then, the vacuum of experienced medical officers cannot be filled even by the appointment of the fresh and new medical officers."The write further read: "In March, around 40 medical officers on the controlling post of different districts of UP are going to retire and the same process is bound to continue on month to month. Henceforth, allowing the experience to leave out the health system of the state and that too at this stage will hamper during the times of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/docs-move-sc-after-hc-rejects-writ-to-extend-age-of-retirement/articleshow/75982923.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Meerut’s doubling rate of active cases stands at 17.9 days against national average 14 days||Meerut: Meerut records second highest Covid-19 cases in UP at 374, including one case found in Kanpur. According to an analysis of the number of cases by TOI based on data available till Sunday, it is found that the doubling rate of active cases in Meerut is 17.9 days, slower than the national doubling rate of 14 days. The doubling rate is calculated based on the average growth rate of active cases in the past five days.At least 234 patients, including one case found in Kanpur, have meanwhile walked out of various hospitals after successful recovery till Sunday, while 22 people died. The recovery rate in Meerut stands at 62.5% as of Sunday.According to the analysis, the active cases in Meerut are increasing at a rate of 4% in contrast with the national rate of 4.9%. The rate of increase is the average growth rate calculated for the past five days. At 17.9 days, the doubling rate of active cases is highest in Meerut, so far, which means at the current growth rate, the cases will take at least 17.9 days to double.TOI had earlier reported how the number of cases spiked in May after vegetable vendors and other people associated with the supply of essential goods tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meeruts-doubling-rate-of-active-cases-stands-at-17-9-days-against-national-average-14-days/articleshow/75982948.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Over 500 students apply for e-quiz||TRICHY: The e-quiz organised by the statistics department of Periyar EVR College received an overwhelming response as 500 students applied while only 100 were given access as the rest were asked to try again on Tuesday. A set of 25 questions on fundamental of statistics were asked and e-certificates were issued for those who secured over 60% marks. “When the ministry of human resource development urged colleges to engage students through online classes, it wasn’t easy to make them use their smartphones for attending online classes which they have been using only for leisurely activities so far,” said B Senthil Kumar, coordinator of internal quality assurance cell of Periyar EVR College. “It wasn’t easy to focus on curriculum while sitting at home. But this e-quiz was interesting which provoked me to improve my understanding of the subject,” said D Soundararajan, a student from the college who attempted the e-quiz. “We will increase the difficulty level in the coming days for the e-quiz. This will make students search for answers and eventually make them learn the subject, said Senthil Kumar. The college is planning to extend the e-quiz to other department and has asked them to submit their questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-500-students-apply-for-e-quiz/articleshow/75984848.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar BJP MLA lands in soup over son’s Instagram post||MEERUT: An Instagram post comparing India and the US 'unfairly' on various parameters, largely socio-cultural aspects, purportedly uploaded by Shubham Malik, son of Umesh Malik, BJP MLA from Budhana in Muzaffarnagar, has been shared widely on social media. Shubham is currently pursuing his studies at Michigan university and has been in the US for the past five years. Though the post was later deleted, MLA Malik has now shot a police complaint claiming his son's ID was hacked and some people are trying to tarnish his social and political image. "His social account has been hacked and his video and posts have been wrongfully edited and is being spread on social media. Using my son's name, people are trying to blemish my political and societal reputation," Malik said in his complaint. Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, controversy over the viral post has created a flutter among rather dormant political circles which has been abuzz with the development surrounding viral post. MLA Malik later spoke to the media in a bid to clarify his position and dispel the "rumours". "Someone hacked my son's account. Have sent a complaint to Civil Lines police station for further action. The post mentions comparison of eight years, but he has been in America for the past five years. The one who hacked his account was not aware of the fact and wrote eight instead of five," MLA Malik said. "My son is currently in America and he has already registered to come back home. He is a big fan of Modiji, Yogiji and our country. I have been a worker of BJP and RSS and the same culture and family values are imbibed in him," Malik added. Meanwhile, an FIR under relevant sections of IT Act has been registered. "We have received a complaint from MLA Umesh Malik regarding his son's account being hacked. We will look into it and take appropriate steps," Satpal Antil, superintendent of police (city), Muzaffarnagar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-bjp-mla-lands-in-soup-over-sons-post-on-india-us-comparison/articleshow/75982944.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Trichy||3 of family test positive, source yet to be identified||TRICHY: As three members of a family tested positive for Covid-19 in Pudukottai district on Saturday and Sunday, health department officials are struggling to identify their source. An eight-year-old girl tested positive on Sunday. While she was the 20th case in the district, she is also the third person from the same family where two members had tested positive earlier. A 48-year-old man and his 44-year-old wife came with Covid-19 symptoms to Pudukottai medical college hospital on Thursday and tested positive. Over 30 contacts of the family including staff of the bank and family members were tested but their reports came back negative. Speaking to TOI, Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari said they could not trace the link from where the family got infected. The family had come voluntarily to Pudukottai medical college for testing after they developed symptoms. Meanwhile, the fourth member of the family, a 20-year-old man, was the only person in the family who had travelled to Trichy and Thanjavur over the last few days. But he tested negative, ruling out the possibility of the spread of infection from him, said Maheswari. Out of the total 20 positive cases so far, 13 are undergoing treatment in government hospital while the remaining have being discharged after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-of-family-test-positive-source-yet-to-be-identified/articleshow/75984846.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Now, hourly siren to remind peopleof hand sanitisation in virus-hit area||Meerut: With the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Mandi, police have started an innovative way of ensuring public health awareness by playing siren every hour with directions to sanitise hands every time to prevent spread of the virus. According to guidelines, shopkeepers are supposed to clean their own and their customers' hands every time the siren is played. In the last week, more than a 100 cases were reported from operators in Mandi. Sadar Dal Mandi opens for four hours every morning. Sadar Bazar SHO Vijay Gupta said, "Sadar Bazar Mandi is one of the most frequented places during relief hours in the morning. And there have been incidents of sudden rise in the Covid-19 positive cases among vendors. To ensure maximum caution at this juncture, we started playing siren installed at nearby police station every hour with directions to shopkeepers and vendors to sanitise hands, including that of their customers. At least, this will keep them on alert."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-hourly-siren-to-remind-peopleof-hand-sanitisation-in-virus-hit-area/articleshow/75982953.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Boy, 14, murders girl, 9, after sexual assault bid||TRICHY: A nine-year-old girl, who was found with severe injuries on her head in a jasmine farm at Krishnasamudram near Manapparai, died at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on Sunday midnight, following which police arrested a 14-year-old boy on charges of attempting to sexually assault her and fatally attacking her with a stone. The girl was found unconscious in the farm near her house on Sunday afternoon with severe injuries on the back of her head. She was rushed to the government headquarters hospital in Manapparai and later shifted to MGMGH for critical care treatment. However, her health condition worsened and she died. The victim was a Class III student in a government school in the area. The all women police station in Manapparai investigated the incident. It emerged that a 14-year-old neighbour of the girl was the first to inform people in the area about the victim lying unconscious. The needle of suspicion pointed to the boy as police didn’t have any clue about the accused. When they inquired with him, he gave contradictory statements. Further inquiry confirmed his role in the murder.Police said the boy was studying in Class IX in the school where the girl studied. He had forced the victim to come with him to the jasmine farm and once they reached the spot, he attempted to sexually assault her, though the girl resisted his advances and beat him. In a fit of rage, the boy hit her on the back of her head with a stone several times and she fell unconscious. Later, he returned home. Police recovered the blood-stained clothes of the boy who had abandoned them near the spot where he tried to sexually assault the girl. He acted as if he had no idea about the incident, though investigation disclosed the truth, said police. Superintendent of police Zia ul Haque said police booked the boy for murder under IPC and sexual harassment under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The juvenile was arrested and sent to a government observation home. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-14-murders-girl-9-after-sexual-assault-bid/articleshow/75984849.cms||Gokul Rajendran
May 26, 2020||Patna||ECR: PRS counters garner mixed response in 3 days||PATNA: Altogether 56 computerized passenger reservation system (PRS) counters at different railway stations falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR), which resumed operations from May 22, have garnered mixed response during the last three days. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, 15 PRS counters in Danapur, 20 in Dhanbad, 9 in Samastipur, 8 in Sonepur and 4 in Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay divisions have started functioning again. “The railways has reopened the PRS counters because a large number of common people have not been able to book online tickets through the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation,” he said and added that full refund for cancelled tickets for special trains, which are scheduled to run from June 1, would be provided at the counters from Tuesday. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said, “Altogether 817 tickets were booked at the PRS counters of the Patna Junction on May 22, which yielded Rs 4,15,565. On the other hand, 1,200 tickets were booked at the counters of different stations under the Danapur division, yielding Rs 6.36 lakh, on May 23 and 24.” Adequate number of Railway Protection Force personnel have been deployed near the PRS counters who ensure that social distancing norms are followed. Besides, health care staff sanitize all the people buying tickets. The PRS counters at Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction, Gaya, Dehri-on-Sone and Anugrah Narayan Road stations (Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay division) and Darbhanga, Samastipur, Saharsa, Madhubani, Jainagar, Raxaul, Sitamarhi, Bettiah and Bapudham Motihari stations (Samastipur division) have been made functional. The counters at Muzaffarpur, Hajipur, Begusarai, Barauni, Dalsinghsarai, Khagaria, Naugachhia and Sonepur stations (Sonepur division) as well as Patna Junction, Danapur, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patliputra Junction, Ara, Buxar, Dildarnagar, Rajgir, Biharsharif, Bakhtiarpur, Patna Sahib, Lakhisarai, Mokama, Jehanabad and Jhajha stations are also functioning smoothly now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-prs-counters-garner-mixed-response-in-3-days/articleshow/75982956.cms||Kumod Verma
May 26, 2020||Trichy||Kudimaramathu work to revive two canals in Trichy begin||TRICHY: Officials kicked off kudimaramathu work on Monday to rejuvenate two canals and their drainage canals which irrigates around 11,000 acres in Lalgudi block in Trichy district. Various works have been identified in Lalgudi block to be carried out at Rs 1.50 crore under kudimaramathu works. Earlier, the state government had allotted Rs 5.96 crore to take up 20 works in Trichy district this year, officials said. Ayyan canal, a tributary of Cauvery river takes a course from Mukkombu regulator and becomes two canals namely North Ayyan and South Ayyan at Esanaikorai village near Lalgudi. A total of 11,117 acres of agriculture land is irrigated by the two canals, authorities from PWD said. As the regulator across South Ayyan canal is in a dilapidated condition, farmers had sent representations to the authorities to renovate the same. Based on their appeal, the government allotted Rs 30 lakh to renovate the regulator. By renovating it, around 213 acres of agriculture lands would be benefited, authorities said. PWD authorities have taken up various works including renovation of drainage canals at an estimation of Rs 1.50 crore in Lalgudi block. District collector S Sivarasu inaugurated the renovation of regulator across South Ayyan canal at Koohur village on Monday. PWD and revenue officials and president of North and South Ayyan canal Ayakatar association and farmers were also present there during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kudimaramathu-work-to-revive-two-canals-in-trichy-begin/articleshow/75984851.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Prime suspect in Lucknow murder dies of bullet injuries||MEERUT: Saurabh, alias Goti, main suspect in the horrific Lavish Kumar murder in Lucknow, succumbed to bullet injuries at a hospital in Meerut on Sunday evening. On May 17, Saurabh and his friend Anil had killed Lavish, chopped his body and buried the parts in the farmhouse of a property dealer in Lucknow. An injured Saurabh was rescued from a field in Muzaffarnagar's Budhana area on May 23. At the same spot, police also found the body of another man, identified as Prashant, a relative of Lavish Kumar who was killed in Lucknow. Prashant's body was riddled with bullets, indicating that a gun fight had taken place at the spot. Trying to piece together the train of events that started in Lucknow, sources in police said Lavish, who was preparing for competitive exams in Delhi, had gone to Lucknow at the invitation of his friend, Anil. The latter worked as a driver of a local property dealer. Anil was sharing his accommodation with Saurabh. Police are yet to ascertain what went wrong on May 17, that allegedly made Anil and Saurabh kill Lavish, chop his body and bury the parts in the farmhouse of the property dealer. The duo then fled to west UP. Police here believe that Lavish's relative, Prashant, began pursuing the case to exact revenge. "Prashant wanted to avenge the death of Lavish. He was constantly provided with information about the location of Saurabh and Anil. The encounter in Muzaffarnagar didn't go as planned by Prashant and he was most likely killed by Anil after he fired at Saurabh," said Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav. Sources also claim that Prashant had floated the idea of a settlement as a bait to lure Anil and Saurabh from their hideout and come out and meet him. Meanwhile, with Lavish, Saurabh and Prashant dead, police are now trying to find Anil, the other prime suspect in the Lavish and Prashant murders, to unravel what really happened. "We have been working on several theories but will be able to say anything with certainty only after the arrest of Anil, who is now prime suspect in two murders," the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/prime-suspect-in-lucknow-murder-succumbs-to-injuries-hunt-on-for-aide/articleshow/75982968.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Day 1: Over 250 passengers arrive and leave Dehradun in 10 flights||DEHRADUN: The domestic flights started operating from Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun from Monday. On the first day, 10 flights operated from the airport and over 250 passengers either reached or left Dehradun for Delhi and Pantnagar. A flight from Mumbai was also scheduled to operate but was later cancelled. Director of Jolly Grant Airport DK Gautam told TOI, “The first flight came from Delhi on Monday morning with three passengers and the return flight also had three passengers.” While the flight from Pantnagar had 17 passengers, eight people from Dehradun took the flight for Pantnagar. Till the filing of this report, the air authorites were expecting the arrival of 127 passengers and departure of 140 passengers on the first day. The last flight for Delhi on Monday was scheduled for 7.25pm. Two people, who took the flight to Delhi, said that they were happy with the arrangements. “With very little passengers, there is no problem of delay or queues. I had come to Uttarakhand on a vacation to spend some time with family but due to the lockdown, was stuck here. The opening of flight services has given me the opportunity to return back to Delhi and join work as soon as possible,” said a passenger. Another passenger from Pantnagar said that even though he has to spend time in quarantine, “the happiness of reaching home was immense”. The state government has made a 14-day quarantine period mandatory for all people taking flights to Dehradun. For which, around 1,000 rooms have been reserved in 20 hotels and a room costs between Rs 700 and Rs 8,000. Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, "As per the financial budget, one can book a room of choice. Our health teams have been deployed at the airport and proper care is being taken of each passenger.” Meanwhile, the district administration along with a team of health department examined 114 passengers who arrived at the Jolly Grant Airport and sent them to hotels acquired by the administration for the 14-day institutional quarantine. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, "A list of hotels along with the tariffs has been placed at the airport and the passengers are being sent to institutional quarantine after their medical checkup. After the completion of the quarantine period and subsequent health checkup, the passengers will be allowed to leave." The DM has also asked police to take stern action against those providing incorrect information at the district borders to police and health department teams. The officials said that it has been found that some people coming from other districts and states to Dehradun have provided incorrect cellphone numbers. "Police have been asked to visit the address provided by such people and verify their details and lodge an FIR if needed under relevant sections," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/day-1-over-250-passengers-arrive-leave-doon-in-10-flights/articleshow/75982945.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Meerut||UP: Constable offers namaz & inspector joins him in puja, picture goes viral||BIJNOR: Bucking the trend of communal discord in the times of the raging coronavirus pandemic, Amroha police on Monday set an example of communal harmony on the occasion of Eid. A picture of an UP Police constable and an inspector from different communities is doing rounds on social media, showing the constable offering namaz at the Eidgah ground, while the inspector stands next to him with hands folded in prayer, seeking prosperity, peace and end to the coronavirus menace. The picture was clicked at Hasanpur town in Amroha on Eid. Constable Askar Khan (54) was deployed at Eidgah to prevent any gathering for Eid namaz. He appealed to Muslims to pray in their homes, then decided to offer his prayers there itself. In the mean time, Hasanpur SHO R P Sharma, who arrived there, decided to join the constable in prayer. The spontaneous act was captured by a passerby, and got viral on social media. SHO Sharma told TOI, “Mohammad Askar is a gentleman. He is like my brother. He discharges his duty with great devotion. People of Hasanpur listen to him. That’s why I had deputed him at Eidgah to urge local Muslims from not gathering for Eid namaz, which he managed without any hiccup.” He added, “But that had delayed him from offering his prayers, so he decided to spread his jack towel on the ground and kneel to offer namaz. Seeing him pray for the welfare of all Indians, I decided to join him following my tradition. The Aligarh native has learnt the Gayatri Mantra and Hanuman Chalisa, and always participates in our religious functions. During Ramzan, he was on fast every day, yet performed all his duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pic-of-constable-offering-namaz-inspector-joining-him-in-puja-goes-viral/articleshow/75982962.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 26, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor: Pack of stray dogs kill hog deer; leopard & jungle cat fall in well, rescue operation on||BIJNOR: A pack of stray dogs late on Sunday night killed a hog deer that had entered Mubarakpur Nagla village in Bijnor. The carcass has been sent for autopsy. According to villagers, stray dogs chased and killed the deer which had entered the village in search of water. Meanwhile, a leopard fell into a well in Hafizpura village of Amroha district, while a jungle cat fell into a well in Fatehpur village of Bijnor district on Monday morning. Rescue operations to save the felines are going on. According to Bijnor DFO M Semmaran, a hog deer was killed by stray dogs and the rescue operation to save the jungle cat that fell into a well was going on. Locals at Hafizpura village said the leopard was roaming in the village area for past some days and when villagers spotted and chased it, the feline fell into the well. A forest department team reached the spot and launched a rescue operation, while a team of expert from Agra will join the operation soon. According to officials, after sugarcane harvesting, the sighting of wild animals has increased, and they are now moving towards the populated area in search of water with the temperature soaring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pack-of-stray-dogs-kill-hog-deer-leopard-jungle-cat-fall-in-well-rescue-op-on/articleshow/75982958.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||2 crocs rescued in Vadodara||Vadodara: Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) volunteers rescued two crocodiles and handed them over to forest department. On Sunday morning, an eight-foot crocodile was rescued from Khatamba village in Waghodia taluka. The reptile had ventured out of Vishwamitri river and entered a farm in the village. Locals spotted the crocodile and informed GSPCA volunteers. Another 10-foot crocodile was rescued from Ganputpura village in the night. This reptile too had crawled out of Vishwamitri river and was found resting in a field in the village. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-crocs-rescued-in-vadodara/articleshow/75983156.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Masjids empty, but spirit of Eid soars behind closed doors||Vijayawada: Eid was a low-key affair for Muslims in the city, on Monday. One Town, Panja Center, Chitti Nagar, Arundalpet, Labbipet, and other areas with a sizeable Muslim population saw hundreds of buyers coming on to the streets to buy festival merchandise. Masjids and eidgahs in the city wore a deserted look as the government prohibited mass prayers due to the spread of coronavirus. Religious heads relayed their message for the festival through loudspeakers arranged at Masjids. People said their prayers at home and greetd their neighbours and shared food. “We never forget 2020 in our lifetime. Ramzan is one of the main festivals for us. The month-long fasting ended after seeing crescent on Sunday evening. Offering special prayers at Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium is a regular routine for us on Eid day, but this year we confined our prayers to our home due to the lockdown. Hope world gets relief from Covid-19 so that we can celebrate Ramzan next year with more joy,” said Irfan Khan, a resident of Rokallapalem. Meanwhile, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) authorities made elaborate arrangements for the slaughter of sheep and other animals at its slaughterhouse at Vidhyadharapuram. Meat stalls remained open from early hours of Monday morning. People celebrated Eid by distributing dishes specific to the festival with their near and dear ones. “We used to host a special Ramzan lunch for all our staff and friends at Jawahar Autonagar every year. Since lockdown is in force, we are unable to host lunch. Instead we have prepared 150 food packets and distributed them to migrant workers,” said SK House Mohiddin, a motor mechanic from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/masjids-empty-but-spirit-of-eid-soars-behind-closed-doors/articleshow/75983021.cms||Venu Lanka
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||80-year-old Delhi woman stranded in Haridwar for two months, forced to live on roadside||HARIDWAR: An 80-year-old Delhi woman, who had come to Haridwar before lockdown to take a holy dip in Ganga, has been stuck in the district for the past two months. Suresho Devi has been living on roadside and is waiting for some help from any of her family member or from local administration. According to the woman, she has two sons and as many daughters. Both her daughters are married and live in Merrut and Kanpur districts of Uttar Pradesh respectively while her sons live in Delhi. However, none of her children have yet approached local officials of their respective areas to find out about her whereabouts and bring her home. Devi, who lives alone in Delhi, says, “I have urged the local officials to arrange a car for me several times. I have the money to pay for my home-return.” Recently, she sustained a head injury after a heavy object fell on her. Haridwar circle officer (city) Abhay Singh told TOI, “She has no any contact number of his family members. Thus, it has become difficult for us to contact them. Besides, no one from her family has yet approached any authority so far. Earlier, we boarded her in a bus bound to Uttar Pradesh but she stepped down. Now, we are trying to contact her family members. Till then, we will provide her with food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/80-year-old-delhi-woman-stranded-in-haridwar-for-two-months-forced-to-live-on-roadside/articleshow/75982963.cms||MS Nawaz
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Hit & run: Biker clings on to car for a km in Chennai||CHENNAI: A speeding car with a broken windshield and a bleeding man on its top stunned people on Vanagaram-Ambattur Road on Sunday night. After a police patrol chased and intercepted the car, it turned out that the driver had hit a biker who got thrown in the air and landed on top of the vehicle which travelled with him for almost a kilometer. Ranjith Kumar, the 27-year-old biker, is undergoing treatment in a hospital and his condition is stable, police said. Kumar, a resident of Ayapakkam, was on his way to Vanagaram when he was hit by the car at 8pm. In the impact, the car windshield broke and Kumar landed atop the vehicle and clung on to the vehicle. “The car driver, Ganeshamoorthy of Virugambakkam, must have panicked and tried to escape. He obviously didn’t see where the biker went,” a police officer said. “A few traffic policemen tried to stop him, but he sped away with the man on top of the vehicle. People on the road tried to tell him about the bleeding man on top, but the driver just wanted to get away.” A police vehicle finally overtook the car after nearly a kilometer and stopped it. Only after the car driver got down from the vehicle did he notice the man on the top wearing a mask and with injuries all over his body. Ganeshamoorthy told police that his brakes were jammed, but policemen who examined the vehicle found nothing wrong with it. Police arrested him and seized the car. Police said Ganeshamoorthy is a wholesale vegetable vendor at Koyambedu market. The accident took place when he was on his way to the temporary vegetable market in Tirumazhisai. He has been booked for rash and negligent driving. Watch Hit and run: Biker clings on to car for a km in Chennai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hit-run-biker-clings-on-to-car-for-a-km/articleshow/75984878.cms||Sindhu Kannan
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt mulls installing 4L LED lights in rural areas||Vijayawada: The state government is contemplating the installation of four lakh LED street lights in 2,303 panchayats that were not covered under its earlier street lighting programme. Commissioner of panchayat raj and rural development (PR&RD) Girija Shankar has requested the state government to issue orders for installing LED street lights in habitations and panchayats excluded till date. The state government installed 23.29 lakh LED street lights with the help of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a public sector undertaking (PSU) under the Union ministry of power. The PR&RD department decided to install another four lakh areas following representations from public representatives. In a teleconference with officials of the PR&RD and the energy departments, panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said the state government is committed to improving the quality of life in every village in the state. The minister said proper street lighting is essential for the safety and security of people. Officials said the process of repair and maintenance of LED street lights has continued even during the lockdown by EESL with the assistance of AP State Energy Efficiency Development Corporation (APSEEDCO). Officials of the energy department said the retrofitting of LED lights in rural areas will help gram panchayats to cumulatively save 260 million units of electricity annually, amounting to Rs 156 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-mulls-installing-4l-led-lights-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75982987.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Opposition denounces TTD’s ‘assets sale’ move||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board’s decision to monetise its ‘unviable’ properties across the country has snowballed into a political controversy, with all major opposition parties in the state joining hands to denounce the proposed move. Though the state government issued a GO late on Monday to ‘keep in abeyance’ the TTD resolution, the decision of the country’s richest temple body to alienate properties gifted by devotees gave enough fodder to opposition parties in the state to corner the ruling YSRC on the issue. While former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh are yet to make a statement on the issue, senior TDP functionaries, some of whom also served as TTD trust board members in the past, opposed the temple body’s move to dispose of properties donated by devotees. State BJP chief Kanna Lakshminarayana and other leaders of the party like former minister Pydikondala Manikyala Rao and former TTD trust board member G Bhanuprakash Reddy have demanded the immediate withdrawal of the controversial resolution, while warning that the party will stage protests across the state if the decision is not revoked. Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan took objection to the TTD terming properties donated by the Lord’s devotees as ‘unviable’. “It’s not just the TTD, devotees donate properties to mutts and spiritual organisations across the country. If they can protect their immovable assets, why can’t the TTD, which is the richest and biggest temple administration in the country, do so?” Pawan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/oppn-denounces-ttds-assets-sale-move/articleshow/75983069.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||One dead, pvt hosp doctor, SRPF staffer among 6 new Covid +ves||Nagpur: A 54-year-old woman from Mominpura died at IGGMCH five minutes after her test result for Covid-19 came positive on Monday, taking the district’s death toll to eight. Five more persons, all new cases — a State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel, a private doctor, two Mumbai returnees and a pregnant woman from Mominpura — also tested positive, taking the day’s total to six and total number of cases from the district to 429.IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande told TOI, “The woman was a cancer patient and admitted at 4.24pm on May 24 in a serious condition. Her samples came positive for Covid-19 and she died at 6.15am,” he said.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) arranged for cremation of the woman. The number of deaths in Mominpura, city’s second hotspot, increased to three. No other area has more than one death.All eight deceased until now had comorbidities. The latest case is seventh direct patient and not from existing chains. Among the deaths, only one was secondary corona positive case as his son tested positive, following which the deceased was quarantined and then died while undergoing treatment in IGGMCH Isolation ward.A 26-year-old pregnant woman, also from Mominpura, went for check-up at NMC’s Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) on May 24 and her reports came positive on Monday. She is also a new case and not from existing chains.On May 24, two new cases had come from Mominpura containment zone. It is an alarming situation at Mominpura containment zone as new cases are on the rise despite the locality being a containment zone since April 4. The civic body has also conducted mass quarantine, special health check-up camps and door-to-door surveys here.Number of cases from Mominpura containment zone have now increased to 224.A 45-year-old private doctor practising at Ramdaspeth and a resident of Seva Sadan Chowk, Central Avenue, in Central Nagpur was having fever and cough so got tested and came positive from Dhruv Lab.A 40-year-old SRPF personnel also tested positive. He was deployed at Satranjipura containment zone, city’s first hotspot, and went for check-up on May 24 as he had some problems in throat. Strangely, there has been no case from this zone for last 10 days. The latest case indicates presence of virus in the zone. Cases from this zone increased to 122.With latest case, number of SRPF personnel who have contracted the virus increased to seven. Earlier, two policemen had also tested positive from Mominpura containment zone in Central Nagpur. Thus, number of SRPF and policemen who have tested positive while serving in containment zones is nine.A 24-year-old woman from Hiwri Nagar near Wardhaman Nagar in East Nagpur also tested positive in Dhruv Lab. She had returned from Mumbai on May 23 and visited a private doctor and gave swab samples on May 24. This is the first case from NMC Lakadganj zone. Now, all ten zones have registered cases. This area is close to Satranjipura containment zone and likely to be a new one.A 50-year-old woman from Siraspeth in NMC Gandhibagh zone also tested positive from Dhruv Lab. As per NMC officials, she had a paralytic attack in Mumbai and was undergoing treatment. She was brought here and taken to a private hospital at Sitabuldi where swab samples were taken. Her reports came positive. She was at her home and shifted to IGGMCH.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe notified part of Siraspeth as containment zone.New cases from 10 non-containment zones were registered in last three days. With latest two, number of persons returning from Mumbai and testing positive in the district increased to five.Mundhe also notified Taj Nagar under NMC Hanuman Nagar zone as containment zone.A person from Jawahar Nagar had tested positive on May 9. He had visited a private hospital in the same area before getting admitted at GMCH. His close contacts and staff from the hospital were quarantined and tested. His two family members had tested positive and remaining came negative.In second samples, two — the person’s son and a 50-year-old woman — tested positive on May 24. The woman is a nurse at the private hospital and a resident of Taj Nagar. She becomes second nurse from the district to contract Covid-19, with the earlier one being with NMC’s primary health centre.IGGMCH discharged 15 corona positive patients including two children of Mominpura as per new guidelines. Number of discharged persons increased to 352. With eight deaths, 69 are active Covid-19 positive patients and undergoing treatment at IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-dead-pvt-hosp-doctor-srpf-staffer-among-6-new-covid-ves/articleshow/75984201.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 26, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer dargah remains deserted as virus fear keeps locals indoors||AJMER: The Jannati Darwaza at the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishty was opened on Monday, on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. But perhaps for the first time in the history of Ajmer dargah, not a single devotee was present to offer prayers on the occasion. The Muslim community here celebrated the occasion of Eid at home and wished each other through social media. The special namaz conducted at the eidgah situated at Kaserganj was cancelled. Since the last 64 days, the dargah is closed in the wake of the pandemic. During the festival of Eid, about 1 lakh devotees from different places gather and participate in the special prayers. On Monday, khadims of the dargah offered prayers for the unity of the nation as well as for the spirit to fight against Covid-19. From last 30 days, the Muslim community have been fasting and offered prayers at home. No shopping and public gatherings were seen to celebrate the festival. The khadims said that they understand that at a time like this, staying indoors is best as the virus can cost them their lives. As mass meals could not be held, many shared delicacies like the sewaiya on social media with a promise to eat together after the lockdown is lifted completely. Muslim leaders appealed to everyone to remain at home and celebrate Eid indoors. The dargah region is still under curfew and police officials said that people in the dargah region cooperated with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-dargah-remains-deserted-as-virus-fear-keeps-locals-indoors/articleshow/75984971.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Social distancing goes for a toss; many leave homes without masks in Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi: The restrictions of the lockdown were considerably eased by the central government in order to revive the country’s flagging economy but the decision to ease the norms was accompanied by the issuance of a set of guidelines by the Union health ministry, advising people to continue to practise social distancing and other safety measures. On the one hand, people have returned to the streets of cities, and several businesses that had stayed shut for six weeks reopened, but people appear to have thrown caution to the winds, and do not appear very keen on adhering to the safety norms. To begin with, there appears to be no concept of social distancing at crowded markets, while many are not wearing masks. In Hubballi-Dharwad, citizens who had adhered to safety norms during the first two versions of the lockdown, appear to have dropped their guard now. Although both cops and personnel of Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) made an attempt to enforce rules by penalising those seen on streets without wearing masks in the first few days of Lockdown 4.0, they are no longer taking cognisance of these violations. Worse still, several traders and shopowners have no bothered to keep hand sanitisers at the entrance to their stores, and appear least concerned to enforce social distancing among customers. There are fears among the medical community of a new wave of Covid-19 sweeping across the state if people disregard basic safety norms to keep the infection at bay. “The norms have been eased to allow businesses but that does not mean safety can be given the short shrift. They must compulsorily wear masks, and clean their hands with sanitiser, and these are norms people must follow diligently,” said Dr Shivanand Hiremath, a city-based psychiatrist. Endorsing Dr Hiremath’s observations, Dr MC Sindhur, a physician in Hubballi said that masks must not be forgotten when people step out of their homes. “If any suspected Covid-19 patient coughs or sneezed with no protective gear, the infection can spread easily,” said Dr Sindhur. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal, however, said that people not wearing masks in public were being penalised. He appealed to the people to understand the gravity of the situation, and to follow the prescribed norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-many-leave-homes-without-masks-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/75983139.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 26, 2020||Surat||Passengers left in lurch on first day||Surat: After two months of lockdown, domestic flight services resumed, but last minute cancellations by airlines citing rotational issues left many passengers in the lurch. Morning flights to Mumbai and Delhi by Spice Jet were cancelled on the very first day flights services were resumed. Out of the total five flights that were supposed to operate on Monday, three — Jaipur, Delhi and Mumbai — were cancelled and only two flights to Delhi and Hyderabad were operational. Spice Jet spokesperson said, “It was first day and we hope that the flight operations will be regularised in a day or two.” Many passengers complained that only after arriving at the airport they were told that the flights were cancelled. A resident of Delhi who has been stranded in the city for two months now, said that the joy of going home came crashing down when I reached airport after I was told about the cancellation. “This was very bad on part of the airline and I wasn’t expecting this to happen on the very first day,” said the man, who did not wish to be identified. The first flight operated by Indigo took off from Surat to Delhi at 1.55 pm under strict regulations recommended by the civil aviation department. The second of Spice Jet took off at 3.20 pm from Surat to Hyderabad. Official sources said that about 44 passengers arrived from Delhi to Surat in the Indigo flight, while about 150 passengers boarded the return flight to Delhi. About 28 passengers arrived in the Spice Jet flight from Hyderabad to Surat which carried back about 33 passengers to Hyderabad. About 72 passengers who arrived from Delhi and Hyderabad were screened at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/passengers-left-in-lurch-on-first-day/articleshow/75981597.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||India’s second testing lab for vaccines to come up in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In a mega boost for Telangana’s vaccine industry, the Centre has approved the setting up of a regional testing laboratory for vaccines in Hyderabad. This key announcement was made by Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao at the inaugural of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave — ‘Reboot Telangana - Making Telangana Future Positive’, on Monday. “The regional testing lab for vaccines has been sanctioned and it will be stationed in the Genome Valley,” KTR said while interacting with industry leaders on how to revive Telangana’s economy at the Reboot Telangana conclave, which is being supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Janapriya, Agromech and Saket Pranamam. This will be only the second such laboratory in India after the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) at Kasauli and will be set up at the upcoming National Animal Research Facility at Genome Valley. Sources said that it will take about one year to come up. Hyd accounts for 33% vaccines Currently vaccine players send their vaccine batches only to Kasauli. CDL is the National Control Laboratory for testing of Immunobiologicals (vaccines and antisera) meant for human use in India. There has been a longstanding demand from Telangana’s vaccine industry to set up the lab in Hyderabad, which houses major vaccine players like Shantha Biotechnics, Indian Immunologicals Ltd (IIL), Bharat Biotech and Biological E, which are in the global race to develop Covid-19 vaccines. In fact, Hyderabad accounts for nearly 33% of the total vaccines developed and supplied globally. Shantha Biotechnics founder Dr K I Varaprasad Reddy pointed out during the conclave that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the world is racing against time to develop a vaccine, the Centre must work towards significantly boosting R&D budgets and encouraging patent filing from Indian labs. He pointed out that in 2019, out of the 33 lakh patents filed globally, only 3,000 were from India. “Barely Rs 20-30 crore is made available for vaccine development in India, whereas globally, it takes anywhere around $500-600 million to $1 billion to develop vaccines,” he said. Even as the country attracts FDI in the pharma and biotech sectors, Reddy pointed out that it is important to ensure that MNCs, which are offered numerous incentives and prefer India because of its rich talent, must innovate here and create intellectual property here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-2nd-testing-lab-for-vaccines-to-come-up-in-city/articleshow/75985079.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mysuru||Soon, prepaid health cards for construction workers||Milton.lawrence@timesgroup.com Mysuru: The state government is all set to roll out prepaid health cards for construction workers that will help them get treatment at private hospitals of their choice. The workers, until now, had been dependent on overcrowded government facilities for medical emergencies and were referred to private hospitals only if the facility wasn’t available at the government hospital. Speaking to TOI, an official attached to the labour department said a similar scheme was experimented in Bengaluru but “it did not click”. The move follows chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s budget proposal to distribute prepaid health cards to one lakh registered construction workers and their families with which they can avail treatment in approved private hospitals under ‘Mukhyamantrigala Agrogya Suraksha’ scheme. This apart, ten mobile clinics too have been proposed to provide health care facilities to the construction labourers and their families working in urban areas. An official said the proposal is still in the preliminary stage and guidelines have to be formed to identify the eligible beneficiaries. Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner of labour, AC Thamanna said: “The health scheme proposal by the government will surely benefit the construction labourers. We are looking at providing additional benefits, but we are yet to a get detailed guidelines on this score. According to an official, about 73,000 construction labourers have registered in Mysuru district alone and they are availing several benefits. They are eligible for financial assistance for major surgeries and maternity benefits. The department is also providing scholarships to their children up to post-graduation besides financial assistance for marriages, the official explained. XXXXX Awareness drive The labour department gearing up to conduct awareness drives to educate the labourers in the unorganised sectors about novel coronavirus and bird flu. Officials have directed the employers to look out for people displaying flu-like symptoms and send them on leave for a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/soon-prepaid-health-cards-for-construction-workers/articleshow/75972954.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||For 4th day, locust swarms enter Jaisalmer from Pakistan||JAISALMER: Swarms of locusts entered Indian border adjoining Mohangarh and Nachna areas in Jaisalmer district — which has become the entry point for the pests coming from Pakistan — for the fourth day on Monday. Meanwhile, due to vacant posts in the agriculture department in Jaisalmer and Barmer, lot of problems are being faced in exchange of information and controlling the locusts. The locust menace is reaching alarming levels in Rajasthan. The harvesting is over but the cattle feed in pasture land is being destroyed by the locusts, a major concern for the cattle rearers in drought-affected districts. BSF Rajasthan frontier DIG M S Rathore said that locusts are continuously entering into India across the border. In last four days, especially in Jaisalmer’s Mohangarh, Nachana areas, adjoining Pakistan border, locusts are coming in and company commander and other officers are giving information to the district administration and locust control department. There is information of locusts coming into the Indian border from Pakistan and sitting on trees , but BSF jawans are shooing away these pests by beating plates and other methods. He said locust control and agriculture departments have set up control room to kill locusts entering India. On the other hand, a BSF officer said locusts entering India have made Jaisalmer as their entry point. In last four days, locusts have entered in huge groups at BSF border outposts 7R, 4 R, Bhongariwala and Vikram and other BOPs in Mohangarh area and informed the district administration. The locust control department is to destroy locusts along with the agriculture department, but in Barmer and Jaisalmer, all posts in agriculture department are almost vacant, thereby making the process difficult. On Monday, swarms of locusts were seen in 2-3 km area in Guddi and That areas. In Jaisalmer, out of 112 posts, 96 are vacant. Especially 75 posts of supervisor are lying vacant, although 20 posts have been filled but many of them have not joined. Apart from this, 14 posts of assistant agriculture officer and one post of agriculture research officer are still lying vacant. In Barmer, the situation is no different. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said that large number of posts in Barmer district are lying vacant and agriculture commissioner Om Prakash has directed to fill the posts at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-4th-day-locust-swarms-enter-jaisalmer-from-pak/articleshow/75984992.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||When flying pests raided Jaipur for a day||JAIPUR: Most of the localities of the city witnessed locust swarms on Monday morning. The pests, which entered the state from Pakistan on April 11, have been travelling towards the southern and eastern districts of the state in search of food. It has so far covered over 50,000 hectares, state agriculture department said. The swarms were seen in several localities around 9.30am, much to the surprise of the residents, majority of whom were witnessing the insects flying in millions over their houses for the first time. People clanged utensils and burst firecrackers to shoo away the pests. According to old timers, locusts in such numbers had made it way into Jaipur long back in 1986. “Since it is non-agriculture season, vegetation is very less. The insects are short of food and are moving fast towards other areas to in search of food,” said agriculture commissioner Dr Om Prakash. The state had reported a locust invasion in May last year after a gap of 26 years and the attack continued until February this year damaging rabi crops of in around 6,70,000 hectares in 12 western districts. But this time, the pests have covered over 15 districts and is carried away by hot westerly wind blowing from Pakistani. That is the reason locust has been seen in urban areas, say officials. Currently around 30 countries in Africa, West Asia and Pakistan are under heavy locust attack. When there is strong winds from Pakistan, it carries the pests as well into India. The department has been targeting the pests at night when they settle on trees by spraying pesticides and using tractors. They have not been fully successful as the trees are around 60 feet high and is located on agriculture fields. Pressing the services of fire fighters is also not effective in targeting trees on the agriculture fields due to inaccessibility. Thus drone operation is the only way out. Prakash said, “We have been targeting the pests by spraying insecticides at night on trees when they settle. While thousands are killed, the remaining perched on high trees moves towards other areas, he said. He said currently the young ones are moving in search of newer pastures. According to reports, locust swarms have moved towards Dausa district passing Jaipur on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/when-flying-pests-raided-pink-city-for-a-day/articleshow/75985043.cms||Joychen Joseph
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||In Mumbai, flyers scrap with airline staff as 75% of flights cancelled||MUMBAI: The resumption of domestic flights in the city got off to a turbulent start on Monday with heated exchanges between passengers and airline staff as three-fourths of the flights were cancelled following the state’s decision to limit flight movements to only 50 last evening and many arriving flyers unable to find taxis or autorickshaws. At the end of the day, for every passenger who arrived in Mumbai, two left the city, most of them for Delhi, Kerala and UP. “Forty-seven flights carried 3,752 departure passengers and 1,100 arrival passengers,” said a Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) spokesperson. These are the fewest passengers the airport has handled in the past few decades. Before Covid-19, an average of 1.3 lakh passengers used to pass through daily. Times ViewBased on the Centre’s clearance, airlines opened up bookings for 1,000-plus flights daily — but hit a big air pocket in the form of opposition from state governments. Finally, on reopening day, they had to curtail their schedules to half of what they had planned for. Our sympathies are with the airlines, which have been laid low by the two-month closure of operations. But that still does not give them the right to deny passengers a refund of their money on cancelled flights. They should simply reverse the transactions.At T2, the scene was akin to a dysfunctional future flick. The flight display board showed a mass of cancellation, passengers queued in gloves and masks, thermal screening took place outside the terminal building and at boarding gates, half of the airport eateries and shops were shut and air-hostesses boarded flights in hazmat suits. At the departure foyer, a scattering of passengers hung around; many will spend the night there hoping to board Tuesday flights. On Monday, 12 flights were to/from Delhi, 6 were to/from Kerala and 14 to UP and Bihar, indicating these were the high-demand destinations and the reason airlines retained them after the state government move. In fact, with two arrivals and two departures each, Kochi, Varanasi and Patna were up there alongside metros like Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Last week, the Centre had announced restarting of one-third of scheduled flights, which would be 220 per day for Mumbai. With the state restriction, it meant hundreds of passengers booked on at least 170 flights were hit with cancellations, and a good number were not aware of it till they reached the airport. Among them was a group of eight women from Meghalaya, all students in the state. They reached the airport around 10pm on Sunday for the 6.50am Mumbai-Guwahati IndiGo flight. Checked in online and armed with masks and gloves, the students, some of whom had spent Rs 4,000 to come from Pune and Nashik, received the cancellation text from the airline at 11.30pm. They spent the next three hours pleading to be accommodated on any flight and then arguing with an IndiGo ground staffer. “First he said the CM of Maharashtra has said no to Guwahati flights, then an hour later he said the Assam CM has banned it,” said Sammy Ornella Hua, the eldest of the lot, a PhD student in Mumbai. “After the lockdown began, I had made a WhatsApp group to bring together girls from Meghalaya stranded in Mumbai. Based on what the civil aviation minister said last week, we bought tickets. I paid Rs 29,000 for two tickets,” said Hua. “But the IndiGo staffer was unwilling to help us. He threatened to call the cops. We want the cops to come,” she said. Finally, the girls were put on a 9.30pm flight to Delhi, from where they will board a 5pm flight to Guwahati on Tuesday. Bandita Dixit, six months pregnant, reached the airport at 2pm from Koparkhairane in Navi Mumbai only to learn her 5pm AI flight to Delhi has been cancelled. “The airline did not message me. I have now been put on a 10pm flight to Delhi. I work in Mumbai, my family is in UP. I plan to travel to UP by road from Delhi,” she said. Pooja Chauhan, 18, has been stranded in Mumbai after coming to the city in March with two friends for a holiday. The trio reached the airport to find Chauhan’s flight to Delhi has been cancelled. “Their flight departed. I will spend the night outside the terminal building with the other families waiting here,” she said. The only happy faces were of arriving passengers as the state government reduced home quarantine from 14 days to 7, though those who had not arranged to private vehicles were left hunting for taxis and autos. “It was a surreal experience to find the crew in PPE, passengers in masks. It felt like a scene out of a horror movie,” said Sunil Tiwari, who landed from Bengaluru. ) spokesperson. These are the fewest passengers the airport has handled in the past few decades. Before Covid-19, an average of 1.3 lakh passengers used to pass through daily. At T2, the scene was akin to a dysfunctional future flick. The flight display board showed a mass of cancellation, passengers queued in gloves and masks, thermal screening took place outside the terminal building and at boarding gates, half of the airport eateries and shops were shut and air-hostesses boarded flights in hazmat suits. At the departure foyer, a scattering of passengers hung around; many will spend the night there hoping to board Tuesday flights. On Monday, 12 flights were to/from Delhi, 6 were to/from Kerala and 14 to UP and Bihar, indicating these were the high-demand destinations and the reason airlines retained them after the state government move. In fact, with two arrivals and two departures each, Kochi, Varanasi and Patna were up there alongside metros like Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Last week, the Centre had announced restarting of one-third of scheduled flights, which would be 220 per day for Mumbai. With the state restriction, it meant hundreds of passengers booked on at least 170 flights were hit with cancellations, and a good number were not aware of it till they reached the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-city-flyers-scrap-with-airline-staff-as-75-of-flights-cancelled/articleshow/75985899.cms||Manju V
May 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur all geared up to contain the menace||JODHPUR: A fresh swarm of locusts was spotted at Khinchan in Phalodi subdivision on Monday. “This small swarm entered Jodhpur district from Jaisalmer and settled on the ground at dusk. Sprays were used to eliminate the insects,” said deputy director (agriculture) Virendra Singh Solanki. This swarm had flown up to Dechu, some 100 km from Jodhpur on Jodhpur-Jaisalmer highway, and moved to Khinchan in Phalodi later. According to Solanki, the district has not been affected by locusts seriously till now and those swarms, which had entered Jodhpur, moved to other districts from here without causing much damage. “A small swarm had entered Jodhpur about two weeks ago. This swarm went up to Bhopalgarh subdivision of the district and moved to Nagaur from here”, he said. Some of them had also strayed to Osian subdivision, very close to Jodhpur city. But they were controlled there. Areas of Jodhpur, close to Jaisalmer, are highly vulnerable to locust attack as the swarms make their way into the district through Jaisalmer. Some small swarms have also been spotted in Baap subdivision of the district and both the villagers and LCO are putting in joint operations to control them. Irked farmers have been constantly insisting on aerial spray on the pests but in absence of resources like drones and helicopters, controlling operations have been restricted to ground measures only. Last year too, these swarms had almost entered Jodhpur city through Baap and Phalodi subdivisions and devoured crops in Salawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-all-geared-up-to-contain-the-menace/articleshow/75985020.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Surat||Surat cops in dock again, this time for thrashing watchman||SURAT: Two policemen were suspended on Monday for allegedly beating up a watchman claiming that he had violated lockdown rules in Bhatar area of Surat. The action against police constables Ranjitsinh Tur and Balvant Parmar was initiated after CCTV footage of them beating watchman Tej Bahadur Yadav (27) went viral on social media on Monday. According to deputy commissioner of police, zone III, Vidhi Chaudhary, the incident happend on Saturday. According to the CCTV footage, the two cops, posted at Khatodara police station, arrived near Sankalp Shopping Complex at 7.30 pm on Saturday on their official motorcycle. Yadav, who was on duty is seen sitting in parking area of the complex in the video footage. The footage further shows the cops talking to Yadav for few seconds and then one of them pulls Yadav by the collar. “The cop intentionally took me out of the parking under a tree to avoid getting caught on CCTV camera. They beat me with stick despite me informing them that I was a watchman on duty,” said Yadav, a native of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh DCP Chaudhary said, “The policemen claimed that they were enforcing lockdown after 7 pm. The watchman who was not wearing uniform did not give proper answer when questioned and argued, asid that cops. Since the cops behaved irresponsibly by beating up the watchman they have been suspended.” The Surat police is already facing a probe in connection with death of a migrant workers Satyawan Swain (36) from Odisha. It has been alleged by Swain’s kin that he died after he was thrashed by Amroli cops on May 14. Swain’s family has lodged an FIR against city police in Bhanjanagar police station of Odisha for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Watch On cam: Watchman thrashed by cops for allegedly violating lockdown rules in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-cops-in-dock-again-this-time-for-thrashing-watchman/articleshow/75981698.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||SECR, CRly start refund of tickets||Nagpur: The Nagpur division of Central Railway has started refund of reservation tickets for the trains cancelled due to lockdown for journey between March 22 and June 30.Across South East Central Railway (SECR) and Central Railway, PRS counters started functioning at nominated stations from May 22 for the convenience of passengers to book reserved tickets in special trains.Now, refund will also be granted to passengers who booked tickets from PRS counters at Ajni, main station and other road side station. In SECR, this refund will be granted from 23 counters in the division.The SECR refunded an amount of Rs1.77 lakh against 171 cancelled tickets in the last three days while Nagpur Central Railway refunded over Rs2.18 lakh towards cancellation of 3,143 tickets.In another development, the Central Railway had dispatched 6,249 tonnes of essential commodities by parcel trains amid Covid-9 pandemic and subsequent announcement of lockdown.“While individuals and other stakeholders find it difficult to transport essential commodities during lockdown to maintain supply chain, Indian Railways operated parcel trains to maintain supply chain of essential commodities,” said officials. During lockdown, Central Railway has carried 2,373 tonnes of food items and perishables, 2,928 tonnes of hard parcels, 861 tonnes of medicines and pharma products, 58 tonnes of postal bags and 29 tonnes of e-commerce products by these parcel trains from Nagpur, Pune, Nashik, Akola, Kalaburagi, Manmad, Bhusaval, CSMT etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-crly-start-refund-of-tickets/articleshow/75983199.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur ready with sprays and gadgets to check hoppers||UDAIPUR: The agriculture department here has started preparations to tackle a possible locust attack considering the dreadful conditions in western parts of the state. Chemical sprays and other equipment have been procured for distribution in the affected areas if swarms enter the southern districts. “In December last, we dealt with a huge swarm of locusts that damaged some 100-125 hectares in Kotra block of Udaipur. Some days ago, farmers reported the presence of a small group in Jhadol block but luckily the insects changed their path and flew away to Madhya Pradesh. However, we anticipate a possible attack in the coming weeks which may be severe than the winter experience because the insects travel much faster during summer with the wind velocity and can cover up to 200 kilometers a day,” joint director, agriculture, Mahesh Verma said. The favourable breeding conditions of locusts in the neighboring country too has triggered the fear of a massive invasion in the coming days. The department has alerted the agriculture observers on field postings, farmers as well as the forest officials to keep a watch in the area. “We will be outsourcing experts and hiring drones to monitor the insects entry. If deemed necessary, we would also request for a helicopter for aerial spray of chemicals in tough and hilly terrains where it is difficult to reach through vehicles,” Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-ready-with-sprays-and-gadgets-to-check-hoppers/articleshow/75985066.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||II PU lecturers apprehensive on reporting for evaluation||Mangaluru: Lecturers who have been called up for evaluation of II PU answer scripts are understandably anxious in undertaking the task. The lecturers are apprehensive about the safety measures likely to be in place at the evaluation centres and fear the possibility of their turning into hubs for transmission of the novel coronavirus. Principal of Rotary PU College in Mangaluru Vincent D’Costa has highlighted some of the fears prevailing among lecturers who have been tasked with evaluation by the government in his letter to MLC Bhoje Gowda. “Mangaluru is the centre for evaluating scripts from three districts: Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada. Lecturers from several rural areas in Dakshina Kannada such as Sullia and Subrahmanya will be faced with many challenges in reaching the city. Moreover, the PU department’s guidelines, which exempt lecturers in containment zones and those over 55 from evaluation duty means that the process will take longer since fewer teachers will have to correct more papers,” D’Costa said. A senior lecturer pointed to the problems that those from distant places were likely to face in cities and towns. “The closure of hostels means that they will not find lodging easily, and few homes will welcome guests in such a situation,” he said. Educationist CK Manjunath, on the other hand, asked the department of PU education, to try the method employed by ICSE/ISC boards, wherein evaluation of answer scripts is done at designated local education centres. “For instance, political science paper can be used as a test case, and the lecturers in Dakshina Kannada can be entrusted the responsibility of correcting the papers. The Dakshina Kannada District Principals’ Association is confident of coming out in flying colours,” he added. Principal of Sri Ramakrishna PU College in Mangaluru Kishore Kumar Rai Sheni questioned the absence of specific norms for group ‘D’ workers in the guidelines issued by the PU department. “There is also no clarity on how masks, sanitisers and thermal scanning devices will be requisitioned,” he said. Principal of Kittel Memorial PU College in Gorigudda Vittal K said that the entire process needs to be scrupulously planned before lecturers are called in to start the task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ii-pu-lecturers-apprehensive-on-reporting-for-evaluation/articleshow/75981706.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 26, 2020||Surat||Surat’s textile traders seek release of payments||SURAT: Faced with severe liquidity crisis amid the closure of the majority of the textile markets in the city, traders in country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market are pinning their hopes on their counterparts in other states to infuse liquidity by releasing payments against the goods dispatched before the national lockdown came into force. The Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA), apex body of the traders’ fraternity, has started the exercise of writing letters to their counterparts in the wholesale fabric markets in Delhi, Punjab, Bihar, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kolkata, Chennai etc. to release payments due to the traders in Surat to infuse much-needed liquidity. In a letter, the FOSTTA office-bearers stated that the wholesale textile trade in Surat lost business to the tune of over Rs 10,000 crore in the last 60 days, mainly due to the national lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. Further, the markets are not likely to reopen any time soon as Covid-19 cases were on the rise. In such circumstances, the traders are drained of their working capital and were facing severe liquidity crunch to restart the textile trade in near future. Champalal Bothra, secretary, FOSTTA said, “Payments worth more than Rs 5,000 crore against the supply of saris, dress material, lenghas, choli and home furnishing material is due to the traders in Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-textile-traders-seek-release-of-payments/articleshow/75981720.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man rebukes son for fighting with wife, hit with brick||AHMEDABAD: A 70-year-old man from the Ambawadi area of the city on Monday filed a complaint with Satellite police alleging that his son attacked him with a brick after he scolded him for fighting with his wife. In his FIR with Satellite police, Ramji Moradia, resident of Rajivnagar near Shreyas Tekra in Ambawadi, said that his son Dilip, the accused, lives separately on the ground floor of the house while the complainant lives on the first floor. On Monday morning, when Ramji and his wife Dahi were at home, they heard Dilip fighting with his wife. Ramji went to Dilip and asked him not to fight with his wife over trivial things. Dilip then began abusing his father and fighting with him. He then picked up a brick at hit Ramji on his forehead. Seeing her son assaulting his father, Dahi rushed there and rescued Ramji from their son. When Ramji was bleeding, Dilip threatened him and fled. Ramji’s elder son Prakash then called the police control room and they went to Satellite police station where they registered a complaint of assault, using abusive words and criminal intimidation against Dilip. Satellite police began an investigation in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-rebukes-son-for-fighting-with-wife-hit-with-brick/articleshow/75984296.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra administration completely broken; MVA govt returns fire: Piyush Goyal||MUMBAI: A day after challenging CM Uddhav Thackeray’s claim that the Centre had sent an inadequate number of trains to ferry migrants despite the state’s demand of 80, railway minister Piyush Goyal escalated his criticism of the three-party MVA government in Maharashtra, saying it had “a completely broken administration”. Soon after Thackeray on Sunday accused the Centre of providing only 40 trains, Goyal had put out a series of tweets saying the railways would send 125 trains right away on Monday if Maharashtra sent it a list of migrants to be transported. At 2.11am on Monday, Goyal tweeted, “Where is the list for 125 trains from Maharashtra? As of 2am, received list of only 46 trains of which 5 are to WB and Odisha which cannot operate due to cyclone Amphan. We are notifying only 41 trains for today despite being prepared for 125!!!”On Monday evening, Goyal said, “Since 7:15 (on Sunday), after every hour, I kept asking the state for the list of details, which went on till 12:30. At 12:30, they give a list of 46 trains.” “The reality, he tweeted, “is, Maharashtra Government has no list, no details of migrants, no clarity on who wants to go where. It is a completely broken administration.” Goyal said 65 trains had been placed at stations in Maharashtra in the last few days but they “had to be cancelled because the Maharashtra government did not even bring the passengers to the stations”. Goyal said he had been “taken aback by the absolutely baseless allegations” made by the Maharashtra government against the Centre and added that the state government had also made “baseless comments about the package” to support MSMEs announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Thackeray had on Sunday also taken potshots at the Centre’s recently announced economic package. Wishing that the opposition “worked to serve the nation instead of (playing) petty politics”, Goyal praised UP CM Yogi Adityanath and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for “welcoming their brothers and sisters from the state and not creating hurdles.That is what true leadership is,” he said. BJP’s Narayan Rane on Monday, meanwhile, met governor B S Koshyari on Monday and asked him to recommend President’s rule in Maharashtra, while MVA minister Jitendra Awhad of the NCP tweeted that Goyal had released more tweets than trains. Responding to Goyal’s criticism, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said, “Several trains had left from Pune, Nagpur, but lists were not required or demanded then. It is surprising and sad that a minister representing Maharashtra in the Rajya Sabha is asking for the list. It seems they are asking for a list of migrants only from Maharashtra. He (Goyal) should not stretch things too much. The Centre should avoid considering Maharashtra as an opposition party-ruled state but see it as a normal state, which would help to resolve issues.” Raut had said on Sunday that Maharashtra would send a list to the Centre but railways needed to make sure that the trains did not go to Odisha if they were bound for UP, a reference to the lengthy routes taken by many of the Shramik Specials owing to what the railways called congestion on select routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/goyal-maha-admn-completely-broken-mva-govt-returns-fire/articleshow/75985902.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
May 26, 2020||India||SC reluctantly allows use of middle seats on evacuation flights||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday reluctantly permitted Air India to fill middle seats till June 6 in its non-scheduled international flights engaged to fly out stranded foreigners to their countries and bring back Indians stuck abroad. This order came from a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy on urgent petitions filed by the Union government and Air India challenging a May 22 interim order of the Bombay High Court, which had barred Air India from utilising middle seats in its non-scheduled international rescue flights, saying it was not in sync with social distancing norms enforced by the government during the Covid-19 pandemic. Seeking permission for AI to utilise middle seats, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, "Thousands of stranded Indians are waiting to be rescued from foreign countries. Sudden cancellation of middle seat tickets would lead to chaos, as many members of a single family would have to be left behind," he said, adding there was a standard operating procedure for mandatory quarantine for 14 days for those arriving from abroad. But the CJI-led bench said, "The possibility of virus transmission would be more if passengers sit shoulder to shoulder. It is common sense that maintaining social distance is important. The government says maintain six feet social distance outside. But you want to do away with even the small distance that a vacant middle seat offers. You must be concerned about the health of citizens and not about the health of commercial airlines." Mehta said the HC order preventing occupation of middle seats in non-scheduled flights, which started on May 7, led to cancellation of tickets of one-third of passengers who had come from various parts of the country to New Delhi to board flights to their countries on May 24, leading to chaos and disturbance at the airport. Citing grave operational and diplomatic difficulties, Mehta said all seats in non-scheduled rescue international flights were booked till June 14 and it would be difficult to convince airport authorities in foreign destinations about the sudden cancellation of middle seat tickets. Moreover, it would upset travel plans of stranded families who have booked tickets together to come back to India. "What about their stay in the foreign country, their visa extension and food?" he asked. The last argument appeared to have clinched the issue as the bench reluctantly agreed to relax the Bombay HC's restriction on using middle seats. The SC said in its order, "We are of the considered view that Air India should be allowed to operate non-scheduled flights with middle seats booking up to June 6, 2020. However, after that, Air India will operate non-scheduled flights in accordance with the interim order to be passed by the Bombay High Court." Remanding the matter back to the HC, which is scheduled to hear a PIL by Deven Yogesh Kanani who had accused AI of violating social distancing norms in its non-scheduled rescue flights, the SC requested the HC "to pass an effective interim order after hearing all concerned on the date fixed, June 2, or soon thereafter. At this juncture, we would consider it necessary for the HC to arrive at a prima facie finding regarding safety and health of passengers qua the Covid-19 virus, whether the flight is scheduled flight or a non-scheduled flight."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-reluctantly-allows-use-of-middle-seats-in-evacuation-flights/articleshow/75987139.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nurse ends life after row with mother||Ahmedabad: A 30-year-old woman, a nurse at the Asarwa Civil Hospital, on Monday afternoon allegedly committed suicide by jumping out of her house on the 10th floor of an apartment building in the New Maninagar area of the city. Shefali Macwan, 30, a resident of Karnavati Riviera Apartments in New Maninagar, reportedly ended her life after being scolded by her mother, said an official of Ramol police station, where a case of accidental death was registered. Inspector K S Dave of Ramol police said Macwan had a fight with her mother who berated her for not answering her mother-in-law’s calls. “Her mother scolded her, saying that she should speak to her mother-in-law who was constantly calling to speak with Macwan. Macwan threatening to jump out of the flat if she was to be rebuked like this. While her mother tried to tell her not to speak like that, she ran towards balcony and jumped off,” said Dave.Macwan died on the spot. “In our primary questioning, we learned that she was a short-tempered woman. The deceased’s husband, mother, other relatives and even neighbours told us that she used to pick fights over petty issues. This anger led her to commit suicide,” said Dave. Macwan had an eight-month-old son from her marriage, said Dave. Police registered a case and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nurse-ends-life-after-row-with-mother/articleshow/75984308.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Surat||Minor forced into flesh trade||Surat: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly forced into prostitution by some unidentified persons after she was kidnapped around three months ago from Puna area of the city. The survivor was rescued from Ankleshwar by the detection of crime branch of the city police and reunited with her family on Sunday. The minor’s kidnapping came to light on Saturday when her father, a cleaning worker in a hospital, approached the police on Saturday. The father claimed in his complaint that his daughter had made a frantic call and informed that she had been forced into prostitution. After receiving the complaint, the police traced the girl’s location from the phone call, and she was traced to Ankleshwar. The police are also investigating as to why the girl’s father had not registered the complaint earlier when she had gone missing. A team of crime branch officials reached the spot within a short period and rescued the minor. “Our preliminary investigation has revealed that the survivor had been forced into prostitution,” said Puna police station official.The minor told the cops that a man named Jakir had forced her into prostitution. She alleged that she was raped multiple times by many different men including a few senior citizens. She was not allowed to go out of the room. She managed to make a call escaping from the room for a few minutes. “She is in shock and cops are trying to find out how she was kidnapped. Cops will identify all those involved and arrest them,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/minor-forced-into-flesh-trade/articleshow/75981745.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Amaravati||90 evacuees test positive in 72 hours in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: Authorities battling the spread of novel coronavirus in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said 90 foreign returnees have tested positive for the deadly virus in the last 72 hours, pushing the overall caseload significantly in the two states. People evacuated from various countries began arriving in the two states from May 9. While Telangana reported three deaths and 66 new Covid-19 cases, including 18 evacuees, positive on Monday, AP reported 89 cases — 45 among them turned out to be foreign returnees. “Just when the two states were looking to pull back the numbers, many foreign returnees from countries such as Kuwait have resulted in 90 cases over the past two-three days,” said a senior health expert, spearheading the Covid-19 fightback. With the Centre reducing the institutional quarantine from 14 days to only seven days, the job is cut out for health department officials to monitor them at home for the next seven days of home quarantine, said experts. Of the 66 new cases in Telangana on Monday, 31 are from the greater Hyderabad, 18 are foreign evacuees,15 migrant labours and one each from Rangareddy and Maharashtra. With the latest positive cases, the total count of Covid-19 positive cases in the state rose to 1,920, of which 1,162 patients have recovered. On Monday, 72 patients who had completely recovered were discharged by the state health authorities. There are 700 active cases of Covid-19 in the state, undergoing treatment at various designated hospitals and in view of the increasing cases of migrants, the state health department has urged the public to inform local authorities in case they identify of any new person coming into towns and cities. In Andhra Pradesh, the cumulative tally rose to 2,886. As many as 62 foreign returnees were diagnosed with the pandemic in the last two days, including the 45 on Monday. The sate on Monday also decided to place persons coming from high incidence areas such as Surat, Ahmedabad and Mumbai in an institutional quarantine facility for seven days, even if they test negative for Covid-19. Even weeks after the first few cases started emerging with Chennai’s Koyambedu market linkages in Andhra Pradesh, seven new cases reported on Monday were traced back to the same Covid-19 epicentre of Tamil Nadu. There are currently 946 active cases in the state, including 117 Covid-19 cases from other states. The state has not witnessed any coronavirus-related death in the last two days. A five-month-old boy from Cheruvuru village in Rampachodavaram agency area in East Godavari district also contracted the virus. The infant is reportedly the youngest Covid-19 patient of the state. “The parents of the kid approached the regional hospital in Rampachodavaram on May 21 when the latter was suffering from fever and cold symptoms. He was then referred to the Rajahmundry hospital and subsequently to the Government general hospital, Kakinada. The officials have identified 150 suspected people in Cheruvuru and the neighbouring villages for coronavirus screening,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/90-evacuees-test-ve-in-72hrs-in-t-ap/articleshow/75987862.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||90 evacuees test positive in 72 hours in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: Authorities battling the spread of novel coronavirus in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said 90 foreign returnees have tested positive for the deadly virus in the last 72 hours, pushing the overall caseload significantly in the two states. People evacuated from various countries began arriving in the two states from May 9. While Telangana reported three deaths and 66 new Covid-19 cases, including 18 evacuees, positive on Monday, AP reported 89 cases — 45 among them turned out to be foreign returnees. “Just when the two states were looking to pull back the numbers, many foreign returnees from countries such as Kuwait have resulted in 90 cases over the past two-three days,” said a senior health expert, spearheading the Covid-19 fightback. With the Centre reducing the institutional quarantine from 14 days to only seven days, the job is cut out for health department officials to monitor them at home for the next seven days of home quarantine, said experts. Of the 66 new cases in Telangana on Monday, 31 are from the greater Hyderabad, 18 are foreign evacuees,15 migrant labours and one each from Rangareddy and Maharashtra. With the latest positive cases, the total count of Covid-19 positive cases in the state rose to 1,920, of which 1,162 patients have recovered. On Monday, 72 patients who had completely recovered were discharged by the state health authorities. There are 700 active cases of Covid-19 in the state, undergoing treatment at various designated hospitals and in view of the increasing cases of migrants, the state health department has urged the public to inform local authorities in case they identify of any new person coming into towns and cities. In Andhra Pradesh, the cumulative tally rose to 2,886. As many as 62 foreign returnees were diagnosed with the pandemic in the last two days, including the 45 on Monday. The sate on Monday also decided to place persons coming from high incidence areas such as Surat, Ahmedabad and Mumbai in an institutional quarantine facility for seven days, even if they test negative for Covid-19. Even weeks after the first few cases started emerging with Chennai’s Koyambedu market linkages in Andhra Pradesh, seven new cases reported on Monday were traced back to the same Covid-19 epicentre of Tamil Nadu. There are currently 946 active cases in the state, including 117 Covid-19 cases from other states. The state has not witnessed any coronavirus-related death in the last two days. A five-month-old boy from Cheruvuru village in Rampachodavaram agency area in East Godavari district also contracted the virus. The infant is reportedly the youngest Covid-19 patient of the state. “The parents of the kid approached the regional hospital in Rampachodavaram on May 21 when the latter was suffering from fever and cold symptoms. He was then referred to the Rajahmundry hospital and subsequently to the Government general hospital, Kakinada. The officials have identified 150 suspected people in Cheruvuru and the neighbouring villages for coronavirus screening,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/90-evacuees-test-ve-in-72hrs-in-t-ap/articleshow/75985102.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Flight operations resume from Ahmedabad airport||AHMEDABAD: Queue up with social distancing, get your bag sanitized, get yourself screened, collect your kits, put on your masks and face shields, and show your ID and boarding pass and enter the airport terminal building.  Drop your baggage and move, following toe marks, maintaining due social distancing as you pass through security checkpoints, leave an empty chair as you wait for your flight in the security hold area. With such a new normal, commercial flight operations finally resumed after a gap of 60 days at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on Monday.  Flight operations were suspended across India in the end of March to curb the spread of coronavirus outbreak. The airport finally witnessed passenger movement at the airport after remaining almost shut except for operating charters, air ambulances, cargo and special flights for expats during the lockdown. An estimated eighty flights including some 40 incoming and 40 outgoing flights operated from the city airport. This is less than one-third of the total flight movements handled at the SVPI airport conventionally. Sources confirmed that most passengers included travellers who were either stranded here or had to visit their families at their hometowns. Flight operations resumed to Mumbai, Delhi, Indore, Chandigarh, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, among others. Speaking about his experience, Aniruddha Panicker, a passenger who landed at the city airport around noon, said, “The flight from Delhi refused to depart as there were only five passengers aboard. We didn’t have a choice but to book another flight on the spot to get to Ahmedabad. Thankfully, we boarded the flight in time. However, it was weird as the aircraft had barely eight passengers travelling to Ahmedabad.” Airline sources confirmed that most flights operated at less than 50% occupancy, and some as low as 10% as well. “People are reluctant to travel and things will normalise in the days to come. On frequent flying sectors such as Mumbai and Delhi, the bookings are reasonably good and we expect the flight occupancies to go up,” said the source. On the very first day, while there was a slight delay in operations of certain flights, three flight operations were cancelled. An incoming flight from Mumbai and an outgoing flight to Mumbai got cancelled and a flight to Chennai too got cancelled. Sources said that passengers were informed well in advance about the cancellation of the Chennai flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/flight-operations-resume-from-city-airport/articleshow/75984320.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||More flyers leave Pune than arrive, reaching airport a hassle||PUNE: The number of flyers leaving the city surpassed those landing at Lohegaon airport on Monday as limited number of domestic flights resumed operations from the city. A total of 985 passengers flew out of Pune and 672 arrived till 8pm on Monday, the airport authorities stated. Of the 17 flights scheduled for Monday, six were cancelled. “IndiGo flights to Chennai and Delhi, Alliance Air’s flights to Belgaum in Karnataka and Hyderabad, a SpiceJet flight to Kolkata and Vistara’s Delhi flight were cancelled,” an airport official said. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “It will be difficult to say how many of the scheduled flights for Tuesday will arrive or depart. The decision will be taken by the airlines.” Sources in the airlines claimed that a majority of the flights were cancelled because of less number of passengers. “There were just four passengers in a flight and so it was cancelled,” an airline official said without naming the airline. The airport authorities are at present stamping the inbound passengers and advising them to be home quarantined. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said they were coordinating with the airport authorities and getting a list of passengers with their details. “The passengers have to fill up self-declaration forms. We shall feed the information into our database. The Pune Municipal Corporation will monitor these passengers. They will be given calls from time to time to check if they have developed any Covid-19 symptoms,” he said. On the high number of passengers leaving Pune, aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said, “This trend will remain for some time. A certain section of people was stuck and waiting for the flight operations to resume.” A Delhi-bound flyer said, “I have lost my job. There is no point staying here and pay the rent for the flat I was occupying.” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, on his official Twitter handle posted, “To facilitate flight travellers using private vehicles for pick-up/drop at the airport, boarding pass will be considered as digital passes. For taxi, commuters may utilise services of ‘Dial an Autorickshaw’ (9859198591).” Rahul Shitole, who runs the Dial an Autorickshaw service, said people need to send a WhatsApp message on the number a day before the journey. “They will have to fill up a form sent to them. If all details are okay, information about the driver will be sent a day before travel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flight-services-resume-outbound-travellers-surpass-inbound-flyers/articleshow/75985095.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||Spirits soar as Bhopal airport takes wing again||BHOPAL: The buzz was back at Raja Bhoj Airport on Monday as flights resumed after 61 days of Covid grounding. On the first day, more people flew into Bhopal than out -- 177 to 124. A passenger being screened at Bhopal airport on MondayThe crowding and jostling that was a part of airport experience earlier was replaced by two-arm-length Covid distancing as people shuffled from one designated mark to another for every step of the new check-in list – Aarogya Setu app, oxy-meter check, thermal screening, Covid declaration form, ticket and ID check, baggage screening and personal screening – with repeated rounds of hand sanitisation in between. Masks, face shields and gloves were part of mandatory airport attire, and sanitizer bottles the must-have accessory. Every now and then, however, the Covid cover seemed to slip as the first day of Nautapa – the hottest nine days of summer – made it unbearable to stand even a few seconds in the sun. At the thermal screening at the gates, passengers requested the authorities to let them to stand to one side, in the shade, rather than at designated spots under the sun. Soon, social distancing was forgotten. When security personnel asked them to stand apart, one passenger retorted: “I don’t have a ruler.” Many passengers arrived rather late for check-in, now factoring in Covid restrictions. Many others had not downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and were not let in until they did. Despite the teething troubles, spirits soared as two flights landed and two took off. Inside the airport, all retail outlets were open. The first flight from Delhi touched down with 122 passengers. It took off with 70 passengers for New Delhi. In the evening, Air India flight A319 reached Bhopal with 55 passengers and took back 54. On Tuesday, apart from the flight to Hyderabad, the rest are expected to operate on schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/spirits-soar-as-bhopal-airport-takes-wing-again/articleshow/75985093.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||76 days after its first Covid case, toll in Mumbai goes over 1,000||MUMBAI: The city on Monday crossed 1,000 Covid-19 deaths, 76 days after the virus entered Mumbai and two months after the countrywide lockdown was announced. The city’s death toll stood at 1,026 with the addition of 38 deaths on Monday; 736 of the 1,026 deaths have occurred in May alone. In March, when the outbreak began, there were seven deaths. This quickly rose to 281 in April. In 25 days in May till now, the fatalities have jumped by a staggering 161% over April. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said while deaths have increased, the case fatality rate has seen a steady decline. “From 7% in April, it has dropped to 3.2% in the state now,” said Dr Avinash Supe, a member of the state task force. Mumbai reported its first Covid-19 death on March 17, six days after it reported the first case on March 11. While it took the city 34 days to reach the first 100 deaths since the first case was reported, the subsequent 100s came at smaller intervals. The first 100 deaths were reported on April 13 when Mumbai had 1,540 positive cases. The next 100 were added in 13 days, after which the intervals were reduced to single digits. The fourth, fifth and sixth hundred deaths were added in four days each. The fastest addition, from 734 to 800 deaths, came in two days: May 17 to 19. The subsequent intervals were 3 days each. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that after BKC, Covid care centres and dedicated Covid hospitals will be made within two weeks at the Racecourse, Dahisar, Goregaon, and Mulund, with over 7,000 beds in the next two weeks. Work on a 600-bed Covid care centre at Mahalaxmi is underway on a war-footing. This includes a ward with 125 ICU beds. Those with moderate symptoms will be housed here. A 535-bed jumbo facility at Nesco, Goregaon, is available for patients. By May 31, a total of 2,475 beds at NSCI, Mahalaxmi, Bandra, and Nesco will be made available. On Monday, the state reported 2436 positive cases, taking the state’s total case count to 52,667. BMC has maintained that 67% of the total fatalities were of people with co-morbidities. Senior officials monitoring the Covid outbreak in the state said that in most cases where people have died, they came to the hospital late. Out of the state’s 60 deaths on Monday, 38 were recorded in Mumbai, 11 in Pune, three in Navi Mumbai, two in Thane, two in Aurangabad, and one each in Solapur, Kalyan-Dombivali and Ratnagiri. A Bihar resident died of the infection in Mumbai. Out of the 60, 42 were men, and 27 aged over 60 years. The state said that out of the 60 deaths, 54 occurred in the last two days while six are from the last week. In Kalyan-Dombivli, four Covid-19 patients died in the last 24 hours while 36 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases in the twin city to 804, and deaths to 22. In Ulhasnagar, 18 new cases and three deaths were reported, taking the totals to 209 cases and 9 deaths. On Monday, Badlapur witnessed a jump of 15 cases, taking the total to 173 in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/76-days-after-its-first-covid-case-toll-in-mumbai-goes-over-1000/articleshow/75985903.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Four arrested for murder of student in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Based on the label on the empty liquor bottles found at the crime scene and CCTV camera feed at the liquore store, Nalgonda police solved the murder of 20-year-old student D Naveen and arrested four persons. The accused confessed to have killed Naveen on the assumption that black magic performed by his father had resulted in the death of a member in their family six months ago. On the evening of May 20, Naveen — a resident of Urban Colony in Nalgonda town — was bludgeoned to death in an isolated area at Kathalagudem in the town by unidentified persons. Police team investigating the murder found empty liquor bottles at the crime scene and based on the labels on the bottles, they identified the liquor store from where the bottles were purchased. “Our team went to the liquor store and verified the CCTV camera footage to zero in on the suspects,” Nalgonda DSP G Venkateshwar Reddy said. In the next few days, police rounded up suspects — truck driver N Srikanth (25), paramedical student D Harish (21), private employee M Sekhar (24) and labourer K Raju (20) — from Naveen’s neighbourhood. “The suspects confessed to their crime during questioning,” Nalgonda 1 Town inspector N Suresh said. Harish’s brother D Ramesh, a labourer, committed suicide by hanging six months ago due to ill-health. “Family members of Harish, his brother-in-law and Srikanth’s family went to a fakir in Miryalaguda town, seeking answers for the sudden death of Ramesh. The fakir said that someone had performed black magic on Ramesh and the accused suspected the role of Naveen’s father Balaiah with whom Ramesh’s family has a land dispute. To avenge death of Ramesh, they hatched a plan to kill Naveen,” the DSP said. As per the plan, the accused invited Naveen for a party at an isolated place and after getting him drunk, attacked him with bottles and boulders, killing him on the spot. The accused were sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-arrested-for-murder-of-student/articleshow/75984266.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto drivers demand aid, ration from govt||Hyderabad: With very few people opting to commute in auto rickshaws even after the government announced relaxations, city auto drivers — who were among the hardest hit during the lockdown — have sought financial support and ration from the state government. Many say that the easing of lockdown this week has not yet led to a revival in demand for rides as most working professionals are still logging in from home and schools and colleges continue to remain shut. “We are hardly getting any passengers...We mostly depend on ferrying school children and IT employees in the city,” said Paramesh Yadav, an auto driver waiting for passengers near Sanathnagar. The story is no different for others like him, who barely have any savings to fall back on. The auto drivers have requested the government to provide a financial assistance similar to states like Karnataka and Delhi until their business falls back on track. “The lockdown and suspension of transport services eroded our incomes completely. We have to depend on daily earnings to feed our families. For two months, we survived on the ration that we received from a few NGOs. We now request the government to provide some relief in the form of ration and financial aid,” said Satti Reddy, member of Telangana Auto Drivers Joint Action Committee. The Karnataka government recently announced that the auto and taxi drivers in the state would be given a one-time compensation of Rs 5,000 each to help them overcome the difficulties. Last month, the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government also announced a similar sum for all public service drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-drivers-demand-aid-ration-from-govt/articleshow/75984227.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR feeds 3 lakh during lockdown||Hyderabad: Distribution of free meals by South Central Railway (SCR) during lockdown crossed the three lakh-mark on Monday. Since the beginning of lockdown, the food distributed under this campaign is prepared at various stations including Secunderabad. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has also activated its base kitchen in Vijayawada and has been serving in Vijayawada and its precincts. Officials said the programme saw coming together of railway personnel, NGOs and IRCTC. “Base kitchens have been converted into round-the-clock service kitchen utility for staff to plan, procure material and cook meals continuously,” a senior SCR official told TOI. The entire mechanism has been chalked out keeping in mind the set-up of community food preparation points, packing, logistics, identification of sections in need and on-time supply. “While ensuring safety precautions, efforts are also being undertaken to identify requirements and food habits of various sections of people to prepare food that suits their tastes,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-feeds-3-lakh-during-lockdown/articleshow/75984298.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Video calls & home prayers mark Eid in times of coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Without embraces, handshakes and daawats, Eid-ul-Fitr celebrations across the city remained a low-key affair on Monday as people continued to remain indoors. Families greeted each other over video calls while prayers too were offered at home. Lanes in Old City, which would normally be bustling with people after early morning prayers, wore a deserted look as locals observed lockdown protocols. No prayers were offered in mosques as well as Eidgahs including Eidgah Mir Alam, Eidgah Bilali and Eidgah Madannapet as they were shut as part of the lockdown. Giving a miss to visits to relatives to share sweetmeats and greetings, families savoured Eid delights such as biryani, khichdi and kheema, sheerkhurma along with their immediate family members within the confines of their homes. “My father has eight brothers. Every Eid, all brothers and their families come together. We host almost 50 to 60 people every year. However this year, we greeted each other on group video calls and offered prayers with only our immediate family members,” said Syed Faraz, a resident of Tolichowki. It was not just the lockdown that dampened the celebrations but also the severe heatwave conditions that kept people indoors. This Eid, many also came forward to help migrants and distressed people by offering them Fitrah. After Ramazan, it is an obligatory charity that is offered after the sighting of Eid-ul-Fitr moon. This charity is given by the head of the family on behalf of each family member. City-based NGO Helping Hand Foundation (HHF) served sheerkhurma at Government District Area Hospital, King Koti, and Government Nizamia General Hospital, both of which are Level-1 quarantine centres for Covid-19. “Most patients in Level-1 quarantine are contacts of primary and secondary positive cases and are required to undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine. As they cannot go home for Eid till end of quarantine period, we sent them sheerkhurma to make them feel better,” said HHF founder, Mujtaba Hasan Askari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/video-calls-home-prayers-mark-eid-in-times-of-corona/articleshow/75984105.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||2+1 rule makes business tougher, rue Telangana auto drivers||HYDERABAD: Auto drivers in the city say that the new ‘two plus one’ rule introduced by the government as part of easing lockdown restrictions is doing more harm than good for their business. While auto rickshaws are usually a preferred mode of transport for groups of three or four people, drivers say that people have started completely avoiding the service as they have to hire more than one auto even if they are a group of three people and spend double the amount of what they used to pay earlier. “If a passenger wants to travel with two or three children, I cannot ask them to take two different autos. Will that person be able to send the children alone in a separate auto and then pay for both autos separately?” asked Satti Reddy, member of Telangana Auto Drivers Joint Action Committee. According to the new rules, cabs can run with up to three passengers plus driver, while autos can carry up to two passengers. “If two people want to go somewhere, they usually go on a two-wheeler. Why will they hire an auto? I had to say no to at least four groups today because they had more than three people,” said Mohammad Fahad, who was waiting for passengers at Jubilee bus stand. A senior officer with the transport department said the new rules have been released taking into consideration the current situation to contain the spread of Covid-19. “We will not be able to increase the number of passengers in the auto until we get an order from the state government,” the official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-rule-makes-business-tougher-rue-auto-drivers/articleshow/75984182.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||DK, Udupi districts rope in private medical college hospitals to test samples||Mangaluru: With the number of Covid-19 samples increasing by the day, especially after easing the lockdown restrictions, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts have roped in private medical colleges for sample testing and speedy results. District Wenlock Hospital lab was the first facility in the district to commence Covid-19 RT-PCR test in the undivided Dakshina Kannada. Now Yenepoya Medical College Hospital, Derlakatte and Kasturba Hospital in Manipal in Udupi have been conducting the test. Soon, Fr Muller Medical College Hospital, KMC, Mangaluru, Justice KS Hegde Charitable Hospital of Nitte (deemed to be university) Deralakatte and Mangaluru will also commence the test. Ramachandra Bayari, district health and family welfare officer told TOI that the load is increasing every day after lockdown 4.0. “If we run Wenlock lab for round the clock, it can only test a maximum 190 samples in 24 hours. However, the number of samples collected per day which also includes samples from Udupi and Uttara Kannada district crosses 1,000. In this situation, where results expected to be quicker and faster, the help of the private medical college laboratories is the need of the hour.” He said that in Dakshina Kannada district, currently samples are being tested at Wenlock and Yenepoya Medical College Hospital. “These labs are not enough for sample testing as the number of samples are increasing every day. By next week Dakshina Kannada will have three more labs for the same. The government will pay for the testing and it has fixed Rs 2,250 for each test. DK labs will also help neighbouring districts of Udupi and Uttara Kannada.” Medical college hospitals are well equipped to conduct Covid-19 RT-PCR test. “It is because it needs microbiologist and medical colleges have a dedicated department and labs. Dakshina Kannada can have more testing labs,” he said. Till May 23, Dakshina Kannada collected 5,919 samples and test results of 584 samples are awaited. In Udupi, in initial days, samples from the district were tested in Shivamogga and Hassan and later in Dakshina Kannada. “We have started testing samples from Udupi district at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal and from May 19 to till date 400 tests have been conducted,” said Dr Avinash Shetty, medical superintendent of Kasturba Hospital, Manipal. Kasturba Hospital lab is the only facility in Udupi to test Covid-19 samples. In Udupi, cases saw a jump after the influx of people from other states, especially Maharashtra. Until May 23, Udupi has collected 5,703 samples of which 2925 test results are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-udupi-districts-rope-in-private-medical-college-hospitals-to-test-samples/articleshow/75980464.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 26, 2020||Mysuru||Border sealed to prevent Tamil Nadu people from entering K’taka||Mysuru: Following an increase in coronavirus infection in Tamil Nadu, the people in the neighbouring state have started entering Karnataka through the forest area by crossing the Cauvery river. To prevent such illegal entry, the foresters have sealed all its forest checkposts. There has been a surge in infection in Tamil Nadu with over 15,000 positive cases and more than 100 deaths. As the coronavirus is spreading rapidly, the people, especially those living in the border areas, are entering Karnataka. The people had tried to enter through Male Mahadeshwara Hills in the border district of Chamarajanagar by risking their lives — they need to cross Cauvery which flows between the two states, and Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, which houses wild animals, including tiger. Karnataka foresters, having come to know of the illegal entry, sealed all the routes and checkposts at Hoogyam, Jellipalya ,Gajanuru and Garikekandi, through which people could have entered the state. They have also sealed the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border at Palar. MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary DCF V Yedkukondalu told TOI that the forest department has closed all the border areas and are keeping vigil on people coming from Tamil Nadu. “During summer, the water level of Cauvery comes down, enabling people from Tamil Nadu cross over to Karnataka. They walk through small paths in the forest to reach towns and manage to escape from the authorities at state border checkposts. So we have sealed all the routes at the borders. Besides major routes, we have also closed more than 12 small paths,” he said. Yedukondalu said that over 35 forest staff are patrolling the forest areas and keeping a vigil on routes at the border. “Villagers living in border areas have been asked to inform the foresters about unidentified or suspicious persons in their locality. We have set up forest camps to monitor the movement of people along the river,” he said, adding some of those who had come from the neighbouring state were also sent back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/border-sealed-to-prevent-tamil-nadu-people-from-entering-ktaka/articleshow/75982378.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Four-year-old boy mowed down by bus||Davanagere: A four-year-old boy was crushed under the wheels of a private bus on Monday afternoon at Challakere town in Chitradurga district. The deceased is Nandakishore, son of Thippeswamy, a mandi merchant, resident of Shivanagar extension. The tragedy occurred when the boy was returning with his father from the APMC market. When they were crossing NH-150(A), a speeding bus heading to Challakere town hit the boy and ran over his legs. The severely injured boy was rushed to Challakere government hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Challakere town police visited the spot and booked a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-year-old-boy-mowed-down-by-bus/articleshow/75982322.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Businesses open but see little action||Hyderabad: Eid-Ul-Fitr was a subdued affair for commercial establishments as most people adhered to the ‘No Eid shopping’ movement. Although shopkeepers opened their establishments just few days ahead of Eid, many said that they could barely make 10 per cent of overall sales as there were only a few buyers. Most apparel and footwear stores witnessed low footfall this festive season. “We opened our shop on Friday with a hope that buyers would come during the weekend. However, the footfall was lesser than what we expected,” said Satyanarayana, who owns an apparel store in Abids. The streets of Lad Bazaar and Pathergatti, which were buzzing with buyers, were shut by 7 pm on Sunday. On normal days, these markets don’t have an inch of space to move around. While sales at mutton shops were slightly better, small traders selling religious skull caps, Ittar and perfumes, Vermicelli among other products that witness high sales during Ramzaan, were severely hit due to restrictions and dip in customers. “Every year, I earn almost Rs 10,000 every day during Ramzaan. This year, I could barely make Rs 3,000. Most orders were from my close family and friends who ordered on call and I delivered them ahead of Eid after restrictions were eased in the city,” said Mohammed Aabid, a perfume seller near Mozamjahi market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/businesses-open-but-see-little-action/articleshow/75984124.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||University exams in Madhya Pradesh from June 29-July 31||BHOPAL: Final-year exams of undergraduate and postgrad courses in Madhya Pradesh will be held between June 29 and July 31, the government announced on Monday. This year, the new session will start on October 1. These decisions were taken at a meeting at Raj Bhavan, presided over by Governor Lalji Tandon, and in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. There will be no automatic promotion. Regular examinations of first year and second year, and higher education courses will be held as well. This applies to all private universities and colleges, too. Final-year and semester examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate classes and courses will be held at examination centres in offline mode, with strict adherence to social distance precautions. Students of first and second year, and semesters of postgraduate and undergraduate classes and courses, will be admitted to the next class in the new semester from September 1, 2020. New session to start from October 1Final year and semester examinations of Rajiv Gandhi University of Technology will be held between June 16 and June 30, 2020. Final-year exams will be held the traditional way. Results will be declared by July 15, 2020. In case the circumstances are not normal, examinations will be conducted in online mode, say sources. The online exam will be of two hours’ duration and have multiple-choice questions. All examinations will be done in three shifts daily. Examinations of first, second and third year classes and semesters will be conducted by the university in pen-paper mode between July 2 and July 31, 2020. Results will be declared by August 25, 2020. If a candidate is not able to appear due to unavoidable reasons, then a special examination will be conducted for them later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/univ-exams-in-state-from-june-29-july-31/articleshow/75985098.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘Post lockdown, almost 80% people would have mild Covid-19 infection’||Professor of Pathology Department of AIIMS, Nagpur, Dr Rasika Gadkari is a life member of Indian Association of Pathologists and Microbiologists. Cytology, cancer and hemato-oncology are her fields of expertise. While speaking with TOI, she elaborated on various aspects of Covid-19, its confirmatory molecular test and the status of disease post lockdown. Q. Why novel coronavirus is dangerous? Will it infect more people post lockdown? A. It is a new virus and our population is still not fully exposed to it. When a new virus comes, a large number of persons can get infected within a short period of time. Post lockdown, almost 80% people would have a mild disease due to it. A small percentage of those infected by the virus can die. Most of the deaths so far have been among old and ailing people but some young people can die too. Ours being a country with a huge population, even a small per cent of death amounts to crores of people. Due to this high infectivity and lethal potential, novel coronavirus is to be feared. Q. Should we all get tested for Covid-19? A. Confirmatory test for Covid-19 is an expensive molecular test. Testing everyone will be wasting our resources. ICMR testing guidelines are becoming more inclusive now. More number of people will get tested as more labs are being set up but not everyone needs to get tested. Q. Viruses are so small and cannot survive unless they infect the host. How does the infection occur? A. The virus can enter your body when you bring your hand close to the nose or breathe in the air containing the virus. If we use mask, wash hands frequently and keep safe distance, the risk of virus reaching our airways is reduced. Each virus has its own way to attach to a cell. For Covid-19, it’s a receptor called ACE-2. Once virus latches to a cell, it’s taken inside the cell. It behaves as a bad guest and uses entire cell resources for its own growth and proliferation. Q. Why the disease is mild in some and severe in others? A. Age is very important factor in Covid-19. Severe disease is also seen in those suffering from diabetes mellitus, high BP, with history of heart attack and many other diseases. For most of young and healthy, it’s a mild disease with cough and fever like any other flu like illness. If our immune response is good and viral load is less, the virus is eliminated. Any imbalance between immune response and number of viral copies in body can cause severe disease, especially in old and diseased. An excessive immune response can also cause severe illness. Q. Why do patients need ventilators? A. Most patients do not need ventilators or ICU admission. In case of severe disease, in small number of cases the patient is unable to breathe and amount of available oxygen in blood is very low. This is due to damage to part of lung where oxygenation occurs or due to multiple clots in blood, reducing blood coming to lung. Ventilators provide mechanical assistance to breathing and give more oxygen so that person lives and recovers. In Covid-19, currently low pressure oxygen therapy is advised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/post-lockdown-almost-80-people-would-have-mild-covid-19-infection/articleshow/75984676.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 26, 2020||Pune||Transport a major challenge for passengers||Pune: As soon as Saurabh Tiwari landed at Lohegaon on Monday in an IndiGo plane from Delhi, he was told that it would be hard to get public transport, and he should ask his relatives or friends to pick him up.Tiwari, stuck in Delhi for three months, said, “I just want to go to my home in Baner. Don’t ask me how I got stuck and what happened. I thought that some arrangements would be made by the administration. Sadly, it isn’t the case.”Tiwari was later seen walking on New Airport Road trying to get an autorickshaw.Prabhupada Satpathy, who landed in Delhi from Pune and was awaiting his connecting flight to Odisha, said he had arranged a private cab from Wakad to the Pune airport. “I had to pay Rs1,400 for the trip. Some public transport arrangements should have been made by the administration,” Satpathy said.As many airports, including Pune, resumed partial domestic flight operations from Monday, the lack of public transport, especially in the morning hours, was a major hassle for several flyers.A couple travelling to Delhi from the Koregaon Park area, said they sought help from a close friend. “Until late evening on Sunday, we did not know how to reach the airport. As a last resort, we asked a friend of ours if he could drop us and thankfully, he agreed. We were not stopped anywhere and reached the airport at 5am for our flight scheduled at 7.55am,” they added.Rahul Shitole of CityGlide autorickshaw service said, “We got 165 bookings from passengers going to the airport on Monday and another 60 from those landing. Our 350 autorickshaws have been permitted to run and more than 500 bookings are waiting to be confirmed. We are trying to provide autorickshaws to all, but the call traffic is huge with around 55 to 60 calls coming every minute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-a-major-challenge-for-passengers/articleshow/75985097.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Groups join hands to overcome blood shortage||Vadodara: ‘Ek Eid aisi bhi. Ham khoon dekar deshvasiyon ki jaan bachayen (An Eid like this one too. Let’s save lives of countrymen by donating blood)’. This message went viral among members of minority community in the city on Sunday and on Eid on Monday. The community responded with a gusto and decided to give ‘Eidi’ by donating blood. Blood donation camps were organized across the city to celebrate the day in a unique manner. As many as 105 units were donated at four locations even as four more blood donation camps were underway and persons from Nagarwada had gone to SSG Hospital and donated blood there. Baroda Muslim Doctors’ Association (BMDA) had taken the lead in holding the camps and coordinated with religious heads, student leaders, influential youth leaders and others to ensure that the turnout was healthy. “Blood banks were requesting us to ensure donors came forward as there was shortage. We thought Eid was the right day to do this service,” said BMDA president Dr Mohammed Hussain. The community too responded to the call and despite slow donation to ensure social distancing was maintained, people came forward to donate blood. “We have prepared a list of 50 people. Once the first lot of donors finishes, the next will be called,” said Aslam Farooq Mafat, trustee of Miskin Education Trust that operates a madrassa in Fatehpura area of the city. Blood donation was facilitated in Fatehpura, Tandalja, Gorwa, Navayard, Bawamanpura, Mansuri Kabrastan, Mandvi, Panigate and SSG Hospital. The donations were to continue till Monday night to ensure that a handsome amount of blood units were donated. Zuber Pathan, a student leader from Navayard area, said no other festivities or activities could be planned on the festival this year due to Covid-19 situation. “This is a good idea of celebrating the day. People have also responded well to the appeal,” he said. Wasim Sheikh, who was coordinating the activity in Tandalja, said many were unable to donate blood during Ramzan as they were fasting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/groups-join-hands-to-overcome-blood-shortage/articleshow/75983227.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 26, 2020||Pune||Administration focuses on raising number of institutional quarantine facilities||Pune: The district administration is gearing up to identify more facilities for institutional quarantine in the wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases and also to accommodate people flying in from international destinations. The health ministry has mandated 14-day quarantine — seven days of institutional quarantine followed by a week of home isolation — for people reaching in international flights. The administration has so far readied 314 quarantine facilities. Most of them are for the rural areas, followed by areas under the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram the need for institutional quarantine facilities would increase once the number of people reaching Pune from various countries increased. He said the bigger challenge was to ready quarantine facilities for the slum clusters and rural areas where “home quarantine” was difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/administration-focuses-on-raising-number-of-institutional-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75985099.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Thakre raises Pandhrabodi containment with CM||Nagpur: Nagpur West MLA and city Congress president Vikas Thakre has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray protesting Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC’s) failure to end containment of Pandhrabodi even though no resident had tested positive in the last 16 days. He has demanded strict action against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and other NMC officials.Due to failure of NMC to unseal Pandhrabodi, the residents have been agitating since last two days. Thakre had joined the protests.Thakre pointed out a Pandhrabodi resident had died on May 8 and NMC sealed the area for 14 days. None of the deceased’s family members tested positive and the containment should have ended on May 22. However, NMC is continuing it.The Congress leader stated residents were facing a lot of problems. “There are no ration shops, groceries, gas agencies, medical clinics, etc inside the containment zone. People have run out of essentials and are now facing starvation. NMC is not making any arrangement for them,” the letter states.Thakre also pointed out Pandhrabodi residents had lost their livelihood due to containment. “People are unable to go to work and hence are not getting paid. Self-employed persons are unable to earn. Many dairy farmers living inside are unable to sell milk to their customers outside the zone. They are also unable to procure fodder for their cattle,” he stated.The MLA pointed out that officials of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) were unable to attend office due to the containment. The office is inside the zone while they live outside it. “There are some doctors who live inside the zone but their clinics are outside it. Their patients are suffering,” he said.Thakre told TOI he would raise the issue of high-handedness of Mundhe in the monsoon session of state assembly and demand his suspension. “He doesn’t listen to the guardian minister and divisional commissioner,” he charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thakre-raises-pandhrabodi-containment-with-cm/articleshow/75981769.cms||Ashish Roy
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Pawan ready to work with us, says Bandi||Hyderabad: The first time meeting between Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan on Monday brightened chances of a possible alliance between both the parties. After the meeting, Sanjay said Pawan Kalyan is ready to work with them. “This is the first time we met. We will meet again to discuss various issues,” the state BJP chief said. Sanjay told the media that BJP leaders have briefed Pawan Kalyan on the functioning of chief ministers of both Telugu states. “We are not against the Pothireddypadu project. Both the CMs are trying to exploit the situation,” he said. Sources said since JSP has already is in alliance with BJP in AP, both parties coming together in Telangana will happen. While the meeting lasted for more than one hour, BJP functionaries claimed that it was just a courtesy call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pawan-ready-to-work-with-us-says-bandi/articleshow/75984335.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Most wary of travel by air or train any time soon: Survey||Nagpur: Though flights have resumed in limited numbers a majority of Indians remain wary of travelling in near future, according to an online survey.Only 21% of the respondents say one or more members of their household will likely be taking a flight within the next 30 days. Most travelling are those who are stranded due to lockdown or have an emergency. Only 10% say one or more members of their household will likely be taking a train in June.The survey was conducted last week by LocalCircles, India’s leading pollster on issues of governance, public and consumer interest. The poll to check if citizens had any plans to travel in the next 30 days, received 16,000-plus responses from 212 districts in the country.People were asked whether they have booked a flight ticket for their family’s travel between May 26 and June 25. Only 10% said they had booked tickets and will travel soon while 11% said they had not made the bookings yet but will do it soon. A large 76% said they did not have any plans to travel currently. The railway ministry has also decided to operate 200 trains from June 1. The next question asked was whether people had booked a train ticket for themselves or their family for travel between June 1 and 30.“However, 88% said they had no plans to travel while only 4% said they had booked tickets and will travel. Only 6% said they will be booking tickets soon. This means that one or more members of only 10% households will likely be taking a train in June,” said Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles.With Covid-19 cases hitting new peaks, discussions on LocalCircles indicate those travelling by flights are primarily the ones who were stranded due to sudden lockdown on March 22. Similar is the feedback from train travellers too. The feedback from those travelling indicates that of the total travel by flights in the next 30 days, business travel would be less than 5%.The government permitted flights to resume from Monday. People are allowed to fly and airport and airlines are taking a set of precautions.“From the feedback of citizens, it seems both Indian Railways and airlines would have a difficult time filling up seats, at least in the next 30 days,” Gupta said.Survey Demographics* Two-point survey receive 16,000 plus responses* 71% respondents were men and 29% women* 49% respondents were from Tier 1, 34% from Tier 2 and 17 from Tier 3 & 4 cities and rural districts* All participants are validated citizens registered with LocalCircles||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-wary-of-travel-by-air-or-train-any-time-soon-survey/articleshow/75981781.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 26, 2020||Delhi||10 days, 930 calls: Firemen fight blaze, corona fears||New Delhi: This May has been a tough month for firemen. In the past 10 days, they have received 930 calls. Officials said they have been faced with a double dilemma, to douse the blazes and ensure that firefighters don’t get infected with coronavirus.Atul Garg, DFS director, said, “To ensure minimum risk and exposure to the novel coronavirus, we usually form a team of 2-3 officers for the rescue process. A standing operating procedure for sanitisation has been put in place for officers who come in contact with people. Our officers can’t wear PPE kits as they will catch fire.”Recently, a fire broke out at a Covid-designated hospital and the fire department rescued eight Covid-positive patients.Since May 1, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) has received 1,831 calls, the highest (122) being on May 25. The trend was the opposite last year as calls had started dipping towards the end of May. In 2019, even though the total number of calls were 3,316, there was a dip in the number of calls received in the last 10 days of May. The constant rise in temperature this year has resulted in a spike in the number of fires, officers said.Fire officials said the number of calls this April dipped to 1,801 compared with 3,081 last year as most places were shut.DFS officials have advised factory and office owners to get their ACs serviced before reopening their workplaces. “People should also ensure that their firefighting equipment is upgraded so that emergency situations can be dealt with immediately. In summer, 15% of fires are caused because of faulty airconditioners,” Garg said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-days-930-calls-firemen-fight-blaze-corona-fears/articleshow/76016594.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||Friends shine in time of Covid crisis||Palanpur: It has been two full months since they began feeding the migrant labourers walking back to their natives and the poor severely hit by the coronavirus lockdown across the country. However, these 10 friends from Kanodar village, 10km from Palanpur on Ahmedabad- Abu Road highway, have pledged to continue feeding the poor migrants till the last one walks past their village.Kosarbhai Aghariya and his friends would meticulously place a table with food every day for the migrant taking the highway route to reach their native villages in different states.They started a few days after the lockdown was announced by distributing uncooked rice and dal along with some oil and spices to the group of migrants passing by their village that falls on the main Delhi-Mumbai highway.“After few days of distributing uncooked food, we realised that how these people would manage to cook food is such scorching heat. So we decided to provide them with cooked food,” Aghariya told TOI. Currently, these friends are paying from their own pockets for the food and are feeding at least 175 people daily.When asked how they have been managing the financial burden, quick came the reply, “Our main concern is what would happens if we do not help these helpless people who have been left to fend for themselves. They are walking miles after miles into an uncertain future. If we do not help them, it would be a tragedy.”These good Samaritans have been following all guidelines and norms of the government. “We place the ready to eat food packets, water bottles on the table and the migrants on foot or in their vehicles collect it while maintain safe distancing,” said Aghariya.The good work initiated by these friends have attracted many villagers to join them. People have started coming forward to donate food grains and other provisions.The group also feeds some of the poor in nearby villages. “There a few self-respecting people who refuse to take the provisions and would rather starve to death than accept charity. We convince them to take the ration now and ask them to pay us later after the crisis is over,” said Aghariya.He added, “Our work has been purely voluntary. We have never asked anyone for donations. This service is to help the humanity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/friends-shine-in-time-of-covid-crisis/articleshow/75981786.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||After nights in the open, siblings finally in Goa||Panaji: After spending sleepless nights out in the open last week on the Karnataka side of the border at Polem, siblings Meet Kaur, Karamdeep and Karamjeet Singh finally crossed into Goa on Sunday. After being tested for Covid at Mapusa’s Asilo hospital, they waited at a hotel room in Dona Paula. On Monday, they were informed they all tested negative. “We are finally safe and sound,” said Meet, a mechanic for high-end bikes. “I was on the brink on Friday after sleeping out in the open for days in an area surrounded by forest. I am a female after all, and you get afraid despite being at the checkpost. But the same evening, we were issued permits, and on Saturday night, a friend finally arranged for us to stay at a house in Karwar. At 9.30am on Sunday, we crossed over to Goa.” Help also came from the president of the Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, Betim, Harvinder Singh Dham. “When I learnt about their state, we immediately contacted the authorities, who told us permits had already been issued to them,” said Dham. Karamjeet said that they are happy to be home in Goa. “After the Covid-19 cases began rising in Kerala, life was a nightmare,” said Meet. “If not for the national lockdown, we would have headed back to Goa long ago.” On May 23, TOI had reported that 34-year-old Meet and her brothers, Karamdip and Karamjit Singh were left stranded at the border. The trio had been living in Goa for many years and had documents with Goa addresses but were experiencing difficulties getting their permits processed at the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-nights-in-the-open-siblings-finally-in-goa/articleshow/75985130.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Think big to draw firms away from China: Telangana minister KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: As Telangana gets back to business gradually after two months of lockdown, the state government and Telangana Inc feel that self-reliance with a focus on building scale across sectors will be the key mantra to accelerate the pace of growth in the future. “India has to think on scale if we have to attract manufacturing away from China…now is the time to think of projects of national and international importance,” IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao said at the inaugural of the TOI Conclave ‘Reboot Telangana: Making Telangana Future Positive’, which is being supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Janapriya, Agromech and Saket Pranamam. Citing examples of Pharma City and Kakatiya Mega Textiles Park, he pointed out that such mega facilities can be created with help of the Centre to boost the prospects of food processing, electronics manufacturing as well as medical devices sectors. Executive chairman of Cyient Ltd, BVR Mohan Reddy, underlined the importance of rapidly building digital infrastructureand urged state government to fast-track theT-Fiber project.. Even as industry leaders pushed for local manufacturing, Shantha Biotechnics founder Dr KI Varaprasad Reddy cautioned that ‘Make in India’ has been misconstrued by industry players and most of what is happening is more of assembly work Dr Reddy’s Laboratories chairman and Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance president Satish Reddy said that for the pharma industry to thrive in the country, it is important to have ‘policy certainty and continuity’. He prescribed better collaboration between industry and academia to up innovation quotient. GVK Group VC GV Sanjay Reddy highlighted importance of infrastructure sector globally in kick-starting the economic engine during crises. Investment in infrastructure is crucial because it leads to employment generation, creation of national assets and helps revive core sectors, he said. Credai Hyderabad president P Ramakrishna Rao rooted for a “dispersed growth model” where the government encourages development of infrastructure in underserved .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/think-big-to-draw-firms-away-from-china-ktr/articleshow/75984337.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||Briton jailed in Bhopal for lockdown violation, kin campaign for freedom||BHOPAL: The family of a British national, Sohail Hughes, who is now in Bhopal jail for alleged visa and lockdown violations, has initiated an online petition for his freedom. The petition claims Sohail, 29, was on an extended holiday to visit family in Gujarat before undertaking a pilgrimage of mosques, when he was detained last month. Bhopal police say he was among 60 Tablighi Jamaat members arrested for participating in various religious programmes of the organisation in violation of Foreigners Act and IPC. Sohail’s wife, who has launched a campaign to have him released, calls his arrest illegal. “Sohail Hughes from Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, has been detained in India in a place called Bhopal, accused of spreading Coronavirus and violating visa regulations! Just because he was staying in a mosque along with other people when lockdown was announced in India,” says her petition. Tablighi Jamaat made headlines across the country after a religious congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March this year was blamed for a spurt in Covid-19 infections in several states. Sohail was detained in Bhopal in the aftermath. Some other foreigners, who were arrested with him, have requested consular access. The Jamaatis ended up in prison after their bail pleas were rejected by a local court. In all, 64 foreigners, mostly from Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Tanzania, South Africa and Myanmar, were taken into custody. They face charges under IPC sections 188 (disobeying order of public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and provisions of Disaster Management Act and Foreigners’ Act. No rule has been flouted, says DIG WaliAm truly distressed with story of Sohail arrest.I have appealed to state CM and Director General Police MP to withd… https://t.co/4JHg0W0lyO— Vivek Tankha (@VTankha) 1590408801000Member of parliament and Supreme Court lawyer Vivek Tankha has written to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to address this family’s plight. “I’m truly distressed with the story of Sohail’s arrest. I have appealed to the chief minister and director general of police to withdraw the FIR and seek closure of the case. Such arrests and investigations are a blot on our criminal justice system,” he told TOI. Tankha tweeted a copy of his letter to the CM, saying: “This issue has a transnational ramification and directly affects the relationship between MP government and UK.” Bhopal DIG Irshad Wali told TOI that everything was by the book. “Cases were registered for violation of visa conditions under the Foreigners’ Act. No rule has been flouted,” he said. Police haven’t said if Sohail had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/briton-jailed-in-bhopal-for-lockdown-violation-kin-campaign-for-freedom/articleshow/75985101.cms||P Naveen
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||On 1st day, 377 arrive, 229 fly out of city Airport||Nagpur: The haste was evident in their movements even as it took time for the queue to move ahead, following all the steps for Covid-19 prevention laid down by the airport management.Passengers waited for their turn as they quickly stepped inside the departure terminal after flashing their tickets and IDs to the CISF personnel standing behind a transparent panel. Trolleys were discouraged in lines with the new protocol.Among those going, most of them were held up in Nagpur after the lockdown. Many returnees took it as the first opportunity to reach Nagpur and nearby towns and continue working from home from their hometowns instead. People were seen travelling with children including toddlers and infants.The Nagpur airport, which handled 36 flight departures during normal times, wrapped up operations by 1.30pm on Monday. Four flights — two from Delhi and one each from Mumbai and Bengaluru — landed and took off for the same destinations in an hour.As the airport resumed operations, 377 persons came to the city as 229 flew out. Currently, only two carriers — Air India and Indigo — are operating from Nagpur.The flights were loaded to less than half of the capacities. The first plane that landed from Delhi had 28 passengers, said airport sources. Passengers reaching Nagpur were stamped near the arrival gates by health officials. They will have to remain home quarantined for the next 14 days. Those departing were thermal scanned before being letting in.The ticket prices were much less than the usual. As TOI inquired at a counter, tickets for Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai were available in the range of Rs3,500 to Rs4,000 for the next day to even a fortnight later.“The fares further reduced a few days after I booked a ticket from Nagpur to Mumbai for Rs4,000. Maybe because there was not enough load,” said a passenger.There were no specific guidelines for distancing onboard. “Everything was forgotten as soon as the plane landed. People got up and stood close to each other in a hurry to get down,” said Ranjit Sharma alighting from a Delhi flight.“Many seats were empty but you had to sit only on the allotted seat. We were three in a row,” said a passenger. A number of others confirmed that there were three in a row even as other seats were vacant.“We were given masks by the airlines and told that there was no change in the seating norms,” said a young flier. “Nobody asked me if I had downloaded the Arogya Setu app,” said a student returning from Delhi, as others said medical checks or self-declarations were done 2-3 times.A passenger travelling with an infant said he had booked extra seats to ensure distancing.Those returning included certain senior officials too. The chief commissioner of central GST, HR Bheemashankar who had gone to Bengaluru for a couple of days, returned on Monday after being stranded for two months. A young army officer returned to join duty by a Delhi flight.The VIPs could again push their way by parking their vehicles in the lane only meant for drop and go. The car that came to drop wife of the district collector of Seoni in Madhya Pradesh waited in the lane till the plane took off. “Madam has asked to wait,” said the driver. Another vehicle of a high court judge remained parked too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-1st-day-377-arrive-229-fly-out-of-city-airport/articleshow/75981797.cms||Shishir Arya
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government to support mid-scale IT companies||HYDERABAD: To help small and midscale IT enterprises that have been struggling to stay afloat in the times of Covid-19, the Telangana government has decided to allocate many of its IT projects to such players. Announcing this at the session on ‘IT/ITeS: Time to log back into the growth story’ on day one of the TOI conclave `Reboot Telangana: Making Telangana Future Positive’, Telangana IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the state government will also help them upskill and reskill their employees by bearing all the expenses and offer rental-free spaces in tier 2 locations for their operations. ZenQ CEO Murali Bollu pointed out that mid and small players haves been hit hard, with some of them having to either shut shops or lay off staff. “There is no safety net for 44 lakh IT employees in India…we should consider creation of unemployment insurance,” he added. V Laxmikanth, national chair-GCC Council, Nasscom, said the adoption of extensive WFH strategy by IT companies has demonstrated that they can have distributed workforce and talent can be location agnostic. Pegasystems India managing director E Suman Reddy said while WFH has so far proved beneficial in ensuring continuity of operations and employee productivity has improved, time will tell if this trend will continue . Micron Technology India MD Anand Ramamoorthy urged the government to look at a new set of incentives/grants for motivating companies to skill talent in new technologies, while Hysea president Bharani Kumar Aroll said IT industry is grappling with both supply and demand side challenges. TCS senior VP and global head (tech business) V Rajanna said the current EoDB framework must also take into account investments made by existing players in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-to-support-mid-scale-it-cos/articleshow/75984355.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rythu Bandhu may be stopped if farmland not under cultivation||HYDERABAD: Days after threatening farmers that Rythu Bandhu sop won’t be extended to those who do not cultivate crops as suggested by it, the state government is now considering to not distribute the scheme benefits to farmland which is not being cultivated. Highly-placed sources said the government was forced to take this decision owing to the poor financial situation. “The government is unlikely to consider uncultivated land getting the Rythu Bandhu benefit of Rs 5,000 per acre per season to support farm investment,” a source said. The sop is extended for both rabi and kharif seasons in a year. Sources said that a cap on uncultivated land is a sure option, given that a survey to know the crop pattern is already on. A top source told TOI that the purpose of Rythu Bandhu scheme wass getting defeated since it was primarily brought in to provide investment support to farmers to promote farming if they had uncultivated land. Sources said district-level agriculture officers have started taking details of acre-wise crop details sown by farmers. Applying cap for the scheme in various categories, including stopping the Rythu Bandhu benefit to uncultivated farmland, was discussed recently but the government did not go ahead with its move as it did not have complete data on uncultivated land in the state. “If a farmer sows seeds but cultivation does not happen full time, he can still be given the scheme benefit. But if the land has no farming activity at all, then the government will be strict about not extending the sop,” said a top source. In the past, senior officials had suggested such a move, which was, however, rejected by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Earlier, a cut-off for the number of acres each landowner (particularly NRIs) possesses to be eligible for the scheme was proposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rythu-bandhu-may-be-stopped-if-farmland-not-under-cultivation/articleshow/75985107.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Bihar man kills 9 in Telangana to cover up his lover’s murder||HYDERABAD: To cover up a murder he had committed in March, a 24-year-old native of Bihar killed nine others whose bodies were found floating in a well in Warangal last week. The accused, Sanjay Kumar Yadav, was arrested on Monday for the sensational killings. Police said Sanjay single-handedly executed the murder plan by mixing sedatives in food and then throwing them in the borewell. Warangal police commissioner V Ravinder said Sanjay carried out the murders to cover up the killing of his live-in partner Rafiqa, who was related to six members of the family, originally from West Bengal, whose bodies were found in the well. Apart from the six, two other men from Bihar — Sham and Sriram — and another from Tripura — Shakeel, who worked at the same gunny bag making unit as Rafiqa’s kin, also had the food and fell unconscious. “To cover up one murder, he committed nine more,” Ravinder told reporters. Police said they also obtained a CCTV footage which showed Sanjay moving on a bicycle on Wednesday night near the gunny making unit. Sanjay, who has been living in Warangal for the last six years, mixed around 60 sleeping pills in the food taken by the victims. After they fell unconscious, he dragged each one of them and pushed them into the abandoned agricultural well at Gorrekunta in the early hours of May 21. The well is located on the premises of a gunny bag manufacturing unit where Maqsood Alam (47), wife Nisha and their family along with two natives of Bihar stayed. Sanjay in his confession to police said that he murdered the nine people after Nisha threatened to complain to cops about her missing niece Rafiqa, whom he had killed on March 6. Sanjay had taken Rafiqa to West Bengal to meet her family. While returning to Warangal, he gave her butter milk laced with sedatives, strangulated her and pushed her out of a train in Andhra Pradesh. At the time, Tadepalligudam railway police had registered a case of an unidentified woman’s death. “He killed Rafiqa because she came to know about him getting closer to her daughters from an earlier marriage,” a police official said. Ever since Sanjay had returned to Warangal, Nisha has been questioning him about Rafiqa’s absence, leaving him worried. Upon coming to know that May 20 was the birthday of one of the sons of Maqsood, Sanjay reached their place and chatted with them before mixing sleeping pills in the food being cooked. Between 12.30 am and 5 am on May 21, he dragged them one by one to the well located nearby and threw them into the water. The nine persons, who were unconscious, drowned, police said. The bodies of Maqsood, Nisha, their daughter Bushra Khatoon and her three-year-old son were recovered on May 21, while the bodies of Shabaz Alam (20), Sohail Alam (18), Shakeel (30), Sham and Sriram were found the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-mystery-to-hide-one-murder-man-killed-9-say-cops/articleshow/75985119.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Wind may bring swarm of locusts from Jaipur||New Delhi: A swarm of desert locusts that infested Jaipur on Monday morning could be headed towards the capital, if wind speed is favourable. Delhi has been kept on alert as such swarms are currently active in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which is the most affected state.Normally, desert locusts are seen in western Rajasthan and Gujarat from June to November, but they were first spotted by the Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) in April. What’s more concerning is that usually they are either solitary or in small groups, meaning the current swarming is unusual.Entomologists said despite being an urban setting, the impact on Delhi could be severe as 22% of its area is under green cover, which can provide foraging material for the locusts.LWO deputy director K L Gurjar on Monday said, “The locusts may move towards Delhi in the next few days if wind speed and direction are favourable. As of today, the wind speed moved them north.”IMD has been asked to monitor the meteorological conditions to help the agricultural ministry forecast where the locusts may be headed next. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said, “Wind direction is favourable at the moment, largely remaining northwesterly.”Mohammad Faisal, an entomologist at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said the capital could suffer greatly, even if it had very little agricultural area. “The swarm, after surviving winter in the desert, moved out due to lack of food. Jaipur has plenty of green spaces, including parks, thus providing foraging material for them,” he added.“Delhi’s green areas can be impacted severely. A very small, one square kilometre locust swarm can eat the same amount of food in a day as about 35,000 people,” said Faisal, adding that in the past they have been known to affect water supply and railway lines. After their attack, railway tracks become slippery and need to be cleaned. They have been known to clog wells too. Faisal said, “A single locust can lay up to 500 eggs. We need to tackle not just the swarm, but their breeding grounds too.”Sohail Madan from Bombay Natural History Society said the swarm might not only impact gardens and greenery, but other insects who depended on the same plants for survival.A swarm can be made up of 150 million locusts per square kilometre carried on the wind up to 150km in a day, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wind-may-bring-swarm-of-locusts-from-jaipur/articleshow/76016671.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 26, 2020||Nashik||2 employees of Nashik civil hospital discharged after recovery||Nashik: Two Class IV employees of the Nashik civil hospital, who had tested positive for Covid-19 infection, were discharged on Monday. Apart from the two Class IV employees, five others of the civil hospital had tested positive. Of them, two were doctors and three were nurses. Senior doctors of Nashik civil hospital extended their good wishes to the two staffers during the discharge. Civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale said that both the staffers had mild Covid-19 symptoms and their timely detection helped them recover quickly. “They responded well to the treatment and did not show any signs of infection, they were discharged on the tenth day since admission. All the procedures were followed as per government guidelines regarding discharging Covid-19 patients,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-employees-of-nashik-civil-hospital-discharged-after-recovery/articleshow/75981817.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Walking workers our shame: KTR||Hyderabad: Mincing no words in condemning the migrant crisis triggered by the Covid-19 lockdown, Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao, said the images of migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometres to reach home has become a matter of “collective shame” for the country. Emphasising on the need for the country to treat its human capital with dignity, KTR said: “In spite of our best of effort, we could not do enough. We need to collectively think of solutions that ensure that there is no recurrence… ” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/walking-workers-our-shame-ktr/articleshow/75984357.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid chaos, Hyderabad's RGIA opens up for flyers after 2 months||HYDERABAD: After much back and forth, the Hyderabad airport finally threw open its doors to commercial air travel on Monday, after two months of lockdown. Amid multiple cancellations and confusion, over rescheduling of routes, the first flight — TruJet’s 2T 623 — took off for Vidyanagar, Karnataka, at 8.06 am. The Udan connection had 12 passengers on board. The day’s maiden arrival flight flew into Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) from Bengaluru — AirAsia’s I5 1576 — at 8.20am with 106 passengers. While the total operations, as decided late on Sunday night, stood at 30 (15 arrivals and 15 departures), nine more were added later. The total passenger footfall through the day, was estimated at 3,000. Usually, RGIA sees movement of 50,000 flyers per day. But the last minute downsizing of operationsfrom the DGCA approved 164 (approx) to 39led to complete chaos, leaving hundreds high and dry. Many either received cancellation texts from the airlines, late on Sunday night, or only after they reached the airport on Monday morning. In fact, some flyers had landed at RGIA before 7 pm on Sunday, fearing travel restrictions during curfew period. “They had early morning flights and weren’t sure they would find cabs. But once they reached the airport they were told that their flights were cancelled. People had to wait at the airport all night before they could return home,” said Kamalika Sinha, an IT professional whose 6 am flight to Kolkata was also cancelled. Other sectors that faced cancellations were Coimbatore, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Lucknow among others. Several flights, including those to Delhi, were delayed by several hours. “Airlines are looting ppl money with the help of govt in this crisis. My flight got cancelled today (Monday) morning, which was booked yesterday (Sunday). How can they cancel when they opened booking two days back ? Airlines are not refunding the money too. (sic),” wrote a passenger booked for Chandigarh. According to sources, cancellations and delays are likely to continue over the next few days, as airlines stabilise operations. “As far as government is concerned, we have not put any restrictions on flight operations. It all depends on the call taken by airport and airline operators, depending on passenger load on the routes,” said VN Bharat Reddy, director, aviation, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-chaos-rgia-opens-up-for-flyers-after-2-months/articleshow/75984366.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Two held for siphoning off foodgrains for poor||Vadodara: A village sarpanch was among two persons arrested by special operations group (SOG) of Vadodara rural police for allegedly siphoning off grains worth Rs 4.3 lakh meant for government fair price shop. According to SOG sleuths, a raid was conducted at a godown owned by one Bharat Patel at Kashampura village on Monday. The godown was being used by Pravin Panchal, sarpanch of Dhavat village who also owns a fair price shop. Police said that during initial investigation, stock of wheat, rice, sugar, pulses and salt was found there. The stock was meant for distribution under the government scheme. “When we asked for bills or documents, the sarpanch and the accountant of fair price shop Deepak Khinchi could not furnish anything,” said inspector A A Desai of SOG. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-siphoning-off-foodgrains-for-poor/articleshow/75983247.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tradition leads to buying at gold stores even as prices soar||PUNE: Ten gm of pure gold (24 carat) is inching toward Rs 50,000, a deterrent for many admirers of the yellow metal. Yet, ardent Puneites are at the counters of jewellery stores that re-opened in Pune last week, making purchases. According to jewellers from Laxmi Road, buyers are growing steadily and bigger stores are witnessing over 30 to 35 footfalls every functioning day. “The crowd was less on the first two or three days, but now walk-ins are increasing since the police have opened several roads in the city which were blocked earlier,” Fatehchand Ranka, managing director of Ranka Jewellers, said. Chairman and managing director of PNG Jewellers Saurabh Gadgil said, “We are witnessing a footfall of 70 to 80 persons each day. A large number of people are coming to pick up items that they had ordered before the lockdown or purchased on Akshaya Tritiya. Many are also visiting to make fresh purchases. Some people come to sell gold but in small numbers. The sentiment for gold remains strong.” Smaller stores and brands are yet to see recover in terms of footfall. “We have opened our Laxmi Road store while the Pune Camp store continues to remain shut. We have been seeing 2 or 3 persons coming in, but only for repairs. Fresh sales are still stagnant. We have started sending messages to customers to inform them that the store is open,” Harsh Mehta from Dagina Jewellers said. Ranka said fear of a further price rise is prompting many to buy even if the price seems high. “Others are also coming to look for jewellery for weddings and occasions scheduled for later this year. Many are making small purchases since they have saved money over the last two months, when expenses were negligible,” he added. Other jewellers said all measures are being taken to ensure the safety of customers and staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tradition-leads-to-buying-at-gold-stores-even-as-prices-soar/articleshow/75985115.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: At 47°C, Akola, Nagpur battle severe heatwave||PUNE: At least 11 weather stations of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), most of them in Vidarbha, recorded day temperatures above 45°C. “Akola and Nagpur recorded severe heatwave as the temperature there touched 47°C on Monday. Vidarbha is likely to record severe heatwave conditions during May 25-27, followed by heatwave conditions on May 28, while Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada are likely to record heatwave conditions at isolated places till May 27,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI. Heatwave was also recorded in Satara, Parbhani, Nanded, Chandrapur and Wardha, among other places, where the day temperatures crossed 45°C on Monday. In Shivajinagar, the day’s maximum temperature was 40.1°C, as much as 3.9°C above normal. The mercury climbed to 41°C, five degrees above normal, in Lohegaon. As a result, Pune city experienced “near-heatwave” conditions on Monday. Kashyapi said super cyclone Amphan had depleted all the moisture from Vidarbha, adjoining Marathwada and Madhya Maharashtra, causing a steep rise in day temperature and heatwave. “Other factors working in tandem is the drying up of soil (mainly black cotton soil) because of lack of summer rain. The wind pattern is also north-northwesterly and northwesterly, meaning winds are flowing into the state from the hot regions of Gujarat, Rajasthan and other land areas and pushing up the temperatures here. There is no possibility of rain during the next two to three days, which will aid the heatwave conditions to persist for another couple of days in parts of the state,” said Kashyapi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-47c-akola-nagpur-battle-severe-heatwave/articleshow/75985116.cms||Neha Madaan
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Not just date, M’luru & Pak crashes had more in common||MUMBAI: The similarities between Air India Express (AIX) Mangalore crash and Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) Karachi crash don’t end with the accident date-May 22, that is. The PIA pilots appear to have repeated two crucial mistakes that AIX pilots also committed ten years ago. Both the sets of pilots, belonging to national flag carriers of two neighbouring countries, didn’t opt for a go-around initially, though the conditions called for it and then later when it was too dangerous to go-around, both the pilots attempted a go-around only to end in a crash. In both the cases, the aircraft were too high during the initial approach (descent) to land. In the PIA case, flightradar24 data shows that the A320 aircraft was about 2500 ft higher than the correct safe height for that point, said Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert. Air traffic control (ATC) recordings gleaned from the internet show that, Karachi ATC had instructed the PIA pilots twice to discontinue the approach because the Airbus 320 aircraft was too high for a safe landing. In the Mangalore crash case, the cockpit voice recordings showed that the Air India Express pilots had realised that the Boeing 737 aircraft was too high on descent and had three factors that contributed to what’s called an ``unstabilised approach’’ in aviation parlance.  "If the approach is unstabilised, you just go-around. But both the set of pilots chose to make major corrections to aircraft speed and height by increasing descent rate during approach. Only minor corrections should be made during approach, if major corrections are needed, don’t risk, just go-around and make another approach for landing. Safety should be the first concern,"a senior commander said. When an aircraft comes in land, unstabilised, at a high speed and high rate of descend, then one of the cheats that pilots employ to avoid a hard touchdown is to extend the landing flare-the part of landing that just precedes the touchdown during which the aircraft floats over the runway. But an extended flare results in a touchdown deep into the runway, which is what happened in both crashes.  While the AIX aircraft touched down with landing gear down and locked, the PIA aircraft apparently touched down on its engines as the wheels were apparently not down and locked.Whether the PIA pilots forgot to extend the gear despite various cockpit warnings, whether they extended it too late, leaving no time for the gear to extend and lock securely for touchdown or whether they had a problem with landing gear isn’t clear. According to certain reports, quoting Pakistan’s civil aviation authority the engines made repeated contact with the runway, all of them way further ahead from the touchdown zone. This is where the second similarity between both the crashes come in. In AIX case, after a deep touchdown the pilots deployed ``thrust reversers” , an action which slows down the aircraft and then opted for a go-around, The cardinal rule is to not opt for a go-around after applying thrust reversers. The aircraft couldn’t climb fast enough, and hence it hit a ground equipment installed at the end of the runway and crashed into a gorge, off the table top runway. In case of PIA pilots, they opted for a go-around after the engines had scraped the runway and sustained considerable damage. The engines apparently failed to develop sufficient power during go-around and the PIA aircraft crashed. "First of all in both cases the Pilots should have abandoned the approach and requested for another letdown. but now that they had decided to continue with the landing they should have brought the aircraft to complete stop instead of doing a "go around" at this late stage, both the aircraft would have been probably damaged, but many lives perhaps would have been saved with emergency evacuation, like in the case of August 2016 Emirates aircraft at Dubai,” said the B747 examiner. The Emirates aircraft was damaged beyond repair, but all 300 on board fromThiruvananthapuram survived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/not-just-date-mluru-pak-crashes-had-more-in-common/articleshow/75985131.cms||Manju V
May 26, 2020||Nashik||Erratic lift lets staff down at Covid unit||Nashik: Erratic working of the lift at the Covid treatment facility in the Nashik civil hospital is giving a tough time to the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff as well as patients. The lone lift at the three-storey facility for Covid-19 suspects stopped functioning on Monday morning. The Class IV employees at the facility said that this is the second time in a week’s time that the lift has stopped working. “When the lift stops working, the suspected patients who are too weak to climb the stairs, have to be physically carried to the first, second or third floor. This increases the chances of us catching the infection,” said an employee.The Class IV employees get a bedsheet for the patient to lie on, Then two staffers hold the two ends of the bedsheet and take the patient up the stairs.The lift has been developing snags frequently, said the staffers.Civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale, however, said that the lift stopped working only twice in a week’s time. “The electrical engineers of the public works department are available whenever needed. At times, there are delays in the repair work as the engineers do not get spare parts easily.”Jagdale said the lift that had stopped on Monday morning was repaired by 2 pm. The Class IV employees said doctors, nurses and their colleagues have got infected despite taking precautions. The physical handling of patients/suspects increases the chance of catching the infection. Jagdale said they have communicated with the officials of the electricity department of PWD to ensure that such incidents do not recur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/erratic-lift-lets-staff-down-at-covid-unit/articleshow/75981828.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 26, 2020||Patna||163 more corona cases takes state’s tally to 2,737||Patna: Coronavirus cases continued to surge in Bihar with 163 more people testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the statewide tally to 2,737. Patna accounted for 11 of these cases. A total of 63,741 samples have been tested till Monday and 729 people have recovered so far, health minister Mangal Pandey said in a statement, adding, that the virus has claimed 13 lives and the number of active cases now stands at 1,994. According to the state health department, among the districts with the highest number of cases on Monday were Saharsa with 21 people testing positive, followed by Darbhanga with 13 new cases and Madhubani 10 cases among others. Sources said Patna has the highest number of cases at 211 in the state followed by 152 in Rohtas and 150 in Begusarai. “There are three big railway stations and an airport, because of which passengers from all over the country keep coming here. The only way to curb the spread of covid-19 is by staying restricted to the house,” Patna DM Kumar Ravi had told this newspaper on Monday. Altogether 31 patients from different districts of the state, including Jehanabad, Bhojpur and Siwan, were admitted at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Monday. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist and nodal officer at NMCH, said of these five are Covid-19 positive and the rest are suspected cases. “The samples of the suspected cases have been taken and we are waiting for the test results to come,” he said. He added that three patients, two from Patna and one from Begusarai, were discharged from the hospital on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/163-more-corona-cases-takes-states-tally-to-2737/articleshow/75983404.cms||Archi Rani
May 26, 2020||Nashik||ATS arrests man for threatening UP cops||Nashik: The state Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on Monday arrested a 20-year-old man from Mumbai Naka area of the city for allegedly sending a threat message to the social media cell of Uttar Pradesh (UP) police asking for release a man who is in the custody of their Special Task Force (STF). The suspect, Sayyad Mohammad Faisal Abdul Wahab, has been handed over to the UP STF. An officer from ATS said the Kalachowky unit of ATS had got information that the social media help desk of the UP police in Lucknow had received a threat message about assassination of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. An offence in this regard was registered at a police station in Lucknow. Acting on the information, the Kalachowky unit of ATS arrested the suspect — 25-year-old Kamran Amin Khan — and handed him over to the UP STF on Sunday. Meanwhile, UP police’s social media help desk got another threat message. The information was again passed on to the state ATS following which the Nashik unit of the ATS arrested Sayyad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ats-arrests-man-for-threatening-up-cops/articleshow/75981842.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 8.5 lakh stolen from Kodad man||HYDERABAD: Thieves stole a bag containing Rs 8.5 lakh cash from an employee of a paper plate sheet supplying company at Kodad in Meerpet on Monday. M Atchi Reddy, 28, of Kodad lodged a complaint with police at 6pm stating that unknown people snatched away cash bag from him at Gurrenguda village. Reddy is a cash collector for a Kodad-based company manufacturing sheets used for paper plates. He said he had collected Rs 8.5 lakh from paper plate manufacturing firms in Suraram and Amberpet before reaching Gurrenguda in Meerpet at 3pm. In Meerpet, he collected Rs 26,500 from a client and kept the amount in his pocket. When he was walking towards LB Nagar to catch a bus to Kodad, three unknown offenders came on a bike and snatched his hand bag, Meerpet police said. The complainant provided police partial details of the vehicle registration number of the accused (TS 0806). The accused fled towards Nadargul, and cops are analysing CCTV camera footage .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-8-5-lakh-stolen-from-kodad-man/articleshow/75984374.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Nandurbar administration gives employment to 41,000 locals||NASHIK: The Nandurbar district administration has decided to provide employment to 41,000 workers who have recently returned from other states amid the lockdown Nandurbar being a tribal district, most of the locals travel to Gujarat after the kharif season in search of jobs while others travel to Nashik, Dhule and Madhya Pradesh. “There are 41,157 workers given employment on a daily basis through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Dhadgaon taluka is leading from the front by providing jobs to 11,577 people. We have now raised our bar from 40,000 jobs to 71,000 jobs,” said Rajendra Bharud, Nandurbar district collector. As the workers started returning after relaxation in lockdown, the administration decided to make employment available for the locals. “Just as they started coming in we started to get jobs approved. Our collector kept the target of 40,000 jobs in the district. We conducted meetings, exchanged data and information and prepared the list of the works – everything through social media only,” said Darasingh Pavra, the assistant programme officer, Dhadgaon (Akkrani) taluka. He said that they started with a single village, where close to 150 people joined them. “We made a video clip of the way things have to be carried out, sent it to our seniors. Soon even graduates started seeking jobs from us,” Pavra added. The majority of the works being undertaken are related to water conservation – deepening of water tanks, continuous contour trenches and river beds,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-admin-gives-employment-to-41k-locals/articleshow/75981862.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 26, 2020||Goa||Charter flight with 280 Goan seamen to arrive from Italy on Thursday||Panaji: A flight from Italy carrying approximately 280 Goan seafarers will land at Goa International Airport on Thursday. The flight chartered by MSC cruises from Rome has been given the NOC by the Goa government, nodal officer for seafarers and ports secretary P S Reddy told TOI. “They have confirmed that they will arrive in Goa on Thursday. Their tests are being carried out. Only those who test negative will be put on the flight to Goa,” he said. Reddy said that the state government is also in talks with Costa Cruises and P&O to bring back around 1,000 seafarers via chartered flights from Portugal and UK. “We have given them the NOC, but they are yet to confirm,” he said. Seafarers stranded in USA are being brought to India by ship, he said, adding that the government is convincing companies to send Goan seafarers directly to Goa international airport or MPT instead of other airports and ports. Either the companies or the individual seafarers will have to pay for their institution quarantine facilities, Reddy said. A number of vessels in various parts of the world are bringing their crew back to India via the sea route. Sixteen Goan crew members from the cruise vessel Angriya, quarantined at a resort in Chorla, will complete their 14-day institutional quarantine on Tuesday and be sent home. Meanwhile, the first batch of seafarers who arrived in Goa from Mumbai by road will complete their 14-day home quarantine on Tuesday. These are crew of the Marella Discovery. Around 90-odd crew from Karnika undergoing paid quarantine in hotels in Vasco will complete 14-day institutional quarantine on Saturday. The last batch of 40-odd seafarers arrived in the state on Saturday via a special flight from South Africa that came to India to take back its citizens. They, along with 12 scientists from NCPOR, who travelled on the same flight, were picked up directly from the airport and brought to Goa where they are presently undergoing paid institutional quarantine at a hotel in Patto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/charter-flight-with-280-goan-seamen-to-arrive-from-italy-on-thursday/articleshow/75985132.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 26, 2020||Goa||Contact tracing of rail passengers in Rajdhani||Panaji: After the state received 11 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, health workers and doctors on Tuesday will begin contact-tracing other passengers on the train. A total of 281 passengers arrived in Goa on Saturday by the Special Delhi-Rajdhani Express, of which 11 tested positive and were admitted to the Covid hospital in Margao on Sunday. Passengers in the same compartment as those who tested positive as well as those who came into contact with them will be retested. Their throat swab samples will be taken again by doctors on Tuesday and sent for TruNat testing. Contact tracing has turned into an ongoing process for doctors over the past week as the state has been receiving positive cases of rail as well as road travellers. Where the number of contacts is too large and logistics of shifting them from quarantine centres to the South Goa district hospital while maintaining social distancing and getting buses sanitized between each trip is too complicated, doctors and paramedics visit the contacts in their quarantine centres itself to take their swab samples. Meanwhile, none of the 417 seafarers who arrived by three charters last week tested positive. When asked about contact tracing for air passengers, health secretary Nila Mohanan said it is not necessary to quarantine the entire flight. “We will inform passengers on the plane, but we won’t quarantine all. Only close contacts will be quarantined,” she stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/contact-tracing-of-rail-passengers-in-rajdhani/articleshow/75985135.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 26, 2020||Allahabad||Over 3000 migrants reach city on Sunday||Prayagraj: Two Shramik Special trains and several UPSRTC buses ensured that hundreds of migrants native to Uttar Pradesh reached their home towns on Sunday amidst the lockdown enforced in the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. These migrants had been stranded in various cities including Ludhiyana and Delhi because of the lockdown. Public relations officer (PRO) of North Central Railway’s Prayagraj division SK Gupta said, “Two Shramik special trains arrived at Prayagraj Junction’s platform number 1 from Ludhiyana and Delhi. Both the trains brought around 1600 passengers each in its 22 coaches. After the migrants’ arrival, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel, and ticket checking staff directed the passengers to stand in queues in marked circles,” said Gupta. The passengers were then made to undergo a medical check up and provided food and water. They were then sent to their respective hometowns by UPSRTC buses. Gupta said that many shramik special trains carrying passengers have been given halts at many stations including Tundala, Etawah, Kanpur, Fatehpur, Prayagraj and Mirzaur that were being plied between Dankaur to Dhanbad and Dankaur to Ranchi .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-3000-migrants-reach-city-on-sunday/articleshow/75952608.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress and BJP spar over ‘missing in action’ posters||BHOPAL: The poster war between BJP and Congress workers ahead of by-polls on 16 seats in Gwalior-Chambal region has took a new turn with BJP accusing the Congress of trying to divert the attention of the voters and misguiding the public by involving Jyotiraditya Scindia and other party leader while Congress accusing the BJP government of double standards in dealing with the poster issue. The poster war began with the posters of Lok Sabha member Pragya Singh Thakur in Bhopal proclaiming that she was missing from Bhopal after Covid-19 outbreak. On May 19, posters of former chief minister Kamal Nath and his son Nakul Nath figured in Chhindwara claiming that they were missing from their constituency. The posters also offered a reward of Rs 21,000 for anyone who finds the two leaders. A day later, similar `missing in action' posters of former Vidhan Sabha Speaker, NP Prajapati surfaced in Narsinghpur but, nobody took cognizance. On May 24, missing posters of Jyotiraditya Scindia and in the evening, posters of former ministers Imarti Devi from BJP and Lakhan Singh Yadav from Congress, also came up . The Gwalior police had arrested a Congress functionary Siddarth Singh Rajawat along with two other workers but, they were granted bail, on Monday. "Congress is involved in vicious propaganda against the BJP leaders on social media and among the public. The BJP is ready to face the Congress in the coming elections. The public will give a befitting reply to them very soon," said BJP state president, V D Sharma. The Congress leaders alleged when posters of Scindia were put up, Congress workers were arrested, while no action was taken when posters of Kamal Nath, his son and former minister Yadav were put up. "There are double standards in the BJP government. When posters of an MLA and MP were put up in Chhindwara, there was no FIR registered against anybody. But, In Gwalior, Congress workers were arrested immediately even as the person is not holding any party post," alleged Congress state media in-charge, Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/poster-war-cong-hits-at-bjp-double-standard/articleshow/75984378.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Patna||Triple murder in Gopalganj: Dist board chief, father arrested||Patna: The chairman of Gopalganj district board, Mukesh Pandey, and his don-turned-politician father Satish Pandey were arrested on Monday for their alleged involvement in a firing incident on Sunday evening in which RJD activist JP Yadav’s parents and brother were killed while Yadav himself was injured. The house of Kuchaikote JD (U) MLA Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey was also raided by the police in connection with the incident, but he could not be arrested. The lawmaker is among three accused named in the FIR lodged at the Hathua police station on the statement of the injured RJD man. The incident took place around 7.15 pm on Sunday when Yadav along with his father, mother and elder brother were outside their house at Rupanchak village under Hathua police station. Five assailants arrived on two motorbikes and fired at Yadav, who escaped with bullet injuries in his hands. They then fired at his father Mahesh Choudhary (65), mother Sankesia Devi (60) and elder brother Shantanu Kumar (40). The two senior citizens were killed at the spot while Shantanu succumbed on Monday morning. Yadav has now been shifted to the Patna Medical College and Hospital. “Mukesh Pandey, district board chairperson and his father Satish Pandey have been arrested,” DIG (Saran range) Vijay Kumar Verma said, adding, three people, including the legislator and district board chairperson, have been made named accused in the case and efforts are on to ascertain the identity of other accused. He confirmed that raids were carried out to arrest the MLA but he was not found at his village Tulsia. Earlier, Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari had that said an SIT has been formed to crack the high profile triple murder at the earliest. “The investigation is proceeding in the right direction and action will be initiated against the accused on the basis of scientific evidence,” the SP added. In his statement, Yadav, who recently switched over to RJD from CPI-ML (Liberation), alleged that the district board chairperson along with his four associates fired at him from close range. “I fled from the site despite getting injured,” he told investigators. Yadav cited political reasons behind the attack. “I had declared to contest election for the post of the district board chairperson, which enraged the ruling party MLA and his family members,” he said in his statement before the police. Gopalganj RJD district president Rajesh Singh Kushwaha claimed that Yadav had joined the party over a year ago and was taking part in the programmes of the party on a regular basis. Earlier, leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav took a potshot at the deteriorating law and order situation in the state, demanding action against the JD(U) MLA for allegedly being involved in the firing. “The leader of opposition must be aware that there is rule of law in Bihar and nobody involved in the unlawful activities will be spared. The law will take its own course even in the case of Gopalganj incident,” JD (U) leader and state information and public relations department minister Niraj Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/triple-murder-in-gopalganj-dist-board-chief-father-arrested/articleshow/75983426.cms||Ramashankar
May 26, 2020||Nashik||27 +ve cases take Covid-19 tally of Nashik city to 116||Nashik: As many as 27 Covid-19 cases have been recorded on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 116 in the city. Meanwhile, Nashik district is not far from breaching the 1,000-mark as the number of Covid-19 cases now stands at 984. Meanwhile, two more people from the district succumbed to the infection. One of them, 51-year-old police personnel Dileep Ghule tested positive for the contagion on Monday evening after he died in the morning. He is the second a policeman to succumb to the viral infection in the Nashik district. Superintendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh said, “Dileep Ghule was relieved from bandobast duty in Malegaon on May 1. At that time, he had tested negative for Covid-19. He was put in institutional quarantine in Nashik city where another round of tests were conducted and he tested negative again. However, he was very ill for the past few days and rushed to a private hospital where he died.”The second death is of a 51-year-old woman from Ravalgaon in the rural parts of the district who died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. District health officer of Nashik Zilla Parishad Kapil Aher said, “The woman was working as a Class IV employee of Malegaon Municipal Corporation and had contracted the infection while on duty. Since she was a resident of Ravalgaon, the case falls under the rural areas of Nashik district.” As many as 691 cases have been reported in the limits of Malegaon Municipal Corporation, of which 557 patients have been cured, 47 have died and 87 are still undergoing treatment. Of the 27 cases reported from Nashik city, 15 of them are high-risk contacts of a single Covid-19 patient from Ram Nagar area, Peth road in Panchavati division. The other 12 cases are close contacts of positive patients identified earlier. Currently, there are 68 active cases in Nashik city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/27-ve-cases-take-covid-19-tally-of-nashik-city-to-116/articleshow/75981869.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Students return to Hyderabad as UK education dream goes bust||HYDERABAD: Numerous students who had been admitted for master’s degree in the United Kingdom (UK) in January have withdrawn their candidature and returned to the city, as they are finding it difficult to financially support themselves during the lockdown. While a few have had to forgo their entire fee, others have received partial refunds. “When we approached the university seeking financial help, all they said was ‘go back to our country… you may feel better there’,” said Sudesh, who joined the MSc Data Science programme at Cardiff Metropolitan University, Wales, in January. Krishna, another student from the same university who returned in mid-May, said that his college offered to refund 40% of the total fee — 10,000 pounds, if they withdraw from the course by April 26. “Three of us have withdrawn from the course and returned to Hyderabad,” he said, adding that he will now look for a job here. Students said that they had paid between 10,000 and 14,000 pounds for the two-year course, which also includes one year of internship, but that they are now in a dilemma as the varsity is not extending any help. They said they are not in a position to pay rent or bills of broadband and food. “Soon, we will be homeless and without food,” said Prateek, a MBA Global student of University of South Wales, adding that when they paid 12,700 pounds as fee, the varsity should at least give them 500 to 750 pounds as an incentive so that they can survive for the next couple of months. Few of them said that they would take a final call on whether or not to continue their studies in the next couple of months. “I may be suspended from the course if I don’t pay the pending fee immediately. Right now, I am back in Hyderabad. It’s up to them to wait or suspend. I don’t have money to pay the fee,” said Dishan, who is doing his master’s in Information Systems from Kingston University in London. Sujatha Sridhar Thaladi, CEO, The Mentor Ring, an organization in the UK which is working closely with students during the lockdown and providing them with essentials and online mentoring, said that both universities and the government should stand by students during this crisis. “No student support officer is contacting students except for a mail merge message to all. With no part-time jobs and uncertainty about their future, students are having health and well being issues,” said Thaladi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-return-as-uk-edu-dream-goes-bust/articleshow/75984434.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Woman travels with Covid patient, brings count up to 48||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 cases touched 48 on Monday after a female traveller tested positive. Of the confirmed 67 cases, 19 patients have been cured. “The visitor had travelled along with a positive person two days ago in a bus. They were together. We were keeping a watch on the person,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan at a regular press briefing. She said out of 361 samples sent for testing, 238 tested negative while 122 reports were awaited. Two persons were admitted to the isolation ward, 183 interstate travellers were placed in home quarantine and 189 travellers under facility quarantine. Regarding the state’s preparedness in handling the influx of people as neighbouring states have reported a large number of coronavirus cases, she said, “We have to handle the situation as it is. This is an evolving situation. Every day it is changing. As and when the situation presents, we will add up to that. We have to be prepared,” she said. More than 400 seafarers are expected to arrive in the next two weeks. The health department is more than prepared to test them all. Mohanan said that of the 417 seafarers who arrived in Goa last week, only a group who came in last are yet to be tested. The rest have tested negative and are doing fine, she said. She said since the seafarers had already undergone quarantine onboard a vessel, they are not immediately tested for Covid-19 on arrival. “They are tested four or five days later,” Mohanan said. As per the revised Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines applicable to Indians coming from abroad, she said they will have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine and the next seven days in home quarantine. “The same protocol will be applied to seafarers as well,” she said replying to a query. As per the old protocol, 14 days of institutional quarantine was mandatory for seafarers and other international travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-travels-with-covid-patient-brings-count-up-to-48/articleshow/75985144.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Indore||Covid cases in Ujjain div likely to touch 1K mark||Indore: Ujjain division has reported 32 new positive cases on Monday taking the tally to 889. Also, two deaths due to Covid-19 infection were witnessed in the day in division, taking the toll to 75. The new cases were reported in Ujjain, Neemuch, Dewas, and Mandsaur districts of the division. Ujjain found 26 positive cases taking the tally to 601 followed by Dewas (3), Neemuch (2) and Mandsaur (1), as per divisional health bulletin. The total cases in Dewas, Neemuch and Mandsaur stood at 83, 90 and 88 respectively. The two deaths were reported in Mandsaur, taking the district toll to eight. In Ujjain, 11 people were discharged in the day. Till date, 248 people have been discharged in the district. In Indore division, 26 new cases were found from districts, except Indore, taking the tally to 3873. However, except in Indore, no death was reported in any other district of the division. The new cases were reported in Burhanpur (17), Khargone, Barwani, and Jhabua (one each) followed by Dhar (3). The cases tally in Burhanpur, Khargone, Barwani and Jhabua stood at 289, 40, 119 and 13 respectively. Indore reported 3064 new positive cases and 116 deaths till May 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-cases-in-ujjain-div-likely-to-touch-1k-mark/articleshow/75984420.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||Protocol for road travellers to kick in from today||Panaji: The new standing operating procedure (SOP) for road passengers will come into force from Tuesday. The protocols, announced late Sunday evening, were made applicable only to rail and air passengers on Monday. “The new SOP for road passengers will be enforced from Tuesday. We needed a day to make the change in the electronic system to provide three options to road travellers when applying for transit permit,” secretary health Nila Mohanan said while replying to a question over the delay in applying the new protocol for those entering the state by road. “The road passengers were subjected to the old protocol on Monday. Their swabs were taken for screening at Asilo hospital in Mapusa,” she said at a press conference. The three options offered for visitors are - no quarantine if a Covid-19 negative certificate issued by a Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) certified laboratory and which was obtained prior to 48 hours of arrival is produced, pay Rs 2,000 and take a Covid-19 test on arrival, or take a quarantine stamp and stay at home for 14 days. Meanwhile, three out of nine rail travellers opted for testing on arrival, while 50 air passengers out of 94 who arrived in three differnet flights earlier in the day chose to be tested with the other travellers prefering home quarantine, she said. Mohanan said as per the new SOPs, those found violating home quarantine conditions will be placed in paid quarantine. “Under the old protocol, we had received a few complaints of violations of home quarantine conditions, some have been genuine and some not. Necessary action was taken against the violators,” she said. She also refuted reports that some flights were called off due to confusion over SOPs followed by different states. “The SOP has nothing to do with getting on a flight. It’s all about what happens after travellers land. Of course, since every state was coming out with its own SOPs, airlines did face some difficulties, but flights were cancelled as airlines awaited bookings,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/protocol-for-road-travellers-to-kick-in-from-today/articleshow/75985142.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nashik||Gang of robbers held in Ahmednagar||Nashik: A total of eight men were arrested while a juvenile was detained by Ahmednagar police in connection with four highway robberies that took place between May 17 and May 21. The suspects had committed the robberies in the jurisdiction of Loni and Kopargaon city police stations. Taking serious note of the offences, superintendent of police (SP) Akhilesh Kumar had instructed the Local Crime Branch (LCB) to prepare separate squads to trace and nab the culprits.  During the course of investigation the LCB sleuths detained two suspects from different parts of Ahmednagar. During interrogation they confessed to committing the robberies along with seven others, including a minor. “All suspects have been arrested and we have seized three motorcycles worth Rs 1.50 lakh. The seized motorcycles are without registration number plates. An air gun has also been seized from their possession,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gang-of-robbers-held-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/75981898.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Will not return, to seek work in villages: Migrants||JAIPUR: As two Shramik Special trains left for Purnia district in Bihar and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, with over 1,500 and 1,600 passengers, respectively on Monday morning, the migrant workers who left for their home states said they may not return to Jaipur, at least in near future, and would look for employment prospects in their villages. They also said that if they get MGNREGA work in their villages, they will go for it and also take up farming. Shamshad Ali, who used to do stitching work at Shastri Nagar in Jaipur, left for his home district in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh. He said he has been sitting idle for the past two-and-a-half months. “I used to earn Rs 300-400 daily. There is no work now. What should I do here? People from the community helped us with food and other essentials. At least, I can work on my agricultural land in the village. What will I do here? I am a manual labourer, so I can also work under MGNREGA scheme,” said Ali, who has 3-4 members in the family. “We will return to Jaipur when the situation gets normal and there is work for us,” he added. Another worker, Islam, who travelled all the way from Ganganagar to leave for his village in Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh, worked in a sugar cane factory.  “I was sent here by the administration on a roadways bus on Saturday. I stayed at a shelter camp here last night. I will do farming in my village. I will not come back until the transportation becomes normal everywhere,” said Islam, who saved nearly Rs 5,000-6,000 monthly. He said he had come to Ganganagar in December. Meanwhile, a group of seven migrants cycled all the way from Balotara in Barmer to Jaipur to leave for their home state Bihar. Their cycles were also loaded on the train. A migrant worker from Darbhanga in Bihar, Sajid, who used to work at a hotel in Chandpol, said all means of sustenance and subsistence in Jaipur had exhausted and this pushed him to take a decision to return to his home state. “There’s no work for the past two months. Once I go back to my village, I will search for some work there. I don’t think I will come back to Jaipur. I will work in the village, will be satisfied with whatever little I earn there. It depends on the situation. If I don’t manage to get anything in the village, only then, may I think about returning. We are totally frustrated here,” he said, who has seven members in the family. With nearly 40 lakh (39.92 lakh) labour engagement under MGNREGA in Rajasthan on Monday, 17 districts in the state have recorded over one lakh engagement of labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/will-not-return-to-seek-work-in-villages-migrants/articleshow/75985164.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||E-conference on industry||Coimbatore: The Confederation of Indian Industry will conduct an e-conference on ‘Smart Factories—which is an embracing of the transformation agenda – Smart Shifting’ on May 30. The event will focus on digital technologies like industry 4.0, internet of things, mobility, cloud computing and analytics, digital twin, big data, enriched analytics, blockchain—supply chain traceability and smart shifting of core processes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/e-conference-on-industry/articleshow/75984402.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Mahisagar man gets Pakistan ‘spy’ request||VADODARA: A youth from Mahisagar district was surprised to get a message from a Pakistani number offering him money in return for information about situation on the border. The youth asked the person to stop messaging him and went public with the information. Yogesh Damor, a resident of Godhra village in Kadana taluk of Mahisagar district, holds an engineering diploma and is looking for a job. On Saturday morning, he got a message on WhatsApp number saying ‘Hi!’. When Damor replied, the person on the other side asked Damor to work for him. “I asked him what work, but the person did not reply on that day. Yesterday (Sunday) I got a reply saying that if I gave photos and videos of the border, I would be paid. I asked the person not to message me,” Damor said. According to Damor, he realized only later that the number was of Pakistan. “I went public with the information to ensure that nobody falls prey to these people,” he said. Damor also added that he would also approach police regarding the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mahisagar-man-gets-pak-spy-request/articleshow/75983254.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Autos, taxis to airports, railway station allowed, parks opened||JAIPUR: The state home department on Monday further relaxed lockdown restrictions allowing taxis, auto rickshaws to airports, railways stations and hospitals. It also allowed public parks to be opened to the general public for walking, jogging from 7am to 6.45pm. The order issued by the home department said taxis were allowed except in the containment areas. They had to follow the restrictions imposed by the airport and railway authorities. Taxis can carry two passengers while auto rickshaws can take only one passenger. They must sanitise the touch points after every ride. It said the community parks could now be opened in the Red zones also for walking, jogging, exercising from 7am to 6.45pm. It said all touch contact activities such as open gyms, swings will not be functional. Restrictions at places of worship in park will continue to remain in force. People must follow social distancing and assembly of more than five people is prohibited in parks. The sale of pan, gutka, and tobacco products will be allowed but consumption of alcohol and tobacco products and spitting in public will be punishable offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/autos-taxis-to-airports-rly-stn-allowed-parks-opened/articleshow/75985182.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: In power-starved pockets, cops guard CESC workers||KOLKATA: CESC repair and restoration teams will be escorted by local police to ensure they don’t face threats, hijack attempts and assaults from angry citizens in localities that have been without power for over 100 hours. Also, former civic councillors, who are now ward coordinators, will prioritise the work to prevent allegations of arbitrary action on the part of workmen. The decision to attach a police team with CESC repair teams follows multiple incidents over the last couple of days, including allegations of assault at Budge Budge and Maheshtala, forcibly keeping a line repairman hostage in a locality off EM Bypass till a CESC team arrived to reconnect power, and reports from Behala and elsewhere of teams being whisked away by youths to get power supply to their localities restored first. “From now, CESC teams will assemble at local police stations and start working under police protection. Ward coordinators will identify the area that needs to be prioritised, particularly in areas like Jadavpur-Jodhpur Park, Golf Green, Lake Gardens, Baghajatin, Bansdroni, Netaji Nagar and localities off EM Bypass like Madurdaha, Patuli and Mukundapur,” a civic official said. CESC officials on Monday met Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrator at the civic body, to express their concerns over the safety of the force. With people getting desperate for power, CESC teams have been instructed to concentrate on restoration, leaving proper repairs for later. While this has ensured quicker restoration of supply, officials cautioned that it was a calculated risk to alleviate the immediate suffering while hoping that a spike in demand or a Nor’wester wouldn’t lead to the tripping of the distribution network. “The damage is so extensive and repairs so time-consuming that we will do it in phases over days and even months. Our immediate effort is to ensure that people get back electricity connection so that they can at least use fans and lights. So, we are setting aside the faulty section and reconnecting the line temporarily. We are requesting consumers not to use 15amp gadgets like ACs and ovens till proper repairs are done,” said a CESC official. On Monday, power was restored at Lake Gardens, Behala Chowrasta, James Long Sarani, Behala Silpara, Kasba, Baguiati, Dum Dum Park, and parts of Survey Park, Patuli and Mukundapur. Work is under way at Panchashayar, Survey Park and Naktala. After power is restored to all the homes, the teams would begin work on repairs through mini-switchoffs to bolster the network. “Hundreds of poles and several kilometres of overhead cables have been damaged.  The quantum is beyond what we keep in reserve for fault repairs. These and other equipment will have to be sourced/purchased for proper repairs. That is time-consuming and can be done over weeks and months,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-power-starved-pockets-cops-guard-cesc-workers/articleshow/75983520.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||66% +ve cases for those below 30 in past 25 days||Ahmedabad: The analysis of the age group of Covid-19 positive patients in Ahmedabad city, based on the data of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), reveals that 66% of the cases in age group 0 to 29 has been recorded between May 1 to 24. The data was compiled by a group of Cept University alumni led by Piyush Shah that geo-map the cases and also collate data on factors ranging from areas to age groups of patients.The data also reveals that less than 11 years is the only age group overall where the number of females is more than males. The difference is most prominent in 30 to 55 age group where males comprise 69% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/66-ve-cases-for-those-below-30-in-past-25-days/articleshow/75985314.cms||Parth Shastri
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Evict squatters from Puppalguda lake: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has directed the state government to remove encroachers from the water body at Puppalaguda in Rajendranagar mandal and also to stop forthwith constructions being raised there. The HC bench, comprising Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, gave the interim direction while hearing a public interest petition filed by social activist Lubna Sarwat questioning the government’s inaction for stopping illegal activities. The PIL said that encroachment by vested interests is leading to the destruction of natural water bodies.“The destruction is so high that details of the water body are now missing from the HMDA’s database,” she said. The petitioner contended that an automobile showroom is functioning there and contributing to destruction of the water body. “There is a dismal response from the authorities of revenue, urban development, municipal corporation, and also those appointed under WALTA and lake protection committees,” she said. Stating that Musi River Development Corporation too has to because the encroachers were filling up Musi riverbed at Shankarnagar, she sought restoration of the old glory of the river. “Our representations to the authorities have yielded no response till now,” Lubna said. The petitioner has also geotagged pictures of the ongoing constructions inside the water body at Puppalaguda ORR and urged the HC to take cognisance of the representation and direct the government to immediately evict the illegal occupants. The bench appointed advocate Kowturu Pavan Kumar to study the issue and assist the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/evict-squatters-from-puppalguda-lake-hc/articleshow/75984455.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||For sanitisers, Telangana schools seek Rs 500 extra fee||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA) has proposed the introduction of a sanitation fee in schools from this academic year. TRSMA said that the state should introduce this special fee since practices such as disinfecting school premises, social distancing and provision of sanitizers are set to turn mandatory. The managements said that it would cost at least Rs 500 per month per student to take all precautions and added that this amount should be borne either by parents or the government. “Along with the government schools, the state should direct local bodies to disinfect all private schools daily. Further, to disinfect benches, switch boards, other surfaces and take necessary precautions, an additional fee should be included in this year’s total fee,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, TRSMA. The body also said that they had received internal information from officials that schools would be allowed to start the new academic year between June 15 and 25, but added that unless the government is willing to extend its support, managements are not willing to reopen. “If a case is reported in a school, everyone will blame the management. So, for private schools to survive, especially the budget ones, managements need government support and assurance that private institutions will be protected in the event of any unforeseen occurrence,” he said, adding that that private institutions should be given loans at low interest to survive the Covid-19 crisis. TRSMA also said that private school teachers should be given white ration cards and should be covered under a health insurance plan. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/for-sanitisers-schools-seek-rs-500-extra-fee/articleshow/75984463.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Bodies of Covid-19 patients left unattended for hours at GMCH||Aurangabad: Bodies of five patients, who died of Covid-19, were left unattended for hours as the class IV employees deployed at the Covid centre of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) failed to turn up for wrapping and shifting the corpses to the morgue. After the incident came to light, experts expressed concerns over the incident, saying that such acts may spread infection in the Covid-19 ward. As per official record, the five patients — 55-year-old woman from KatKat Gate, 48-year-old man from Garkheda area, 35-year-old woman from Rohidas Nagar, 75-year old woman from Kailash Nagar and 55-year-old woman from Sillod — died between Sunday night and Monday morning. These bodies were moved to the morgue by 9am only after the GMCH superintendent reached out to the Forensic Medicine and Toxicology (FMT) department, seeking arrangements for wrapping these bodies. Several doctors suggested that those deployed at Covid-19 centre should immediately wrap the bodies and move them to then morgue. There are also suggestions that instead of moving these bodies to the morgue, a separate room for preservation of these bodies should be set up at the Covid-19 centre. Out of the 55 deaths related to Covid-19, most of them had history of co-morbidity and 50 of them died at GMCH. Authorities at GMCH informed that due to fear and stigmatisation surrounding the infection, the staff is scared to handled the bodies. As a result, the already under-staffed mortuary team has been asked to handle these bodies. When contacted, GMCH forensic medicine and toxicology department’s HOD Kailash Zine confirmed the situation. “Out of the four people from our department deputed for handling of Covid-19 bodies, three have been diagnosed with fever and are under observation.” When contacted, medicine department HOD Meenakshi Bhattacharya refused to comment on the issue. However, other doctors posted at the Covid-19 centre blamed the class IV staffers for not cooperating with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bodies-of-covid-19-patients-left-unattended-for-hours-at-gmch/articleshow/75982007.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||The unkindest cut: Kolkatans fleeced for basic services||Several people in Kolkata are being forced to shell out extra money and stretch themselves for basic necessities. Saikat Ray, Dwaipayan Ghosh, Rohit Khanna & Krishnendu Bandopadhyay speak to citizens who narrated their plight. Power at Rs 1.5k a day A power-supply racket has been alleged to be active in many areas. Power is smuggled by hooking up wires to working electricity lines in adjacent areas. Residents in large areas of Tollygunge-Jadavpur belt are paying for such illegal connections as the temperature is soaring. KMC said it has identified areas, such as Baghajatin, Ganguly Bagan, Pallisree, Golf Green, Garia, Netaji Nagar, Santoshpur and Bansdroni, where the racket is active. “A connection that can run a fan and light can be bought at Rs 500 per day. For multiple connections, the charge may go up to Rs 1,500,” said a KMC official. Water weighs heavy At Regent Estate, a 20-litre jar of mineral water now costs Rs 180-200, up from the normal cost of Rs 70-80. Bittu Saha, a resident of Sarsuna Housing society, who runs a pharmacy store, said, “The pump is not working so I am being forced to get water from a tubewell some distance from my home. I am using my car to get the water. I managed to buy three buckets, which I fill to the brim every morning. Of course, the water spills when I drive back. But there are people who are making three trips a day with buckets, waiting in the queue for 10-15 minutes and then trudging their way back, carrying the weight.” Octogenarian physician Bibek Paul, a resident of Charu Chandra Place, felt he and his septuagenarian wife will not be able to survive the over-100-hour power cut, that too without water. Rs 50 to charge mobiles At Sapuipara in Sarsuna, one needs to pay Rs 50 to charge your phone for 30 minutes. As the city battles to get to normalcy, residents without electricity are at their wits’ end. Couple Badal and Chitra Chowdhury residing in Sarsuna have been without electricity for over 144 hours. “We have arranged for a temporary line to run the pump and to charge our phones. This has cost me Rs 100 per hour,” Badal said. IT firm employee Renu Banerjee, who lives near Sarsuna College, got help from her maid. “She has power at her place and gets my phone’s battery charged,” she said. Gen-sets back in action Generator sets, which had become obsolete in absence of power cuts, have staged a comeback. They are in high demand in areas, such as Tollygunge, Behala and Jadavpur, which have been without power and water since Wednesday. These sets are also to be seen in areas off EM Bypass. These gen-sets are being used to pump water from the ground floor water reservoir to the overhead tanks. Rent of a generator varies between Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,500 for 12 hours in added areas. The KMC, too, hired gen-sets to keep some of its booster pumping stations functional. Many had to pay Rs 3,000-5,000 to get overhead tanks filled using generators. Chopper in demand Bimal Das could hardly imagine that the super cyclone would mean a fortune for him. An ace tree chopper in he Kudghat-Bansdroni belt, Das has been working overtime to remove scores of uprooted trees that fell on buildings and snapped wires. Das has fixed his rates between Rs 500 and Rs 2,500 for chopping trees, depending on their size. However, it is not that he has charged money from everyone. He has done it free for some who could not afford to pay. Since Thursday, he has managed to chop 30 trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-unkindest-cut-kolkatans-fleeced-for-basic-services/articleshow/75983617.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Internal migration as citizens shift home in search of electricity, water||Kolkata: While the Covid-19-inflicted lockdown forced lakhs of migrant labourers walk, cycle or hitch-hike rides to their home states, hundreds of power-strived families in Kolkata have started doing almost the same thing — shifting out of their homes to either other accommodations of friends and relatives. School teacher and Tollygunge resident Mohua Kar Chowdhury have done everything — from calling up CESC time and again, cutting tree branches with fellow neighbours to clear the road to make way for CESC engineers and even staging road blockades — to bring power back to her house. After all her efforts drew a blank, she packed her belongings and moved to her parents’ place in Dum Dum with her daughters. “I had tried adjusting to the situation for a long time but then, at one point, I realised there was no point waiting for power to return and decided to make a move. We are no longer used to staying in darkness and zero connectivity with outside world for such a long period and it was taking a toll on our mental health. I came to know that power has returned to our locality on Sunday night from a temporary connection, which only allows lights and fans to operate. But I will not return unless the situation gets normal completely,” said Kar Chowdhury. Behala Kadamtala residents Rishwav Mondal and his family had practically walked like the migrants till his grandparents’ home near Taratala, around 10kms from his home. “The walk can never be compared to that of the migrant labourers in our country, many of whom have even died while walking back home, but last Saturday we had a practical taste of how the migrants must have felt walking for hours with bags and family members by their side,” said Mondal, a Class XII student.  He, along with eight-year-old brother and 74-year-old grandfather, had walked the entire distance, thanks to multiple blockades on the road by aggrieved people demanding restoration of power. While most people shifted to their family members’ or relatives place, some even shifted to friend’s house and some are even looking for options to stay at hotels.“I had somehow managed to scrape through the first three days but then it was getting very difficult to control my four-year-old daughter, who had become too jittery to stay in dark. I had posted about my ordeal on Facebook, when many of my friends offered me to shift to their homes. We were initially hesitant, especially in this situation of pandemic. But on Sunday, I gave up and shifted to my friend’s home in Chetla with my entire family,” said Arijit Roy Chowdhury, a resident of Thakurpukur. Some like Parnasree resident Abhishek Agarwal are even considering a hotel stay for the next few days. “We are relatively new in this city and don’t have any family members here. Some colleagues have already offered me to stay at their homes. But I am hesitant. I will probably shift to some hotel, may be by Tuesday, if the situation doesn’t improve. This power cut and low network is taking a toll on my work,” said Agarwal, who works for a tech major in the city. Avirup Sengupta a choreographer and dancer, has already shifted to a guest house in Patuli with his family members. “One of my student’s parents offered me to stay in their guest house and they are not even charging me,” Sengupta said. Roshni Chaki, a teacher of South Point School who had recently shifted to Kasba, decided to shift to a cousin’s house as there is no power and water at her house. “Living for like this for long is not possible and luckily, my cousin stays near Kasba police station. We got some relief after shifting there,” she said. (With inputs by Debashis Konar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/internal-migration-as-citizens-shift-home-in-search-of-electricity-water/articleshow/75983545.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Adventure tourism hits choppy waters, operators turn to livelihoods that pay less||Dehradun: With Uttarakhand’s adventure tourism sector being severely hit due to the lockdown, tour operators as well as guides have been plunged into financial uncertainty. While some have been forced to turn to other livelihood options, which pay a fraction of what they used to earn, others are surviving on their savings. Mahendra, 34, (who only uses his first name) has been working as a tour guide in Pithoragarh for the past 10 years. Post the lockdown, he has started working as a daily wager at a construction site to support his family which includes besides his wife and son, aged parents and a younger brother. “I never thought I would have to give up working as a tourist guide and take up work as a construction labourer. I used to make around Rs 1,000 every day in tips. Now, it is difficult to earn even Rs 300 a day,” he said. For Bharat Bhushan, 28, taking people to places of interest in Almora was more than just a job; it was something that he enjoyed to the core. “Since the lockdown was announced, tourism activities came to a complete standstill. For the sake of survival of my family of four, I opened a small grocery shop outside my house. I had bought a car to ferry tourists around but due to the lockdown, it turned out to be fruitless investment. Now I drive locals around instead, for some extra cash,” Bhushan said. Most of the guides say that the recent announcement by the state government that all tourism industry personnel registered with the government will be paid Rs 1000 hasn’t brought much cheer. “Offering Rs 1000 to people who used to earn at least Rs 20-25,000 per month is nothing short of a joke,” said a tour guide who did not wish to be named. It is estimated that adventure sports activities like river rafting, trekking, camping and aero sports provide employment to several thousand people across the state. At least 10,000 people get direct and about 30,000 indirect employment through the river rafting and camping business in Rishikesh area, as per Dinesh Bhatt, president of the rafting association of the area. Similarly, trekking activities also provide direct and indirect employment to at least 100,000 people across the hills of the state as per estimates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adventure-tourism-hits-choppy-waters-operators-turn-to-livelihoods-that-pay-less/articleshow/75982043.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||39 with kin’s ashes board two buses for Haridwar||JAIPUR: They had been bearing the pain of losing their kin and had no clue if they would be able to immerse the ashes in Ganga at Haridwar. On Monday 39 passengers boarded the special bus by Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) named ‘Moksha Kalash Bas’. These buses by the state government will provide free travel to those who wish to visit Haridwar to immerse ashes and perform other rituals for the departed souls. Vinay Kumar Sharma got to know about it on Monday morning itself and he was lucky as he was shortlisted for this bus travel. State transport minister, Pratap Singh Khacharyiawas reached the bus stand. He said, “This is a free service. They will reach Haridwar at 6am and after completing the rituals they would get the same bus at 12 noon to return to Jaipur. We all know that these rituals mean a lot for the kin.” The authorities have allowed 20 people in a bus that has seating capacity of 45. Two persons are allowed to travel with the ashes, people can register at RSRTC website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/39-with-kins-ashes-board-two-buses-for-haridwar/articleshow/75985248.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 26, 2020||India||Migrants account for 60% of active Covid cases in UP||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 cases crossed the 6,500-mark, with 229 fresh cases being reported in the past 24 hours. The state also recorded eight deaths, taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to 169.  Two deaths were reported in Meerut while one each in Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Pratapgarh, Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Etawah. The fresh cases took the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 6,528, of which 3,660 have recovered. The number of active cases is 2699.  Migrant workers continued to be the biggest contributors to UP's Covid tally."Migrant workers and labourers back home serving quarantine are being watched by Asha workers who have screened 8.5 lakh migrants so far," he said. As per the state government's report, samples of 54,849 people who have come from other states have been collected on the basis of Asha workers' screening. Out of them 1,663 have been found positive. That means, more than 60% of the active cases in UP are migrants.  Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said that a bulk of active patients in state now comprised migrant workers, adding that surveillance was going on in full swing. "Over 91,000 teams have been engaged in surveillance. These teams surveyed 72.18 lakh households to cover a population of over 3.63 crore," he said. Watch Migrant workers contribute to 60% of active Covid cases in UP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-account-for-60-of-active-covid-cases-in-up/articleshow/75987262.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 26, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Four die, 272 test Covid-19 positive as infected count touches 7,300||JAIPUR: Four persons died of Covid-19 on Monday taking the toll to 167 in addition to 272 persons testing positive pushing the infected count to 7,300. Medical and health officials said the dead included a 34-year-old man from Abu Road (Sirohi), a 58-year-old native of Gandhidham in Gujarat who succumbed while undergoing treatment at JLN Hospital in Ajmer, a 76-year-old man from Nala Bazar, Ajmer, who had comorbidities including diabetes and chronic kidney disease and a 21-year-old woman was brought dead at SMS Hospital and tested positive after her death. In Jaipur, 13 fresh cases were reported out of which five were from Paota and one case each from the district jail, Jagatpura, Chandpole, Shafqat Colony, Hatwara, Mansarover, Amagarh Kachi Basti and Ramganj. Districts which reported cases are Pali (50), Nagaur (48), Jodhpur (47), Sikar (44), Churu (17), Jaipur(13), Udaipur (12), Sirohi (9), Kota (7) Alwar (5), Barmer (5), Jalore (5), Jhunjhunu (3), Rajsamand (3), and one case each was reported from Dausa, Bhilwara, Dungarpur and Sawai Madhopur. Out of 272 cases, 186 were migrants who reached from different states travelling by buses, trains and by their personnel vehicles. Since May 1, as many as 1,844 migrants have tested positive till Monday evening. In all, 62 more persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the figure of recovered patients to 3,743 in the state. “Out of these, 3,308 have been discharged from hospitals,” said an officer. Currently, there are 3,077 active cases in different districts. Even though the temperature has increased in the past few days, it has failed to make any impact on the number of persons being tested positive for Covid-19. In May, more than 60% of the total cases reported till date tested positive. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma said the testing capacity of Rajasthan is 16,250 per day and asserted it was aiming to raise it to 25,000 per day. “We have more than 35,000 people who are kept at institutional quarantine and our mortality rate of Covid 19 is 2.26 per cent. When we had the first case we had to send samples to Pune but now we have developed a testing capacity of 16,250 samples per day,” he added. So far, 3.27 lakh samples have been taken across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/four-die-272-test-positive-as-infected-count-touches-7300/articleshow/75989996.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four die, 272 test Covid-19 positive as infected count touches 7,300||JAIPUR: Four persons died of Covid-19 on Monday taking the toll to 167 in addition to 272 persons testing positive pushing the infected count to 7,300. Medical and health officials said the dead included a 34-year-old man from Abu Road (Sirohi), a 58-year-old native of Gandhidham in Gujarat who succumbed while undergoing treatment at JLN Hospital in Ajmer, a 76-year-old man from Nala Bazar, Ajmer, who had comorbidities including diabetes and chronic kidney disease and a 21-year-old woman was brought dead at SMS Hospital and tested positive after her death. In Jaipur, 13 fresh cases were reported out of which five were from Paota and one case each from the district jail, Jagatpura, Chandpole, Shafqat Colony, Hatwara, Mansarover, Amagarh Kachi Basti and Ramganj. Districts which reported cases are Pali (50), Nagaur (48), Jodhpur (47), Sikar (44), Churu (17), Jaipur(13), Udaipur (12), Sirohi (9), Kota (7) Alwar (5), Barmer (5), Jalore (5), Jhunjhunu (3), Rajsamand (3), and one case each was reported from Dausa, Bhilwara, Dungarpur and Sawai Madhopur. Out of 272 cases, 186 were migrants who reached from different states travelling by buses, trains and by their personnel vehicles. Since May 1, as many as 1,844 migrants have tested positive till Monday evening. In all, 62 more persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the figure of recovered patients to 3,743 in the state. “Out of these, 3,308 have been discharged from hospitals,” said an officer. Currently, there are 3,077 active cases in different districts. Even though the temperature has increased in the past few days, it has failed to make any impact on the number of persons being tested positive for Covid-19. In May, more than 60% of the total cases reported till date tested positive. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma said the testing capacity of Rajasthan is 16,250 per day and asserted it was aiming to raise it to 25,000 per day. “We have more than 35,000 people who are kept at institutional quarantine and our mortality rate of Covid 19 is 2.26 per cent. When we had the first case we had to send samples to Pune but now we have developed a testing capacity of 16,250 samples per day,” he added. So far, 3.27 lakh samples have been taken across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-die-272-test-positive-as-infected-count-touches-7300/articleshow/75985308.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Katta Maisamma tank 90% encroached||Hyderabad: The HC bench also heard another PIL filed by advocate S Malleshwar Rao complaining about the plight of Katta Maisamma tank in Sitaram village of Qutbullapur where 90 percent of the tank bed is covered by multi-storied buildings. The bench sought counters from the state and its municipal and irrigation officials by June 24. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/katta-maisamma-tank-90-encroached/articleshow/75984481.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Four die, 272 test Covid-19 positive as infected count touches 7,300||JAIPUR: Four persons died of Covid-19 on Monday taking the toll to 167 in addition to 272 persons testing positive pushing the infected count to 7,300. Medical and health officials said the dead included a 34-year-old man from Abu Road (Sirohi), a 58-year-old native of Gandhidham in Gujarat who succumbed while undergoing treatment at JLN Hospital in Ajmer, a 76-year-old man from Nala Bazar, Ajmer, who had comorbidities including diabetes and chronic kidney disease and a 21-year-old woman was brought dead at SMS Hospital and tested positive after her death. In Jaipur, 13 fresh cases were reported out of which five were from Paota and one case each from the district jail, Jagatpura, Chandpole, Shafqat Colony, Hatwara, Mansarover, Amagarh Kachi Basti and Ramganj. Districts which reported cases are Pali (50), Nagaur (48), Jodhpur (47), Sikar (44), Churu (17), Jaipur(13), Udaipur (12), Sirohi (9), Kota (7) Alwar (5), Barmer (5), Jalore (5), Jhunjhunu (3), Rajsamand (3), and one case each was reported from Dausa, Bhilwara, Dungarpur and Sawai Madhopur. Out of 272 cases, 186 were migrants who reached from different states travelling by buses, trains and by their personnel vehicles. Since May 1, as many as 1,844 migrants have tested positive till Monday evening. In all, 62 more persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the figure of recovered patients to 3,743 in the state. “Out of these, 3,308 have been discharged from hospitals,” said an officer. Currently, there are 3,077 active cases in different districts. Even though the temperature has increased in the past few days, it has failed to make any impact on the number of persons being tested positive for Covid-19. In May, more than 60% of the total cases reported till date tested positive. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma said the testing capacity of Rajasthan is 16,250 per day and asserted it was aiming to raise it to 25,000 per day. “We have more than 35,000 people who are kept at institutional quarantine and our mortality rate of Covid 19 is 2.26 per cent. When we had the first case we had to send samples to Pune but now we have developed a testing capacity of 16,250 samples per day,” he added. So far, 3.27 lakh samples have been taken across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/four-die-272-test-positive-as-infected-count-touches-7300/articleshow/75990000.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 1L living in active clusters of Covid-19 in city||Aurangabad: As the number of Covid-19 cases increase, the city population living in the active clusters of the disease has now reached 1,10,555. Health authorities have identified as many as 146 active clusters within the municipal limits of Aurangabad where a total of 21,587 houses are located. As per 2011 census, Aurangabad had a population of 11.75 lakh which means that close to around 10% of the city’s population is living in active clusters during the ongoing pandemic. As per official data, at 108, the cluster involving Mukundwadi, Sanjay Nagar and Rohidas Nagar has the highest number of patients and population of 2,191 living in 544 houses. Jay Bhim Nagar is another big cluster which has 94 patients and population of 2,195 living in 678 homes. The SRPF, Satara (75 patients), Pundalik Nagar (57), Ram Nagar (57) and Hussain colony (52) are among the larger active clusters in Aurangabad. “While densely populated localities have relatively larger concentration of Covid-19 patients, plush localities such as CIDCO, Garkheda and Ulka Nagari have also reported cases related to the contagion. Over two-third of city area has witnessed the spread of the Covid-19 going by the presence of active clusters in different parts of the city and outskirts,” a senior health department official said. Acting on the directives of the government, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) — as a precautionary measure — has been spraying disinfectant in different parts of the city, especially areas from where confirmed cases of Covid-19 are emerging. “The disinfectant, Sodium Hypochorite, is being used in high quantity in active clusters on a regular basis,” a civic official said. Divisional government authorities said 374 teams have been deployed in different clusters for necessary support as well as to ensure compliance of the lockdown norms. “Going by the drop in daily cases of Covid-19, we may see flattening of coronavirus curve in Aurangabad shortly if public at large extend their cooperation with the district administration and health authorities. Avoiding crowded places unless necessary, following social distancing norm and maintaining personal hygiene are key to combat the spread of Covid-19,” authorities concerned said. With addition of 16 new cases on Monday, the confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Aurangabad went up to 1,301 on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-1l-living-in-active-clusters-of-covid-19-in-city/articleshow/75982077.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 26, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Four die, 272 test Covid-19 positive as infected count touches 7,300||JAIPUR: Four persons died of Covid-19 on Monday taking the toll to 167 in addition to 272 persons testing positive pushing the infected count to 7,300. Medical and health officials said the dead included a 34-year-old man from Abu Road (Sirohi), a 58-year-old native of Gandhidham in Gujarat who succumbed while undergoing treatment at JLN Hospital in Ajmer, a 76-year-old man from Nala Bazar, Ajmer, who had comorbidities including diabetes and chronic kidney disease and a 21-year-old woman was brought dead at SMS Hospital and tested positive after her death. In Jaipur, 13 fresh cases were reported out of which five were from Paota and one case each from the district jail, Jagatpura, Chandpole, Shafqat Colony, Hatwara, Mansarover, Amagarh Kachi Basti and Ramganj. Districts which reported cases are Pali (50), Nagaur (48), Jodhpur (47), Sikar (44), Churu (17), Jaipur(13), Udaipur (12), Sirohi (9), Kota (7) Alwar (5), Barmer (5), Jalore (5), Jhunjhunu (3), Rajsamand (3), and one case each was reported from Dausa, Bhilwara, Dungarpur and Sawai Madhopur. Out of 272 cases, 186 were migrants who reached from different states travelling by buses, trains and by their personnel vehicles. Since May 1, as many as 1,844 migrants have tested positive till Monday evening. In all, 62 more persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the figure of recovered patients to 3,743 in the state. “Out of these, 3,308 have been discharged from hospitals,” said an officer. Currently, there are 3,077 active cases in different districts. Even though the temperature has increased in the past few days, it has failed to make any impact on the number of persons being tested positive for Covid-19. In May, more than 60% of the total cases reported till date tested positive. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma said the testing capacity of Rajasthan is 16,250 per day and asserted it was aiming to raise it to 25,000 per day. “We have more than 35,000 people who are kept at institutional quarantine and our mortality rate of Covid 19 is 2.26 per cent. When we had the first case we had to send samples to Pune but now we have developed a testing capacity of 16,250 samples per day,” he added. So far, 3.27 lakh samples have been taken across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/four-die-272-test-positive-as-infected-count-touches-7300/articleshow/75990002.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: As WHO suspends HCQ trial, govt is in two minds on way forward||MUMBAI: The World Health Organisation on Monday “temporarily suspended’’ the hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) arm in the Solidarity Trial over safety concerns, even as two members of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force stated there is not enough scientific evidence at this moment to “recommend for or against” the use of the drug to treat the virus. Task force member pulmonologist Zaria Udwadia told TOI: “The bottomline is that it doesn’t work.” He, along with fellow task force member Dr Shashank Joshi, has written a review on the use of HCQS for Covid-19 for the Journal of Physicians of India (JAPI), which noted the need for greater caution and close monitoring of cardiac toxicity among those administered the drug. HCQ, an antimalarial drug, is the first line of treatment for Covid in India. Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recommends an 800mg first dose and 400mg doses thereafter for five days for every Covid patient. It also suggested HCQ as a prophylaxis for health workers. As India manufactured HCQS in bulk because of its label as the capital of diabetes and a malaria hotspot until a few years back, it was asked by many countries, including the US, to provide the tablet in bulk. As part of WHO’s Solidarity Trial, over 400 hospitals in 35 countries actively recruited patients to study HCQ and other novel drugs against Covid. But things changed after The Lancet published an study on Friday, showing a higher mortality rate. On Monday, Dr Joshi said the dose in Solidarity Trial was much higher than that in use in India. Most countries used the first dose of 1,600mg and 800mg thereafter while India only recommends a starting dose of 800mg and then 400mg for five days. “Also, three big institutions in India have published data to show that HCQS as a prophylaxis has worked for its staff because they either haven’t got Covid or got a mild attack.’’ HCQ is being given to thousands of civic health workers as a preventive drug; 4,500 policemen have got HCQ doses, as also those in Covid centres, barring pregnant women, kids below 15 years and cancer patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-who-suspends-hcq-trial-govt-is-in-two-minds-on-way-forward/articleshow/75984483.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Fear of quarantine keeps air travel an anxious affair||JAIPUR: Fearing quarantine post landing and anxiety among people over whether it would be safe travelling to various cities, the restoration of domestic air travel from Jaipur remained a low key affair. Jaipur airport got 11 flight arrivals while only eight flights departed to various destinations. However, those who travelled were happy on the restoration of flights and were careful to the extent that many passengers were seen wearing masks, face shields and even PPE kits when they arrived at the Jaipur airport. The Airports Authority of India (AAI), Jaipur had though planned 21 arrivals and same 17 departures, but due to poor passenger load only 11 flight arrivals happened while eight departing flights were cancelled. As the flights were restored after 62 days, the happiness on the faces of passengers leaving or landing in Jaipur was evident. TOI spoke to many passengers at the airport who were careful and had every safety gear with them while they entered the Jaipur airport. “My mother Prem Lata Sehti came to us on March 8. However, due to lockdown she was stuck here. Now she is travelling to Bangalore,” said Anamika and her husband Rohit Kataria at the airport. Another flyer Nirbhay Kumar, a teacher of Kendriya Vidhyalaya at Jaisalmer, had to rush to Lucknow since he lost his brother on Sunday. “I am going to Delhi from where I might get a flight or train. Though in normal course, I would have avoided plane journey but this is an emergency for me,” he said. A passenger who arrived from Hyderabad was seen wearing a PPE kit. “One has to be careful,” he laughed and got into the taxi he had hired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fear-of-quarantine-keeps-air-travel-an-anxious-affair/articleshow/75985354.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Three mysterious Covid-19 cases put authorities in a quandary||KOZHIKODE: Rise in Covid-19 cases, the sources of which are yet to be ascertained, has become a headache for the district administration and health department authorities in Kannur. There are at least three complicated cases and expert panels have been formed to study them separately. One is that of a woman in Dharmadom, another a woman in the tribal colony in Karikkottakkari and the third one is a man who has been admitted to the Pariyaram Medical College after he fell from a tree. The tribal woman was tested positive for Covid-19 after she was admitted to the Kannur General Hospital for delivery. She had not contacted anyone having symptoms of Covid-19 or gone out. She has been admitted to the Pariyaram Medical College after she developed severe throat pain and fever and was later tested positive. “We have not yet succeeded in identifying the source. The Kannur General Hospital where she was admitted has been infected and some staff have been sent to quarantine. This could be the source of infection,” said Sheeja Sebastian, president of Ayyankunnu panchayat. “Another possibility could be from her relatives who had visited Karnataka. Police have found out that her husband and father had gone to Karnataka for work, but they denied it. The panchayat has been declared as a hotspot after the incident,” she said. The woman from Dharmadom is now under treatment at Kozhikode Medical College after testing positive. Her husband, who is a fish merchant at Thalassery market, also tested positive later. It is not known as to from where they contracted the disease. A nine-member medical team led by Dr Veena of the Pinarayi Public Health Centre has been formed to trace the source. The third is the man who hails from Belur in Kasaragod district. He was brought to Pariyaram Medical College after he fell from a jackfruit tree and sustained injuries to the spine two days ago. According to Dr Sudeep, medical superintendent at the hospital, the patient was subjected to Covid-19 test before surgery as stipulated in the protocol. Dr Sudeep said the person has no known contacts with any Covid-19 patients or has any recent travel history. DMO, Kannur, Dr Narayana Nayak said expert panels have been constituted to trace the sources. “Breakthrough has been achieved in the Dharmadom case and the rest will be solved within a few days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/three-mysterious-covid-cases-put-authorities-in-a-quandary/articleshow/75982177.cms||Prashanth M P
May 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: First flyer gets a big cheer, two refuse institutional quarantine||BENGALURU: When Ankita Singh walked into the terminal at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in the wee hours on Monday, she was greeted with a loud cheer from airport staff. Ankita was the first passenger to arrive at the airport on Monday and flew on the first flight out since the nationwide lockdown was imposed two months ago. Ankita, who works as an information security lead for a Bengaluru-based firm, flew to Ranchi, her hometown, to be with her family. She boarded an Air Asia flight (I5 1621) bound for the Jharkhand capital. Ankita was pleasantly surprised with the grand welcome and the contactless arrangements made at the airport. She had booked tickets twice previously during the lockdown, but commercial flights had remained grounded. Monday was the first time her tickets weren’t cancelled. “KIA staff greeted me by clapping and welcoming me into the airport building,” Ankita said. “I was quite impressed with all the arrangements in place keeping social distancing in mind. It’s all automated now – from check-in to boarding. Guidelines are in place and they make sure people adhere to it at all times.” The weather in Bengaluru on Monday evening was the cherry on top of the cake for Sameeksha Agarwal, a medical professional, who touched down at KIA a little after 4pm on a flight from Pragyaraj (Allahabad). Sameeksha was worried as she had only an acknowledgment of her registration on Seva Sindhu portal and did not have an e-pass. “But it was smooth,” Sameeksha said, speaking on the arrival process. Although the resumption of flight services was by and large smooth at KIA, there were, inevitably, a few minor hiccups. Some passengers who flew in from the six states hit by a high prevalence of Covid-19, refused to be quarantined in an institutional facility. Police were seen escorting many such passengers away at the airport. “Several people who arrived from the six states refused to go into institutional quarantine saying they had not been informed of the rule at the airport from which they took off,” a senior police officer said. “While most flyers complied with the rule, a few did not, and our personnel had to step in and help airport and health authorities ensure that they were sent to an institutional quarantine facility.” The state government has made seven-day institutional quarantine mandatory for those arriving from six states – Maharashtra, New Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Flyers in institutional quarantine will be tested at the end of their quarantine period and, if negative, will be sent home where they will have to stay in quarantine for another seven days. There were also minor issues with regard to segregating transiting passengers, who were flying onward to other destinations via KIA, said sources. All flights arriving from red zone cities were made to park in stands and bays located some distance from the airport terminal, sources said. Ankita Singh, the first passenger to arrive at KIA and who flew to Ranchi, said airport authorities were obviously adapting to the new rules and keenly observed the behaviour of passengers on the Bengaluru-Ranchi flight, especially with regard to adherence to social distancing norms. Till 5pm on Monday, KIA recorded a total 74 flights – 43 departures and 31 arrivals. The first flight to depart from Bengaluru was an Air Asia aircraft to Ranchi at 5.15am and the first arrival was an Indigo flight from Chennai at 7.35am. “KIA will continue to operate as per flight schedules,” a BIAL spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/first-flyer-gets-a-big-cheer-two-refuse-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/75984022.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||South Kolkata citizen groups, New Town agency heal damaged trees||KOLKATA: Many trees uprooted by Amphan could have been saved through re-plantation. The process taken up by citizens at Ritchie Road and NKDA authorities at New Town showed that many trees that suffered grave damages can be healed. Though trees trunks were sliced into pieces and removed from the road at many places, citizen groups have attempted to replant and restore some of the uprooted trees in many areas of the city. At Bhowanipore, Friends of Trees, an NGO, carried out the healing exercise for damaged trees. At Ballygunge, Saviour and Friends of Environment is trying adopt some trees so that a restoration process could be initiated. TimesViewEven as we clear the streets and count the tree casualty, there are hundreds of trees in the city that are in a very precarious state but have survived and can still be saved. Can someone please do something about these trees? A little bit of hard work can reduce the city’s final tree loss.“We require horticulturists both at the time of plantation and at the time of removal of trees. Unfortunately, the teams engaged in removal of the uprooted trees don’t have horticulturists. He could at least salvage some amount of greenery from permanent destruction,” said Subhas Datta, who had initiated first tree census in the city. Though incomplete, his study laid bare the truth that species selection for avenue plantation was not correct. According to H S Debnath, senior botanist and former director of Shibpore Botanic Garden, at least 50% of trees uprooted can be replanted. The process depends on the extent of damage to the root system. But, it is difficult to do so in case of avenue trees as they block roads and people run out of patience if the road near their home remains blocked. “The part from where the trees branch is cut off, tends to develop fungal infection. If the infection, like wound in human body, is left untreated, there can be extensive damage, even untimely death of a tree,” said horticulturist Golok Mukherjee. But KMC, the custodian of city roads, had no such plan. “Our immediate concern is to restore the road space for the movement of vehicles and pedestrians. On the lost greenery, our parks and gardens division will take a call,” said a KMC official. The re-plantation process is being taken up at some places by individuals or groups. At New Town, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is replanting trees. Over 100 trees have been successfully restored and replanted in the last two days. NKDA officials said that around 400 mature trees were uprooted last Wednesday. “There were many trees beyond restoration,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Several trees inside Eco Park were also uprooted and the authorities will see whether those could be replanted. Fresh plantation will be made to compensate the loss. Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is also planning to replant trees at Lake and Subhas Sarobar. Authorities will start inspection from Monday to identify the trees. “We will see how many of such trees are in a condition to be replanted,” said Sudhin Nandy, senior KMDA official in charge of the Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kol-citizen-groups-new-town-agency-heal-damaged-trees/articleshow/75984482.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad left out as flights resume from other cities||Aurangabad: Different stakeholders from city have criticised the government for leaving out Aurangabad while resuming domestic flights from other cities like Mumbai and Pune. Many have asked for political intervention so that domestic flights can be started at the earliest. “This is the case of lack of strong local political leadership, which has no equation with the state government. While politicians from Nagpur, Pune, Kolhapur and Mumbai got airport from their respective constituencies opened, leadership from Aurangabad failed to do so,” said Jaswant Singh, president of Tourism Promoters Guild. Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve said the need for resuming domestic flights at Aurangabad airport would be conveyed to the state government. “As the local tourist sites including world-famous Ellora-Ajanta are still closed for tourist spots lockdown Aurangabad must also receive connectivity through different means of transportation including air-connectivity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-left-out-as-flights-resume-from-other-cities/articleshow/75982144.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||AP issues GO to halt TTD move to sell its properties||Tirupati: The Andhra Pradesh government, late on Monday, issued a GO to stall the resolution of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board to dispose of 50 ‘unviable’ properties belonging to the temple across the country. Stating that the resolution (No. 253) was approved by the trust board constituted by the previous government on January 30, 2016, the government said it has asked the TTD to re-examine the proposal. “Keeping in view the sentiments of devotees, the government hereby directs the TTD to re-examine the issue in consultation with different stakeholders like religious elders, opinion makers, section of devotees etc to ascertain whether these properties can be used by TTD for construction of temples, dharma pracharam and other religious activities,” read the government order. “Till the finalisation of the matter, the proposed disposal of 50 properties by TTD is hereby kept in abeyance. The executive officer shall take necessary action in this regard and submit compliance report immediately,” the orded added. Earlier on Monday, trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy accused the TDP and other opposition parties in the state of trying to defame and demean the TTD by spreading false propaganda. Speaking to reporters, Subba Reddy said the issue has been blown out of proportion for no reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-issues-go-to-halt-ttd-move-to-sell-its-properties/articleshow/75984488.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 26, 2020||Pune||25 May reunion neha||Pune: As many as 98 repatriated Puneites who had come from London and Singapore on the first flights to India under the Vande Bharat mission reunited with their families on Sunday after completing a 14-day quarantine period in two three-star hotels in Pune municipal limits. All of them tested negative for Covid-19--a pre-condition to check out from the quarantine facility before they went home. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said that the repatriated Puneites who checked out on Sunday have now completed their full quarantine term, after guidelines from the Union and State governments were revised in this regard. Earlier, the guidelines mandated a 14 day institutional quarantine, followed by another 14 days of home quarantine. As per the new guidelines, they now have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days comprising paid institutional quarantine at their own cost for seven days, followed by 7 days isolation at home with self-monitoring of health. Anurag Mohit, who has returned from Singapore along with his wife Shilpee after four years was a happy man after being reunited with his son on Sunday. “We were supposed to come back to India on March 27, but due to the lockdown, we got stuck in Singapore. We had told our son, who was pursuing college in Chennai to reach Pune after his college closed there. Even though he reached Pune, we couldn’t as we remained stuck in Singapore for two months. Our son is just 20 years old and it was difficult for him to stay home alone in Pune for two months, especially in such times. But we are so glad that we have made it back to our home safe and sound.” Pinak Chouk, a student from Singapore, underwent 14-day quarantine in a city based hotel and met his parents after almost five months on Sunday. “My visa was expiring and I had to return to India. When I met my parents on Sunday, they were extremely happy about the fact that I made it safely, because we had heard quite a few, not so good repatriation experiences in past. My quarantine period is over as per the revised government guidelines, but still, I am maintaining my distance with my family for a few days even though I have tested negative,” he said. Mayuri Amte, a working professional from Pune, had got stuck in the UK since March 3. “I had gone there for just 15 days to drop my mom at my brother’s residence in the UK but then got stuck there. My husband was meanwhile in Pune and I wanted to return anyhow especially since my work was suffering and my husband was feeling isolated at home. I was lucky to be accommodated on the first flight from UK and was back at home on Sunday. I am still maintaining my distance with my family to rule out any risk. Hence, we didn’t even click any pictures when we met,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25-may-reunion-neha/articleshow/75985361.cms||Neha Madaan
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: For prisoners, video calls a chance to see kin||CHENNAI: For Mohammad Rafiq*, it was a happy reunion with his family after four years, via a video call. His daughters and wife kept fighting over the phone so they could catch a glimpse of him. Overwhelmed and with tears rolling down his cheeks, Rafiq asked his daughters to stay safe. “Drink hot water, don’t go out, wear masks,” Rafiq repeated, trying his best to console his two daughters, during the video call that lasted about 5 minutes. Rafiq is an inmate at the Puzhal Central prison. Prisoners lodged at the nine central jails and six women’s prisons got an opportunity to speak to their families and friends via video call since visitations are not allowed due to Covid-19 lockdown. At least 74,467 prisoners have called home so far. The prison department has distributed 58 smartphones with 4G sim cards and unlimited data for the purpose and readied a room for the prisoners to take the video calls from, under surveillance, twice a week. Remand prisoners can call home thrice a week. All smiles, Rafiq ran out of words thanking the officials. A prisoner who had left his aged mother alone and another, who had left behind his pregnant wife, felt the same way. “The video call was all that I could have dreamt for. Even if they had applied to see me in person, the whole family couldn’t have made it,” Rafiq said. The video calling facility is available at Central prisons in Chennai, Palayamkottai, Trichy, Madurai, Vellore, Cuddalore, Salem, Coimbatore and special prisons for women at Chennai, Vellore, Trichy, Coimbatore, Madurai. Manickavel*, the soon-to-be dad, said he and his wife were restless since the pandemic set in as there was no one to look after her. “I am happy I got a chance to talk to her, ask her to stay extra cautious about the infection,” he said. It is risky to allow people, even family members, inside the prison during such a situation, said Sunil Kumar Singh, director general of police, prisons, adding “So we came up with this idea.” “All the prison staff have been provided with masks and other safety gear. They have to wash their hands before entering the prison complex,” said the DGP. Prison staff staying with family members who have a travel history are sent on medical leave. *names changed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-prisoners-video-calls-a-chance-to-see-kin/articleshow/75984484.cms||Sindhu Kannan
May 26, 2020||Chennai||No Class XII evaluation work in Chennai due to rising Covid-19 cases||CHENNAI: School education department has made elaborate attempts to maintain physical distancing and personal hygiene during the evaluation of Class XII board exam answer scripts, the first major challenge the school education department faces during the lockdown. The process will involve more than 40,000 teachers assessing 48 lakh answer scripts at 200 evaluation centres from May 27. From bus routes to pick up teachers and disinfecting the evaluation centres twice a day, the department has made elaborate arrangements. Due to increasing Covid-19 cases, the department has decided not to have evaluations done in Chennai and teachers from the district will also be exempted from the evaluation duty. The answer scripts allotted for evaluation in Chennai will be shifted to other districts. “To follow social distancing norms, the department has increased evaluation centres from 70 to 200 centres,” school education director S Kannappan said. “From spraying disinfectants to arranging transport, the government has made all arrangements for the safety of teachers. It is compulsory for everyone to wear masks. Officials have also been told to avoid gathering of teachers inside the evaluation centres,” he added. School education department would provide three reusable masks for every teacher to do the evaluation work. Over 40,000 of the 69,000 post-graduate teachers teaching Classes XI and XII will be drafted for evaluation work. Headmasters were asked to avoid recommending teachers residing in containment zones. “We have also requested district collectors inspecting the centres for uninterrupted power and water supply. We hope we would have enough teachers for evaluation,” a chief educational officer said. Evaluation of Class XI answerscripts will begin once Class XII work is over. The department has also asked chief educational officers about teachers stranded in their natives during the lockdown. “The department may use the service of stranded teachers in the respective districts,” a headmaster said. As per the tentative plan, the directorate of government examinations may release the Class XII results in the third week of June. More than 8.5 lakh students wrote the exams from March 2 to 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-class-xii-evaluation-work-in-city-due-to-rising-cases/articleshow/75984495.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Three killed in road mishap in Bharatpur||JAIPUR: Three people, including two women, died in a road accident near Bharatpur on Monday. They were traveling for treatment in an ambulance from Agra to Jaipur. Two others were injured when the ambulance collided with a tree. This is second such accident in Bharatpur in the same area in just a matter of days. In the previous accident on Friday there were four fatalities. The deceased were identified as Maharaj Singh, Mamta Devi and Gulab Devi. The two injured include the driver. The deceased belonged to Sikandarpur near Agra and the accident occurred around 3:30am. “The two women who died were being taken to Jaipur for treatment. Although we have not received much information, it appears that the two deceased were being taken for heart treatment. The reason behind the accident appears to be that the ambulance driver fell asleep behind the wheel and lost control of the vehicle because of which it collided with the tree,” said an official of Lakhanpur police station. The official stated that while two persons died on the spot, the third died while being taken to the hospital. Since Friday, a total of seven lives have been claimed in road accidents in the same police station area on Jaipur-Agra national highway. On Friday, four persons from Jaipur were killed in a road accident in Bharatpur’s Lakhanpur police station area on the same Jaipur-Agra national highway. The deceased were from Jhotwara in Jaipur and were killed when their car collided with a tanker. The deceased persons included a minor as well as two women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-in-road-mishap-in-bharatpur/articleshow/75985385.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Migrant influx salvaged Sabarkantha farmers’ crop, thanks to cops||VADODARA: When migrants from Gujarat were heading back to their natives in hordes last month, Sabarkantha district was witnessing a reverse trend. The district saw an influx of labourers from tribal-dominated Dahod, Mahisagar, Panchmahal and Chhota Udepur, who actually helped many local farmers salvage their standing crop by working as farm labourers. At a time when farmers in Saurashtra and other parts of Gujarat were staring at massive crop loss due to exodus of farm labourers, their counterparts in Sabarkantha were lucky to have their potatoes, wheat, groundnut, bajri, harvested in the nick of time. Fearing huge losses, the local farmers’ body approached the district police officials to facilitate entry of farm labourers. The inter-district movement was banned due to lockdown then. “Besides the requests of farmers’ bodies, there was chatter on the WhatsApp group of sarpanchs to bring farm labourers for harvest,” said Sabarkantha superintendent of police,Chaitanya Mandlik. Police then coordinated with the administrations of these four districts to bring the farm labourers. “We helped them in getting passes while their transport was managed by farmers. This was necessary as farmers would have faced big losses,” Mandlik said. In fact, it was a win-win situation for all as the labourers were anyway out of work in their native places due to lockdown. After a month when the harvesting was over, the local again coordinated to send the farm labourers back to their native districts. “Some two dozen labourers came to my farm and I could harvest groundnut and bajra. I paid for their transport. This time they did not get their children along as they feared getting infected with coronavirus,” said Rasik Patel, a farmer from Vadrad village of Prantij taluka. Kalpesh Patel, chairman of Talod APMC and a farmer in Harsol village, added, "When the labourers were being sent back after harvest as well as when they in our farms, we ensured that their proper screening was done and they had masks.” Earlier too, when the migrants had started the arduous march on foot for their natives in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, Sabarkantha police had come to their rescue by taking them to shelter homes and other government buildings in order to avoid chaos at the Gujarat-Rajasthan border. Every police station was asked to run community kitchens to feed two meals to the migrants. Mandlik said that the department provided food to at least 25,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/migrant-influx-salvaged-sabarkantha-farmers-crop-thanks-to-policemen/articleshow/75983274.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Industries in twin cities hit by staff shortage||Dharwad: Those running industrial plants in Belur Industrial Area (BIA) on Pune-Bengaluru national highway 10km from Dharwad had heaved a sigh of relief when the government announced relaxation during lockdown 3.0 and allowed industries to start operations. Even as the industrialists and managers were gearing up to start operation, their spirits were dampened by another government order that allowed labourers to travel to their home states. Apprehensive of uncertainty surrounding spread of Covid 19, most labourers left for their native places outside Karnataka. The Belur Industrial Area is already plagued with several problems. Even in normal course, the industries here were not operational in full swing due to lack of basic facilities. But the permission to migrant labourers for inter-state travel has rendered almost 80% of these industrial units short of manpower. Over, 3,000 labourers from Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat have gone back to their native places and the chances of them returning to work are slim, said an entrepreneur. “These workers were working in key positions and it is difficult to find replacements for them in a short duration,” he added. During the lockdown, the working class here was provided free food and accommodation along with regular salary. This was an attempt by industries to retain their workforce. But when they had an opportunity to return to their home states, the workers preferred to leave. With no production, industries are also facing a severe economic crisis due to the financial burden arising out of loans availed from banks. The situation is such that BIA is caught between devil and deep sea, said Vrushabh, an industrialist. With no industrial output, the BIA spread over an area of 2,000 acres is wearing a deserted look. Excluding Hindustan Petroleum, Bharat Petroleum and other gas companies, other firms have shut their doors. Scores of auxiliary units set up here to provide spare parts to big players like Tata Hitachi and Tata Motors are closed for want of workers. Going by the present situation, it may take another six months for the BIA to bounce back, said Shrikant Thite, president of Belur Industrialists Association. There are over 1,000 companies spread in Belur, Tarihal and Rayapur industrial areas. But only 10 per cent of these units have resumed operations. “The industrial output is minimum,” Thite said. Burden of paying wages, maintenance cost and bank loans have hit industrialists hard. The companies can recover if the relief announced by the government reaches the industries at the earliest, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/industries-in-twin-cities-hit-by-staff-shortage/articleshow/75981852.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Clamour for overnight train service from B’luru-Kannur via Mysuru gathers steam||Mangaluru: Train users from coastal Karnataka, Mysuru have urged railway ministry to restart Bengaluru-Kannur/Karwar overnight express via Mysuru on all days of the week and extend it to Madgaon. This will restore lost connectivity between Mysuru and coastal Karnataka after the ministry had unilaterally cancelled the service on March 7 at the behest of Konkan Railway Corporation (KRCL) to introduce Bengaluru-Karwar direct train bypassing Mangaluru. KRCL cited revenue loss if more passenger trains are operated on its network as against freight trains that bring revenue. Seeking reintroduction of the overnight express to Bengaluru, K Venkatesh Kini, member of zonal railway users’ consultative committee of SWR, in his letter to allay KRCL’s concern over loss of path suggested cancellation of train 22636/22635 Mangaluru Central-Madgaon-Mangaluru Central intercity express that has poor patronage. Kini said Bengaluru-Karwar/Madgaon-Bengaluru train could take the route of intercity express thereby causing no financial loss to KRCL. Cancellation of overnight express has affected regular travellers as well as tourists between the two regions, Kini said. The overnight service was also serving as convenient commuter train between Mangaluru-Karwar. Various railway passenger associations have sought the reintroduction of this train, he said. Joining the chorus, Mysuru Grahaka Parishat said the ministry must fulfil the demand as the cancellation has completely cut off Mysuru region’s connectivity with the coast. Scores of people travel from Mysuru to Kukke Subrahmanya, Mangaluru, Udupi among others, said Yogendra Swamy of the Parishat. Vacant path of train 16511 could be used to operate Yesvantpur-Mangaluru Central tri-weekly overnight express, which now departs at 4.30pm Bengaluru-Kannur/Madgaon combined express could leave Bengaluru at 8.30pm, Mysuru at 11.15pm, Mangaluru Central at 8.15am to reach Madgaon at 2pm. On return, train could leave Madgaon at 2.40pm, Mangaluru Central at 8.55pm, Mysuru at 5.30am to reach Bengaluru at 8am. Bengaluru-Kannur-Bengaluru express (16511/16512) via Kunigal could be stopped once daily service via Mysuru is started. Yesvantpur-Mangaluru Central-Yesvantpur service should be made daily, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/clamour-for-overnight-train-service-from-bluru-kannur-via-mysuru-gathers-steam/articleshow/75982083.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||In North Karnataka, dogs are not having their day||Hubballi: Stry dogs in several parts of north Karnataka have been hit hard with them not getting food leftovers generated at hotels, restaurants, roadside food stalls, and meat at butcher shops. Following lockdown, all these establishments have closed, leaving the canines starving. Though many organisations, pet lovers and the general public are feeding the strays everyday, a majority of canines are deprived of food, according to sources of civic bodies. Dr Ravi Saligoudar, veterinarian at HDMC, said the lockdown has left canines with no food. Several incidents of dog deaths have been reported in the city limits, and the cause may be starvation and other reasons, he added. About 10% of the dogs have migrated to other places like the city outskirts or dumping yard or nearby forest areas, where they can feed on rodents. Another 20% may migrate too. The twin cities have around 20,000 dogs, but their population is different in different areas. This, Dr Ravi said, he realised when he went around the city recently to feed dogs. According to sources in HDMC, dogs have died — for many reasons — even before the enforcement of lockdown. As many as 117 dogs have died between February 27 to March 27, and 188 from March 27 to April 27. Lack of food, weakness, diseases, or fight with animals may be the causes, sources added. Gadag-Betageri City Municipal Corporation commissioner C M Mansoor Ali said the twin-cites of Gadag and Betageri together have 1,400 strays. Many NGOs and pet lovers, equipped with special passes, are feeding the strays, Ali said, adding that 3-4 puppies have died during the lockdown. In line with the direction of the Gadag SP, that no stray animal should starve, the civic officials have made arrangements accordingly. There are 3,000 dogs in Vijayapura city limits, said chief veterinary officer Dr Basavaraj Kanmadi. They may have migrated to places within the city where they would get food, or are being fed by people. S A Nikitha, founder of CARE (Conservation and Rescue) and volunteers, have been feeding the strays in Ballari city limits. They are providing food and water to animals and birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-north-karnataka-dogs-are-not-having-their-day/articleshow/75981792.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||HDMC begins cleaning of storm water drains||Hubballi: The Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has learnt a lesson from the last years’ experience. In 2019, torrential rainfall caused many storm water drains (SWD) to overflow and caused floods in several areas. Properties worth lakhs were destroyed due to water gushing into the properties Many bridges were inundated due to the water flowing out of nalas and the repair of damaged bridge is still on. Apart from cleanliness drive in the pandemic times, HDMC has also started cleaning SWDs. It is dredging nalas so that rainwater flows easily without any hurdles. Last year, water from Unkal Lake overflowed due to incessant rains. The water hyacinth which had grown extensively in the lake blocked water in SWDs. This year, the priority has been given to clear the weed from the lake. According to HDMC officials, the total length of SWDs in the twin cities is 12.5km, of which 11km are in Hubballi. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said the corporation is not spending any money for cleaning SWDs as some companies have provided earth movers and tippers as a part of their corporate social responsibility. The cleaning work began in April and will be completed before the onset of monsoon, he added. “We took up cleaning work where the flood situation was worse last year. Workers have cleared silt, weeds and shrubs from the drains,” he said. Stating that work is still pending in zone number 9 and in other areas, he added that it will be get done in another few days. “Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd is building a green mobility corridor on the main storm water drain which originates from Unkal Lake and reaches Gabbur 10km away. Under the green mobility corridor project, a retaining wall be built along the drain and it takes time,” said Itnal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdmc-begins-cleaning-of-storm-water-drains/articleshow/75981807.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 26, 2020||Chennai||NGT appoints panel to probe into ammonia leak in Manali||CHENNAI: The southern zone of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has appointed a committee to investigate the recent ammonia gas leak reported at an urea plant in Manali. The committee has been directed to study the plant's emission rate to check whether it was within permissible limits and safety measures taken to protect the employees. The committee has been asked to submit a report on it soon. Ammonia had leaked from a public sector plant in Manali during the wee hours on May 15, resulting in residents of the Mathur MMDA colony being woken up by the foul smell. Several residents sleeping on terraces due to the sweltering heat said the leak caused their skin to itch and eyes watering. With the Vizag gas leak fresh on their minds, residents had rushed to the streets in panic. Some had even reported of experiencing nausea, breathlessness and movement restrictions. District environmental engineer Indira Gandhi inspected the plant the next morning. An official from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), who wished anonymity, told TOI that the plant had been shut down on May 15 due to maintenance issues. “Ammonia had leaked due to this but it was in a minor quantity. The company has also not been able to identify the leak,” the official said, adding that the factory was not authorised to release any such chemicals in the air. NGT south zone members Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta took up the matter suo motu based on media reports and noted that the fertilizer manufacturing companies should take more precautions as leaks might cause breathing trouble, eye irritation, etc,., to employees. The committee, with representatives from Union environment ministry, TNPCB and Tiruvallur district collectorate, will assess whether any provisions in the Hazardous Waste (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016, was violated by the plant and suggest environmental compensation, if any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-appoints-panel-to-probe-into-ammonia-leak-in-manali/articleshow/75984487.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Five-year-old boy flies back home alone from Delhi||BENGALURU: When five-year-old Vihaan Sharma stepped out of Kempegowda International Airport’s arrival terminal clutching a ‘special category’ plaque and wearing a face shield, his mother’s joy knew no bounds. The boy travelled alone from Delhi to be reunited with his parents in Bengaluru. He was on board SpiceJet flight SG 191 which landed at KIA around 9am on Monday. Welcome home, Vihaan! #BLRairport is constantly working towards enabling the safe return of all our passengers. https://t.co/WJghN5wsKw— BLR Airport (@BLRAirport) 1590386210000According to those present at the spot, Vihaan is a resident of Jigani in Bengaluru and was sent for home quarantine. “He’s coming home after nearly three months,” said Vihaan’s mother, who had gone to KIA to receive him. She added he had gone to Delhi to meet his grandparents and couldn’t return earlier due to the lockdown. As soon as news of flight operations resuming was announced, Vihaan’s grandparents ensured he was sent home on one of the first flights out. The airline provided full assistance to the boy right from the time he entered Delhi airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/5-year-old-boy-reunites-with-mom-after-three-months/articleshow/75983986.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Sulur Air Force Station to add muscle with Tejas fighters||COIMBATORE: No.18 squadron ‘Flying Bullets’ of the Indian Air Force (IAF) based at the Sulur Air Force Station here will become the second squadron to operate the indigenous light combat aircraft Tejas from Wednesday. No 45 squadron ‘Flying Daggers’ at the station was the first squadron armoured with Tejas. Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, will operationalise ‘Flying Bullets’ at the station on Wednesday morning, making Sulur the only IAF base that has two Tejas squadrons. No 18 squadron was formed on April 15, 1965, with the motto Teevra aur Nirbhaya (swift and fearless). It was flying MiG 27 fighter before it was decommissioned on April15, 2016. The squadron was resurrected on April 01, 2020 at the Sulur station. The squadron participated in the 1971 war with Pakistan and was decorated with the highest gallantry award Param Vir Chakra awarded to flying officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon posthumously. It earned the sobriquet of ‘Defenders of Kashmir Valley’ by being the first to land and operate from Srinagar. The squadron was awarded the prestigious President's Standard in November 2015. Tejas is a fourth-generation tailless compound delta wing aircraft equipped with fly-by-wire flight control system, integrated digital avionics and multi-mode radar. The structure is made of composite materials. It is the lightest and smallest in the group of fourth-generation supersonic combat aircraft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sulur-air-force-station-to-add-muscle-with-tejas-fighters/articleshow/75984486.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Residents of Balajinagar containment zone complain of food shortages||Pune: Priyanka Shetty, a mother of a 2-year-old and a 6-year-old, has been struggling to get milk for her two children. She is a resident of what’s now the containment zone in Balajinagar, a predominantly middle-class neighbourhood in Dhankawadi. All shops here, except for stores selling medicines, have been shut since May 11, when containment-level restrictions were first announced. There are no groceries or vegetable shops. Residents said they have had to walk for nearly half-an-hour — to areas outside the containment zone — for essentials. “Life in Balajinagar has become very difficult. I’m unable to get my two-year-old child some milk. My children are being given only daal and rice,” Shetty told TOI. Another resident, Yatish Devadiga, said issues with food supply started when the neighbourhood was declared a containment zone 15 days ago. “On May 17, there were just 11 positive patients in my area. But the curbs put in place were harsh. There are places with many more cases that still have access to groceries and shops selling essentials. Authorities could, at least, allow shops in Balajinagar to open for two or three hours,” he said. Avinash Laghate, a banker who lives in the area, said he walks nearly 20 minutes for a packet of milk. “I have to walk outside the containment zone, on the way to Katraj Dairy,” he said. Balajinagar falls within the jurisdiction of Sahakarnagar police station. Inspector Nandakumar Bidwai said the police have not asked shops selling essentials to stay shut. “We have been adhering to guidelines set by the administration. We have not ordered businesses selling essentials to stay shut. These shops are open within the time limits,” Bidwai said. But a medical store owner in the area, who did not wish to be named, said the police were forced into shutting many businesses. “People were gathering in droves even when the area was being sealed. Many have not understood the rules of containment zones: you can’t just move around. Entire families were coming out to buy potatoes and tomatoes,” he said. Another chemist said residents themselves are to blame for the crisis. “Groceries and general stores have been shut. The availability of milk is intermittent. People here were being very irresponsible with control measures. As number of Covid cases increased, it became very difficult for police to control movement of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-of-balajinagar-containment-zone-complain-of-food-shortages/articleshow/75985383.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Volunteers on a mission to unite 63-year-old with family||Mangaluru: The responsibility of social workers, who are distributing food to the poor on the streets and grocery kits to families during the lockdown, has not ended there. They have a new challenge before them, to unite a 63-year-old man with his family. Volunteers of the B-Human forum found the old man in the city on Thursday. He had sustained injuries on his legs due to an accident, and was not able to walk properly during their routine food distribution programme. Though the youths garnered that the old man’s name is Lokesh and his family is living in Kulshekhar, they are yet to trace the exact location of Lokesh’s family. Hence, they decided to use social media to find his family, and unite him with them. B-Human members donated crutches to Lokesh and asked him if he wants to go back to his house. Lokesh, who recalls the name of all his children, said that they will accept him back. “My children are like gold. They will surely accept me. All my family except one son, stay in Kulshekar. He stays in Chennai,” Lokesh said. “He once met with an accident and injured both his legs. He could hardly walk due to the pain. He was feeling comfortable while walking with the crutches we offered him. During our conversation, we found out that the man was wandering in search of his family. He has lost the contact numbers of his children. We have promised to help him to find his family. We have also decided to unite him with his family. We also promised him treatment for his legs, so that he can walk without the help of crutches,” said B-Human founder Asif Deals. Another member of the team said they have shared the video of Lokesh with many friends in Kulshekhar and nearby areas, so that his family can be traced. “We will take care of him till he is united with his family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/volunteers-on-a-mission-to-unite-63-year-old-with-family/articleshow/75981483.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Salem||Autorickshaw driver arrested for killing his father||SALEM: An autorickshaw driver was arrested by Salem city police on Monday, for murdering his father on Sunday evening.The victim S Krishnan, 80, a retired post master was living with his son K Anbumani, 45 in Subramaniya Nagar.  Krishnan was found dead in his house on Sunday evening by the Suramangalam police based on his neighbour’s alert. They rushed to the spot and initiated inquiry. Preliminary inquiry revealed that, Krishnan had 6,000 sq.ft of land and a house in Subramaniya Nagar. “Krishnan was trying to donate that land to a Christian missionary,” said, S Senthil, inspector of Suramangalam police station. He also said that, Anbumani who don’t like this, argued with his father repeatedly. On Sunday evening, Anbumani consumed alcohol and returned to his house. He once again started arguing with Krishnan asking him to handover the land and house ownership to him. However, Krishnan refused to do so. “Irked over this, Anbumani stabbed Krishnan using a screwdriver in his chest for 35 times,” the officer said, adding that, Krishnan succumbed to injuries on the spot. After murdering his father, Anbumani managed to escape from the house. Suramangalam police, tracked his hideout and arrested him on Monday morning. Based on his confession, the police lodged him at Salem central prison and put him under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/autorickshaw-driver-arrested-for-killing-his-father/articleshow/75984492.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mysuru||Gram panchayats demand funds from govt for Covid relief||Mysuru: Gram panchayat authorities in the state are in a fix after the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department directed the panchayats to provide food and essential services to migrant labourers and economically weaker sections during the lockdown period. The GPs, which have limited revenue sources, are finding it difficult to manage the situation and are seeking financial support from donors. The government which had identified 14,542 migrant workers in around 230 places in the state is providing food, camps and medical facilities to them. It has also opened 262 food camps where around food kits have been provided to 60,000 people. RDPR principal secretary Uma Mahadevan in her order on April 24 stated that despite all the measures, there are people who are left out from the facilities and are in need of help. To identify migrant workers and economically weaker sections, directions have been given to revenue officials to conduct survey in rural areas jointly with gram panchayats. The survey will be conducted to identify children, women, aged persons, persons with health problems and disabilities, sexual minorities, bonded labourers, nomads and migrants in the rural areas. The direction has been issued to 6,022 gram panchayats in the state. However, the officers who work in the gram panchayats lament that providing facilities to the people will be a huge task for the rural local bodies due to limited revenue resources. “The government’s NRDF and SRDF funds are given to deputy commissioners to be used for urban bodies. But the problem is that more migrant workers from cities are settling in rural areas. As majority of the GPs do not have financial sources, they are unable to take up relief activities without funds. We need more funds to provide facilities to poor,” said a PDO. Another PDO said that maximum work is done by the gram panchayats. “But the problem is that we have very limited fund as tax collection and other revenue is very less. We mainly depend on the government for funds. We are not getting any funds for COVID-19 relief measures. But we have been directed to provide food and medical service and set up camps for the needy. So we are seeking financial support from donors,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/gram-panchayats-demand-funds-from-govt-for-covid-relief/articleshow/75981820.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 26, 2020||Hubballi||Speeding car ploughs into pedestrians, kills 2 on spot||Belagavi: In a tragic incident late on Sunday night, two women were killed and one suffered severe injuries after a car driven by a BJP Yuva Morcha member rammed into pedestrians at Mutaga village. Yuvaraj Jadhav, the accused, has been booked under Section 304 of the IPC. He is currently being treated at a hospital as he too was injured in the accident. The mishap took place at Mutaga village when BJP functionary Jadhav was going in his car towards Belagavi from Sambra. According to the preliminary probe, Jadhav was driving recklessly. He lost control of the vehicle and ploughed into pedestrians. Savita Patil, 44, and Vidya Patil, 48, were killed on the spot. One more person was seriously injured, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/speeding-car-ploughs-into-pedestrians-kills-2-on-spot/articleshow/75982297.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kochi||KTDC offers institutional quarantine at slashed rates||Alappuzha: At a time when the state’s tourism industry is badly hit by the Covid-19 situation, the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) is showing its social responsibility. KTDC, a state government undertaking, has provided 21 of its properties to arrange paid institutional quarantine (PIQ) for returnees from abroad and other states. For this, the agency has also slashed the room rent, which is inclusive of breakfast, lunch, tea-snacks and dinner. In Thiruvananthapuram, KTDC has allotted its four hotels and resorts, including premium property Mascot Hotel, for 14-day PIQ. “The rent for one room is Rs 3,700 per day, including breakfast, lunch and dinner at the premium hotel. Normally, the one-day rent for a room in Mascot Hotel is Rs 5,000 without tax and food. But for PIQ, we have fixed the rent as Rs 3,700, including food and tax,” said KTDC MD Krishna Teja. Teja said that KTDC has voluntarily come forward to allot their properties for PIQ. “It is our social responsibility to provide our properties for PIQ and the stay in our properties will definitely be a wonderful quarantine experience,” he said. In Kollam, KTDC allotted one hotel — Tamarind — as PIQ while in Alappuzha two hotels and resorts (Ripple Land near Alappuzha town and Suvasam at Thanneermukkom) were allotted. The other facilities provided for Covid-19 relief in each district are: Tamarind hotel, Changanassery (Kottayam), Tea County, Munnar and Tamarind, Peermedu (Idukki), Bolgatty Palace (Ernakulam), Tamarind near Indoor stadium and Tamarind and Nandanam, Guruvayur (Thrissur), Garden House, Malampuzha, and Tamarind, Mannarkkad (Palakkad), Tamarind, Kondotty, and Tamarind, Nilambur (Malappuram), Tamarind, Thirunelly, and Pepper Grove, Sulthan Bathery (Wayanad) and Tamarind, Mangattuparamba (Kannur). “We have a total of 29 properties in the state and of them, 21 have been given for PIQ. The properties in the forest area like Ponmudi and Thekkady and those under maintenance have not been allotted for the purpose. Of the 21 properties allotted, four are premium hotels and five are budget hotels. The remaining ones are economy hotels,” said KTDC marketing manager Rajmohan G S. “The normal rent at our budget hotel is Rs 3,000 without food and tax, which has been reduced to Rs 2,400, including food and tax per day for PIQ. In case of economy hotels, the normal rent is Rs 2,000 without food and tax and such rooms can be used for Rs 1,500 for PIQ,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ktdc-offers-institutional-quarantine-at-slashed-rates/articleshow/75982221.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Restructure classes: Teachers||Coimbatore: Considering the impact of Covid-19, the state should restructure classes and pedagogy in government schools, president of the Tamil Nadu Teachers Association (TNTA) P K Ilamaran said on Monday.The government should consider reopening schools on July 2 after assessing whether the pandemic situation is under control, the union leader said in a communication. “As students have to attend classes all through the week, the government should consider having classes in shifts for students at least during the pandemic to ensure physical distancing. In high and higher secondary schools, students of Classes VI to VIII should be asked to attend classes in the morning and those in Classes IX to XII should be asked to attend classes in noon. Teachers can offer students suggestions online after class hours,” he said.Ilamaran said students should be given training on using information and communication technology tools from Class VI onwards, so that they can easily shift to online modes of learning during disaster situations. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/restructure-classes-teachers/articleshow/75984496.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Only 380 arrive on day one as flights resume from city airport||COIMBATORE: The city airport reopened for commercial flight operations after two months on Monday. There were some confusions among the flyers and four of them were sent back as they were not having e-passes to enter the district. A few people, meanwhile, resisted to undergo the mandatory institutional quarantine, saying they wanted to be with their families as it was Ramzan. Pointing out that only 60% of expected passengers had turned up, airport, health department and revenue officials said the first day was relatively a smooth affair. Passengers started arriving at the airport from 7am to board the first flight that was scheduled to depart to New Delhi at 10am. They had to undergo thermal screening and get their baggage disinfected. The first half of the day saw flights landing in the city from New Delhi and Chennai and departing to the same destinations. R Mahalingam, airport director, said, “We saw 380 passengers arrive. They were all tested for Covid-19. Another 168 departed till 5pm. The flights to and from Mumbai and Hyderabad were cancelled.” Passengers, who landed in the city, had to undergo more procedures, including Covid-19 test. More than 40 officials were deployed to manage them - two teams from private labs to run tests, two public health department teams to collect nasal swabs, a revenue department team to check e-passes and another team to disinfect baggage. At least 364 passengers who landed in city, were tested for Covid-19. The e-pass restriction seemed to have reduced arrivals to a large extent. “The morning flights had a capacity to carry 150 passengers each. But only 136 people arrived. Many passengers seemed to have cancelled in the last minute,” said a public health department official. District collector K Rajamani said four passengers, who arrived from New Delhi, were sent back on the same return flight as they didn’t have e-passes to enter the district. However, passengers with only e-pass acknowledgement were also allowed to fly out of the city. Among the passengers who arrived in the city, those with Covid-19 negative test certificate that was obtained less than three days ago were allowed to go home, where they have to remain in quarantine for 14 days. People heading to destinations within the district were subjected to Covid-19 test and taken to institutional quarantine facilities. They have to remain there until the test results are out. Those heading to neighbouring districts were also tested for Covid-19 and sent to their destinations after informing their respective health departments. For institutional quarantine, people could choose between paid quarantine in hotels and free quarantine in schools and colleges. While samples collected from passengers from other states were sent to government hospitals, those collected from people within the state were sent to private laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-380-arrive-on-day-one-as-flights-resume-from-city-airport/articleshow/75984494.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Jobless, migrants keen to go home before rains||PANAJI: On March 21, Pradeep Gurjar reached Margao railway station, hoping to earn sufficient money to support his family back home in Vijaypur, Madhya Pradesh. A day later, all economic activity came to a standstill, as Goa was put under an abrupt lockdown in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. At the end of his 49-day stay in Goa, Gurjar earned just Rs 500 as a tile fitter, and even that was spent to pay for food and other essential items. Heading home with nothing to show for it, Gurjar says he cannot think of coming back to Goa for another three to four months. The 23-year old is one of the approximately 80,000 people who signed up to leave the state.  Against the 3.5 lakh migrant workers employed in the formal and informal sector in Goa, around 80,000, or 23% of Goa’s labour workforce, want to leave. Most of those who want to leave are doing so because they have lost their only source of income. Those employed in shacks, on fishing trawlers and in the construction sector as daily wage workers form a major chunk of those packing up and leaving the state. Given the enormity of the humanitarian task to transport the migrant workers back home, state authorities have yet to sit down and analyse the true reasons for their departure. “As per MHA guidelines, anybody in distresshas to register, and we have to facilitate their return,” said a government officer. Authorities did say that the desperation to leave Goa, a green zone as far as the novel coronavirus is concerned, defies logic. “It makes no sense, because very often, they are going to places where there are more cases. It is a fear psychosis,” the bureaucrat said. If one speaks to the fleeing workers, it is clear that they are not running away from Covid-19. In fact, most would have left the state at some point over the coming months since they are seasonal workers who head back home for the monsoon. “During the rains, there is no work in Goa, it is difficult to get fire wood to cook food, there is no gas and nothing to cook, so we head home. We were anyway supposed to go home to plough our small field,” said Satish Kewat from Samnapur, Madhya Pradesh. He and his brother Bunty Kewat used to work in Betim as painters for small contractors. All along the coastal belt, nearly 15,000 workers employed with shacks, restaurants, budget hotels, homestays and guest houses find themselves unemployed after the abrupt closure of tourism activities. Hailing from Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Assam and other Northeastern states, they too are itching to leave. It is the same story with the Kashmiri families who recently left by train for Udhampur. “Some of us come down for four months, some for five months, some for eight months. People wait for as long as they can manage, but most go home for the monsoon to work in the fields,” said Gopal Charan Singh, a resident of Uttar Pradesh. While the construction sector may face a labour shortage in the coming months once all the 80,000 migrant workers leave, for now, industrial units remain unaffected. “A lot of labour is stuck across the border, which is why there is a shortage of manpower. They want to come back. The people who were engaged after the lockdown have remained, they have joined duty and they don’t want to leave,” said Goa State Industries Association president Damodar Kochkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jobless-migrants-keen-to-go-home-before-rains/articleshow/75986092.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 26, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Nanjangud pharmaceutical company prepares to reopen||MYSURU: Two months after the firm became the talk of the town, Jubilant Generics, the pharmaceutical company at the heart of the cluster outbreak in Nanjangud, Mysuru district, is set to reopen. Seventy-two of Mysuru district’s 92 Covid positive cases are linked to the firm. On Monday, a handful of employees and members of an agency which offers disinfection services were allowed into the facility to put safety measures in place. The government has already permitted the firm to reopen, but it would take a couple of weeks for the firm, which manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients, to resume operations fully. The district authorities have formed a committee comprising the Nanjangud tahsildar, police inspector and representatives of District Industries Centre, Department of Factories and Boilers and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to ensure the firm adheres to guidelines. Under the guidance of the local administration, the company too is working closely with its employees, their families and the community around the facility to chart the way forward. Nanjangud tahsildar said the district deputy commissioner has formed a separate committee to carry out joint inspections and to submit a report on the measures taken by the firm to ensure safety of employees and visitors. Meanwhile, authorities have still not found the source of the infection at the plant. While several theories were floated and investigated – including testing containers of raw material which arrived from China for the virus – none were found valid. Seven foreign nationals from three countries, who had visited the firm earlier this year, were also ruled out as the source of the infection. Authorities then focused on an employee who had visited Kerala as the possible source. But here too, they drew a blank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nanjangud-pharmaceutical-company-prepares-to-reopen/articleshow/75984046.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Braving heat & virus; BSF helps villagers||JAISALMER: The temperature in desert villages along Indo-Pakistan border is nearing 50 degrees Celsius. In this severe heat, the BSF has launched a campaign to help people fight corona and remove drinking water shortage for both humans and animals. BSF IG Amit Lodha said that reeling under severe heat BSF jawans are bravely guarding the borders while taking all preventive measures against corona. BSF DIG Madan Singh Rathore said that in this severe heat the jawans have been provided goggles, caps etc along with water bottles and during duty in daytime they are provided lemon water 3-4 times. Jawans are provided onions, glucose also to help them beat the heat. Apart from this, at the border outposts duct-cooling system has been installed at their barracks. If any jawan suffers from heatstroke, then he is taken to the AC room and the body temperature is reduced. The BSF is also providing soaps and masks to villagers, they are also asking the villagers to wash hands frequently to check spread of Covid-19. The villagers are provided water from tankers. Also, directions have been given to fill water tanks for the cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/braving-heat-virus-bsf-helps-villagers/articleshow/75985390.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nashik||12 Nashik farmers ended lives in ’20 so far, 63% drop since last year||NASHIK: So far this year, 12 farmer suicides have been recorded in the Nashik district against last year’s 33 during the same period. “Twelve farmers have committed suicide across Nashik district since January this year. The number is about 63% lower than the last year,” a senior official from district administration said. There were four suicides each in the months of January and February, while in March, there were two suicides. The months of April and May have registered one suicide case each this year. The officials attributed the lower number to improved conditions given good rainfall and groundwater levels. “Due to poor rainfall during monsoon 2018, there was no water in the dams. This resulted in poor or no availability of water in the fields,” the officer added. However, the situation has been better in March 2020 given good rainfall during 2019 monsoon. As a result, dam storages and underground water levels have been better too. “The farmers grew vegetables in the rabbi season and managed to get good returns, though initially there were problems due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” the officer said. He added that the crop loan waiver by the state government and the PM-Kisan Yojana have also benefitted the farmers. The claim was countered by Niphad-based farmer Prakash Bankar. “Covid-19 left us with nothing. The traders either did not buy the produce or made false promises and took away the yield by paying meagre amounts,” Bankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/12-nashik-farmers-ended-lives-in-20-so-far-63-drop-since-last-yr/articleshow/75982211.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Colleges await state govt’s call on holding semester exams||COIMBATORE: Higher education institutions in the city are exploring various options to conduct semester exams amid Covid-19 pandemic. Discussions are on to arrive at possible exam dates and decide whether to modify the question paper pattern. The Bharathiar University has suggested to the state that exams could be held from July 1 or July 15, based on reopening of institutions. University vice-chancellor P Kaliraj said they were awaiting the state’s decision. “We have communicated that exams will have to be conducted by July 1 if the college reopening date is August 1 and by July 15, if the reopening date is August 15. This time gap between the exams and reopening is a must to evaluate answer scripts by assigning dummy numbers.” He said they were thinking of giving enough time for the students from other states to come back. “We have students from places such as Kashmir and Kolkata. They have to be given ample time to return, considering they have to be in quarantine for 15 days when they come back.” While the portions have been completed, the students have given assignments for internal assessment. The Coimbatore Government Arts College has, meanwhile, constituted an ‘exam advisory council’ to exclusively discuss how to conduct exams amid the crisis situation. College principal K Chitra said, “The council members have suggested to reduce the exam duration to two hours from three hours, while restructuring question paper for external exams to 50 marks from 75 marks. We are also thinking of holding the internal exam only for the students who had missed the earlier one or those who had not performed well in the first internal exam. We have also discussed possible seating arrangements to maintain proper personal distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/colleges-await-state-govts-call-on-holding-semester-exams/articleshow/75984497.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Resort owner arrested in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Shahuwadi police in Kolhapur district have arrested an owner of a resort for not allowing three people, who had come from Mumbai, to be put under institutional quarantine in his resort. The resort was officially acquired by the local administration to use it as institutional quarantine. Confirming the incident, Shahuwadi police inspector Bhalchandra Deshmukh told TOI that the incident took place on Saturday night when the three people were sent to Hornbill resort, owned by Sunil Vinayak Gupte, to be put in institutional quarantine. Deshmukh said that the owner prevented government employees from doing their duties and threatened them with dire consequences. Gupte was produced before the court on Sunday and has been remanded in magisterial custody for 14 days Gupte has been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) including section 353 (assault or criminal force to a public servant to discharge his duty) and 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal). Gupte has also been booked under section 51 of Disaster Management Act (obstructing public servant from discharging his duty). Gupte has allegedly threatened to use dogs, that were deployed for security purpose, if the employees tried to enter the resort premises. Officials said that the district administration has acquired eight resorts near Amba Ghat, a popular tourist destination in Kolhapur district, to use these as institutional quarantine. The step was taken as a large number of people have been coming back to Kolhapur district following the pandemic. In another incident in Kolhapur city, Shahupuri police have registered offences against a Pune-based lawyer and his driver for travelling from Kolhapur to Pune without having any official permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/resort-owner-arrested-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75982200.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||DP Road ward with 1,000 coronavirus cases is Pune’s most intense hotspot||PUNE: Dhole Patil Road ward office has emerged as the Covid-19 epicentre in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits as of Saturday. The affected areas under this ward accounted for 1,019 positive cases overtaking Bhavani Peth ward office with 710 positive patients. A report prepared by Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited and the Pune Municipal Corporation showed the data analysis for Covid-19 outbreak in locations in the city and the number of cases. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “The PMC has followed a strict containment plan in Bhawani Peth areas. Awareness about the virus and infection has been increased consistently. All of this has led to a reduction in the direct contact and positive cases. It has resulted in reducing the number of positive cases.” A civic official said a number of densely populated areas under the Dhole Patil Road ward office are reporting a majority of the cases now. The areas include Pune railway station, Tadiwala Road and the slum pockets here. “The population density in these locations is very high, so maintaining physical distance is challenging. Most residents are using common toilets which could have triggered the virus spread,” a senior civic official said. Many residents of these areas provide emergency and paramedical services, and also work in the big hospitals where Covid-19 positive patients have been admitted which could have contributed to the increase in the number of positive cases in these locations, he added. Local corporators and civic officials said direct contact with positive patients and a bulk of Covid-19 cases in some slum pockets under this ward have led to a spike. Manjula Vasti, Gadge Maharaj Vasahat and Kawadewadi under Dhole Patil Road ward have an outbreak. Family members of positive patients, who visited their relatives in hospitals and came into contact with them, did not take adequate precautions or follow the Covid-19 norms. After hospital visits, they were walking around in their areas and meeting people without proper precautions which caused the spread, civic officials said. Positive cases in double digits have been reported in a single day. On one day the number was as high as 120 which led to the sealing of these pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dp-road-ward-with-1k-cases-is-punes-most-intense-hotspot/articleshow/75985395.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 26, 2020||Indore||Water woes continue to worry locals||Indore: Residents of various colonies complained of shortage of water on Monday – a day after Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) undertook a planned shutdown for maintenance work. Overhead tanks of areas like Dravid Nagar and Gandhi Hall remained empty, while tanks of Rajmohalla, Maharana Pratap Nagar, Agarbatti Complex could not be filled to their full capacity affecting supply of Narmada water in connected localities. “There is no supply of Narmada water in our area for the last two days. IMC has also not arranged for tanker supply,” complained Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Dravid Nagar. “Water supply problem has become a regular affair in our area in summer season,” he rued. Earlier, on Sunday, five overhead tanks remained empty and three could not be filled to their full capacity owing to the shutdown that started on Saturday night. IMC narmada project executive engineer Sanjeev Shrivastava said that the shutdown was meant to carry out maintenance of sub-station and grid transformer under first and second phases of Narmada supply system. “Though we managed to complete maintenance work by Saturday night, a delivery line developed a leakage forcing us to further delay the pumping work,” he explained. “The fault was rectified by Sunday afternoon, but it affected supply to some of the overhead tanks,” he said, adding that there would not be any issue from Tuesday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/water-woes-continue-to-worry-locals/articleshow/75984502.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: On Day 1, MMRDA centre gets 7 cases||The jumbo Covid care facility at the MMRDA ground, Bandra-Kurla Complex, was thrown open on Monday. Around seven patients were admitted to the makeshift hospital that is likely to work as a step-down facility for tertiary medical colleges. The centre will have 1,008 beds, of which 50% will have oxygen support. Dr Rajesh Dere, head of forensic medicine at Sion Hospital, has been made the dean of the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/on-day-1-mmrda-centre-gets-7-cases/articleshow/75984938.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Gangrape comes to light after minor found pregnant||ALWAR: A 13-year-old Dalit girl was gangraped allegedly by three youths from her village in Bharatpur’s Kama police station area and the matter came to light when the minor complained of stomachache and was taken to the hospital where it was found that she was three months pregnant. After finding out about the sexual assault, the girl’s father registered a case of gangrape at Kama police station against three persons who he has named in the FIR. “According to the complainant’s father, four months back, the three accused grabbed the girl when she was heading home from their field following which they forcibly took her to the nearby mustard fields where they took turns to rape her,” said an official of Kama police station. As soon as the case was registered, the cops took the girl for medical examination as well as to get details about the assault from her. Elaborating further, the official said, “The parents only got to know about the rape when the minor complained of stomachache and was taken to the hospital. When it was found that she was pregnant, she finally opened up about the assault.” The rape survivor claimed that the three accused had threatened to kill her if she reported the rape. The trio did not just stop at the threats and continued to rape the child over the course of coming months following which she got pregnant, claimed the complainant. According to officials, they have registered the case and started an investigation into the gangrape. Cops have also started a search for the three accused. A case of gangrape and abduction under sections of the Pocso Act has been registered against the three accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gangrape-comes-to-light-after-minor-found-pregnant/articleshow/75985396.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Anandnagar slum sends PCMC limits’case count soaring||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Anandnagar slum near Chinchwad railway station has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in the twin cities, accounting for over 100 positive patients in just four days. From just 183 patients on May 14, the case count in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits has risen to 391. Of the total, Anandnagar accounts for 133 as on Monday. Civic officials attributed the spike in cases in the slum to high population density, which stands out even among slums. “There were Rupeenagar, Bhatnagar and Shastrinagar earlier. But in Anandnagar, the population density is very high and access roads are narrow. Many people share the limited toilets in the slum,” Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said. What is also worrying is the high positivity ratio among the people from Anandnagar. For a population of over 10,500, the civic body has tested 900 people so far and 133 (15%) have tested positive. The population density of Anandnagar is at least four times of that of the average in the 181sqkm civic limits. The area has been under containment for over eight days. But the case count is going up with the addition of 40 new cases every day, indicating the sharing of very limited essential resources in the area. The source of the infection is not known yet, but civic officials said when things relatively opened up on April 14, in lockdown 2.0, many people in the slum got back to work as helpers and porters in the adjoining dawa galli — a bunch of shops which sell medicines at wholesale rate. Most patients from the slum, who tested positive, are admitted in Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital and some are admitted at the quarantine facility in Balewadi. “Only one of the 133 patients is critical as the person reported almost seven days after the onset of symptoms,” Patil said. He said people must approach the nearest flu clinic to get themselves checked if they have fever, cough or other symptoms. The civic body is also tracing the high-risk contacts of positive patients so that such people can get quick treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anandnagar-slum-sends-pcmc-limitscase-count-soaring/articleshow/75985398.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 26, 2020||Nashik||Corporate houses ask landlords to reduce rent||Nashik: Corporate houses have started negotiating with their landlords to reduce the rent of the leased properties owing to the economic slowdown caused by the ongoing Covid-19. According to Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (MACCIA), 90% of the corporate houses have shown their inability to pay the current rent and have demanded reduction in rent by around 30%. Some of the corporate houses have demanded waiver of rent for the lockdown period, while some have decided to close their outlets/showrooms to reduce losses. The lease rates for 1,000 sqft properties in various parts of the city are in the range between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh per month. “All businesses have been badly affected due to lockdown following outbreak of Covid-19. Hence, they (business houses) have now approached the landlords and started negotiations to reduce the rent,” Umesh Wankhede, chairman of the MACCIA, said. “Some big brands have also decided to shut down some offices or outlets in the city, while others are insisting waiver of rent for three months at least as they could not do business during lockdown period,” said Wankhede. An official from a mobile network company said, “We have decided to close one outlet in prime area of the city area of the city due to losses we are incurring daily due to lockdown. The rent of that commercial property is around Rs 1.5 lakh per month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/corporate-houses-ask-landlords-to-reduce-rent/articleshow/75982228.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Farmers’ bodies oppose K Chandrasekhar Rao’s crop regulation||HYDERABAD: The crop regulation move by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has received mixed response. While farmer organisations have demanded that the government withdraw the unilateral decision on crop regulation, villages in TRS stronghold constituencies are passing resolutions supporting it. In both Siddipet and Dubakka constituencies of Siddipet district, around 11 villages resolved unanimously in support of regulated cultivation. In Medak district, Naskal village farmers took an oath in the presence of minister Harish Rao after they passed a resolution that they would follow regulated cultivation. Farmer organisations, led by Rythu Swarajya Vedika, met in Hyderabad last week and vehemently opposed the move. Kiran Vissa of Rythu Swarajya Vedika said the government should hold consultations with the farmer organisations and experts. “Appropriate cropping pattern and how to incentivise it should be part of a broader plan and not a kneejerk announcement forcing farmers to grow only three to four crops,” he said. Ravi Kanneganti of Rythu Swarajya Vedika said, “We advocate a rational and sustainable crop planning with involvement of farmers but not this short-sighted plan of government.” Meanwhile, ministers and TRS MLAs held review and awareness meetings with officials and public representatives at constituency and district level to convince farmers of the benefits. Minister A Indrakaran Reddy held a review meeting in Adilabad district, while R&B minister Vemula Prashant Reddy conducted a review meeting with public representatives and officials in Balkonda constituency on Sunday.  Prashant Reddy said, “In Balkonda constituency, farmers cultivated paddy in 60,000 acres. Farmers should opt for two varieties of rice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-bodies-oppose-kcrs-crop-regulation/articleshow/75984503.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata, neighbourhood mourn the loss of a giant||KOLKATA: On the night cyclone Amphan tore through Kolkata and left it utterly devastated, the chief minister’s convoy while returning from the state secretariat was forced to do a detour as the usual route was blocked by uprooted trees and lamp-posts. As the CM’s car turned into Harish Chatterjee Street where she lives, Mamata Banerjee asked the driver to stop, rolled down the window glass and looked at the gigantic banyan tree that lay toppled, its mesh of roots bared to the sky. A landmark in the neighbourhood for nearly two centuries, it had for generations served as a congregation point where adda flowed over umpteen cups of tea under its benevolent shade. The tree, for Banerjee and many others, had been as much a part of the neighbourhood as any of its residents. To see it gone was a shock. Next evening, Banerjee again stopped by and clicked some photographs of the splayed tree, carelessly tossed aside by the monster storm, with her smartphone camera and then spoke to the Shaw family whose tea stall was crushed under the weight of the collapsing tree. A part of the Shaw residence had also been damaged. Banerjee spoke to the family members, noted the loss and assured compensation. Four days after the storm that felled over 15,000 trees in the city had passed, the absence of the banyan tree with its giant crown that had over the years sheltered so many continues to haunt residents of Harish Chatterjee Street. “There’s a huge void created by the tree. The locality looks and feels so different. A part of local heritage is gone. For our family, it’s a personal loss. With the tree gone, the tea shop will be just like any other dotting the city. It was the sprawling shade of the tree that attracted customers throughout the year,” rued Tuna Shaw, who inherited the shop from his father and now runs it with son Om Prakash. Situated opposite Gadadhar Ashram, Tonua da’s tea shop has stood under the banyan tree for 80 years. The folklore associated with the tree that had stood next to 2B Harish Chatterjee Street goes back even further to the time of Rani Rashmoni. The dilapidated Rashmoni Snan bari, or bathing house, is testimony to the tale. According to octogenarian Bithika Chakraborty, who now lives there (her forefathers bought the house from the descendants of zamindar family), Rashmoni would stop under the shade of the tree on her way to the bathing ghat. “I have heard that the water from Adi Ganga would flow into the Snan bari courtyard at high tide. Durga Puja and Kali Puja were also held here. After the bath, Rashmoni would board her favourite palinquin and visit the Kalghat temple 900 metre from the site,” she recounted. It was in this house that Rani Rashmoni is believed to have breathed her last on February 19, 1861. Her room adjacent to Nat Mandir offered a view of the ghat and the banyan tree. There is mention of the Rashmoni ghat in books but it has been lost to history though other ghats like Kayaler ghat, Banerjee ghat and Haralalka ghat still exist. About 100m from the banyan tree is another popular ghat, Balaram Basu Ghat, where Satidaha or widow sacrifice was practised until Raja Ram Mohan Roy and William Carey’s campaign led to the enactment of Bengal Sati Regulation, 1829. Another prominent property within sight of the banyan tree is Rani’s Bagan Bari at 30A & 30B Harish Chatterjee Street. It too is in a dilapidated condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-neighbourhood-mourn-the-loss-of-a-giant/articleshow/75984504.cms||Sudipto Das
May 26, 2020||Goa||After langars for the hungry & helpless, Sikh community in talks to feed GMC visitors||PANAJI: The extent of the woes of those stranded due to the lockdown first struck managing committee members of the Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, Betim, when they found staff of some hotels in Calangute left fending for themselves on the roads. Since then, the gurudwara’s service has fed thousandswaiting at state shelters for a train back home. President of Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, Betim, Harvinder Singh Dham, said that they now are in the process of planning with the state government to provide free food service throughout the year to relatives of patients at Goa Medical College and Hospital at Bambolim and Asilo Hospital in Mapusa. “We want to provide this service through the year. Patients are served food inside the hospital, but what about the relatives? We also want to provide the service to the many waiting at OPDs for treatment ,” said Dham. “After the lockdown, we saw that some hotel staff and chefs were left on the roads as hotelsasked them to vacate their rooms suddenly. We provided food and shelter to these 10 to 20 people during this period, and also helped with money for their tickets back home,” said Dham. “We operate the ‘langar for hunger’ vehicle which provided service without asking for a single rupee from the government or anyone else. People may donate out of their own will, but we never ask for funds. At present, we serve around 1,500 persons a day free of cost. We also provide snacks and water to those waiting outside the collectorate for travel permits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-langars-for-the-hungry-helpless-sikh-community-in-talks-to-feed-gmc-visitors/articleshow/75986093.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||BU submits 15 research proposals on Covid-19||COIMBATORE: Researchers and faculty members at the Bharathiar University have so far submitted 15 research proposals on Covid-19 to the Centre. University vice-chancellor P Kaliraj said their team has sent proposals to the department of science and technology, department of biotechnology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), and also to an Indo-US collaborative initiative under the Centre. “We have submitted proposals on development of drugs, diagnostic techniques, and also masks and nasal sprays using medicinal plants,” Kaliraj said. These proposals were developed during the two months of lockdown. As most faculty members were working from home, Kaliraj said the proposals were internally uploaded online and were approved by the university before being submitted to the government for funding. In March, researchers at the university’s department of human genetics and molecular biology had embarked on a project to develop masks using medicinal plants with antiviral properties. The VC had then said they were looking for industrial collaboration for large-scale production of the nanofibre-based three-layered masks, which would help both healthcare workers and the common public alike. Meanwhile, of the other research projects in the university departments, only around 10% are in progress, as most research scholars are at their homes. Only those projects whose research scholars and guides are present locally are being done now, said the VC. “Experiments for those projects which have to be necessarily carried out are progressing,” said Kaliraj. University sources said researchers were regularly attending to projects in life science departments, which needed them to tend to cultures and feed animals used in experiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-submits-15-research-proposals-on-covid-19/articleshow/75984498.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Headload workers from Mum make up for 80% of +ve cases||Slug: KolhapurKolhapur: A large number of people working as headload workers in Mumbai, who have returned to their native villages, mainly in the hilly tehsils, following the imposition of the lockdown, account for most of the Covid-19 cases reported in the district. Over 80% of the total number of Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district are from Shahuwadi, Panhala, Bhudargad, Ajara, Chandgad and Radhanagari talukas—all in the hilly areas of the district. Many of the headload workers have made up their minds of not returning to Mumbai as most of them have been rendered jobless post the lockdown. More than 100 people from Shahuwadi taluka have contracted Covid-19. A Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje hospital in Kolhapur told TOI over phone, “I work at Worli local market. I, along with 15 others from Shahuwadi, live in a small room in Mumbai. Four of my roommates have tested positive. The test results of the remaining roommates, who have been put in quarantine, are awaited.” The aforementioned person is an asymptomatic Covid-19 patient. He, along with his other roommates, had applied for a common travel pass. After reaching here, all of them were taken to the hospital for screening. Over 8,000 people have been tested for Covid-19 following the relaxation in lockdown rules, of which reports of 4,000 suspects are pending. During every assembly election, candidates cutting across the political spectrum promise to set up residential facilities for the headload workers in Mumbai but it remains unfulfilled. Satish Jadhav, an activist from Shahuwadi said, “How will the infection spread stop if people are lodged in small rooms? Many of the workers, fearing that they would lose their jobs, stayed back in Mumbai despite the threat of getting infected. Their family members back home continue worrying about their safety.” “We had hoped that some special transport will be arranged to take the headload workers to their native villages but nothing has been done. Unlike the migrant workers from other states, workers in Maharashtra are ignored by the government and the administration,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/headload-workers-from-mum-make-up-for-80-of-ve-cases/articleshow/75982227.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Ramzan lacks gaiety amid lockdown||COIMBATORE: Muslims across the district conducted special prayers along with their family members at their houses on Monday to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr that marks the end of month-long fasting in the month of Ramzan. Some families were found praying on the terrace of their houses. Joint secretary of the Coimbatore District Sunnath Jamath Kolgai Kuttamaipu A Faizal said the prayers were conducted between 6:30am and 8am. While imams conducted prayers at mosques, people prayed at their home. “”A special prayer was conducted to help us during the pandemic situation,” said M Abdul Hakkim, secretary of Jamaat e Islmai Hind. “At the mosque, we would just follow the instructions given by the Imam while praying. As it was not the situation this year, mosques had sent us a set of instructions that needed to be followed while praying either as text or videos at least a day ahead. Based on the instructions, a family member led the prayer and others followed.” “We prepared biryani in large quantity and shared it with friends, relatives, frontline workers like police officers and health workers,” Hakkim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ramzan-lacks-gaiety-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75984499.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||DoE, Board looking into question paper||Panaji: Education secretary Nila Mohanan on Monday said that both the director of education Vandana Rao and chairman of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Ramkrishna Samant were together looking into the contentious contents of the Class X English question paper that created a controversy. “They are in consultation with each other. The concerned HoDs are examining the matter,” Mohanan said, replying to a question if an inquiry had been initiated. Some controversial contents of the English language paper led to a furore on social media. The most debated question from the paper asked students to rephrase the given conversation that suggested that there are no job opportunities in Goa and opting for a Portuguese passport is a good choice. In the conversation provided, a friend ‘Rayson’ asks another ‘Kedan’ about his future plans and receives the response ‘I have applied for a Portuguese passport as there are too few job opportunities in Goa’. To this ‘Kedan’ responds with ‘You have taken the right decision. Without influence and money, it’s very difficult for Goans to get jobs in Goa’. The paper received widespread criticism, with NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar leading other BJP leaders in calling for immediate disciplinary action against the paper setter and all others associated with the process of paper setting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doe-board-looking-into-question-paper/articleshow/75986094.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Discipline, strong will help get over Covid, says recovered DCP||CHENNAI: A psychological battle coupled with discipline with taking medicines is very important when one gets Covid-19 and is forced to spend days in isolation, said deputy commissioner of AnnaNagar M S Muthusamy. The DCP was infected while working in the frontline and gave an emotional speech while rejoining duty on Monday. Other officers including the city police commissioner A K Vishwanathan welcomed Muthusamy with a huge round of applause for winning over the infection. The DCP had tested positive on May 4. He had been supervising crowd control measures at the Koyambedu wholesale market complex, which grew to be a huge Covid cluster in the weeks to follow and was shut subsequently. Since Muthusamy was asymptomatic, he was discharged from the hospital in four days and was sent for a home quarantine. Citing his personal experience, he said it is the kind of disease that isolates you, where your own family members cannot come anywhere near. “Only will power and psychological balance will help defeat the virus,” he said. As to the fact that he was put out of action for nearly two weeks, the officer said he never felt he was off duty because his colleagues were in touch with him over phone continuously. “That help boost my morale during the hard period.” He urged all Covid-19 patients to remain strong psychologically and diligently follow medical advice during their treatment. He said one won't be affected by Covid-19 if he or she follows all the safety guidelines. "Even if one gets infected, there is no need to panic as patients are given utmost care at the hospitals.” He also recommended the use of natural medicines like kabasura kudineer. Vishwanathan later said he was happy that infected policemen were recovering and returning to duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/discipline-strong-will-help-get-over-covid-says-recovered-dcp/articleshow/75984500.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: A knotty affair at Kumily checkpost||KOTTAYAM: Prasad and Gayatri chose not to wait for an entry pass to enter into matrimony. A 19-year-old bride hailing from Vandiperiyar in Idukki district tied the knot with the 25-year-old groom from Pudupatti at the waiting shed of Kumily checkpost in the presence of a handful of police personnel and revenue officials. Officials at the checkpost mooted an idea for holding the marriage there as the groom was not eligible to enter the state owing to lockdown restrictions. They helped the newly-married couple proceed to the groom’s house on Sunday. The girl was of Tamil origin settled in Vandiperiyar. The checkpost at Kumily is one of the six checkposts along the state border via which Keralites stranded in other parts of the country return to the state. The groom’s party had arrived at the checkpost in the morning to proceed to Vandiperiyar for the marriage. However, Prasad only had a pass with no proper authentication. According to G Geeva, deputy tahsildar, Peermade, who was on duty at the checkpost, the officials had no reason to allow entry for Prasad as he did not have a permanent address in the state. “The arrangements at the checkpost are only for allowing people from the state stranded in other states. We thought of sending the bride to Tamil Nadu initially. But that too was not possible as she did not have entry pass to Tamil Nadu,” said the officer. As time was running out, the officials at the checkpost came up with the idea of the marriage at the checkpost itself. “We told them to hold the marriage following Covid protocol at the waiting shed near the checkpost. Only five members each from the bride and groom’s party were allowed in. The rest had to witness the marriage from a distance,” said Geeva. The marriage was held without the presence of a priest. After marriage, the next hurdle was the entry for the bride to Tamil Nadu. “I called Uthamapalayam tahsildar. Based on the officer’s direction we applied for an entry pass online and the procedure was completed quickly and the bride got the pass,” he said. The couple thanked all the officials at the checkpost and left for Prasad’s village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-knotty-affair-at-kumily-checkpost/articleshow/75982248.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 70% beds empty, but private hospitals turn away symptomatic patients||CHENNAI: Though 70% beds in private hospitals designated to treat Covid-19 cases in Chennai are unoccupied, some symptomatic and critical cases were referred to crowded government hospitals. Private hospitals attribute it to the limited availability of ICU and ventilator facilities. “Every day, we get at least two cases from private hospitals in advanced stage. This adds up to our mortality,” said R Jayanthi, dean, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. One among them is a 52-year-old patient with diabetes from Royapuram. He was taken to a private hospital on Mount Poonamalle Road on Thursday and was turned away because he had breathing difficulties, said his son-in-law. The hospital said though beds, designated for Covid-19 patients were available, their ICUs were full treating non-Covid patients. Similar cases were reported at two hospitals in the western suburbs. A K Ravikumar, state secretary of Indian Medical Association, said: “Given that only 2%-3% of cases were symptomatic, we have enough ventilators and ICUs available now. We have told all designated hospitals to be prepared in case we need more ventilators.” Patients treated at private hospitals also flagged the cost of treatment. Conversation with patients and doctors from three different hospitals suggest that the overall treatment cost would vary from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh. “With 50% less staff, hospitals were facing difficulties. So we pay more to doctors and nurses who work in the strenuous atmosphere with PPEs on,” said Thillai Vallal, managing director of Venkataeswara Hospitals. “Almost 60% of our patients were covered under Central Government Health Scheme where the pricing is prescribed by the government,” said Prithvi Mohandas, managing director, MIOT International.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/70-beds-empty-but-private-hospitals-turn-away-symptomatic-patients/articleshow/75984507.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 26, 2020||Goa||Under Covid-19 cover, trees felled in Mhadei forest||Keri: The Mhadei region of the Western Ghats was given protection in 1999 when it was declared a wildlife sanctuary. But its biodiversity continues to be vulnerable to anthropogenic threats as locals continually defy forest authorities to claim ownership of the protected land. More recently, the lockdown, which has resulted in restricted movement of forest staff, has made it easier for villagers to cut trees. A wildlifer from Bicholim, Subodh Naik brought to notice the unchecked tree felling going on in Hulan by taking the advantage of the Covid-related lockdown. The slopes of the Hulan hill in Caranzol area have been cleared of indigenous trees like madat, kindal, jambo, kumbyo and satvin, sources said. Along with the trees, undergrowth and other vegetation has also been cleared. Environmentalists said that such illegal activities have been going on unhindered in several areas of Caranzol ever since the checkpost there became non-functional after it was burnt down by some culprits on May 26, 2019. The Hulan area they said is a more recent and new target. Sources alleged that some villagers from Caranzol are behind this and that they used mechanical tree cutters. Before the onset of monsoon, villagers clear patches of forest to plant cashew saplings, the source said. All of these areas are inside the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, but villagers continue to claim ownership of the land without producing any documents. Some villagers have even formed a group and erected a sign board stating ‘No Entry For Forest Officials’. “As no final notification has been issued by the Goa government, some villagers are taking benefits and are involved in clearing forests by felling trees and setting fire to the undergrowth. The Hulan hill is known as a tiger habitat and has a rich reptilian diversity. Rampant clearing of forests has already posed threat to the areas’s wildlife,” president of the Animal Rescue Squad Amrut Singh said. To prepare the land for the cashew plantation, the area has to be completely cleared of all tree stumps, cut logs, vegetation and undergrowth. For this the villagers set everything on fire, sources said. “On receiving information about trees being felled and patches of forest areas being set on fire, I have sent forest guards to the spot. We will get detailed information after they return,” range forest officer Vilas Gawas told TOI. The additional principal chief conservator of forests, Santosh Kumar said, “Our forest officials will visit the area and investigate the matter and take the needful steps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/under-covid-19-cover-trees-felled-in-mhadei-forest/articleshow/75986095.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 26, 2020||Nashik||NMC directs pvt hosps to put up rate cards||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation has directed private hospitals and nursing homes in the city to display the rate cards decided by the state government and reserve 80% of beds for Covid-19 patients. This comes after the state government’s decision to fix charges to treat patients and reserve 80% of beds in private hospitals. The NMC’s health department has sent letters in this connection to around 550 hospitals and nursing homes The government has issued guidelines about the rate to be charged by private hospitals. They cannot charge more than the fixed rate. “We have asked them to display their rate cards set by the state government at their hospitals. We have sent letters in this connection to all the private hospitals in the limits of the municipal corporation,” said NMC officials. “At present, we have made adequate arrangements for institutional quarantine and treating Covid-19 patients,” said NMC officials. “We have also directed all the private hospitals to inform about the number of beds they have and how many they can reserve for Covid-19 patients,” said NMC officials. “We have acquired a total of 70 beds from major seven hospitals in the city. They are also treating Covid-19 patient in their hospitals. Those who want to undertake treatment in private hospitals instead of the government or municipal hospitals will have this option,” said NMC officials.There are plans to acquire beds of those hospitals which have more than 10 beds. The NMC officials, said, “We will start making plans once we get all the information about the beds from private hospitals and nursing homes .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-directs-pvt-hosps-to-put-up-rate-cards/articleshow/75982244.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||New traffic signals may function from June||COIMBATORE: As many as 12 traffic signals installed by non-governmental organization Uyir several months ago are expected to function from June, streamlining traffic movement across the city. The city corporation conducted talks with the electricity board to power the signals, deputy commissioner R Mutharasu said. The signals are installed at the Milk Company junction, Shivalaya, Kurichi Klam Pirivu, Kuniyamuthur, Krishna College junction, Park Gate junction, Perks School junction on Trichy Road, Gold Wins, Thottipalayam Pirivu, Chinniyampalayam, Saravampatti check post and Saravampatti – Thudiyalur junction. Uyir had installed the signals at the busy junctions six months ago, a police officer said. “But they remained non-functional due to lack of power supply. Now that the electricity board has agreed to provide power, we are hopeful that the signals will become functional from June,” he said. Meanwhile, the city police submitted a proposal to the state government in November to install new traffic signals at the cost of Rs 4.82 crore. As many as 51 signals were installed in the city limit 10 years ago. Some of them are not functioning, the officer said. “The signals were maintained by the advertisers who were allowed to fix advertisement boards on the signal poles. They took care of the electricity bill and maintenance of the signals. But following the directions of the Madras high court, the advertisements were removed over a year ago.” Instead of spending money to repair the signals, the department has decided to replace them with new ones with digital countdown timer and LED light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-traffic-signals-may-function-from-june/articleshow/75984506.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Elderly couple found dead in house||Chennai: An elderly couple, natives of Kolkata settled in the city, were found dead in their apartment at Gill Nagar, Choolaimedu, on Monday. Police, alerted by some residents of the building after foul smell emanated from the couple’s flat that had remained locked for the last couple of days, informed health department officials suspecting the couple may have died of Covid-19. The bodies were sent to the government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital (KMCH) for postmortem. The man was 82 and his wife 78, Nungambakkam assistant commissioner of police N Muthuvelpandi said, adding that the couple, who belonged to the Sindhi community, didn’t have children and lived by themselves on the top floor of the three-storey building. Informed by police, a team of officials from the department of public health and Greater Chennai Corporation arrived and sanitized the entire apartment complex, both within and outside, spraying disinfectant. Some of the residents also said a few health department workers had visited the apartment complex last week for routine checks as part of the monitoring for Covid-19 symptoms, but that the couple had refused to cooperate. Since Thursday last, they told police, they had remained indoors. Early that morning, a police officer said, some of the residents had seen the elderly man step out to buy some goods. “That was their last sight of the couple alive,” he said. Some residents told police that the man had been running an embroidery unit at Purasawalkam for the past three decades and that the couple moved into the apartment about 25 years ago. The officer, quoting some of their neighbours, said the couple never mingled with others in the apartment complex. The elderly man often stepped out to buy some groceries and other essential items. Occasionally, the officer said, the couple visited the Sindhi Community Residents Association office in Aminjikarai. On Monday, after news of the deaths spread, office-bearers of the association approached the jurisdictional police and requested that the two bodies be handed over to them so that the last rites could be performed according to the customs of the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-house/articleshow/75984505.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Metro car shed wedges keep rakes on tracks||Kolkata: Even with wind speed during Cyclone Amphan reaching 133 kmph around Dum Dum, Metro Railway ensured that none of its rakes parked at the Noapara car shed suffered any damage due to the precautionary measures adopted by them. According to officials, a storm like the one witnessed by the city on May 20 could have easily pushed the rakes from the tracks, causing derailment and severe damage. Nearly all components of Metro coaches are located underneath and any damage to the vital ones could have rendered the rakes unusable when instructions arrived from the ministry of Railways to resume services. A few stations along the East-West Metro corridor, however, suffered the rage of the cyclone, according to Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee. Out of the 24 platform screen doors installed, six were smashed as the gale-force winds passed through the elevated stations. Efforts are now on to procure replacements for these doors. Unlike the East-West corridor that has more than sufficient rakes to operate the truncated services introduced recently, the North-South stretch has just about sufficient rolling stock for daily operations. Any damage to a single rake could have been catastrophic. “But nearly all the running stock of Metro Railway are parked at the Noapara car shed. We anticipated the chaos that cyclone Amphan could cause and took special measures. Kinds of special wedges were used to keep the wheels of the rakes firmly attached to the tracks. Pit lines were also used to prevent any waterlogging and damage to the motors. In this way, not a single rake suffered any damage and we continue to remain on standby, awaiting central orders to resume operations,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-car-shed-wedges-keep-rakes-on-tracks/articleshow/75984513.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 26, 2020||Pune||Cops foil prisoner’s bid to flee quarantine facility||Pune: An under-trial prisoner on Sunday afternoon tried to flee a quarantine centre in front of the Yerawada central jail, only to be caught by police and end up in the similar facility again. The prisoner broke the wooden door of his first-floor room and was about to jump on the ground floor when the on-duty policemen apprehended him. After registering an offence, the prisoner was lodged in another room of the same quarantine facility. The prison administration has set up the quarantine facility for the suspects arrested in various crimes and are sent by courts to jail under judicial custody. The jail authorities first put them under a 14-day quarantine at the facility and then move them into the main prison. “The police had arrested Nigdi resident Balasaheb Govind Kamble (50) on Sunday morning for a body offence. Later, a court ordered Kamble’s remand in judicial custody and he was taken to the jail where he was first moved into the quarantine facility,” inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police told TOI. The facility is jointly manned by the prison and the city police personnel. “Kamble was locked in a room. He repeatedly kicked and punched the wooden door till it broke down. He then went to the verandah of the building and was about to jump over the first floor railings when the police apprehended him,” Waghmare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-foil-prisoners-bid-to-flee-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75985399.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Flight operations resume at Kolhapur airport||KOLHAPUR: The flight services at Kolhapur airport resumed on Monday with Air Alliance — a subsidary of Air India — operating its flight on the Hyderabad-Kolhapur-Hyderabad route. “The plane arrived at Kolhapur airport from Hyderabad at 2.45 pm with 15 passengers, while it departed at 3.32 pm with 18 passengers,” Kolhapur airport director Kamalkumar Kataria said. He added that the passengers who arrived from Hyderabad were taken to the civil hospital on a bus for their compulsory health check-up. The airport too was equipped with thermal scanning facility of the departing passengers. “All the guidelines laid down by the government were followed while operating the flight services that started after a gap of around 2 months. Social distancing, frequent sanitization, and several other instructions were strictly followed. The departing passengers were called in around two hours prior to their flight departure,” Kataria said. According to Kataria, until Sunday night, there was a lot of confusion over the resuming of air services and at around 11pm they got the information that the airport has to be readied on Monday as the flight operations will begin on the Hyderabad route. “The other routes, Tirupati, Bengaluru, and Mumbai, are yet to be included in the flyer’s list, but we are likely to get the confirmation about these routes as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/flight-operations-resume-at-kolhapur-airport/articleshow/75982245.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Udaipur||‘Hello Mommies’ drive extended to entire Udaipur range||UDAIPUR: The 'Hello Mommies' WhatsApp group task assigned to lady police officers has proved to be a big hit with three successful deliveries of women in two weeks in the curfew-bound areas of the city. Due to timely intervention and help extended by the police department, the families of the pregnant women were able to find transport at odd hours and taken to the hospitals. Even though the lockdown norms have been relaxed and curfew has been lifted from many areas, women continue to join the police’s WhatsApp group and seek help from the lady cops. Seeing its growing popularity, now ASHA workers, private ambulance service providers, taxi drivers and a lady doctor too have been added to the group to meet emergency situations easily. Thrilled with the success, Udaipur IG Binita Thakur has extended the program to other areas of the Udaipur range and asked the district SPs to launch the initiative in their respective areas too. “We are happy that we could prove helpful to three women so far who have given birth to healthy daughters. All are safe and happy,” said Chetna Bhati, one of the group administrators. Dy SP Sudha Palawat and Prem Dhande are the other two administrators managing the task efficiently. The first woman to deliver after the group formation was Ranu, wife of Bahadur Meena, a daily wager who did not know what to do when his wife went into labour. He sought help from the WhatsApp group and a police jeep patrolling in the area rushed to assist. The woman and child are now at their native place in Madhya Pradesh and the family is thankful to the officers for their kind act. Another woman, Taslima, delivered a baby girl last week and the three officers visited her home after she was discharged. Her grandparents could not hold back their tears when the cops presented them flowers and a cake to celebrate the arrival of the new member in the house. On Sunday night another woman called Geeta, wife of Prakash Bhoi, sought help from the cops through the group. “We guided them to get an ambulance which took the lady to the hospital, she delivered a healthy baby girl,” Dhande said. “We are happy with the efforts of these lady officers who tread a different path, as people become more confident with the department. They have started to see them as friends,” said G S Mewara, additional SP city, who mooted the idea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hello-mommies-drive-extended-to-entire-udaipur-range/articleshow/75985400.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Pvt bus assn wants talk with govt to resume services||Bhubaneswar/Cuttack: Despite the government allowing movement of buses with full capacity, private buses did not ply on roads across the state on Monday. Private bus owners said they don’t have enough staff to resume services and demanded waiver of motor vehicle tax and discussion with the state government on various other issues. The state government declared restoration of bus services without discussing the matter with the bus owners association, alleged Devendra Sahu, secretary of Odisha Private Bus Owners’ Association. Neither the transport minister called any meeting nor any communication has been done with the association before declaring the restoration of bus services in Odisha, he alleged. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the government had initially declared that buses can resume services with 50% passengers following Covid-19 guidelines, which the bus owners opposed saying that it will cause heavy financial losses to them. “We are in a dilemma regarding the unmindful and haphazard decision of the government during the pandemic. When the number of Covid patients is increasing rapidly the government is asking us to run the buses with full capacity which may lead to spread of the virus,” Sahu said. He added, “We are also worried about the safety of our staff, who will get exposed to passengers directly. Besides, following the Covid-19 guidelines and regular sanitisation of the vehicles would cost a lot of money for bus owners,” Sahu added. Apart from the safety and security of their staff, the bus owners also expressed apprehension about lack of any mechanism to check suspected Covid-19 patients from entering the buses. The government must provide safety to bus employees as well as passengers, Sahu said. “Buses will run only after the discussion with the association regarding safety precautions for bus employees and passengers,” added Sahu. The association has also demanded revocation of VAT and cess charges on diesel. Transport minister Padmanabh Behera said, “As the government has issued guidelines to run buses following Covid-19, right now there is no requirement of discussion with the bus association. The private bus owners said their staff have gone to villages during the lockdown and have not returned yet. The government is also contemplating road tax waiver for the time period when buses did not run on the roads.” “Government buses are running in some districts. A team has been formed to monitor sanitation process in various terminals. Sanitisation of bus terminals will be ensured by the department,” said Behera. More than 15,000 buses are parked in lots for last two months while over 45,000 employees working in the buses in the state, are without jobs. When the government has declared the bus services with full strength, the safety of the employees should be the first priority of the government, said Debendra Nayak, spokesperson of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/pvt-bus-assn-wants-talk-with-govt-to-resume-services/articleshow/75982251.cms||Minati Singha
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Gajbhiye leaves for Jalgaon||Kolhapur: At midnight on Sunday, Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye handed over charge to Arti Ghorpade, the head of the anaesthesia department. The state health directorate had issued an order to transfer Gajbhiye to the Jalgaon civil hospital on Friday. On Saturday and Sunday, she continued to hold her post at the CPR. But around 11.45 pm, Gajbhiye arrived with her bags packed and handed over the charge to Ghorpade. She then left for Jalgaon. Meanwhile, the order to transfer Jaiprakash Ramanand from Dhule to CPR has been stayed. Till Monday evening, no one had been appointed as CPR dean. Former MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar issued a statement saying the local doctors are not allowing Ramanand to take charge. “During his earlier tenure as the acting dean, Ramanand had acted against the lobby of doctors who refer patients to private hospitals. Some misconceptions about Ramanand are being spread, which led to the stay on his transfer. At this time, we need a person who can handle the Covid-19 situation properly,” said Kshirsagar. “We have been told that new batch of travellers will be allowed to travel to Kolhapur, especially from red zones. Without strong leadership, how will we handle the situation?” on CPR employee asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gajbhiye-leaves-for-jalgaon/articleshow/75982258.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||After 100 nurses quit, hospitals look to govt to stem exit||Pune: Representatives of private hospitals in the city met Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on May 23 with concerns about several nurses, mostly from Kerala, quitting their jobs.The hospitals’ representatives said the state ought to consider incentives so that paramedics and nurses do not leave. “We have decided to work out and submit a proposal to the government about the concerns raised by these hospitals,” Ram told TOI. “The main concern that the nurses have relates to their personal safety. They also believe the Covid-19 situation is better in Kerala than in Pune,” he said. Mathew K John, joint secretary of United Nurses Association’s (UNA) Pune chapter, told TOI, “At least 100 nurses from hospitals in Pune have resigned from their jobs so far. An equal number from Mumbai too have quit. All this is not a good sign in this crisis.” The UNA is an umbrella body of 5.5 lakh nurses across the country. The nurse-patient ratio is not being followed by many hospitals in Maharashtra, causing an adverse impact on the physical and mental health of nurses, he said. “In some cases in Mumbai, a single nurse has attended to 30 patients. Several private hospitals in Pune are not adhering to the guidelines set by the Indian Nursing Council. Many nurses got infected because of this laxity and hospitals’ management did not attend to their health safety. Many more nurses have decided not to renew their contracts and have left for their home towns in Kerala,” John added. The UNA representatives have sought a meeting with the district collector to apprise him of these issues. “ Nurses have worked more than 12 hours putting patients over their personal health which hospitals must recognise,” he said. Private hospitals in Pune dismissed these issues as the driving factor behind the resignations. “Their leaving was not any safety concern. We provide the best of the work environment and amenities to our nursing staff,” Bomi Bhote, CEO, Ruby Hall Clinic, said. At least 27 nurses working at this hospital have resigned since the lockdown. The hospital has 1,000 nurses deployed at their three branches.Four of the 27 nurses left before completion of their two-year term and the rest 23 had already planned to leave for better opportunities on completion of their two-year term, Bhote said.Abrarali Dalal, chief operating officer of Sahyadri Hospital, said every hospital in Pune is taking utmost care of their nursing staff by amply equipping them with personal protection equipment and other essentials. “Nurses are going back to Kerala because their parents or they want to go home. It is nothing to do with their safety here,” he added.Dalal conceded that recruiting new nurses is a challenge in these times. “But most of the retained nurses are extremely dedicated and they fill in and work double hard for the patients and with the doctors,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-100-nurses-quit-hospitals-look-to-govt-to-stem-exit/articleshow/75985401.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Air service between Ahmedabad , Jaisalmer begins||JAISALMER: A private airlines company began its services from Jaisalmer to Ahmedabad on Monday. All passengers were screened at the airport by the district administration as per SOP. Eleven passengers came from Ahmedabad while two passengers went from here. The total booking was for 17 people, but only 11 came while 6 shifted their travel date. This service will continue for six days a week. The flight reached Jaisalmer from Ahmedabad, which is in red zone. Looking at this, the airports authority had made many arrangements under the prescribed SOP for arrival and departure of passengers at the airport. Airports Authority of India, Jaisalmer director BS Meena said that on Monday a flight service of Trujet started between Jaisalmer and Ahmedabad. He said standees about guidelines issued by the aviation ministry have been put and they have made other preparations. There will be no human interaction with the airport personnel. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-service-between-abad-jaisalmer-begins/articleshow/75985402.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||At 412, Delhi sees a drop in new coronavirus cases||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded a significant drop in new Covid-19 cases with 412 more people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. For the last one week, the number of cases recorded daily has been above 500. The city had recorded the highest spike in fresh cases — 660 — on May 22. On Monday, 635 fresh cases were reported. The total number of cases of Covid-19 in the state has now reached 14,465. At least two mess workers at AIIMS who were in direct contact with another staff at the hospital, who succumbed to Covid-19 last week, have tested positive for the disease, sources said. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 has mounted to 288 with 12 more deaths being confirmed by the state authorities. As many as 6,954 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 7,223 active cases, the Delhi health department said. According to the Delhi health department bulletin, of the total 14,465 cases recorded so far, at least 2,092 are admitted at various hospitals like LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and AIIMS Jhajjhar — 185 of them are in ICU and 27 on ventilators. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal held a review meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and bureaucrats through video conferencing on Tuesday. During the meeting it was decided to provide real time information about availability of Covid-19 beds in hospital in public domain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-412-city-sees-a-drop-in-new-cases/articleshow/76015612.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for raping minor||COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old man who was having an illicit affair with a woman for seven years in Pollachi was arrested on Monday for sexually assaulting her 14-year-old daughter. The accused, R Muthukumar, a native of Thennur in Trichy, was booked under Sections 7 read with 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and IPC Sections 294(b) and 506(ii). He was produced before a special Pocso court and remanded in judicial custody. The chargesheet said Muthukumar’s wife Amutha and his two children lived in Trichy while he was engaged in construction work there. Later, he found a job with a hotel in Pollachi. It was during this time that he developed an affair with a woman in his neighbourhood in Pollachi. Three months ago, he visited Pollachi to meet his paramour, who had gone out for work. Her minor daughter, a class VIII student, was alone at home. Muthukumar forced himself upon the minor girl at her house and threatened her with dire consequences if she informed anybody, police said. On Sunday evening, he visited Pollachi again and attempted to molest the minor girl who was alone at her house. The girl raised an alarm and rushed out of her house, when her neighbours gathered and apprehended Muthukumar. He was handed over to an all women police station in Pollachi. Based on the girl’s complaint, police arrested Muthukumar on Sunday night. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-raping-minor/articleshow/75984508.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||Shramik special bound for UP departs from Margao with 1,484 on board||MARGAO: The Shramik Special train for Balia in Uttar Pradesh departed from the Margao railway station with 1,484 migrant labourers on Monday afternoon. Nine passengers alighted from the Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Rajdhani express at Margao and 44 boarded the train. At the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium, which serves as the shelter home for migrants wanting to leave for their native places, it’s a challenging task for the authorities to arrange meals for the thousands housed in the premises, sources said. “The shelter home was initially intended to accommodate some 250-300 migrants who had registered with the government to go to their native places. Since the Shramik special trains commenced, we are accommodating thousands of migrants who are left stranded at the Margao railway station,” said an administrative official. “As we saw last week, we accommodated over 4,500 migrants inside, while 1,000 spent the night outside the stadium,” the official added. Security has also been beefed up at the shelter following reports of skirmishes between groups of migrants. Charity organisations have been supplementing government arrangements for providing food to the inmates of the shelter home. “These people have stopped complaining about food. Their only request to the authorities now is to send them home,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shramik-spl-bound-for-up-departs-from-margao-with-1484-on-board/articleshow/75986099.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Don’t stop students’ vehicles, police told||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief Loknath Behera has instructed all district police chiefs to ensure that the vehicles transporting SSLC and higher-secondary board exam candidates are not disrupted. The DGP has directed police not to stop such vehicles as part of lockdown enforcement. DGP Loknath Behera said on Monday that more woman police officials will be deployed on roads and near schools for the safety of girl students. The presence of Janamaithri police officials will be ensured in vehicles ferrying students from tribal settlements. Police are also instructed to use their official vehicles to transport candidates to school in case students’ journey is affected for unforeseen reasons. Special care will be taken to avoid crowding at exam centres, both inside the premises and outside, before and after the exams. Additional superintendents of police and additional deputy commissioners in each district are assigned with the task of overseeing the activities related to exam. They have collected details of all exam centres and the same have been shared with police control room in their respective districts. Janamaithri police officials are also tasked with helping the authorities of schools and related departments in conducting the exam adhering to social-distancing norms. After each exam, the police personnel are directed to report the day’s activities to ADGP (headquarters).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dont-stop-students-vehicles-police-told/articleshow/75982256.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||CREDAI seeks PM’s intervention in real estate slump||Panaji: Liquidity crunch, stagnant demand and cartelisation of raw material have emerged as major deterrents in the real estate sector’s bid to kickstart fullfledged operations, CREDAI said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  It has appealed to Modi for his “immediate intervention” during the distressful situation arising out of the Covid-19 calamity. In the open letter, CREDAI has suggested short term as well as long term measures that will help revive the ailing real estate sector and spur demand for commercial as well as residential units. Short term measures suggested are resumption of construction activity, easy availability of construction material, extension of licences and permissions for real estate projects, deferment of infrastructure tax and relaxation of stamp duty. A serious point of concern for builders is a visible cartel forming between cement and steel manufacturers, CREDAI said in the letter to the Prime Minister’s Office. “There is news that cement and steel manufacturers have already started increasing the prices of their products. This will affect the construction industry in the long term. Although not a state subject, this matter should be aggressively pursued,” CREDAI said. Long term measures recommended are deferment of house tax and trade licence fees, auto-renewal of statutory licences, and simplification of the procedure to obtain construction licences and new real estate projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/credai-seeks-pms-intervention-in-real-estate-slump/articleshow/75986097.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Migrants de-boarding midway headache for govt||Bhubaneswar: Cases of migrant workers getting down from Shramik Special trains by pulling chains in places other than scheduled stoppages during the past three days have become a headache for the local administrations. “Workers should get down at the designated stations instead of alighting from trains elsewhere. The government has arranged health screening facility at particular railway stations before taking them to quarantine centres. They violate government rules by getting down from the train midway,” said the officer. As many as 305 migrant workers got down at Kantabanji station in Balangir district by allegedly pulling the chain of the train on Monday, said a railway official. The train was travelling from Gandhidham in Gujarat to Nergundi in Cuttack district. The incident happened around 4.50am. Police said the migrant workers who got off the train belong to Nuapada, Balangir and Kalahandi districts. “They might have discussed among themselves against travelling to Cuttack. Though it is not clear, we suspect somebody from the group pulled the chain to stop the train, and disembarked to reach their homes faster or escape quarantine,” said a senior police officer. Kantabanji police immediately reached the station and asked them to go to their respective quarantine centres. With the help of the local administration, they were taken to quarantine centres after health screening, police said. Two similar cases were reported between Balugaon and Chhatrapur stations on Saturday and Sunday. On Saturday, around 400 migrant workers got off a train at Chilka station near Balugaon in Khurda district. The train, coming from Namburu in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh was supposed to stop at Khurda Road station. As most of the migrants belong to Ganjam district, they pulled the chain and got down, said police. Later the Railway Protection Force (RPF) detained them at the station and informed local police and administration. Finally, they were taken to their respective quarantine centres. On Sunday, around 100 migrant workers had alighted from the Hyderabad-Khurda Road Shramik Special train near Chhatrapur station in Ganjam district. The RPF detained 60 of them. Later, local police searched for others and sent all to quarantine centres in their areas. Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said people should not violate the quarantine rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/migrants-de-boarding-midway-headache-for-govt/articleshow/75982266.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 26, 2020||Nashik||200 beds to be set up for non-covid patients||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is planning to set up 200 beds in the newly constructed building of Bytco hospital in the city to treat non-covid patients amid the outbreak of the pandemic. The newly constructed building of the Bytco hospital, which was built at a cost of over Rs 40 crore, has not been used for the past one year as NMC is yet to get the workforce, including doctors and nurses, to make the new hospital operational. The five-decade-old Bytco Hospital, managed by the civic body, is one of the busiest hospitals located in Nashik Road area of the city. NMC had taken a decision to set up additional building of the hospital due to an increase of footfall at the hospital. The new 200-bedded building has a modular operation theatre. “We have completed the civil and electrification works at the building of the new building. We will soon start the furniture work. The policy decisions whether to recruit a workforce on its own or outsource the medical staff is to be taken by the general body meeting,” said NMC officials. “The proposal in this connection is soon to be tabled at the GB meeting shortly,” added the NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/200-beds-to-be-set-up-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/75982254.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik APMC to remain shut for 3 days||Nashik: Supply of vegetables and fruits in various parts of the city and Mumbai will be affected as the Nashik APMC will remain closed for three days — starting from Tuesday. An APMC official said two people in localities near Nashik APMC tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. “This has led to panic among traders and workers at the market,” he said. “The traders had written to Nashik APMC, seeking closure of auction of vegetables and fruits for few days as part of precautionary measures. Hence, we have decided stop the auction of vegetables and fruits in the APMC for three days (until Thursday),” he added. Nashik APMC is the major vegetable and fruit wholesale market in the district, and also meets the demand of the state capital. Around 150 vehicles loaded with vegetables ply to Mumbai and other locations from Nashik on daily basis. Hence, the supply of vegetables and fruits are likely to be affected for the next three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-apmc-to-remain-shut-for-3-days/articleshow/75982264.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 26, 2020||Pune||Over 150 citizen volunteers join PMC’s Covid war effort||Pune: Abhjit Khole, a resident of Dhankawadi and an IT professional, has been clocking his 9-to-5 from home since the lockdown on March 24. But that schedule is set to change soon.Khole has volunteered to become a ‘Covid worker’ in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s infection containment efforts. He will soon join a force of at least 150 others to carry out duties such as management of services at quarantine centres, basic health surveys of the city's neighbourhoods and extending help to the elderly. “I had expressed my willingness to join the Covid fight a month ago. I got a call from the civic administration on Monday. They asked me to report to work on Tuesday,” said Khole.Much of this volunteer force is made up of young people, mostly working professionals, who had responded to a PMC appeal that called for active citizen participation in the fight against Covid-19. A PMC official said the Covid volunteer force will be attached to five civic zones and report to the respective zonal commissioners. Their contribution will prove to be vital. The increasing number of cases in the city threatens to overwhelm the PMC’s own staff. Employees from other departments of the civic body have already been deployed by the administration to carry out Covid-related duties. “These volunteer Covid workers will help the PMC perform a few tasks more effectively,” said the PMC official. “We will also ensure the citizens are given tasks that are suitable. Our officers will hold daily dialogues with them and they will be issued temporary identity cards. We have already made it clear that the Covid workers are not entitled to any remuneration.”In addition to the Covid workers, the PMC has also received applications from about 25 people working in field of medical services, including doctors. Officials said the civic body has started to go through the applications. “We need to check their documents because the selected will go on to join the medical services,” an official said. The PMC has also not ruled out a second appeal to gather a volunteer force. “That decision — to reissue an appeal — will be based on feedback after the initial response,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-150-citizen-volunteers-join-pmcs-covid-war-effort/articleshow/75985404.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 26, 2020||Goa||BJP seeks probe into exam gaffe||Panaji: Demanding an inquiry by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education into the Class X English paper, BJP said that the board should take action against the paper-setters, the scrutiniser and coordinator among others. The question in the paper is objectionable, BJP general secretary Narendra Sawaikar told reporters at the party headquarters here. “We have discussed this issue with chief minister Pramod Sawant and he has directed the board to take appropriate action,” he said. A sentence in Saturday’s Class X English language paper stated that Goans are opting for Portuguese passports as it is difficult to get a job in the state without use of influence or bribing. “After reading the question we can understand the intention and prejudice behind asking those questions and we condemn such motivated, prejudiced and intentional question being asked to children,” Sawaikar said. He said that migration is a world phenomenon and if is somebody supports such a question for an exam then it is condemnable. “The Goa board should immediately order an inquiry into the goof and act against those responsible by debarring them from the paper setting process,” the BJP general secretary said. Reacting to leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat’s tweet that the question paper “is a reflection of current situation in Goa” under the BJP government, Sawaikar said that Kamat is a former education minister and such a tweet is not expected from him. “We should not bring politics in education as there are lots of issues where politics can be done ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-seeks-probe-into-exam-gaffe/articleshow/75986098.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Final-semester UG students need to study entire syllabus||PUNE: Final-year students of undergraduate non-professional course colleges affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University would have to appear for their exams by studying their syllabus in entirety as opposed to the 60% prescribed for final-year postgraduate students. However, students of professional courses of both undergraduate and postgraduate colleges would have to study 60% of their syllabus. For both professional and non-professional courses, each paper would comprise of 50 marks. The exam duration would be of 1.5 hours. Meanwhile, all backlog examinations would be based on 100% of the syllabus. Each paper would comprise of 50 marks. The allotted time would be 1.5 hours, said university officials. Vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar told TOI, "The report by the state government recommending conduct of final-year examinations was discussed. The four deans of the university were asked to constitute a committee along with subject experts and prepare a report on how to conduct examinations for final-year and backlog students. The action plan was then ratified in the academic council meeting on Saturday. This will now be sent to the board of examination and then to the management council for approval." Elaborating on the process, pro-vice-chancellor N S Umrani said, "For all final-year postgraduate students, syllabus up to March 14 will be considered for the exams. The same will be applicable for final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate professional courses. For undergraduate courses, we collected data from many affiliated colleges. In some courses, the examinations had started before the lockdown was announced. Hence, we came to the conclusion that 100% syllabus will be considered for examination for final-year undergraduate students in conventional courses, such as BA, BCom and BSc." For final-year students with backlogs, 100% of the syllabus would be the basis for conducting the examinations. All the exams for final-year students would be of 50 marks each. The duration of the exam would be of 1.5 hours. While the backlog exams would be held from, July 1 to 15, the remaining exams would be held from July 16 to 31, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/final-semester-ug-students-need-to-prepare-entire-syllabus-for-sppu-exams/articleshow/75985406.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 75-year-old killed, limbs chopped for jewellery||JAIPUR: A 75-year-old woman was killed in Bagru police station area here on Sunday afternoon. The killer slit her throat and then chopped off her hands and feet to take out the jewellery that she was wearing. The victim was a widow who lived alone. Police arrested the victim’s neighbour within 12 hours of the murder. The victim was identified as Prahbati Devi while the alleged killer was identified as 45-year-old Laxman Regar. Bagru SHO Brij Bhushan said, “We received information that the victim stayed alone at her house and was found by her family members when they went to her residence. She was found dead in a cot. Her throat had been slit with a sharp weapon and jewellery that she was wearing were missing. It seemed that while the killer could easily take off the earrings as well as the gold chain around her neck, the accused could not do so with the bangles and anklets because of which he chopped them off.” After finding the body, a police team was constituted to hunt down the killer. Police started questioning the neighbours and activated their informants. Finally they received information about Regar who knew that the victim stayed alone and had cash and jewellery. On Monday, cops brought in Regar for questioning and he confessed to the murder. “We interrogated him and he admitted to killing the senior citizen. On Sunday, when he saw that no one was out of their homes, he entered Prahbati Devi’s house and asked her for money. When she refused, he pushed her on the cot, slit her throat, tied her limbs with rope before chopping them off. He claimed that he was in dire need of money because of which he committed the crime,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/75-yr-old-killed-limbs-chopped-for-jewellery/articleshow/75985407.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||On guard, despite lull in Covid-19 cases||COIMBATORE: Much to the relief of residents and health workers, the district and neighbouring Tirupur haven’t reported any Covid-19 cases in the past 22 days and 23 days, respectively. Had there been zoning system as earlier, this would have qualified both the districts to be re-designated as green zones. The district administrations, however, have warned people against lowering their guard, thinking they are in safe zones. It was on May 3 that the district last recorded a positive case. “We have completed 22 days without a Covid-19 case,” confirms Coimbatore collector K Rajamani. Renuka Nair, a senior beautician at a local salon, says it is a relief to know there is no community spread in the district. “Most of us have been asked report for work, which involves physical proximity to customers. We can also send our children to write board exams on June 10 without any fear.” While the district recorded its first case on March 22 when a student from Spain tested positive, Tirupur recorded its first case the very next day when a 48-year-old businessman tested positive. Both were returnees from abroad. The districts saw a spike after March 30 and April 1, when attendees of Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi tested positive in large numbers. The next wave came when their relatives tested positive and that was followed by another wave in April third week when a few people in containment zones contracted the virus. According to officials, they managed to control community spread by strictly restricting people’s movement in containment zones and ensuring their adherence to lockdown norms. Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan says, “We were quick to trace contacts of positive cases and quarantine them. We also monitored their neighbourhoods, where disinfection drives were taken out on large scale.” Health department officials say they haven’t compromised on screening people for Covid-19 in both the districts. “We continue to test everyone entering the districts and patients who are approaching hospitals with flu like symptoms or breathing problems. We were testing around 250 samples a day. Now that flights are operational, we expect the numbers to increase to 500 samples a day,” says a health department official. Officials say they have no plans to ease more restrictions. Coimbatore collector says, “It’s the period to remain more cautious, as people are coming from northern districts and other states, where the infection rate is high. While our focus is on monitoring the district’s entry points via road, rail and air, there is always a chance of someone slipping through. We want the public to follow safety norms like washing their hands, sanitizing surfaces, wearing masks and practising social distancing voluntarily, while allowing us to resume our normal duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/on-guard-despite-lull-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75984514.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||52 contacts of new patient test negative in Ooty||UDHAGAMANDALAM: At least 52 primary and secondary contacts of the 21-year-old pregnant woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 recently, in Ooty have been tested negative for the virus, said health department officials. She was at Vyasarpadi in Chennai for the past nine months. She is admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Fingerpost area in Ooty, where she stayed with her parents a day, is now a containment area. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, said, “Throat swabs and blood samples were taken from all the 52 contacts for test. The test results that came today (Monday) showed them negative. We are carrying out disinfection drive at Fringerpost area thrice a day and distributing iron and vitamin tablets to the residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/52-contacts-of-new-patient-test-ve-in-ooty/articleshow/75984512.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Alcoholic, 38, hangs self||COIMBATORE: A 38-year-old Edayarpalayam resident, who escaped from a de-addiction centre on Sunday night, was found hanging in a graveyard on Monday morning. Police identified him as Pradeepkumar of JJ Nagar at Edayarpalayam. “His wife had admitted him to the de-addiction centre at Kovilpalayam a few days ago as he used to fight with her and their two children under the influence of alcohol. He escaped from there on Sunday night, had liquor and reached his home to fight with his wife. The woman informed the Thudiyalur police. A police team reached the house and brokered peace between the couple. The officers also advised the couple to visit the police station on Monday morning,” a police officer told TOI. But when Pradeepkumar again fought with her, the woman was forced to contact police again. “Before police arrived, he went out of the house and hanged himself,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/alcoholic-38-hangs-self/articleshow/75984509.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Goa||‘Exam question set to manipulate children’||MARGAO: Auda Viegas of Bailancho Ekvott on Monday condemned the attempt made by the question setter of the controversial SSC English question paper to “manipulate the minds of young children against the government and Goa”. “It is an outburst of a biased English paper setter, overlooked by the chief paper setter. Job seekers, both Goans and others posing as Goans, have been making Portuguese passports for several years. How could an Indian English paper setter be instrumental in putting such thoughts, ie ‘You have taken the right decision. Without influence and money, it’s very difficult for Goans to get jobs in Goa’” Viegas said. A former teacher and a question paper setter, Viegas pointed out that “an Indian teacher, especially during these trying times, is expected to inculcate in the minds of the young future generation, love and concern for humanity and encourage them to practice kindness for everyone irrespective. She demanded inquiry and action against the English question paper setter “for the damage caused to the state, the young children’s mindset and wrongfully inciting the young minds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exam-question-set-to-manipulate-children/articleshow/75986101.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Sewagram Ashram chief resigns citing pressure||Wardha: President of Sewagram Ashram Pratisthan TRN Prabhu has tendered his resignation, three years before completion of his term, citing differences with president of Sarva Seva Sangh (SSS) Mahadeo Vidrohi . The Pratisthan is an independent committee under SSS and runs the ashram. Prabhu has alleged interference by Vidrohi in Ashram functioning. On the other hand, Vidrohi claimed that Prabhu was not working as per Gandhian ideology and was functioning as per his whims and fancies. A former banker, Prabhu has worked with various Gandhian organizations in Kerala. He was appointed Ashram president in March 2018.  In a press release issued on Monday, SSS stated that Prabhu was asked to resign after Sangh’s meeting on January 12-13 this year. On March 18 Vidrohi had written to Prabhu asking to submit his resignation. “Prabu’s decision to submit resignation now after two months is a political drama,” the Sangh stated. “I was considered close to BJP and RSS for refusing permission to Congress Working Committee meeting at the Ashram in October 2018. Since then SSS has been interfering in Ashram work. It is very difficult to work under such pressure,” said Prabhu and added that he will take up the matter to court. Sources said Prabhu was earlier close to Vidrohi. “Prabhu seems to be favouring a political ideology which is against Gandhian thoughts,” said Vidrohi. Citing concretization work done at Ashram, he said Prabhu took decisions unilaterally. “Many times we opposed cement concretization work on the Ashram premises but he wouldn’t listen. He used to take decisions without consulting anybody,” he said. After Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination, Jawaharlal Nehru, Rajendra Prasad, Vinoba Bhave, Jayaprakash Narayan and others had assembled at Sewagram Ashram to form SSS to spread Gandhian ideology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sewagram-ashram-chief-resigns-citing-pressure/articleshow/75984522.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Furnish soil health cards before sowing’||Hyderabad: With the resolution to sow selected crops being passed, farmers are raising questions regarding the assurances being given to them about procurement by the government. The questions that the villagers posed were: in how much extent farmers who have access to water can cultivate their crops, those who do not have water for irrigation what should they cultivate and how much, and if they are made to cultivate a crop which they never cultivated before and suffer losses, who will bear the loss. “The government is giving an assurance that it will buy the produce but what if the crop fails. Farmers should be given soil health cards and only after the soil is tested, should they be asked to cultivate the appropriate crop,” villagers opined. The villagers also wanted to know how the issue of lack of agriculture labour would be solved. Vanteru Pratap Reddy, chairman of Telangana State Forest Development Corporation (TSFDC), who had unsuccessfully contested against KCR in the previous elections and later joined TRS, went to Gajwel on Monday for creating awareness among the farmers about what crops should be cultivated. - Sushil Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/furnish-soil-health-cards-before-sowing/articleshow/75984518.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Runners, you don’t have to wear a mask, say doctors||CHENNAI: Running with a facial mask is almost like running at a high altitude, say city doctors. “The mask tends to hinder the amount of oxygen you are breathing in, much like what happens at higher altitudes,” says Dr K A Thiagarajan, associate professor, Centre for Sports Science. He adds that research is being done at several universities world over on how the effects of wearing specialized masks that restrict airflow simulate altitude training. “The only reason you would need to wear a mask when exercising outdoors is for social reasons, to appease other walkers in the neighbourhod, or if the government mandates it,” he says. “Also if you sweat into the mask it loses its anti-microbial property anyway.” Dr V Ramasubramanian, infectious disease specialist at Apollo Hospitals, actively discourages the use of masks when exercising. When a person is exerting themselves physically they breathe harder, he says, but a mask impairs the amount of oxygen coming in, and this can lead to hypoxia, which can manifest as dizziness or breathlessness. “Masks work to protect others from you, not the other way around. Only N95 masks protect the wearer. Don’t run in groups, or pick routes where there are fewer people,” suggests Dr Ramasubramanian. News like this is certainly enough to quell the trepidations of runners like Lakshmi Sundar, who at the start of this week, ventured out for her first jog around the neighbourhood, mask in place. Minutes into the run, the seasoned marathoner realized exercising with a mask was much more difficult than she imagined. “You cannot run as fast or as long with a mask,” says the president of the Chennai Runners, who slid the mask under her nostrils for all the stretches where she was alone, and then covered up when someone approached her. Dr Ramasubramanian says it is acceptable to run with the mask under your nose. Respiratory medicine specialist Dr Raj B Singh suggests that if you are exercising in a crowded area, it’s good to have a mask handy. “If there is someone walking or running in the same direction as you and within ten feet they are likely to be by your side for several seconds. In this case, it’s better to have a mask on. If they are in the opposite direction, then there is no worry.” Lakshmi says masked runners would benefit from a technique called ‘nasal breathing’, which allows more oxygen in. “Unlike mouth breathing it also improves the body’s tolerance to carbon dioxide. It’s more comfortable if you are wearing a mask.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/runners-you-dont-have-to-wear-a-mask-say-docs/articleshow/75984510.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Missing woman found murdered in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A woman who was reported missing on May 23 with the Vaishali Nagar police was found dead in Dudu on Monday. The deceased stayed in Bhankrota but worked in a health insurance company in Vaishali Nagar. Police suspect that it is victim’s cousin who killed her and then dumped the body on Jaipur outskirts. The victim was identified as 23-year-old Harshika Sharma and her body was found on the side of NH-8 in Dudu police station area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-woman-found-murdered/articleshow/75985405.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rare tumour causes constipation in teen, operated upon||NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old boy being treated for constipation for weeks was recently detected with a rare brain tumour and operated upon by doctors at a private hospital. The boy, a resident of Delhi, had been suffering with recurrent episodes of loss of consciousness and constipation like symptoms. He was being treated for constipation and had consulted various experts at different hospitals, but his condition kept deteriorating, doctors at Apollo Hospital said. “When nothing helped, he was brought to our hospital and detailed investigation revealed that the youth had a neurological abnormality called hypothalamic glioma — a rare kind of tumor — in the brain,” a doctor said. Gliomas can occur at any age. They are often more aggressive in adults than in children. Hypothalamic glioma causes a lot of autonomic and endocrine dysfunctions in the body, Dr Sudheer Tyagi, senior consultant, neurosurgery at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said. Dr Tyagi said that constipation can occur because of altered bowel movements due to autonomic dysfunction. “Other common symptoms can be headaches, seizures, irritability, vomiting, visual difficulties and weakness or numbness of the extremities,” he added. In such cases, surgical excision of the tumour is needed. In the case of the 19-year-old boy, the doctors said tumor was present in the lower part of his brain, which made it extremely critical to operate. “It was important for us to ensure that the surgery is done with absolute precision given the typical location of the tumour. We had to extract the tumor without causing harm to any other nerves and ensuring that other parts of the brain remain untouched. That’s why we performed the surgery under a microscope,” Dr Tyagi said, adding that the patient is doing well now. “If such a tumour goes undetected for a long time, it can have long lasting impacts like loss of vision in both eyes and obstruction in normal flow of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain, which causes further increase in intracranial pressure leading to risk of life. Additionally, delay in treatment makes the surgery complicated with low survival rates of the patient,” the neurosurgeon said. About the cause of the tumour, he said a combination of genetic and environmental factors are possible factors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rare-tumour-causes-constipation-in-teen-operated-upon/articleshow/75984523.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro car shed wedges keep rakes on tracks||KOLKATA: Even with wind speed during Cyclone Amphan reaching 133 kmph around Dum Dum, Metro Railway ensured that none of its rakes parked at the Noapara car shed suffered any damage due to the precautionary measures adopted by them. According to officials, a storm like the one witnessed by the city on May 20 could have easily pushed the rakes from the tracks, causing derailment and severe damage. Nearly all components of Metro coaches are located underneath and any damage to the vital ones could have rendered the rakes unusable when instructions arrived from the ministry of Railways to resume services. A few stations along the East-West Metro corridor, however, suffered the rage of the cyclone, according to Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee. Out of the 24 platform screen doors installed, six were smashed as the gale-force winds passed through the elevated stations. Efforts are now on to procure replacements for these doors. Unlike the East-West corridor that has more than sufficient rakes to operate the truncated services introduced recently, the North-South stretch has just about sufficient rolling stock for daily operations. Any damage to a single rake could have been catastrophic. “But nearly all the running stock of Metro Railway are parked at the Noapara car shed. We anticipated the chaos that cyclone Amphan could cause and took special measures. Kinds of special wedges were used to keep the wheels of the rakes firmly attached to the tracks. Pit lines were also used to prevent any waterlogging and damage to the motors. In this way, not a single rake suffered any damage and we continue to remain on standby, awaiting central orders to resume operations,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-car-shed-wedges-keep-rakes-on-tracks/articleshow/75984520.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||10mn litres of water getting wasted every day for 2 years||Nagpur: Even after detecting leaks and sabotage at many places in the giant 2300mm diameter pipeline supplying water to city from Pench reservoir almost two years ago, Nagpur Municipal Corporation could not carry out repairs. The reason: the irrigation department is yet to give permission for repairs to the civic body.Earlier, the leakage was at seven to eight places and causing loss of around 30MLD (million litres per day) water per day. NMC plugged leakages at couple of points that contained wastage to approximately 10mld water per day, said NMC’s executive engineer (water works department) Milind Ganvir.Still, 10 MLD water being wasted can meet the demand of 70,500 people every day. The cumulative loss over two years is around 7300 million litres, said a source.NMC water works department superintendent Shweta Banerjee said the civic body had approached the irrigation department in February and sought permission to divert the water through ‘closed’ right bank canal. “NMC had planned to carry out the repair work from March 1. As we did not get the permission, it could not be started,” said Banerjee.A senior NMC official said civic body had laid the 2,300mm diameter pipeline in 2014 with funds under central government’s JNNURM scheme to bring raw water from Kamptee Khairi reservoir, downstream of Pench reservoir, to Mahadula pumping station.The water is supplied to treatment plants from pumping station. Around 550MLD water is supplied from the 44km pipeline, which caters to over 70% of the city.To repair the damaged pipeline, the civic body will require 20-25 day shut down. As major share of city’s water comes from Pench reservoir, NMC had planned to use the defunct right bank canal of the reservoir so Nagpurians do not go without water in that period. Irrigation department officials said it would require contractual employees to plug the leakages and ensure no breach of the canal during the time period when NMC will use it to supply water to the city. For the purpose, the department has sought Rs15 lakh from the civic body. It also asked the civic body to pay compensation to farmers if the canal breaches at any place, the official said.Congress corporator and leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve wondered how the civic body could act so casually when the city had faced severe water crisis in 2019 summer. According to him, NMC’s water works department should have made extra efforts to plug the leakages when they were first detected.Water woes* NMC laid 2,300mm diameter pipeline from Kamptee Khairi reservoir to Mahadula pumping station to supply raw water in 2014* Leakages developed at many places over two years ago resulting in loss of 30mld water* NMC claims to have repaired some leakages and contained 20mld water waste, still 10mld water is being wasted* NMC approaches irrigation dept for permission to use defunct right bank canal to supply raw water* Irrigation dept demands Rs15 lakh to repair the RBC and asks NMC to bear compensation to farmers if the canal breaches||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10mn-litres-of-water-getting-wasted-every-day-for-2-years/articleshow/75984526.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Declare wild boars as vermin, allow culling: Farmers to govt||Hyderabad: Farmers in Telangana are demanding the state to declare the wild boar a vermin and allow farmers to shoot the ones that wander into their land, in line with a motion passed in this regard by Kerala. Pervaram Santhaji, a farmer who formed the Telangana Wild boar Menaced Farmers Association, along with other farmers sent a memorandum on Monday to state agriculture and forest ministers, asking permission to cull the animal. “I am a farmer and wild boards have destroyed my crop. I have applied for compensation but have not received anything yet,” said Santhaji, adding that the increased encounters between humans and wild boars have made farming difficult. According to him, farmers have now started letting land which are frequented by these animals lie fallow. “Forest department relies on the service of an authorised panel of shooters, constituted by the state, to provide their services free of cost. By the time the shooter is able to give his availability, the crops are already destroyed. The government should amend the scheme by proposing to the Centre to declare the wild boar as vermin for the state of Telangana in agricultural fields and grazing lands,” said Santhaji. Environmentalists have opposed the demand and said it would lead to indiscriminate hunting. “If culling is permitted, it will lead to hunting. In the name of wild boars, other risked animals will also be poached,” said Devidas Mangani, a wildlife activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/declare-wild-boars-as-vermin-allow-culling-farmers-to-govt/articleshow/75984527.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Centre chooses ILS, 15 institutes to store Covid-19 samples||Bhubaneswar: The Institute of Life Sciences (ILS), Bhubaneswar, an autonomous institute of the department of biotechnology under the Union ministry of science and technology, has been identified for the establishment of a bio-repository for Covid-19 clinical samples. The Centre has identified 16 institutes in the country, including ILS here, for the purpose. Official sources in ILS said the bio-repositories would use clinical samples for research and development, besides sharing them with academia, industry and commercial entities involved in development of diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines. “Although it is important to provide early diagnosis and treatment to all infected individuals, it is also critical to promote research and development for larger public health benefit,” said sources within the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The ICMR said there was no structured mechanism at present to collect and store these valuable clinical samples. “That’s why it is important to create designated bio-repositories for collecting, storing and maintaining clinical samples of Covid-19 patients. The samples will be a valuable resource of information on early predictors of disease severity and immunopathogenesis of the disease,” the ICMR source said. ILS Bhubaneswar director Ajay Kumar Parida said access to different kinds of clinical samples from Covid-19 patients was required for development and validation of new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines. Balaram Bhargav, director-general of ICMR, has already requested states to provide access to clinical samples of Covid-19 patients through the designated Covid hospitals. The ILS had started Covid-19 testing since April and has conducted nearly 25,000 tests so far. “These designated bio-repositories will develop uniform SOP for sample collection, transportation, aliquoting, storage, and sharing. ” said Parida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/centre-chooses-ils-15-institutes-to-store-covid-19-samples/articleshow/75982288.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 2 days after SHO suicide, Rajgarh cops seek transfer||JAIPUR: The Rajgarh SHO’s suicide in Churu has opened pandora’s box in the police department with many personnel asking for a transfer from the police station citing various reasons. Senior officials confirmed that there were at least seven police personnel who have asked to be posted out after the SHO’s death. According to sources, SHO Vishnudutt Bishnoi was under stress due to interference from local politicians. The police have neither confirmed nor denied these reports. A letter by the personnel of Rajgarh police station was sent to Churu SP Tejaswini Gautam on Sunday which said they wanted a transfer to another station. Following this the SP visited the Rajgarh police station on Monday to meet the personnel who wanted transfers. “There are a few persons posted here who have said they want transfers and this is the reason why I came to meet them. Few of them were due for transfer as they had been here for more than five years so I asked them about their willingness as well as the choice of posting. There were few others who expressed their desire to get transferred as they were very attached to Bishnoi and felt that it was emotionally incorrect to continue working here after his death,” said Gautam. According to a source, the cop was tense as ‘he was being accused falsely of wrongdoings’. The suicide is being investigated by CID-CB and SP Vikas Sharma who is heading the enquiry said, “We are investigating the case but cannot speculate right now. At present we are investigating the FIR lodged by Bishnoi’s brother of abetment to suicide against unidentified accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-days-after-sho-suicide-rajgarh-cops-seek-transfer/articleshow/75985410.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sree Chitra to try ICMR validation for geneLAMP tech again||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology has said scientists are reviewing the result from the institute of virology, Alappuzha that validated Chitra geneLAMP-N that was invented for Covid-19 test. The institute has said. "The first valuation by ICMR gave a 100% result while the test results were not encouraging in the second valuation. After necessary corrections, the invention will be submitted for another round of valuation in June. On May 24, TOI had reported how Sree Chitra invention failed in ICMR validation test. According to a statement issued by the institute, Chitra geneLAMP-N, the technology developed by Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for fast detection of two regions of N gene of SARS-CoV2 using LAMP technology for the diagnosis of Covid-19 was transferred to agappe diagnostics limited for validation by ICMR and commercial license from CDSC0. The first validation was done at NIV Alappuzha between April 13 and 15 and had shown 100% sensitivity and congruence with the results of PCR used for comparison. As part of the commercial validation sought by the company at NIV Alappuzha, 450 tests were planned for the two gene regions. Being a new technology, an interim report was sought from ICMR after 250 tests to correct deficiencies if any. As the results were inferior to the first validation, it was planned to terminate the testing and correct technical flaws in the reader machine before the second validation. Most new kits and technologies have had to undergo many rounds of validation before receiving approval as Covid-related R&D is now done in a fast-track mode. The SCTIMST has performed a detailed analysis of raw data supplied by ICMR and guided and worked with the R&D team of the company in recalibration and verification of machine functions and kit components. The company will approach ICMR for validation in June 2020, said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sree-chitra-to-try-icmr-validation-for-genelamp-tech-again/articleshow/75982307.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kochi||A knotty affair at Kumily checkpost||Kottayam: Prasad and Gayatri chose not to wait for an entry pass to enter into matrimony. A 19-year-old bride hailing from Vandiperiyar in Idukki district tied the knot with the 25-year-old groom from Pudupatti at the waiting shed of Kumily checkpost in the presence of a handful of police personnel and revenue officials. Officials at the checkpost mooted an idea for holding the marriage there as the groom was not eligible to enter the state owing to lockdown restrictions. They helped the newly-married couple proceed to the groom’s house on Sunday. The girl was of Tamil origin settled in Vandiperiyar. The checkpost at Kumily is one of the six checkposts along the state border via which Keralites stranded in other parts of the country return to the state. The groom’s party had arrived at the checkpost in the morning to proceed to Vandiperiyar for the marriage. However, Prasad only had a pass with no proper authentication. According to G Geeva, deputy tahsildar, Peermade, who was on duty at the checkpost, the officials had no reason to allow entry for Prasad as he did not have a permanent address in the state. “The arrangements at the checkpost are only for allowing people from the state stranded in other states. We thought of sending the bride to Tamil Nadu initially. But that too was not possible as she did not have entry pass to Tamil Nadu,” said the officer. As time was running out, the officials at the checkpost came up with the idea of the marriage at the checkpost itself. “We told them to hold the marriage following Covid protocol at the waiting shed near the checkpost. Only five members each from the bride and groom’s party were allowed in. The rest had to witness the marriage from a distance,” said Geeva. The marriage was held without the presence of a priest. After marriage, the next hurdle was the entry for the bride to Tamil Nadu. “I called Uthamapalayam tahsildar. Based on the officer’s direction we applied for an entry pass online and the procedure was completed quickly and the bride got the pass,” he said. The couple thanked all the officials at the checkpost and left for Prasad’s village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-knotty-affair-at-kumily-checkpost/articleshow/75982284.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
May 26, 2020||Pune||Three booked for beating up pharmacist in Pune||PUNE: The Alankar police on Sunday booked three men on the charge of beating up a pharmaceutical distributor in Erandwane on Saturday evening. Police said around 4pm on Saturday, three men approached the complainant, Shashikant Dangi (50) of Chandan Pharmaceuticals, and asked him about the crowd outside his shop. “Dangi told them that he was maintaining proper social distancing,” the officer said. The trio, however, began abusing Dangi and his son. “They also beat him up and fractured the ring finger of his left palm,” the officer said. “We have ascertained the identity of the trio. Our probe is on,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-booked-for-beating-up-pharmacist/articleshow/75985409.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Chennai||Flights take off, on a wing and a prayer||CHENNAI: Around 7,000 people could not fly on Monday as more than 65 flights to and from Chennai airport were cancelled after airlines were forced to revise schedules when services resumed. As the final schedule was updated in the wee hours, many who reached the airport well in advance had to run around to reschedule trips. Against the planned 53 daily departures and 52 arrivals, only 19 departures and 16 arrivals were operated. And passengers became the casualty when civil aviation ministry officials and the state government bickered over quarantine rules. Airlines did not give refunds, saying the money was in a credit shell, but there was no way people could rebook because neither the AAI nor the airlines have an idea about flight schedules for the coming days. Schedules are being released daily. At 7am, there was crowding in front of counters as many people came to know their flights were cancelled. As they camped outside terminals, police deployed a few constables who used a microphone to urge people to check with airlines for reschedule and to maintain order. A few lucky ones breezed through new procedures for departure. The desks for e-pass helped arriving passengers register. However, flights had many empty seats as confusion over quarantine forced a lot of passengers to cancel tickets. The first flight from Delhi that touched down in Chennai had only 29 passengers. Many others had far less than 100 passengers. “In addition to flight cancellations, several passengers decided not to travel as they were not clear about quarantine protocols. The state government’s SOP on home quarantine for natives and paid quarantine for visitors came well after 10pm on Sunday. This affected planning and scheduling of flights. Those in charge of operations stayed back at the airport and at airline offices finalizing schedules,” said an airport official. Ashwini Pandey, who had booked two tickets on a flight to Mumbai, said, “I was about to leave from home when an email reached me saying the flight is cancelled. I have booked on two flights tomorrow in the hope that if one gets cancelled I can travel in the other. I need to reach Mumbai before June. I will lose my job.” Similar was the situation at Trichy, Coimbatore and Madurai airports. In Madurai, 12 flights were operated as per the new schedule but occupancy was low. Airport sources said that occupancy for the flights bound to Madurai was 30%-50% while those that left the city had 60%-80%. In Coimbatore, the 136 people who arrived by two flights were tested and moved to a paid quarantine centre. In Trichy, around 60 passengers suffered because two flights to Chennai were cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flights-take-off-on-a-wing-and-a-prayer/articleshow/75984521.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: Covid +ve woman delivers baby||Kolhapur: A 24-year-old Covid-19 positive woman delivered a baby at Karad-based Krishna Medical hospital on Sunday. According to the hospital staff, both the baby and mother are doing fine. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old co-morbid patient succumbed to the infection on Monday at the Satara-based district hospital. The patient hailed from Asale village in Wai taluka. Another death of a 52-year-old man from Jambli village in Wai taluka was registered on Monday. The deceased was diabetic and his swab sample has been sent for further testing. The district also saw another delivery on Monday. Swab samples of both baby and mother have been sent for testing as they hailed from containment zone. The Satara district did not register any new case until 7 pm on Monday. At present it has 309 total positive cases, while the active number of cases is 179 so far. Seven new positives at Sangli The district recorded seven new cases till Monday evening with four of the seven cases having travel history. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 85 in Sangli, while the active number of cases stands at 36. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said that over 1,787 small and medium businesses have started across the district in which over 22,000 employees have been given permission to resume work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-covid-ve-woman-delivers-baby/articleshow/75982279.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Udaipur||Sant accused of rape hangs self in Rajsamand village||UDAIPUR: A 50-year-old sant allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in his ashram at the Guniya Mahadev temple under Diwer police station of Rajsamand on Monday morning. The deceased was accused of rape and investigation is underway. Before committing suicide, the hermit made a video clip alleging conspiracy by a few people, including a member of the women commission. Rajsamand SP said the authenticity of the video clip would be determined and proper action would be taken against the guilty. The man’s body has been kept in a mortuary at the Deogarh CHC and his family in Gwalior has been informed, the police said. Sant Premdas lived and served at the Mahadev Temple Ashram in Guniya village of Bhim block. On Monday morning, his body was seen hanging by a peepal tree. Diwer SHO Laxman Singh Chundawat said that a couple had lodged a rape case against the saint on May 21. The couple held that they had gone to Premdas on April 20 and May 20 to be cured of abdomen pain. The woman complained that the saint gave her something to drink, which made her drowsy and he raped her. When the police went to the ashram to investigate the matter, the saint was not found there, the SHO said. The cops instructed a caretaker called Chhaganlal Suthar to inform them when the saint returned. However, when Suthar reached the ashram on Monday, he saw the priest’s body hanging. In the video clip that has gone viral on the social media, the saint alleged conspiracy against the couple and two men, Kishan Gurjar and Mitthu Suthar, claiming that they were demanding Rs 15 lakh from him. The deceased had alleged that one of the members of the women commission too demanded Rs 10 lakh from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sant-accused-of-rape-hangs-self-in-rajsamand-village/articleshow/75985408.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Pune||Pending reports push coronavirus case tally by 459 in Pune||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 case tally soared by 459 in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, primarily due to pending reports of samples collected in the last two-three days. With this, the case count has gone up to 6,153 in the PMR. Besides, eight patients succumbed to the infection on Monday, pushing the death tally to 280 so far in the region. District health officials said 60-70% of the total fresh cases were from the containment zones. The case burden in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits has surged to 5,247, with the latest 1,000 cases being added in just four days. The PMC added 388 fresh cases on Monday while Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas recorded 38 new cases. The rural parts and Cantonment areas added 33 cases. The PMC’s health department collected 689 swab samples on Monday. Ramchandra Hankare, PMC health chief, said, “The pending reports of the last 2-3 days were received on Monday, which reflected in the report”. Over 175 patients were discharged after full recovery on Monday in PMC limits. About 179 patients are in critical stage, of which 44 are on ventilator at various hospitals. Among the deceased, six patients succumbed to the infection at Sassoon General Hospital, while four at private hospitals. These included a 62-year-old man of Ghorpadi Peth, a 58-year-old man from Nana Peth, a 79-year-old man from Kharadi, a 68-year-old from the Phursungi area, a 70-year-old man of Kondhwa, an 80-year-old man from Yerawada, a 72-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 37-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 62-year-old woman from Chandni Chowk area and a 58-year-old man from the Tadiwala Road area. The district health office on Monday reported eight deaths, while PMC reported 10 as two deaths were not recorded on Sunday. Two areas — Dhorenagar in Sangvi and Sahyognagar in Rupeenagar — were sealed late on Monday night in Pimpri Chinchwad. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pending-reports-push-case-tally-by-459-in-pune/articleshow/75985413.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 26, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury rising, Churu sizzles at 47.5°C||Jaipur: There was no respite from intense heat wave conditions across the state for the third consecutive day on Monday as majority of the places witnessed maximum temperatures of 42 3°C or above.With mercury soaring, the meteorological department has issued red alert for Jaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Jodhpur and Bharatpur till Wednesday.Meanwhile, Churu remained hottest in the state clocking 47.5°C. The Met department said heatwave would further aggravate in the coming days.Attributing the continued rise in mercury to active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, weathermen said majority of the places would witness rise in temperatures.People in Jaipur woke up to the hottest day of the season so far as a maximum temperature of 44.7°C, almost 4 degrees above normal was recorded. In the morning, a minimum temperature of 31.4°C was recorded. For Jaipur, weathermen forecast that it would continue to witness heatwave till Wednesday and maximum temperature might touch 45°C.Many places in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh witnessed heatwave conditions. Ongoing spell of heatwave has also aggravated drinking water supply in many districts. The PHED officials are working hard to meet the growing demand for potable water. Likewise it has also brought abrupt power cuts at few districts across the state. The meteorological department said there would be no dust storm and hailstorm in coming days as temperatures will continue to rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-rising-churu-sizzles-at-47-5c/articleshow/75985415.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: ACB arrests CGST officer for Rs 15,000 bribe||UDAIPUR: A superintendent posted at the Central GST division in Udaipur was arrested by a team of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Rajsamand unit on Monday for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 15,000 from a Rajsamand-based transporter. The ACB team chased the accused's car and caught him on the Rajsamand-Udaipur border. Additional SP, ACB (Rajsamand) Rajesh Chowdhary said the complainant had a transport company which he operated from Rajnagar. He lifted a granite consignment from a marble unit in Nathdwara on May 22 which had to be delivered through truck at Rajkot. However, the accused, Shyam Sunder Jain, the CGST superintendent stopped the truck at Negadia toll plaza and imposed a penalty of Rs 28,204 which was duly paid online the next day, the ACB official said. Despite the payment, the accused demanded Rs 20,000 from the complainant in lieu of releasing the truck and returning the documents. The deal was struck at Rs 15,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/acb-arrests-cgst-officer-for-rs-15k-bribe/articleshow/75985411.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Surat||Service to poor, health workers mark muted Eid||Surat: Sharing happiness has been the motto of this group of 30 people, majority of whom are Muslims, in Limbayat area of the city. On the occasion of Eid, the members of the group didn’t buy new clothes or any product for their homes. The Rs1.50 lakh that they raised from among them was used to prepare sweets for poor people passing through difficult times ever since lockdown was announced by the government to contain spread of coronavirus on March 25. The Rehmania group of Udhna Yard has 25 Muslim members while others are Hindu. All of them observed roza throughout the holy month of Ramadan and have been feeding over 1,000 people since March 23. Their service will continue until lockdown is lifted. “We normally cook rice dishes for distribution. Since it was Eid, we prepared ‘kheer’ and distributed it along with bread, bananas and eggs to poor people. We distributed food packets as well as per our routine for the past two months,” said Imtiyaz Shaikh, an electrician. "Each member contributed as per his financial capacity. None of us purchased new clothes this time for the festival. How can we buy new clothes when so many people are facing economic difficulties?" asked Zakir Pathan, a transport contractor. "We were together in time of crisis and are one in celebrations as well. The unity helps us to overcome all problems," said Gautam Meshram, an employee of a textile shop. The group receives foodgrains in donation while it purchases daily vegetables and spices from cash given by the donors. The members of the group who belong to middle class have been receiving donation in cash and kind thanks to their dedication in serving the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/service-to-poor-health-workers-mark-muted-eid/articleshow/75982302.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||One arrested in cook’s murder case||Nagpur: Sitabuldi police have cracked the case of murder of a cook whose decomposed body was found wrapped in a blanket at a eatery near Loha Pul on May 14. The body of deceased, Shankar, was tied with rope before being wrapped into blanket. Sitabuldi police had registered a case of murder in the matter. During investigations, cops found out that three other employees at the eaery had killed Shankar for Rs3 lakh. Police have now arrested one Satish alias Bablu Tiwari while two others are absconding. Police said Shankar and the accused used to work at the restaurant. Shankar had Rs3 lakh cash and the accused came to know of it. They decided to eliminate Shankar for the cash. Cops learnt Tiwari was in Madhya Pradesh and sent a team to arrest him. The body of Shankar was spotted at the restaurant itself by the owner who informed Sitabuldi police. Cops have recovered Rs52,210 and a mobile from Tiwari. They are continuing search for other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-arrested-in-cooks-murder-case/articleshow/75984530.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Shooting of TV serials at Chitranagari likely to start in first week of June||Kolhapur: As many as nine proposals for resuming the shooting of television serials, web-series and advertisements in Kolhapur are in the last stage of approval. These proposals have been approved at the district level and forwarded to ministry of cultural affairs for giving the final nod. The plans also include the standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed while shooting so as to avoid transmission of Covid-19 cases. The permission from the ministry is expected in the next couple of days. A month ago district guardian minister Satej Patil and local producers held a meeting to resume the shooting activities. After the meeting, Patil had issued directions to get Chitranagari ready — the work for which is being carried out at full speed. Shooting of two Marathi serials were underway before the lockdown was imposed. Now, they have got the permission to resume shooting. Recently, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also asked the producers and TV channel management officials to submit their plans to start shooting in non-red zones. Mumbai where most of the shoots take place is currently under red zone. The producers, artists and technicians based in Kolhapur had urged the administration to make arrangement to attract the broadcasters. Accordingly, photos of the locations and details of other arrangements such as stay and technology have been provided to the broadcasters. Anand Kale, a renowned actor, said, “We are hoping to start the shootings by first week of next month. Many broadcasters have agreed and asked the makers to chose the locations and make necessary changes in their stories. The plans will be accepted by this month-end. The process to get the travel passes for actors and other necessary staff is going on. The hotels where they will be lodged during quarantine period have been fixed. We had submitted pictures of over 100 locations which suits to the demands of the serial makers. Most of the locations are natural landscapes and they have been finalised.” He added that Chitrananagri manager Sanjay Patil has been requested to develop the sets for which the funds that have already been granted can be utilised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shooting-of-tv-serials-at-chitranagari-likely-to-start-in-first-week-of-june/articleshow/75982291.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Guild writes to PM for revival of Boipara||KOLKATA: A rough audit of the losses, made by around 2,000-odd publishers and booksellers at College Street due to cyclone Amphan, stands at Rs 5 crore. With this data in hand, the Publishers and Booksellers Guild, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to release a special package to help in revival of Boi Para — the name, by which the area at College Street is popularly known. A separate letter of appeal has also been sent to chief minister Mamata Banerjee in this regard. The letter to the PM states that publishers and booksellers of the city had already suffered huge losses due to the lockdown, which has hit the livelihood of more than a lakh of people associated with book trade. On May 20, the cyclone dealt a fresh blow to book traders, ringing the death knell for the 200-year-old Boi Para, a heritage of the city. The Guild is starting a relief fund account at the State Bank of India where it is appealing for donations from booklovers and people with roots in Kolkata all over the world. “The Guild will contribute Rs 10 lakh to start with the initiative. After that, we hope that donations will pour in. We have made an appeal to the PM, anticipating that he will understand the importance of reviving the College Street book hub. Without a substantial package/grant, it will be impossible for most of us to re-open,” said Guild president, Tridib Chatterjee. The letter to the PM talks about how the British had established the book hub at College Street that had been the seat of the Renaissance with the presence of the Medical College, Calcutta University, Presidency College (now a university), Hindu School, Hare School and Sanskrit College. “Boi Para is steeped in history. Even Vidyasagar, after quitting Sankskrit College, had set up a book shop here with his friend, Madanmohan Tarkalankar. It was called City Book Agency... We hope to stir the emotions of the PM,” Chatterjee added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guild-writes-to-pm-for-revival-of-boipara/articleshow/75984528.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Mercury rising, Churu sizzles at 47.5°C||Jaipur: There was no respite from intense heat wave conditions across the state for the third consecutive day on Monday as majority of the places witnessed maximum temperatures of 42 3°C or above. With mercury soaring, the meteorological department has issued red alert for Jaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Jodhpur and Bharatpur till Wednesday. Meanwhile, Churu remained hottest in the state clocking 47.5°C. The Met department said heatwave would further aggravate in the coming days. Attributing the continued rise in mercury to active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, weathermen said majority of the places would witness rise in temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to the hottest day of the season so far as a maximum temperature of 44.7°C, almost 4 degrees above normal was recorded. In the morning, a minimum temperature of 31.4°C was recorded. For Jaipur, weathermen forecast that it would continue to witness heatwave till Wednesday and maximum temperature might touch 45°C. Many places in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh witnessed heatwave conditions. Ongoing spell of heatwave has also aggravated drinking water supply in many districts. The PHED officials are working hard to meet the growing demand for potable water. Likewise it has also brought abrupt power cuts at few districts across the state. The meteorological department said there would be no dust storm and hailstorm in coming days as temperatures will continue to rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mercury-rising-churu-sizzles-at-47-5c/articleshow/75990164.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bhopal||With 196 fresh cases, state corona count reaches 6859||Bhopal: With 196 people testing positive for Covid-19 in state, MP’s corona count reached 6,859 on Monday. Apart from the fresh cases, 10 deaths were also reported in the state — Bhopal (3), Indore (2), Mandsaur (2) Gwalior (1), Ujjain (1) and Umaria (1) districts. With these new deaths, toll in MP has reached 300. New cases were reported from 29 districts of the state — Indore (56), Bhopal (32), Ujjain (22), Morena (12), Gwalior (9), Sagar (9), Khandwa (8), Burhanpur (7), Dindori (7), Jabalpur (3), Dewas (3), Balaghat (3), Umaria (3), Neemuch (2), Rewa (2), Vidisha (2), Betul (2), Ashoknagar (2), Shahdol (2), Khargone (1), Mandsaur (1), Raisen (1), Bhind (1), Barwani (1), Satna (1), Datia (1), Chhatarpur (1), Rajgarh (1) and Narsinghpur (1). Meanwhile, 163 patients recovered from the deadly disease and were discharged from the hospitals. With these patients getting discharged total number of people recovered from the viral disease so far became 3571in Madhya Pradesh. This is greater than the total number of active patients — 2988 — who are admitted at different hospitals across the state. So far reports of the samples of more than 1.38 lakh people have been received and among those 6859 were tested positive. Administration has declared 825 localities across these 50 districts as containment zones and movement of people in these containment zones is strictly prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-196-fresh-cases-state-corona-count-reaches-6859/articleshow/75984532.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Mercury rising, Churu sizzles at 47.5°C||Jaipur: There was no respite from intense heat wave conditions across the state for the third consecutive day on Monday as majority of the places witnessed maximum temperatures of 42 3°C or above. With mercury soaring, the meteorological department has issued red alert for Jaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Jodhpur and Bharatpur till Wednesday. Meanwhile, Churu remained hottest in the state clocking 47.5°C. The Met department said heatwave would further aggravate in the coming days. Attributing the continued rise in mercury to active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, weathermen said majority of the places would witness rise in temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to the hottest day of the season so far as a maximum temperature of 44.7°C, almost 4 degrees above normal was recorded. In the morning, a minimum temperature of 31.4°C was recorded. For Jaipur, weathermen forecast that it would continue to witness heatwave till Wednesday and maximum temperature might touch 45°C. Many places in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh witnessed heatwave conditions. Ongoing spell of heatwave has also aggravated drinking water supply in many districts. The PHED officials are working hard to meet the growing demand for potable water. Likewise it has also brought abrupt power cuts at few districts across the state. The meteorological department said there would be no dust storm and hailstorm in coming days as temperatures will continue to rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mercury-rising-churu-sizzles-at-47-5c/articleshow/75990163.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Mercury rising, Churu sizzles at 47.5°C||Jaipur: There was no respite from intense heat wave conditions across the state for the third consecutive day on Monday as majority of the places witnessed maximum temperatures of 42 3°C or above. With mercury soaring, the meteorological department has issued red alert for Jaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Jodhpur and Bharatpur till Wednesday. Meanwhile, Churu remained hottest in the state clocking 47.5°C. The Met department said heatwave would further aggravate in the coming days. Attributing the continued rise in mercury to active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, weathermen said majority of the places would witness rise in temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to the hottest day of the season so far as a maximum temperature of 44.7°C, almost 4 degrees above normal was recorded. In the morning, a minimum temperature of 31.4°C was recorded. For Jaipur, weathermen forecast that it would continue to witness heatwave till Wednesday and maximum temperature might touch 45°C. Many places in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh witnessed heatwave conditions. Ongoing spell of heatwave has also aggravated drinking water supply in many districts. The PHED officials are working hard to meet the growing demand for potable water. Likewise it has also brought abrupt power cuts at few districts across the state. The meteorological department said there would be no dust storm and hailstorm in coming days as temperatures will continue to rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/mercury-rising-churu-sizzles-at-47-5c/articleshow/75990165.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||WFH executives slam telcos’ silence on internet woes||KOLKATA: The city will have to bear with the voice and data connectivity hassle for a few more days as cellular operators are still unable to fully repair around 15% of the base transceiver stations (BTS) or mobile signal-emitting points in the Kolkata circle. Over 50% of the cellphone towers across the city was damaged by cyclone Amphan. However, for the six days at a stretch, employees of the city-based offices dealing with non-essential services and products continue to remain in a helpless situation as none of their work channels seems to be working till Monday. No cellular service provider, they complained, in the city has so far given a clear message to their subscribers on the status of restoring connectivity. Subhankar Mukherjee, a senior executive at Radiohms Agencies which deals in dry cell batteries, said: “I am not able to send a single MIS file since last week which has resulted in a huge delay of product delivery from our warehouses. The bill payment vouchers are not getting okayed due to the network glitch. Thus, all the sales and collection files are withheld. How can I explain all these issues to our clients? No customer care executive is listening to us or sending someone to attend our problems.” According to these work-from-home (WFH) executives, a clear area-specific update from the voice and data operators could have saved them from having a misunderstanding with their higher-ups as well as clients. “If I can show a proper communication from our data service providers on the tentative date of restoration, this would help convince my vertical head, who sits in our US headquarters,” said Namit Shukla, a manager at a Sector V BPO, from his home at Santoshpur. When asked about these hassles, all the cellular service providers as well as wired broadband players pointed their fingers at torn cables and broken optical fibres around fallen trees across the city. Most of the communication outfits claimed that despite their day-and-night efforts to revive numerous BTS sites for the last six days, all sites couldn’t be put on order as government help is needed for removing the majorly wrecked sites. A senior technician at a wired broadband operator told TOI that 90%-95% of the connectivity could be restored by the end of this week, while the rest 5-10% severely tormented sites would need a few more weeks for complete or partial damage reconstruction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wfh-execs-slam-telcos-silence-on-internet-woes/articleshow/75984537.cms||Sovon Manna
May 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Six more test positive in Koraput district||Koraput: Nearly a month after the first Covid-19 positive case was detected in Koraput district, six more patients, including two women, were tested positive for coronavirus in the district on Monday. The first case was detected on April 27. An official said all the patients had returned from Andhra Pradesh and five of them were in quarantine at three temporary medical centres (TMC) and one was in home quarantine in Jeypore. While two persons each were in Hikimput and Upper Kanti TMC of Nandpur and Laxmipur blocks, one each is from Dasmantpur TMC and Jeypore, said collector (Koraput) Madhusudan Mishra. Barring the patient from Jeypore, the others have been shifted to the Covid hospital in Jeypore, he added. While the TMCs have been declared as containment zones and contact tracing has been started, the administration found itself in trouble as the patient from Jeypore, who was in home quarantine, has escaped to West Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday without informing his travel plan to the administration. An official said the patient had reached Jeypore on May 19 and was advised home quarantine after his swab sample was collected. “During inquiry it was found that the patient had left the district on May 23 without informing the officials concerned. We have informed our counterpart in West Godaavari district for his treatment,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/six-more-test-positive-in-koraput-district/articleshow/75982310.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
May 26, 2020||Nashik||Showing the way: Muslims stay home to celebrate Eid||Nashik/Kolhapur: Mindful of the government authorities’ request to observe social distancing, the Muslim community celebrated Eid-ul-Fitr a little differently this year. Instead of congregating in open grounds, thousands of Muslims in Nashik and Kolhapur wore new clothes and offered prayers at home to conclude the holy month of Ramzan. The Idgah Maidan in Malegaon, where over 1.5 lakh Muslims assemble every year to offer prayers on the occasion of Eid, wore a deserted look on Monday.Superintendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh thanked the six lakh-odd Muslims in Malegaon for responding positively to her appeal of staying indoors and advised the same for Basi Eid. “Four days prior to Eid, the rural police worked roud-the-clock appealing to people to offer Eid prayers at home. Even the maulanas and chiefs of the Muslim community made similar appeals. No one came to offer prayers at Eidgah Maidan,” said Singh. Collector Suraj Mandhare said that the Nashik district administration was working with a three-pronged strategy of providing food, treatment and jobs to the people in Malegaon to help the textile town overcome the Covid-19 outbreak.Commissioner of police, Nashik city, Vishwas Nangare Patil said the celebration in the city was mostly peaceful with no one coming out to offer Eid prayers. The situation in Kolhapur was no different. Except for a handful of people who came out in the morning to offer prayers at the Muslim borading in Dasara Chowk in Kolhapur city, citizens celebrated Eid inside their houses and distributed the many savouries that they prepared for the occasion among their neighbours. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray showered praises on the Muslim community for raising Rs 36 lakh over the last one month and using the same to donate ten beds for the intensive care unit (ICU) at Ichalkaranji civil hospital in Kolhapur district for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Inaugurating the ICU through video conference, Thackeray said, “Muslims from Ichalkaranji have presented an ideal example of how to celebrate festivals in times of crisis. Many across the country will emulate their act. We need public participation to win this war against Covid-19.” The Muslim community also donated ICU beds to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya, the civil hospital in Kolhapur .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/showing-the-way-muslims-stay-home-to-celebrate-eid/articleshow/75982311.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Heatwave warning as Nagpur sizzles at 47 degree Celsius||Nagpur: The mercury continued to climb in city with the maximum temperature touching 47-degree Celsius on Monday.Though it was hottest day of the season, Nagpur was the second hottest in the region. At 47.4 degree Celsius, Akola was the highest.As per El Dorado weather website, Akola was the third hottest in the world while Nagpur was 11th. The hottest in the country continued to be Churu in Rajasthan at 47.5 degree Celsius. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Nagpur, has issued heatwave warning for the city for the next three days. The maximum temperatures are expected to stay at 47 degree Celsius.Nights are also getting hotter with a rise in minimum temperatures. On Monday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 26.7 degree Celsius. In the coming week, the minimum temperatures are expected to go over 27 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heatwave-warning-as-nagpur-sizzles-at-47-degree-celsius/articleshow/75984534.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||All greetings online for celebration||Rajkot: While the streets of Savarkundala in Amreli district wore a deserted look on Eid, the fibre network the virtual space was abuzz with activity as community members took to online to greet one another on the occasion of Eid on Monday. Though the day missed its boisterous celebrations unlike normal times, Muslim devotees did not mind celebrating the grand Eid-ul-Fitr celebration remaining indoors, eating the traditional food, sweets besides enjoying the wholesomeness of the day in closed groups.“As stepping out of the houses meant risking our lives, we greeted each other through video calls,” said Ajit Jokhia, president of Savarkundala Sandhi Muslim Jamat.“We must strictly observe the lockdown order and practice safety norms to protect ourselves from Covid-19 infection,” said Bachu Jafar, a community leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/all-greetings-online-for-celebration/articleshow/75982316.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||T worker fears threat to life from Saudi employer||Hyderabad: Situation for 31-year-old Ankamolla Ravi, a worker from Telangana, has worsened with his Saudi Arabian employer allegedly issuing death threats for making videos of the attacks on him. Ravi called his family on Monday and told them that the employer questioned him about the video that he had made in which he showed himself bleeding from the nose, mouth and head. Ravi’s nephew Ajay told TOI from his village in Nizamabad that the employer told Ravi to delete all the videos. “My uncle called me and said the employer got furious when he got a call from the authorities enquiring about him,” Ajay said. According to him, officials of the Consulate General of India (CGI), Jeddah, called the employer after the video of Ravi bleeding and expressing fear of being killed by his employer reached them. “My uncle told us that the employer said that if he dared to shoot any more videos, he should be prepared for the worst. The employers told him under no circumstance would they send him to India now,” Ajay said. He added that Ravi was assaulted again when the employer came to know of the video. Four months ago, Ravi’s father Poshetty had passed away but the employer had refused to send him to India, according to Ajay. A month before that, Ravi’s grandmother too had died but he was not permitted to travel. According to the family, Ravi had only a two-year contract with the employer but he has been made to work for six years now. CGI Jeddah said it was making efforts to repatriate Ravi to India. “We are taking this up with the local police and governorate in Taif strongly,” CGI Jeddah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-worker-fears-threat-to-life-from-saudi-employer/articleshow/75984535.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Three surrender after murdering friend||Nagpur: Three persons surrendered before police on Monday after they allegedly murdered their friend over a monetary dispute in Nandanvan slums. The deceased, Sunil alias Navva Shende, was bludgeoned to death Santosh Yeole, Ashish Badole and Umesh Zade. Nandanvan police have arrested the accused and booked them for murder. Police said that on Sunday, Santosh retuned from the hospital and called his friends for dinner. Santosh and Sunil were locked in a monetary dispute over Rs2,000 since the last few days. On Sunday, all the accused consumed liquor at Yeole’s house and were having dinner when Santosh and Sunil again got into a quarrel. The accused started thrashing Sunil with wooden stick and other weapons. Sunil died of injuries following which the accused approached Nandanvan police station and surrendered. Nandanvan police, under the supervision of senior PI Sandipan Pawar, rushed to the spot and sent the body to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) where post-mortem of Sunil was conducted on Monday. Sunil had sustained injuries on his head, neck and ear in the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-surrender-after-murdering-friend/articleshow/75984536.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Teen detained for rape, murder of minor girl||Kolhapur: Miraj police in Sangli traced a boy three days after a minor girl’s mutilated boy was found in a sugarcane farm last Thursday and detained him on Sunday for his alleged involvement in the rape and murder of the girl. The girl went missing when she had gone out of her home to buy essentials from a local confectionary. Later, her body was found in a mutilated condition in a field. The girl’s body also bore some injury marks. Initially, police had registered an offence under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. However, later, when the post-mortem report of the girl confirmed that she had been raped, section 376 (punishment for rape) was also added. Senior police officers, including Sangli district superintendent of police, had been camping in the village in view of the seriousness of the crime. Preliminary investigation reveals that the boy, a Class XII student, lived in the same locality as that of the girl. The boy, who is a few months away from attaining the age of 18 years, has been sent to a correction home. Police said that the girl was chased by a dog when she approached the boy who was sitting on a roadside drainage chamber. Police recorded statements of several residents who noticed the boy talking to the girl before zeroing in on the main culprit. Police said that the boy was watching a pornographic film on his cell phone minutes before the crime. The boy is understood to have shown the film to the minor girl. When detained, the boy confessed to have strangulated the girl with her clothes as he feared that she might relay the incident to her parents. Later, police said, the boy raped the girl and stoned her to death. Police inspector at the local crime branch Shrikant Pingale told mediapersons that the case was being investigated under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/teen-detained-for-rape-murder-of-minor-girl/articleshow/75982326.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Gold rush back in some jewellery shops, people buying with caution||Nagpur: Even as standalone jewellery shops reopened after two months, it was pretty evident that gold had not lost its sheen due to Covid-19 fears. In Nagpur, only four shops opened as business had begun in rural areas 2-3 day ago. In some pockets of the hinterland, jewellers who also are engaged in moneylending had reopened a week ago. Rakesh Rokde of M/s Rokde Jewellers said the footfalls were as much as it used to be before lockdown even on the first day. Rokde’s outlet opened on Monday. “To my surprise, it appeared like any other normal day. People are coming in good numbers and buying jewellery. There was, however, not much interest in buying raw gold as investment. We are complying with all the distancing norms,” said Rokde. Gold rates have touched Rs47,500 a tola which is an increase of Rs1,500 since one month. Silver prices have also gone up by Rs6,000 a kg touching Rs49,500 at present, said traders. Pradeep Kothari of M/s Kothari Jewellers said, “It was just the first day and most of the time went in preparations. Those who turned up had placed their orders before lockdown.” Vilas Kale of Tanishq’s showroom said that in order to avoid crowding, clients are being allowed only on the basis of appointments. “As many as 90% of the customers who came had placed their orders earlier,” he said. Tanishq had opened two days ago. The jewellers have started their shops on the basis of an NMC order dated May 22. “It took two days to prepare for the distancing norms,” said Rokde. In rural areas, the shops are allowed to operate only for four days in a week. It was expected that farmers may come in large numbers to pledge gold instead of buying because of the cash crunch that lockdown has caused. Sanjeev Kumar Daga, who has an outlet in Achalpur town of Amravati, said it was just the first day and things may be clear in coming weeks. Girish Rathi of Rajlaxmi Jewellers at Deoli said, “Business was down, although a number of borrowers had come to release gold that was pledged earlier. There was no fresh buying or borrowing against gold either.” Shops in the area opened a week ago. Vatsal Bangre, who has a shop in Saoner, said the response was less than expected, yet buyers’ interest was seen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gold-rush-back-in-some-jewellery-shops-people-buying-with-caution/articleshow/75984539.cms||Shishir Arya
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||Covid warriors showered with respect||Surat: For Asad Saiyed, a resident of Muzammil Park society on the Sirpura road in Bharuch town, it was an unusual festival where he offered prayers at home on Eid. But, he was happy. He got a chance to appreciate the frontline workers for their tremendous contribution in the fight against Covid and celebrated the festival with them. “We invited 30 corona warriors including staff of 108 ambulance, 181 Abhayam helpline and safai workers to celebrate Eid with us. About 100 Muslim households in the society members offered special prayers for these staffers’ good health and prosperity. It was a unique feeling when we showered ‘Eidi’ on them — flowers and sweets — and this will remain permanently etched in my memory,” Saiyed said. It made for a grand show when these 30 staffers walked down the 100 houses and every household showered them with their love in flower petals. Shabbir Diwan, an ONGC employee in Dahej said, that the idea first struck him during Ramzan and when he shared it with the society members, they all readily agreed. “The atmosphere was surcharged with emotion as everyone enjoyed the special celebration,” Diwan added. According to Diwan, nobody bought new clothes and many donated food and clothes to the poor people in the nearby slum areas to mark the festival. Ashok Mistry, emergency management executive (EME) of 108 service in Bharuch district said, “It was overwhelming to receive such a reception on Eid festival. Though working on the front is part of our duty, but such acts of compassion boost our confidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-warriors-showered-with-respect/articleshow/75982335.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur: Six pvt hosps acquired||Kolhapur: In an effort to overcome the rising cases in the district, the Solapur district administration has taken over six more private hospitals in the city. District collector Milind Shambharkar instructed the health department officials to organise all the latest medical facilities at the said private hospital to treat the patients. With this acquisition, the health department will now have 470 beds with ample ICU and oxygen facility and will be treating the critical and semi-critical patients. Currently, the district has more than 590 plus Covid-19 cases. The Solapur city and the district on Monday recorded as many as 25 Covid-19 positive cases. The positive cases included six deceased patients as well. With this, the total number of positive cases increased to 608. The region has registered 58 deaths as well, while the active number of patients is 273.he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-six-pvt-hosps-acquired/articleshow/75982315.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||One loses 1.39L, another 36k in buying liquor online in Odisha||Bhubaneswar: After the introduction of home delivery of liquor through food aggregators and WhatsApp in states, cyber crooks are out to take tipplers for a ride. Two men, one in Bhubaneswar and the other one in Cuttack district, saw fraudulent withdrawal of money from their accounts after they placed their order for liquor on separate malicious websites. B P Rautray, a businessman, was allegedly duped of Rs 1.39 lakh when he tried to buy liquor from a fake e-commerce portal. He chanced upon this site after doing a quick Google search for liquor shops that offered home delivery of whiskey in the city. Following the incident, he lodged a complaint with Mancheswar police here on Monday. “The name of a reputed wine shop on Cuttack Road popped up on my computer screen. A phone number was on display. I called the number. The man asked me to pay Rs 200 advance on PhonePe. I paid the advance. The person sent a barcode link on my number and asked me to confirm the order by clicking on the link. The moment I clicked on it, I received a series of messages from the bank about the withdrawal of Rs 1.39 lakh from my account,” Rautray said. Police said they are investigating the case. “We are trying to identify the people behind this. We have been repeatedly requesting buyers to verify the credentials of e-commerce portals and service providers before paying money. People should not entertain malicious websites,” additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said. A police source said some other liquor buyers were cheated in a similar fashion in the city in the recent past. In a similar incident, a man in Cuttack was allegedly duped of Rs 36,000 after he placed an order for liquor to be delivered at his doorstep. Rajendra Sahoo lodged a complaint with Niali police in Cuttack on Monday saying that he paid Rs 950 in advance to a website to purchase liquor, following which he received a barcode link on his number. The moment he clicked on it, Rs 36,000 was debited from his account. The cyber criminals adopted the same modus operandi to cheat Sahoo as they had done to cheat Rautray in Bhubaneswar. “I was shocked when I received a message of debit of Rs 36,000 from my account,” Sahoo said. Recently, the state Crime Branch had issued a public advisory warning people against dubious online platforms that have were giving coronavirus offers on different products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/one-loses-1-39l-another-36k-in-buying-liquor-online-in-odisha/articleshow/75982330.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Cyclone, lockdown shadow over Eid celebrations||KOLKATA: Muslims across Kolkata marked a sombre Eid under lockdown restrictions and aftermath of Cyclone Amphan on Monday. Eid, the most important Muslim festival, marks the end of the holy month of Ramazan and is celebrated by offering prayers in the mosques followed by feasts with family and friends and shopping for gifts and sweets for guests. A man offers prayers at his home in central Kolkata But this year prayers in mosques were held without public attendance and the biggest congregation on Red Road was cancelled to prevent the spread of the virus. Some people, however, reached their local mosques thinking the government has eased restrictions for Eid prayers, but they were turned away by the police. “This year Eid was very sombre and low-key,” said Mohammad Arshad, a schoolteacher in central Kolkata. “On one hand, there is happiness that comes after the month of fasting ends, but it is strange because we remember how the festivities were in previous years where we offered prayers together and then settled down for a feast with family and friends.” Most streets wore a deserted look throughout Eid though some people and children did step out. But in the absence of food stalls and shut shops most of them had to return home. Technology came to the rescue of people who made video calls to their relatives staying in the same city. Children posted selfies in their Eid paraphernalia though most families stayed away from buying new clothes for the festival. “It is not a happy time this year. First there is a looming threat of coronavirus which has also impacted so many people economically. Then there is the devastation in the aftermath of the cyclone,” said Mohamamd Arif, a businessman on Rabindra Sarani in central Kolkata. In absence of an imam to lead prayers many people turned to live streaming of namaz on social media in the morning. “Even though we are physically apart we want everybody to celebrate it together on virtual platforms,” said Sheikh Siraj, a Bow Street resident. “Given the situation we are unable to do much for the people, but we are ensuring to reach out to people in need of ration,” said Bilkis Begum, a social worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-lockdown-shadow-over-eid-celebrations/articleshow/75984546.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Online lottery cons still duping many in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Several people in the city are falling prey to online discounts and other coupons as gifts, losing between Rs 1000 to Rs 1 lakh after sharing their bank details through links provided on such sites. According to officials, the offender sends bulk messages, saying they were winners of the online shopping contest or redeem the credit card coupons. “After the customer is convinced, they ask them to deposit money towards registration fee, documentation charges, GST and so on to claim either prize amount,” said an officer from Cyberabad cyber crime cell. In many instances, they also attach a link to the message. “When the victim clicks on the link, they are asked to fill a form to redeem the prize. As the victim shares their account details, the money gets deducted immediately,” said Rachakonda cybercrime ACP, S Harinath He said many offenders were traced to West Bengal and Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-lottery-cons-still-duping-many/articleshow/75984543.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government to form panel to help traders out||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is going to form a committee to analyse the situation in the wake of the extended lockdown taking a heavy toll on traders and labourers and undertake measures to help them crawl out of the crisis. Government sources said that trade and industry are in a bad shape and most businesses and industrial units have been closed for more than 45 days, since March 24 when the country was put under complete lockdown. As a result, many people have lost their jobs. “The committee will analyse and suggest measures to help people and businesses in these tough times with a special focus on protection of interests of labourers. The panel will be formed in a couple of days,” said a government source. Unable to survive the crisis, many migrant labourers who worked in industrial and business units left for their hometowns. Many of them were unwilling to return to the capital. The industries and businesses that opened after relaxations in the lockdown given by Delhi government in the third week of May are grappling with a shortage of workers. “Almost 70% of the workers have left for their hometowns resulting in a severe crisis. This is taking a toll on business activities. The remaining workers are demanding thrice the wages,” said a trader at Kashmere Gate, adding that the government should take steps to check reverse migration. The committee would be making efforts to serve the interests of the labourers so that they feel assured and encourage many who have left to return after the situation normalises. “Its purpose will be to find a synchronism between the interests of the traders and the workers so that they function smoothly and both their interests are served,” said a source. The revival of businesses is not only important for traders, but also the government because it is grappling with severe fall in revenue generation. Tax collection has dropped to an all-time low. Compared with Rs 3,566 crore collected in April 2019, the tax earned in the same month this year was only Rs 350 crore. Niranjan Poddar, president of Automotive and General Traders’ Welfare Association of Mori Gate, said the government should make the GST refund process faster so that traders have more liquidity, which could be used to grow their businesses and also generate jobs. The convener of Chamber of Trade and Industry, Brijesh Goyal, said that traders lost over 10,000 crore in each month since the lockdown began. “The traders are the biggest victims of the lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-form-panel-to-help-traders-out/articleshow/75984547.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||First flight lands in Odisha capital with 89 passengers||Bhubaneswar: Domestic flight services resumed here on Monday with a Vistara plane from Delhi touching down at the Biju Patnaik International Airport with 89 passengers and six crew members at 8.49am. This was the first scheduled flight to land at the airport here after two months since the lockdown. “The flight from Delhi landed as per schedule. The air traffic control had been intimated about the operation of Vistara’s Delhi flight a day before. The passengers followed the safety protocol and social distancing norms. The arrival lounge had been properly sanitized,” airport director V V Rao said. He added that the passengers were asked to download the Aarogya Setu app on their arrival. Those from Odisha, who were stranded in Delhi owing to the imposition of the lockdown to prevent coronavirus, heaved a sigh of relief as they landed on their soil. Among them was Kendrapada MP Anubhav Mohanty, who was stuck in Delhi throughout the lockdown. He posted a picture of him leaving the aircraft wearing a face shield and tweeted, “This is my picture of returning to Odisha in first morning flight. It is rare to experience smell of your fresh air and soil of Odisha.” A woman passenger, who refused to be named said, “I was apprehensive about the safety aspect while flying. But once I got into the plane, I was happy to see that the fellow passengers were maintaining the social distancing and hygiene norms. I was relieved to find the Delhi and Bhubaneswar airports well sanitized.” Airport officials said the Vistara flight returned to Delhi with 73 passengers. “The return flight to Delhi was in the same aircraft, which took off at 10am. No other flight was scheduled between 10am and 6.30pm as the flights in between were cancelled,” an airport official said. Though 10 flights had intimated their schedule to the airport officials, five of them remained cancelled. The airport officials said the airlines had not given any reason for the cancellation of flights. Among the ones cancelled are Indigo’s Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Mumbai flights and Alliance Air’s Jharsuguda flight. Apart from Vistara’s Delhi flights, four more flights — Air India’s Delhi, AirAsia’s Bengaluru, Indigo’s Bengaluru and Indigo’s Delhi one — will operate between 6.30pm and 10.30pm (will update on arrival/cancellation). The state government on Sunday said domestic fliers arriving here and staying for more than 72 hours will have to go for home isolation (if they belong to urban areas) and for government quarantine facility (if they belong to rural areas). Travellers returning from the state within 72 hours need not be either home-quarantined or move to a government facility. The airport had shut its operations since Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared the national lockdown on March 24. Barring the unscheduled flights and helicopters that have been operating from here as part of relief work, cargo transportation and emergency services, no other flights were operated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/first-flight-lands-in-odisha-capital-with-89-passengers/articleshow/75982354.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||45 years down the line, Thakres keep ‘roza’, celebrate Eid||Nagpur: Almost everyone in New Subhedar Layout gets an invite for ‘seer korma’ from the Thakre family on the occasion of Eid but many others gatecrash too. This tradition has been going on since 1975-76. The following of the Muslim ritual and festivity for the family began when Ashok Thakre, a retired state transport employee, was influenced by friend-turned-mentor Hazrat Mohd Shaikh Usman Shah Chisti. Before joining ST, Ashok owned a cycle stand where Chisti, an employee of Modern mill, used to spend time. Spiritually inclined Chisti had a handful of followers. Ashok too felt a strong attraction towards preachings of Chisti who later on had a dargah after his name in Shanti Nagar. Ashok’s son Girish, who runs a web portal, decided to take father’s tradition ahead. “My wife (Varsha) gets up at 3 am to prepare ‘Sehri’ for us and also ensures the ‘Iftari’ is ready in the evening. In last 10 years, I did not miss a single roza. Whenever a namaz was missed due to assignment I ensured to read it late to compensate,” said Girish who religiously performs five times namaaz. “I have tutored myself about the namaaz from books and also hearing from father,” said Girish. “My mother or wife never objected neither did anyone in the neighbourhood. In fact, many love to relish the Eid delights prepared at our home,” he said. Girish said it was just a service and bonding towards the faith and no material gains. “Many ask me whether there is any gain behind it. I tell them to follow the rituals without keeping any goal in mind. Faith is something needed to be embraced and followed without expectations. The prayer is true only when there is no expectation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/45-years-down-the-line-thakres-keep-roza-celebrate-eid/articleshow/75984545.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||After TOI report, KMC to help repair private houses||KOLKATA: In a relief to people whose houses have been damaged in Cyclone Amphan, KMC on Monday said they would help them repair the structures. TOI had reported about the plight of thousands of residents of Kolkata and surroundings who are staring at a huge expenditure—some as high as Rs 1 lakh—to repair their properties that have been ravaged by trees uprooted by strong winds. The owners are especially worried about the expense as very few residential houses have a property insurance. The overall penetration of insurance for residential properties in the city is less than even 1%. Coming to their rescue, Firhad Hakim, chairman of board of administrators (BOA) governing the KMC, on Monday said the civic body would arrange for necessary repairs of damaged structures, including private properties. “Our ward coordinators will visit the affected buildings in their respective wards and report their status to civic officials at the boroughs. Then the borough officials will take necessary steps to ensure repair of the houses. Right now, we will take preventive steps so that the buildings, where trees have toppled over, don’t collapse,” Hakim said. Some big housing societies are planning to apply for claims for insurance of their premises. South City Housing became the first major complex to file damage claim after Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc on Bengal. The posh complex in south Kolkata is among the very few in the city that have insurance and at Rs 550 crore, it also happens to have one of the highest insurance amounts for a residential property in the country. Rahul Agarwal, founder of Ideal Insurance, a leading insurance broking firm in the city, pointed out that most of the claims received so far was for commercial establishments and factories. “I have received over 80 claims for commercial spaces. As far residential properties are concerned, South City is among the first to file a claim,” he said. Agarwal said new posh residential complexes, such as Urbana and Silver Spring, too, have insurance but most of the old complexes and standalone buildings, specially the old ones, were not covered. According to him, the total claims for properties, mostly for commercial ones, have crossed the 1,000 mark. “The total number of claims for commercial properties will not be less than 4,000-5,000,” he added. President of South City Housing Manak Daga told TOI that two days ago, it submitted its claim to insurer Tata AIA. “We have suffered a lot of damage, including collapsed wall, shattered glass panel and affected facade,” he said. Daga pointed out that this year itself, the complex had raised the insurance from Rs 493 crore to Rs 550 crore. “We believe the safety of the place you live in should be ensured,” he added. An official of Urbana complex also indicated that they would file for insurance claim soon. “We have also suffered a lot of damage,” he added. P Chhajed, head of non-motor claims of Bajaj Allinz General, told TOI it had started getting claims over the past three days. “The applications are mostly from commercial establishments and factories but there are some residential properties as well,” he added. Chhajed said they were offering spot-settlement of up to Rs 10 lakh for property insurance. “We are providing interim payment to customers from the claim settlement for immediate relief,” he added. Sources in National Insurance also said most of their applications were from commercial properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-toi-report-kmc-to-help-repair-pvt-houses/articleshow/75983844.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||Memorable Eid for Idar’s Mastan||Palanpur: It was the most memorable Eid for 23-year-old Amir Khan Pathan when Idar police fulfilled his “wish” to become a police inspector!Amir Khan, fondly known as Mastan, is mentally challenged and was adamant on greeting cops in the Idar police station on the festive day. Mastan used to visit the police station sometimes with his father Munaf Khan Pathan, who works as a home guard."When we asked him, Mastan said he wanted to become a police inspector. So, we allowed him to sit on the PI's chair for a while, a moment that he thoroughly relished," said Prahladsinh Vaghela, policeinspector, Idar.Mastan usually stays at home. Today, was a big day for him," said his father, who retires next year. Ahead of Eid, police had gifted him three pairs of new clothes. “Today, we also gave him a box of laddoos,” added Vaghela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/memorable-eid-for-idars-mastan/articleshow/75982372.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Virtual hugs, bonding, delicacies mark city’s Eid celebrations||Nagpur: The holy month of Ramzan came to a close with Muslims across the city celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr with zeal and enthusiasm. Dressed up in traditional attire, members of the community enjoyed the day amid pious chanting of prayers and savouring lipsmacking delicacies. After waiting eagerly for the moon to grace the night sky (chaand raat) on Sunday, Muslims broke their their fasts, followed by offering ‘Eid ki namaz’. “The power of the moon is the significant factor. We always hope for clear skies so that we can catch a glimpse of the moon and put on best of clothes. Thereafter, we begin the feast. The wait for the moon to appear is long sometimes but worth it,” said Swaima Ahmed, an educator who enjoyed sheer khurma and family time. Muzzamil Siqqui, a private sector employee, experienced the festival with his loved ones at home. “We did not sight the moon of May 23. Hence, we were excited for chand raat. After sighting the moon, our excitement knew no bounds. Finally, the holy month of fasting and praying came to an end with a glance of the beautiful moon” he said. The community waits every year for the pious occasion dedicated to praying and offering namaz to the almighty, seek his blessings and exchange hugs thereafter. But this time, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation had issued strict guidelines regarding the festival amid Covid-19 fears. Accordingly, many attended online sermons and watched videos on the occasion “All the community members offered prayers at home by coming together, bowed their heads, and sought guidance from his holiness Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin. Rozdaars watched the live telecast of his blessings inside the comfort of their homes,” said Tayyeb Arif. Javed Ansari, a cloth merchant, believes that this was a historical Eid as he got time to indulge into praying, fasting and feasting with his family. Like many others, he too had to face loss in business. “Even though my business was shut, following the rules was important to us. I will always remember this Eid as it was the most peaceful and pious one for us. Soon, everything will be normal and we will get back to business,” he said. Children too got their token of love in the form of ‘Eidi’. Many Muslims gave away zakat, a form of charity during Eid. They gorged on the delicacies served on the table with their families and friends. But owing to Covid-19 fears, they could not venture out this time to taste the delicious street food. However, many of them feel that the lockdown has surely taught them to make the most of everything “We celebrated Eid with the same enthusiasm and happiness in our hearts. Though the namaz was offered at home, hugs were exchanged virtually. My mother made delicious sheer khurma and other delicacies,” said Taha Uddin, a law student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/virtual-hugs-bonding-delicacies-mark-citys-eid-celebrations/articleshow/75984553.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||NCP lodges complaint against Datke for celebrations||Nagpur: BJP’s newly elected MLC Pravin Datke, former city mayor, has landed in a soup after the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) lodged a complaint against him and others at Ganeshpeth police station for celebrating his election at the party’s head office at Ganeshpeth on May 19. NCP city unit’s senior vice president Nutan Rewatkar and student wing leader Shailendra Tiwari approached Ganeshpeth police station with a complaint the felicitation programme was conducted violating lockdown norms. The NCP leaders mentioned that there were no masks or social distancing observed by the leaders, including some of the MLAs. “We have submitted evidence in the form of newspaper cuttings and also social media clipping, from which the violations cannot be legally ruled out,” said Rewatkar and Tiwari. BJP spokesperson Chandan Goswami said there was no violation of the lockdown norms but the complaint is merely an exercise to target Dakte, who was felicitated by some. “All had masks, which were removed during sweet distribution. The venue was sanitized too. It was a family programme,” he said. Senior inspector Shivram Kumre of Ganeshpeth police station said he is verifying the complaint and also taking legal views. “We would send summons to the in-charge of the venue and ask for CCTV footage. Also, we are taking help of cyber experts to ascertain who posted photographs of the felicitation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ncp-lodges-complaint-against-datke-for-celebrations/articleshow/75984555.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University removes principals of two colleges||NEW DELHI: Principals of two Delhi University colleges were removed late night on Sunday. They received the order from the varsity administration via e-mail and were not given any reason behind the sudden action, they claimed. The decision has been taken without the presence of a functional governing body, they added. In the absence of permanent appointment, Rajeev Chopra and Namita Rajput were officers on special duty (OSD) at Delhi College of Arts and Commerce (DCAC) and Sri Aurobindo College (evening), respectively. While Chopra was serving for the past six years, Rajput three. They have now been repatriated to their parent college—Sri Aurobindo College (morning). Both these are Delhi government-funded colleges. Due to a tussle between the government and the university, governing body is yet to be formed at these colleges. As per the email sent to DCAC, an OSD to the college was appointed for six months, but Chopra had remained in the position for over six years. Chopra told TOI: “My appointment was till further orders. Moreover, the matter is sub judice and it is related to the principal’s appointment. They could have spoken to me instead of sending an e-mail.” He also questioned the need for the action when the lockdown was in place and Monday being a gazetted holiday. The chairperson or the university representative of the governing body was asked to hand over the charge of the college to the most senior teacher of the college who fulfilled criteria for being appointed as the principal. “This will be a temporary arrangement,” read the e-mail sent by the deputy registrar (colleges). Speaking to TOI, Rajput, said, “I received the email at 12 midnight. There is no reason given for such an action. The surprising part is that there is no governing body. We have received the names of the GB members from both the university and the government, but the election is yet to take place.” While Kusum Lata has replaced Rajput, Anuradha Gupta will take charge in place of Rajeev Chopra. DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi did not respond to calls and messages. In a separate development, the varsity treasurer resigned from the position.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-removes-principals-of-2-colleges/articleshow/75984559.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha sees highest single-day jump in new coronavirus cases, recoveries||BHUBANESWAR: In the highest single-day spike so far, 103 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday. With this, the number of infected persons rose to 1,438. Also in the highest single-day spike, 99 patients recovered and headed home on the same day. The previous highest daily jumps in new infections were seen on May 13 (101 cases) and May 19 (102 cases). The positive rate (percentage of samples returning positive per samples tested) on Monday was 2.61%, over double the state’s average positive rate of 1.12%. A total of 3,942 samples were tested on Monday of which 103 were positive. The cumulative number of samples tested in the state stands at 1,27,776. The new positive cases are distributed across 16 districts, the highest being in Deogarh (22), which had reported only two positive cases earlier. Deogarh is followed by Kendrapada (15) and Jagatsinghpur (10). The health department’s Covid-19 dashboard shows 96 of the positive cases were from among people in quarantine centres while seven patients are locals. The 99 recoveries takes the state’s total recovered patient count to 649. The state’s recovery rate stands at 45.13%. The cured patients include 34 from Balasore, 15 from Ganjam, 13 each from Jajpur and Kendrapada, 10 from Puri, nine from Bhadrak three from Nayagarh and one each from Sundargarh and Deogarh. Though Ganjam has the highest positive cases (353) followed by Jajpur (240), the latter has more active cases (137) than the former (102).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-sees-highest-single-day-jump-in-new-cases-recoveries/articleshow/75982382.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha sees highest single-day jump in new coronavirus cases, recoveries||BHUBANESWAR: In the highest single-day spike so far, 103 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday. With this, the number of infected persons rose to 1,438. Also in the highest single-day spike, 99 patients recovered and headed home on the same day. The previous highest daily jumps in new infections were seen on May 13 (101 cases) and May 19 (102 cases). The positive rate (percentage of samples returning positive per samples tested) on Monday was 2.61%, over double the state’s average positive rate of 1.12%. A total of 3,942 samples were tested on Monday of which 103 were positive. The cumulative number of samples tested in the state stands at 1,27,776. The new positive cases are distributed across 16 districts, the highest being in Deogarh (22), which had reported only two positive cases earlier. Deogarh is followed by Kendrapada (15) and Jagatsinghpur (10). The health department’s Covid-19 dashboard shows 96 of the positive cases were from among people in quarantine centres while seven patients are locals. The 99 recoveries takes the state’s total recovered patient count to 649. The state’s recovery rate stands at 45.13%. The cured patients include 34 from Balasore, 15 from Ganjam, 13 each from Jajpur and Kendrapada, 10 from Puri, nine from Bhadrak three from Nayagarh and one each from Sundargarh and Deogarh. Though Ganjam has the highest positive cases (353) followed by Jajpur (240), the latter has more active cases (137) than the former (102).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/state-sees-highest-single-day-jump-in-new-cases-recoveries/articleshow/75999621.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal plans 114 armed border outposts along 1700-km-long border with India||Pithoragarh: Amid ongoing tension along the border, the Nepalese government is planning to set up 114 armed border outposts (BOPs) along the entire length of its almost 1700-km-long border with India. Of these, at least 10 BOPs would be along the 270-km-long border that the neighbouring country shares with Uttarakhand. Some of the BOPs, sources in the know told TOI, have already been established and started functioning. The sources said that six such posts are proposed in the border area near Pithoragarh – which has the Lipulekh Pass on which Nepal is staking its claim. One of these posts has already been set up at Chhangru near Lipulekh Pass, while three others are in the process of being set up at Jhulaghat, Laali and Pancheshwar as reported by TOI earlier. The other posts are also expected to be set up soon, the sources added. Besides Pithoragarh, districts like Champawat and Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand share their boundaries with Nepal and some of the BOPs would come up on the Nepalese side of the border adjoining these districts, a source said. The source added that each BOP will have 35 armed police personnel under the command of an inspector- rank official. Their mandate would include, besides manning the border, protecting the customs office and checking forest-related crime. The Indian side of the border is presently manned by the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) and as per sources, the Nepalese government had sometime back taken the decision to have armed police guard its border on the lines of the SSB. The border area adjoining Pithoragarh has been seeing simmering tension after protests were registered by Nepal at an almost 80-km-long road inaugurated by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on May 8. The road will allow vehicular movement till near the Lipulekh Pass which Nepal claims is part of its territory. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi has reiterated that the area lies well within the Indian territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-plans-114-armed-border-outposts-along-1700-km-long-border-with-india/articleshow/75982367.cms||Prem Punetha
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Case numbers shoot north in tony western areas||Ahmedabad: In its Monday morning report, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) finally added the 709 vegetable vendors and grocery shop workers to its list of active Covid-19 cases. The AMC now has 5,361 active cases. Some 134 patients were discharged and 24 died on Sunday.On Saturday and Sunday, the Bodakdev area reported 20 fresh Covid-19 cases, with these 19 cases emerging on Saturday and one on Sunday. A total of 32 cases were reported from Bodakdev, Vejalpur, Thaltej and Jodhpur wards over the weekend. These areas reported 30 cases on Saturday and 12 on Sunday.The city earlier had 4,542 active cases in various zones and 709 cases were discovered in screening of vegetable vendors and shop workers. Thus with these 709 cases, the total number of active cases hit 5,251. According to officials on Monday, a total of 134 persons were discharged and 24 had died, while 110 additional active cases emerged, taking the city’s tally of active cases to 5361 cases. With the addition of the 709, the number of cases in Viratnagar, Nikol, Gomtipur, Odhav, Vastral and Amraiwadi rose by 107. In the western part of the city, 67 cases were added to the tally of Navrangpura, Paldi, Naranpura, Vadaj, and Sabarmati. Fifty five cases were added to the tally of the South West Zone, which includes Sarkhej, Maktampura, Jodhpur and Vejalpur. Twenty-nine cases were added to the tally of the North West Zone which includes Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev and Chandkheda.Officials said that comparing the data of May 16 and May 25 there has been a increase of 188 cases in the West Zone, a 43% increase. In the North West Zone, the increase was 65.32%, while that of the South Zone was 49.15%. The North Zone registered a 63% increase.On May 17, the state government had declared that the 709 vendors and shop workers who had tested positive were not included on the list. All of these had been tested after May 10.On Saturday and Sunday, cases were reported from Shaligram, opposite the Jhansi ki Rani statue, at Sampat Apartments, PSP Colony, Chaitanya Society, Ratnakala and Kanakkala. Of the 32 cases reported on Sunday, 23 were through active surveillance, which has resumed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/case-numbers-shoot-north-in-tony-western-areas/articleshow/75984592.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops on traffic duty go back to hand signals after cyclone mows down posts||KOLKATA: Hand-held batons with rechargeable lights that the traffic police bought a decade ago and had fallen into disuse have come as a saviour for cops struggling to man vehicles on post-Amphan roads, where most signals have been uprooted, mangled or stopped working. Whether it is the busy Abhishikta crossing or the Chingrighata crossing, the Rajabazar crossing or Khagen Chatterjee Road crossing, cops have gone back to hand signalling, waving batons at oncoming traffic, asking them to either stop or resume journey. “Each of the 25 traffic guards has around 30 batons. They were specially designed to be used in the dark and during power cuts. The lights have to be charged daily. Even when they were brought in, we did not need them so extensively. We now have something to bank on till the traffic signals are repaired,” said an ACP from the Sealdah Traffic Guard. The hand-held batons, he reminded, was a basic traffic management strategy that the city had forgotten over the past two decades as more and more signal posts were added, the entire network was electrified and brought under a central control. Now, DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar said, restoring traffic lights might take some time as not all roads had been cleared of trees. Several traffic guards, like Beliaghata and Kasba that handle the Bypass and connectors to Bypass, have also decided to introduce “laning system” by putting up barricades almost 100 metres ahead of major crossings. For night, police plan to set up barricades in a zig-zag pattern to cut down on vehicles’ speed. “With the lockdown in place and fewer vehicles on roads, it would not lead to a congestion,” said the ACP. Police, however, pointed out that in spite of deploying more personnel, it was proving to be difficult at busy intersections, such at Chingrighata, Hyatt, Abhishikta on EM Bypass and the Rajabazar crossing. “Motorists are now accustomed to seeing traffic signals. On high-speed corridors, like EM Bypass, cops on duty, too, try not to venture far from their posts. Manning traffic manually becomes especially difficult at curves, like Chingrighata,” said an officer. Police said while uprooted trees were a major inconvenience, they also acted as a speed-breaker on the empty roads. “Vehicles are bound to speed from Tuesday. We are keeping an eye on commercial drivers, especially truckers,” said a Lalbazar control room officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-on-traffic-duty-go-back-to-hand-signals-after-cyclone-mows-down-posts/articleshow/75983868.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘85% of mutations found were from hotspots like city’||Ahmedabad: Scientists at Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) have completed the genome sequencing of more than 100 samples of the novel coronavirus (officially called SARS-CoV2) which causes Covid-19, taken from across Gujarat. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani announced the news on Twitter on Monday evening.Team members told TOI that while the analysis is still going on and will take more time for concrete results, they have been able to identify hotspots for the virus mutation. Characteristics from these hotspots such as Ahmedabad will help researchers develop a recombinant vaccine.“I feel proud to share that scientists at GBRC have completed more than 100 Covid-19 genome sequencing, which will be helpful in tracking origin of drug targets, vaccine & association with virulence,” the CM tweeted.“The samples were taken from the places recording high mortality rates. The most samples were taken from Ahmedabad, which has seen the most cases and deaths in the state. We also included places such as Rajkot, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Vadodara, Surat and Sabarkantha to get a state-wide picture,” said an official associated with the work.The researchers said the purpose of the exercise was to identify hotspots for mutations. “Whenever a vaccine is developed, the characteristics of such hotspots become crucial. In Gujarat, we have observed that 80%-85% of mutations are from hotspots such as Ahmedabad,” said an official, adding that if the ultimate vaccine is not designed based on such hotspots, it won’t work as expected.TOI had reported earlier that a team at GBRC led by Prof Chaitanya Joshi, director; and Dr Madhvi Joshi, joint director, had started the sequencing novel coronavirus samples from across Gujarat to understand the state-specific strains and identify peculiarities that could help develop a vaccine. “We are increasing the number of samples to identify new strains and understand the mutations observed in Gujarat. It will not only enrich our understanding of virus locally but also help us compare our strains with other parts of the country and the world. More samples will also validate the results,” said an official.GBRC was among the first state-owned labs in India to complete genome sequencing of the novel coronavirus. The centre has also entered an MoU with three state-based labs for initiating biological research including vaccine development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/85-of-mutations-found-were-from-hotspots-like-city/articleshow/75984603.cms||Parth Shastri
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nervous start, for those who get to fly — or don’t||NEW DELHI: After two months, the Indian skies reopened for domestic passenger services on Monday. Indigo’s Delhi-Pune flight was the first to take off from Delhi. Among those flying out of the city were students, businessmen, paramilitary and army personnel and those who had failed to book a ticket on the special passenger trains. While they were a happy lot, there were hundreds left seething after finding their flights cancelled at the last moment. The two-month-long shutdown of air operations owing to the Covid-19 lockdown ended at 4.45am when the Indigo flight left Indira Gandhi International Airport on Monday. But belying anticipations of a smooth functioning, at least 82 of the scheduled departures and arrivals were cancelled, airport officials explaining that this was done due to several destination states telling the central government that they were unable to resume flight operations as agreed earlier. IGI handled 125 departure flights and 118 arrivals on the first day of resumption. The cancelled flights left passengers fuming at Terminal-3. Many claimed to have been informed about the cancellations only at the last minute. Not surprisingly, IGI authorities had to contend with fewer than the 40,000 passengers they were expecting to fly on Day 1. IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air Asia and Air India restarted domestic operations, while budget carrier GoAir will do so from June 1. “I am very nervous about travelling, but it’s not like I have any other option,” Ajay Kakkar, who was flying to Udaipur, Rajasthan, told TOI. “I came here four hours before the departure time because I wasn’t sure about the situation. Now that I have seen precautionary measures, I’m hoping it’s the same inside the aircraft.” On-board, most arriving passengers informed TOI that the aircraft were not fully occupied and that there were seats that were vacant. “It wasn’t a problem on board the plane,” said SK Singh, an army man who is deployed in Leh in Ladakh and arrived at IGI in the morning. “There was minimal interaction and everyone waited patiently to go through the protocols of completing the journey.” The airlines themselves were jittery because different states have declared different norms and conditions for quarantining passengers arriving by domestic flights. The last-minute cancellations caused a lot of chaos. Vinay, 23, was to have boarded a flight to Delhi to catch another for Kolkata. However, with the Kolkata airport underprepared following cyclone Amphan, both his flights were cancelled. “I made a last-minute booking on another flight to be able to at least reach Delhi,” said the student, who will stay with his brother in Ghaziabad till there is clarity on the flights. At IGI, automatic hand sanitisers have been installed at more than 400 locations. The floors have been marked to ensure the recommended distance between those standing in a queue, and entry gates and check-in islands for departure passengers were allocated to specific airlines to minimise human contact. Gates 2 and 5 in the departure area had UV sanitising tunnels to disinfect baggage, while at gates 1-8 airport personnel sanitised the luggage of passengers at those entry points. To distribute passenger load in the departure forecourt, the earlier method of general entry was changed to allocate designated gates to different airlines. While it was announced that Aarogya Setu app was mandatory for all fliers, on Saturday morning, passenger were required to either download the app or in lieu fill a self-declaration form in the forecourt area. Only those marked ‘safe’ on the app were allowed to travel. Officials said that as of 3pm on Monday, no passenger had been turned away and sent to a quarantine facility. Apart from this, provisions have also been made for the thermal scanning of passengers as per the guidelines of the central government. When the travellers entered the terminal, they were first screened for Covid-19 symptoms, and then as they on entry into the airport building, they walked on a carpet dipped in disinfectant to prevent shoes from spreading infection in the main departure area. In order to avoid close contact and crowding at the counters, passengers were encouraged to check-in at home or to use self-service facilities such as self-check-in, self-bag tagging, and scan-and-fly amenity, an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nervous-start-for-those-who-get-to-fly-or-dont/articleshow/75984557.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 26, 2020||India||'Prioritise investments in public health': 40m doctors write to G20 leaders||NEW DELHI: Over 40 million doctors, nurses and other health professionals from 90 countries, including many working on the frontline to fight Covid-19, have written to G20 leaders urging them “to put public health at the centre of their economic recovery packages” to help avoid future crises and make the world more resilient to them. Over 200 medical associations, including 11 such groups from India, have signed the letter on behalf of their members including these over 40 million health professionals. The letter asks G20 leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, French President Emmanuel Macron, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and US President Donald Trump, to prioritise investments in public health, clean air, clean water and a stable climate in the economic stimulus packages currently under consideration. Supported by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Global Climate and Health Alliance and the Every Breath Matters, this joint appeal to the global leaders is the biggest health community mobilisation since the run-up to the 2015 Paris climate agreement. The signatories of this letter collectively represent more than half of global health professionals, including representatives from Indian medical fraternity. “What the world needs now is a health recovery. Your stimulus plans must be a prescription for just that,” said the signatories while referring to current plans of big and emerging economies to inject trillions of dollars into the economy in the next 12-18 months. “The enormous investments your governments will make over the coming months in key sectors like health care, transport, energy and agriculture must have health protection and promotion embedded at their core,” they said. “It is inspiring to see the millions of nurses, doctors, and health workers, who are leading us through this defining health crisis of our time, equally speaking up to call for a healthy long-term recovery from Covid-19. Their letter to G20 leaders is fully in line with the WHO manifesto for a healthy and green recovery,” said Maria Neira, director of public health and environmental and social determinants of health at WHO. The letter, sent to G20 leaders on early Tuesday morning (IST), follows a recent call to action where health professionals have proposed an initiative to convince leaders of every nation to double their climate action commitments to the Paris Agreement. Similarly, the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) - an intergovernmental organisation - has recently suggested that if countries made adequate investments in renewable energy between now and 2050, it would boost cumulative global GDP gains above business-as-usual by $98 trillion and nearly quadruple renewable energy jobs to 42 million. This suggestion comes at a time when millions of jobs globally are on the line due to current Covid-19 crisis. India medical groups that signed the letter on behalf of health professionals include Indian Medical Association, Association of Surgeons of India, Cardiology Society of India, Indian Academy of Paediatrics and Medical Students Association of India among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prioritise-investments-in-public-health-40-mn-doctors-write-to-g20-leaders/articleshow/75987387.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||2 deaths for 5th day in a row; 3-month-old baby is Vid’s youngest patient||Nagpur: Akola and Nagpur recorded deaths of one Covid-19 positive patient each on Monday, taking the death toll due to the infection in Vidarbha to 53. It was the fifth consecutive day on which Vidarbha recorded Covid-19 deaths. Apart from this, 61 new cases were recorded in seven districts of Vidarbha, as the total cases went up to 1,307. Amravati reported 14 cases, including a three-month-old baby girl, the youngest Covid-19 patient of Vidarbha so far. Recovery also continued with 48 patients getting discharge in a day, taking the total number of recovered patients to 814. Recovery rate of Vidarbha was once again over 60% for sixth day in a row. Monday began with the news of a 54-yr-old woman from Mominpura, a cancer patient, passing away in the morning at IGGMCH. She was admitted on Sunday evening. As she was from a hotspot, her swab samples were collected and she was being treated under full protective gears by doctors. It was the 8th Covid-19 death in Nagpur, where the mortality rate is just 1.86%. On the brighter side, 15 patients from Mominpura, including 2 children, were discharged from IGGMCH on the day of Eid. As many as 351 of 428 patients in Nagpur have now been discharged. This means that 82% patients have gone home so far. In Akola, the 40-year-old woman who dies was a resident of Mohd Ali Road. She was admitted to GMCH on May 19 and was tested positive on May 21. She died on Monday afternoon. This was 25th death in Akola, where the mortality rate is more than 6%. Further, 18 new positive cases were reported from six hotspot localities there as the district cross the 400-mark in 48 days, which in itself is a record. For the last 100 cases, Akola took only 5 days. In Amravati, an official release stated that a 46-year-old government medical officer from Achalpur town and a 37-year-old medical officer from Gandhinagar locality, who had performed 10-day duty at Covid hospital, tested positive on Monday after they were put in institutional quarantine on May 21. Similarly, a 40-year-old woman Asha worker from Mavade Plot locality on Bhatkuli road, who was on survey work, also tested positive. While the Covid hospital received 14 new cases today, it also discharged six males and 2 females. Amravati witnessed the youngest case of Covid-19 in Vidarbha when a 3-month-old baby girl from Taj Nagar tested positive. She is the grand-daughter of a 72-year-old woman who tested positive on April 23 after her death on April 21. The baby is the 15th case from Taj Nagar, which has reported two deaths and 12 recovered patients. The virus caught a 38-year-old man from Madrasi Baba Nagar, the son-in-law of a Haiderpura positive case, and has been in institutional quarantine since May 15. The virus also penetrated the rural village of Hirulpurna in Chandur Bazar tehsil, where a 23-year-old woman and her three-year-old son tested positive after they were quarantined on their return from Mumbai on May 17. Their swabs were taken on May 21. The woman’s husband is a policeman on duty at Kalyan in Mumbai. The village has been sealed and six members of the family have been quarantined, an official said. The two containment zones — Khurshidpura and Shiv Nagar — gave two cases each to take their count to three and seven respectively. Khurshidpura patients are teenagers aged 14 (female) and 11 (male), while Shiv Nagar patients include a 60-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man, a weigher at APMC. Masanganj, a hotspot, reported two more cases — women aged 48 and 55 years — to take its count to 26 that includes one death and six discharged patients. While the two SRPF jawans who tested positive on May 16 got discharged on Monday, another 48-year-old jawan tested positive becoming the 15th Covid warrior to contract the virus. The district’s count of 178 cases now includes 15 dead, 84 recovered, 81 active and two referred to Nagpur GMCH. One more person tested positive to Covid-19 in Chandrapur on Monday taking the number of cases to 22. The new patient is a 26-year-old woman from Chiroli village in Mul tehsil. She was traced as contact of a positive patient and tested on May 23. She woman is the second patient to catch the infection from an MIDC labourer from Malegaon. He was in institutional quarantine at a school in his village, but was served tiffin from his home. A 63-year-old resident of Sudampuri area of Wardha, who was admitted to Secunderabad hospital 8 days ago for treatment, tested positive on Monday. He had gone to a hospital in Secunderabad on May 17 for treatment of liver ailments. He was scheduled to return after seven days of treatment. As a preventive measure, the area around 100 houses in Sudampuri has been declared as a restricted area. As two patients were discharged on Monday, Yavatmal now has 15 active positive patients in the GMCH isolation ward. So far, 98 of the 113 positive patients have recovered and discharged. As many as 16 persons admitted at different Covid-19 care centres across the district have tested negative. This includes Yavatmal 05), Darwha (3) Pusad (2), Digras, Arni, Ghatanji, Kalamb, Mahur and Chhattisgad (1 each). Migrant labourers coming to Gadchiroli from Mumbai continued to test positive on Monday. All 10 positive patients on Monday were from institutional quarantine centres in Etapalli and other remote villages. Nine Mumbai returnees tested positive in Buldhana and 4 in Gondia. Cases in Gondia have now reached 48.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-deaths-for-5th-day-in-a-row-3-month-old-baby-is-vids-youngest-patient/articleshow/75984661.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 employees of Intas test positive||Ahmedabad: Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited’s three employees have tested positive for Covid-19. The pharma company has also completed contact tracing of these employees and have instructed other employees to be home quarantined. “Three employees of Intas, who were found positive of Covid-19 last week, are under treatment and stable. The company has tied up with a leading hospital (in Ahmedabad) for priority treatment of these employees,” confirmed a company spokesperson. “Designated company officers are constantly monitoring the health status of these employees and ensuring all support to them and their family members in this time of distress,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-employees-of-intas-test-positive/articleshow/75984589.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||Yunus puts Covid work ahead of Ramzan and Eid||Amravati: During Ramzan, when most Muslims prefer to be home with family, Yunus Shah preferred to prioritize his duty and work from early morning till late in the evening. He has been doing this since March. This young Covid warrior has been working in public health nursing section at civil surgeon's office here. Ever since corona prevention, treatment and control measures started at the district general hospital, he has been entrusted responsibility of tracing suspects and patients, keeping stats of lab reports and coordinating with different agencies. He has been busy right from Day 1. “I have been doing my work for three months without taking a single day off. I have worked from morning till late evening everyday including holidays,” he says. Yunus keeps record of Covid patients' treatment, classify them and informs to the state government and ICMR. “I have to do this sensitive work with precision and in time,” he says. "I have to take extreme care while updating information that keeps coming constantly and in torrents at the desk,” he says. A native of Chandur Bazar, his family wanted him to stay at home on Monday to celebrate Eid with them. But seeing the requirement of work, Yunus decided to give priority to duty above festival and worked till late in the evening before leaving for home to join family in celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yunus-puts-covid-work-ahead-of-ramzan-and-eid/articleshow/75984561.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||APMC clerk attacked for not issuing licence||Rajkot: A clerk working at the old market yard of Rajkot Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) was attacked allegedly by three persons with an iron rod at the gate of the yard on Sunday evening. Police said the accused, Dilip Chandarana, Pratik Chandarana and Nilesh Chandarana, had attacked Rajesh Gajera (38), accusing Gajera of not issuing them cards issued by the APMC licensing them to do business in the yard.According to the police, Gajera was driving his two-wheeler on which his colleague Chandresh Sojitra was riding pillion, when the accused arrived in a car and waylaid the victims. “Accusing Gajera of not issuing them the APMC cards, the accused attacked him,” said Y B Puwar, assistant sub-inspector with Rajkot B division police station. Gajera received injuries on his hand and feet. He was taken to a private hospital from where he lodged a police complaint. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt against the accused trio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/apmc-clerk-attacked-for-not-issuing-licence/articleshow/75982390.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lawyers kept out of hearing as govt moves HC over Covid order||Ahmedabad: Two days after the Gujarat high court gave a dressing down to the state government for poor health infrastructure management in the city of Ahmedabad, the government sought an urgent clarification about the HC order passed in the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 pandemic on Monday afternoon.The contents of the government note could not be learned as none of the lawyers involved in the suo motu PIL hearing were allowed to participate in the proceedings before the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora. Only two government law officers addressed the court. The exclusion of other lawyers in the proceedings by the high court registry has led them to file complaints before the chief justice and the registrar (judicial) about the alleged deliberate effort of exclusion in a hearing on a crucial matter.The amicus curie appointed by the high court in this matter, advocate Brijesh Trivedi too was kept out and he was quick to register his complaint in the HC registry. Other lawyers to complaint before the chief justice were senior counsel Anshin Desai and Parth Contractor. “It is with a sense of serious concern, that I make this complaint, with regard to the above subject matter,” the amicus curie said about the secrecy.The lawyers were unhappy because the registrar (judicial) informed senior advocate Desai that “the government pleader Manisha Lavkumar Shah has mentioned in a note or something that no one is required to be served with a copy, that no one else is concerned, and that ‘no notice’ or an advance copy to the other side is required”. The government pleader did not respond to repeated calls.While the amicus curie expressed shock over the manner in which the state government allegedly sought to conduct the matter without involving other parties, senior advocate Desai complained, “It seems that the court has been misled. Without a copy of any such application, the registry of Gujarat high court never permits circulation and in the past we have frantically pleaded to the registry in normal times for circulation, and even after the service of advance copy, immediate circulation is next to impossible. I wonder how such a circulation was permitted today?”Upon conclusion of the hearing, the HC did not make any alteration in its order, but it accepted documents concerning work at the Civil Hospital on record, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lawyers-kept-out-of-hearing-as-govt-moves-hc-over-covid-order/articleshow/75984578.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Suspicious activity? No, it’s just coronavirus anxiety||NEW DELHI: A passenger at Indira Gandhi International Airport frequently pulled out a bottle and rubbed its contents on his hands. His evident nervousness would have also marked him out for closer scrutiny by security personnel in normal times. But it was Monday, the first day of resumption of passenger flights at the airport, and Ahmed leaving Delhi for Patna, was in two minds, like many other flyers, about whether he had made the right decision to fly when Covid-19 infection still hadn’t abated. “There’s high risk, I know,” admitted Ahmed, “yet it is important for us to get back home too.” Most passengers TOI spoke to at Terminal 3 said they were apprehensive of the situation on the airport concourses and inside the aircraft. Several passengers reassured themselves by donning full-fledged personal protective equipment (PPE) gear. One of them, requesting anonymity, explained, “I wasn’t sure whether the flight would be packed, but regardless, a closed environment is dangerous and I didn’t want to take a risk.” Flyers certainly found things different at the airport when it reopened on Monday. For one, masks have become mandatory, and there are Delhi Police teams instructing everyone to keep faces covered and to maintain social distancing. The cops also stepped in to separate people standing too close to each other in the queues, leading to serpentine lines forming outside the departure entrance. Passengers even used toothpicks to operate machines and to ‘press’ buttons while completing their web check-in on the available machines. Wheelchairs were thoroughly disinfected before people dared to use them. Those who did not have protective items like hand sanitisers, gloves and face shields bought them at counters that have popped up exclusively to sell Covid-19 gear. “I am wearing a mask and am regularly using a sanitiser. That’s the best I can do, I suppose,” said Prashan Kumar, 35, a software professional working in Gurgaon. “I am both scared and nervous, but also excited to be going home.” Kumar’s family lives in Patna. Raman Saini, leaving for Bhopal with his wife and his 7-month old baby, worried, “We aren’t sure whether to cover the baby’s face or not. I think we will use a piece of cloth inside the aircraft.” Before encountering the CISF personnel standing behind a glass shield to avoid direct contact, flyers pushed their luggage into an ultra-violet baggage scanning machine. However, many people didn’t immediately learn of this requirement at the entry point UV sanitising machines because no airport official was present to guide them. Some of those arriving at the Delhi airport on Monday complained about inadequate sanitisation facilities during the process of exiting the airport. Before boarding, they said, they were provided with a face shield, a sanitiser and gloves by the airline. But, said, Vinay, 23, a student arriving from Ahmedabad, the travellers were not sanitised or physically scanned after landing and they proceeded to the exits. An airport official, however, explained that the individuals were thermally screened by a machine when they passed it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/suspicious-activity-no-its-just-corona-anxiety/articleshow/75984562.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 26, 2020||Pune||Duo flee with Rs 70,000 from firm’s manager, employee in Pune||PUNE: A manager and an employee of a private company in Swargate were way laid and robbed of Rs 70,000 by two motorcycle-borne men at Bibvewadi around 6.30pm on Sunday. The two victims — Suhas Nigade and the company manager Sandesh Kumbhar — were returning to their home in Kondhwa from office, when the suspects intercepted their car in Bibvewadi. The man riding pillion got down, brandished a sharp weapon and threatened the victims to give cash. He snatched Rs 50,000 from Kumbhar’s pocket and Rs 20,000 from Nigade. Nigade lodged a complaint with Bibvewadi police.. He said them the suspects looked like they were in their early 20s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-flee-with-rs-70k-from-firms-manager-employee/articleshow/75984565.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Expats in UAE warned against flight scam||KOZHIKODE: The consulate general of India in Dubai has warned Indian expats living in the UAE not to fall prey to agents who offer chartered flights to India and seek money in advance for airfare and quarantine charges in India. In a public notice, the consulate general of India said, “It has come to the consulate’s notice that certain people and travel agencies in UAE are contacting Indian nationals in name of forthcoming chartered flights to various destinations in India and in some cases, alluring them to pay money in advance for airfare and quarantine charges in India.” “Consulate general of India in Dubai would like to advise all the Indian nationals living in UAE that Government of India has yet not accorded approval for any such chartered flights as on now,” the notice said. The statement said that a proposal of chartered flight to India, if any, for any designated purpose, will be approved by the Government of India and routed through consulate general of India, Dubai, during the current crisis of Covid-19 and till resumption of normal international civil aviation services between India and UAE. Several expat organizations have been demanding permission for chartered flights from the Gulf as only limited number of stranded expats are now being able to return home through the flights under Vande Bharat Mission. KMCC leader P K Anwar Naha, who welcomed the move, said the government should operate more repatriation flights or grant permission for chartered flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/indian-consulate-cautions-against-chartered-flight-offer/articleshow/75982392.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Rajkot||This mango oasis stands tall in concrete jungle||Rajkot: While Junagadh rules the world of mangoes with its kesar variety, there is a huge orchard with more than 500 mango trees in Navagam, in the outskirts of Rajkot, which has been quietly tickling mango lovers’ palates with its own Kesar mangoes, more popularly called Kesubhai’s mangoes.The fruit earned its moniker after the eye surgeon, who was gifted the plot of land by the erstwhile ruler of Rajkot. Keshubhai used to sell mangoes from his orchard only at his hospital premises on Karansinhji road of Rajkot. This tradition was picked up and continued by his grandson, an eye surgeon too, of selling the fruit at the hospital on no-profit no-loss basis. Recalling the tradition set by his grandfather, Dr Ajay Mehta said: “My grandfather set up an operation theater in the palace to perform cataract operation on Rajmata, the mother of then ruler of Rajkot, Lakhajirajsinhji. He also refused to accept payment for his medical services. However, a few years later when he saw a mango orchard in Junagadh, my grandfather expressed his desire to create his own orchard in Rajkot someday. Hearing this, Maharaj Lakhajirajsinhji asked his Diwan to gift this parcel of land to my grandfather.” The land was rocky and Keshubhai had to put in hard labour for quite many years to make it fertile for mango farming. He brought Kesar mango seedlings from Junagadh and sowed these in his orchard. Even today, 50-odd trees still stand tall bearing testimony to the eye surgeon’s efforts. Dr Mehta who continues to run the hospital with his wife Dr Tejal at the same place maintained that the tradition set by his grandfather of selling mangoes at no-profit no-loss at the same hospital will go on. “We don’t use any chemical in our orchard which is totally organic farming,” said Dr Mehta, adding that the farm yields nearly 50 tonne mangoes every season. Another grandson, Sanjay Mehta, who runs a travel agency, said, “Rajkot is expanding its limits to Navagam and is being commercially developed. However, we will continue to nurture our ‘mango oasis’ even amid the concrete jungle of rapid urbanization.” Mandhatasinhji, the present ruler of Rajkot, said, “The whole terrain was rocky which needed extra effort to grow something as delicate as mangoes. Keshubhai’s hard work s bore fruit which the people of Rajkot have, for the past so many decades, been enjoying. This gift given by Lakhajiraj Bapu is historical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/this-mango-oasis-stands-tall-in-concrete-jungle/articleshow/75982413.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 26, 2020||Pune||Sadhu Vaswani Mission reaches out to the needy||Pune: The Sadhu Vaswani Mission distributed fruits, rose milk and other essential items to more than a thousand needy Muslim families around the Tadiwala Road area, a containment zone, on the occasion of Eid on Monday. In coordination with the police, the Mission had planned to distribute the material to 930 families, but the final distribution count came to 1,050. The Mission had come to know from the police about families in the area were facing a “bleak” Eid due to the area being a containment zone. “We started the packaging immediately. To make it significant and customised, we included 1litre bottle of Rooh Afza Sherbat, 1litre milk, sevaiya, sugar, dates and six bananas in each plus an addition of 3kg rice, 1kg dal and 1 litre cooking oil,” said a statement from the Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sadhu-vaswani-mission-reaches-out-to-the-needy/articleshow/75984563.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Constable’s death sparks agitation at Garfa police station||KOLKATA: A 47-year-old constable from the Garfa police station died on Monday, sparking agitation among his colleagues, who allegedly laid siege to the police station and ransacked the premises, overturning guardrails and smashing down flower pots. They claimed they had not had a day’s break ever since the lockdown started and their work seemed to have doubled after Cyclone Amphan struck. Under the circumstances, when the news of the death of their colleague arrived, the cops erupted in protest against alleged negligence by their seniors. Lalbazar, however, denied any ransacking and called it “a sudden outburst of emotions” owing to the “sad event of a colleague passing away all of a sudden”.  “We are shocked by the news. But we have seen the death certificate, where it is clearly mentioned that he was Covid negative,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha. The constable was a resident of Cooch Behar and stayed at the police barrack here. Claiming negligence on the part of senior officers to get him treated in time, when he started displaying for Covid-like symptoms, the cops said the constable was sent to M R Bangur Hospital for initial check-up and then quarantined, instead of being admitted to a private hospital earmarked for senior police personnel. However, on Sunday night, his condition worsened and was admitted to MR Bangur Hospital yet again with severe breathing trouble, his colleagues claimed. He passed away on Monday. Sources said DC (south suburban) Pradeep Kumar Yadav rushed to the spot and pacified the cops, assuring them their grievances would be redressed at the highest levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/constables-death-sparks-agitation-at-garfa-police-stn/articleshow/75983936.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||No teachers or infra, experts question how NU colleges will conduct exams||Nagpur: Academicians in Nagpur University have questioned its decision to ask colleges to conduct the final year exams, since a majority of the over 500 affiliated colleges lack required number of regular teachers and even infrastructure. A majority of colleges are operating with just one regular teacher, who will have to do the entire work of paper setting and evaluation, which would be extremely difficult. In fact, many NU departments too are operating without full strength of full-time teachers, and even its conducted colleges like LIT, department of law and BEd, lack enough teachers. “Besides shortage teachers, many colleges, particularly in rural areas, lack infrastructure. It would be difficult for them to accommodate a large number of students while following Covid distancing. A majority of institutions, including NU departments, are also functioning with contract teachers and therefore, it wouldn’t be possible for them to conduct the exam,” Central India Law College director SM Rajan said. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had recently written to University Grants Commission (UGC) to exempt Maharashtra from conducting even final year or semester examinations in view of spiralling Covid cases. Some academicians feel that it can’t be a solution, as those degrees wouldn’t have any value, once the Covid-19 pandemic comes to an end. “If universities aren’t conducting exams, what’s the point in conferring free degrees. It would be better if universities hold exams in winter. They can use techniques like objective type questions, which students can solve online from home. For those who don’t have any access to computers, the respective colleges can make the arrangements. If students are told to solve 100 questions in 60 minutes, it would be difficult for them to copy from books even if giving exams online,” said former management council member Sanjay Khadakkar. Others, like senior Senate member Manmohan Bajpayee, questioned why NU can’t conduct exams if they believe colleges could do it. He wrote a letter to vice chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar, requesting him not to implement Amravati University’s decision in NU. “The coronavirus risk would be the same to the students whether exams were conducted by NU or colleges. There’s every chance of manipulation in the exams conducted by colleges and even evaluation would be compromised,” he said. Rejecting the objections of academicians, NU Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable explained that it would be impossible for NU to conduct exams and declare results within one-and-a-half-months. “It would take us at least three months for us to complete the entire exam schedule and declare results,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-teachers-or-infra-experts-question-how-nu-colleges-will-conduct-exams/articleshow/75984570.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||A small, slim Gujarati wedding during lockdown||AHMEDABAD: Sachin Shah and Stuti Kinariwala will have a distinctive story to tell about their marriage. Their families planned a big, fat wedding for April 28 this year. One lockdown led to another, and the marriage date lapsed. Finally, the marriage did take place on Monday, but with just nine persons in attendance – four from each family and a priest. Both the families were elated as the marriage was finally solemnized. Both families had to make several online applications and even personally visit government offices in their respective districts to seek approval for the marriage. While Sachin’s family lives at Thangadh in Surendranagar district, Stuti’s family stays in Ahmedabad. “The lockdown kept extending and the original date for the marriage got lapsed. We had got wedding invitations printed and distributed. We had planned a grand wedding but we are happy that it has finally been held,” said Mitul Shah, Sachin’s father. Mitul Shah and his family drove to Ahmedabad from Surendranagar, completed the marriage ceremony in Ahmedabad and returned with the newly-wed couple. Sachin, who currently works with an export company, and Stuti, studied together in Ahmedabad and grew close to each other. When they informed their families of their relationship, the families got together and finalized their marriage on April 28. “When the first lockdown was announced from March 23, we thought things will become normal by the time the marriage date arrived, but the lockdown kept extending,” Mitul Shah said. He added that both families kept applying for permission online, so that they could solemnize the marriage, but they did not get the required permission from the authorities of the two districts. Finally, when they got the permission, the marriage was possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-small-slim-gujarati-wedding-during-lockdown/articleshow/75984594.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Jamshedpur||Covid tally breaches 400-mark as 28 migrants test positive in Jharkhand||RANCHI/RAMGARH/JAMHEDPUR/GUMLA: The number of coronavirus cases in Jharkhand crossed the 400-mark on Monday as the state recorded 28 cases, including one from the tribal-dominated Khunti, which, becoming the 23rd of 24 districts to be affected by the pandemic. Only Sahebganj district along the border with Bengal now remains Covid-free. All the new cases are migrants who have returned to Jharkhand recently. While it took 45 days for the state tally to reach the 200-mark after the first case was reported in Ranchi on March 31, it took just 12 days for the figure to double. Jharkhand coronavirus caseload now stands at 405, of which 253 are active, 149 have recovered and three persons have succumbed to the disease. The number of suspected Covid-19 cases tested also crossed the 50,000-mark on Monday with a total of 50,709 samples tested and the results of about 8,000 samples pending. Ranchi detected 10 fresh cases from Silli block on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state capital to 125. “All ten are migrants and have returned from Maharashtra, Gujarat and other southern states three days ago. They were in institutional quarantine since their arrival,” an official said. Simdega detected three fresh cases, all; migrants, with travel history to Maharashtra. “The patients are from Kolebira block,” said a district administration official. Ramgarh, Bokaro and Garhwa districts detected two cases each. “All of them are have returned from Telangana, Maharashtra, the officials in the respective districts confirmed Palamu, which had become Covid-free with the last of the 15 patients discharged on May 21, recorded one case on Monday. “The patient returned from Brijwasan in Haryana a week ago and was put at an institutional quarantine centre,” Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said. East Singhbhum, Khunti and Gumla also recorded one cases each on Monday. In Khunti, a resident of Karra block with travel history to Mumbai tested positive on Monday. “The patient returned on May 17 and was at a government quarantine centre with the others who had accompanied him. We have started tracing his contacts,” Khunti DC Suraj Kumar said. Simdega detected three fresh cases, all migrants with travel history to Maharashtra. “The patients are from Kolebira block,” said a district administration official. Ramgarh, Bokaro and Garhwa districts detected two cases each. “All of them have returned from Telangana, Maharashtra, the officials in the respective districts confirmed. Palamu, which had become Covid-free with the last of the 15 patients discharged on May 21, recorded one case on Monday. “The patient returned from Brijwasan in Haryana a week ago and was put at an institutional quarantine centre,” Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said. East Singhbhum, Khunti and Gumla also recorded one cases each on Monday. In Khunti, a resident of Karra block with travel history to Mumbai tested positive on Monday. “The patient returned on May 17 and was at a government quarantine centre. We have started tracing his contacts,” Khunti DC Suraj Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/covid-tally-breaches-400-mark-as-28-migrants-test-ve-in-jharkhand/articleshow/75996760.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 26, 2020||Jamshedpur||30-yr-old kills self over wedding date postponement||JAMSHEDPUR: A 30-year-old man committed suicide in the early hours of Sunday at his house in Vishwakarma Nagar in Mango area under Olidih police station limits over the indefinite postponement of his wedding, police said on Monday. Sources at the Olidih police station said prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide but police have registered a case and their investigation is on. The body will be handed over to the family after the autopsy is done, the sources added. Deceased Sanjit Gupta’s father, identified as Rajendra Prasad Gupta, said that on Saturday night, his son went to his room after having dinner and around 4am, the latter woke up to use the washroom but he found Sanjit hanging from the ceiling fan in their living room. An inconsolable Rajendra, standing outside the autopsy room of MGM hospital here, said, “My son was scheduled to get married on April 25 with a girl from Aurangabad in Bihar but as the lockdown came into force, the wedding had to be postponed which had an adverse effect on my son.” He added that Sanjit, who owned a grocery shop, soon went into depression and he stopped communicating with family members and friends. Sanjit blamed the ongoing lockdown for disrupting his marriage plans and he often had suicidal thoughts, Rajendra said. “I often tried to tell him that it is not easy to arrange a marriage ceremony in this crisis period but he was not ready to listen. I urged him to have patience and wait for the lockdown to be lifted but he never paid attention to my requests,” Rajendra said. With Sanjit’s death on Sunday, Rajendra lost his third son. His eldest son Ashis had drowned in Subarnarekha river in 2000 while another son Dilip, who went to New Delhi to look for a job, has been missing since June 24, 2012. Till date, the family has not been able to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/30-yr-old-kills-self-over-wedding-date-postponement/articleshow/75984010.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh tribal returning from Gujarat dies of jaundice||DUMKA: A tribal migrant worker from Ramgarh district died on Sunday night near Giridih while returning from Gujarat in a bus along with 35 others. The deceased, Shivlal Kisku, tested negative for Covid-19 and reportedly died of jaundice, which he was suffering from for the last two months. Dev Murmu, a co-passenger said, “We were near Giridih when he suddenly lost consciousness and died.” Soon after Kisku’s death, 25 of the passengers, got down from the bus and fled while the vehicle took the remaining nine, who included a sister of the deceased, to Dumka Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for Covid-19 testing and isolation. At DMCH, samples of Kisku and his sister were taken and tested with the newly installed Truenat machine. Their results have returned negative on Monday, Murmu said. Dumka civil surgeon Dr Anant Kumar Jha said, “The body will be handed over to the police as the test result is negative.” He added that samples of the rest of the passengers will be sent to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, Dumka, for testing. Talking to TOI, Dumka DC Rajeshwari B said all passengers accompanying the deceased are under quarantine. The DC said she had no knowledge of passengers getting off the bus midway. However, Murmu said, “We hired the bus by paying Rs 2.10 lakh but 25 others got off and fled after Kisku’s death.” On Sunday morning, a 30-year-old migrant worker, Vijay Khandiat, from West Singhbhum died also in Wardha district of Maharashtra while walking back home from Pune along with 15 others. According to his colleagues, Khandait complained of severe stomach pain and was rushed to the hospital but died during treatment.” West Singhbhum DC Arava Rajkamal confirmed the death but said the Wardha administration has not shared any information about the cause of the death, so far. He said, “The cremation will be conducted at Wardha as per rituals of the family of Vijay and Rs 5,000 has been transferred to the bank account of one of his colleagues as cost.” Rajkamal said the 15 migrants will be transported back by a Shramik special train this week and added that the SP (Wardha) had assured that their food and shelter will not be a problem. Talking to TOI over the phone, Kanuram Khandait, a member of the group walking back home, said, “It was around 2.30am when Vijay said he was having severe stomach pain. We rushed him to the hospital on a handcart but died.” Parma Khandait, another migrant in the group, said they were daily wage earners of a contractor who supplied bricks and sand in Pune. The contractor shut down his business after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 23 and they lost their jobs, Parma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-tribal-returning-from-gujarat-dies-of-jaundice/articleshow/75983341.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||Three containment zones set up in East Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Ravi Shankar Shukla, on Monday marked three areas in Baridih and Sidhgora here as containment zones as the district reported 24 Covid-19 cases on Sunday — 16 from Jamshedpur, six from Govindpur and two from Chakulia. “Following the sealing of all the areas in the three containment zones, over 400 people living in these zones will have to go for a health check-up and every house will be surveyed for contact tracing and travel history of the residents,” said a district official. He added, “All the residents in the three containment zones have to download the Aarogya Setu app in their cell phones.” In Lohia Path in Baridih basti, which falls under Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee area, the containment zone’s two boundaries are from one Narendra Kumar Singh’s house to one Vijay Singh’s house and from one Satyanarayan Mahato’s house to one Sanjay Tantuvai’s home respectively. There’s a buffer zone on either side of the containment zone along the Main Road and the two boundary points are from one Ganesh Gorai’s house to one Kamlesh Gupta’s house and from one Sanjay Singh’s house to one Ram Singh’s house respectively, the notification issued by the deputy commissioner read. Likewise in Sidhgora, a residential area of Tata Steel employees, the containment zone’s boundary has been specified from X type quarter number 12 to quarter number 3. The buffer zone’s two boundaries are from quarter number 18 to quarter number 1 and quarter 1 to quarter number 9 respectively. The third containment zone is Sidhgora JAP-6 residential area and the buffer zone here has been specified from quarter number 7 to quarter number 81 and from Surya Mandir Road to the boundary wall of GIIT Professional College. Earlier, Govindpur, situated on the outskirts of Jamshedpur, had been put under the containment zone while containment measures have also been imposed in Chakulia under Ghtashila subdivison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/three-containment-zones-set-up-in-east-singhbhum/articleshow/75983414.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||No hugs, handshakes, community namaz as Muslims celebrate Eid from home||RANCH/DALTONGANJ: This year’s EId-ul-Fitr 2020 will go down in history as a ‘no contact’ festival where the traditional hugs, embraces and handshakes became a strict no. Traditionally, no Eid or Muslim gathering is complete without shaking hands and hugging each other thrice and placing the right hand on heart, but with social distancing being the norm to fight Covid-19, Eid celebrations in the state remained limited to ‘distant greetings’ or a virtual ‘Eid Mubarak’. While there will be no public prayers in the state, the spirit of charity that comes with Eid, however, remained the hallmark of the celebrations. Apart from no shopping for new clothes and accessories, traditional seviyan (vermicelli) stalls on the roadside were not seen this time. Celebrations across the state on Monday remained subdued and muted with people offering prayers behind closed doors with their family members because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the national lockdown. All leading Muslim religious institutions and top Islamic scholars have issued a unanimous decree asking faithful not to offer group prayers and instead be confined to homes, follow health advisories and other similar instructions issued by authorities. Many people, from politicians to commoners, took to social media to exchange greetings. Chief minister Hemant Soren, in his tweet, appealed to people to celebrate and pray indoors. “Maintain physical distance but connect your hearts,” he tweeted. Last week, Jama Masjid’s Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari in a video message, asked Muslims, and particularly those in the national capital, to offer Eid prayers at home and not at mosques. “I would urge the Muslims, that just as they have patiently prayed at home the past few months, similarly Eid prayer should also be offered at home and not at mosques or eidgahs,” Bukhari said in the video posted on Facebook and Twitter accounts of his son and deputy Imam Shaban Bukhari. In Ranchi, most Eid markets remained closed even though the government had allowed some relaxations for non-vegetarian food. Prices, however, remained high as mutton sold for as high as Rs 700 to Rs 750 a kilo while chicken went for Rs 170 to Rs 200 for broiler breeds and Rs 350 for the desi variety. Bimal Kumar, who owns a poultry shop on Karam Toli-Morhabadi road, said, “We sold chicken for Rs 120 per kg and most people did their Eid shopping on Sunday evening. Many customers called us beforehand to confirm if we are open.” A handful of mosques in the city were illuminated with festive lights to mark the festival, but there were no gatherings to offer namaz. “My family has never spent the entire day on Eid indoors. I am missing having people around the house, but it is for our own safety. We offered prayers at home,” said Sana Salaluddin, a homemaker and resident of Karbala Chowk. In Daltonganj, the tradition of people from both Hindu and Muslim communities traditionally donate basics to the underprivileged, but this was missing this year because of restrictions on mass gatherings. In its 11-point guidelines issued last week, Indian Muslims for Progress and Reforms (IMPAR) asked the community members to donate the money saved to the suffering people irrespective of caste and creed. “We must shun all extravagant spending this Eid and use that money to help the needy in this crisis as this is the essence of paying zakat,” said IMPAR central committee member and noted industrialist Saeed Shervani. One of the five pillars of Islam (other four are shahada, namaz, fasting and haj), zakat is 2.5 % of the annual savings Muslims give in charity. Abdul Rehman, a resident of Daltonganj town, said, “Every Eid, I used to give large quantities of wheat to the poor from every community. This time, I could not step out of home to donate.” Mufti Shahnawaz Qasmi, imam of Jama Masjid in Daltonganj, said, “The money for charity or zakat is meant for the poor and there is no discrimination on any ground of faith and religion. This year, many have donated zakat in the first and second weeks of Ramzan and did not wait for Eid to help the poor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-hugs-handshakes-community-namaz-as-muslims-celebrate-eid-from-home/articleshow/75983947.cms||Debjani Chakraborty
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown and low demand: Double whammy for lac cultivators in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The lockdown, which is in force throughout the country since March 24, has hit lac cultivation and production in Jharkhand, the biggest producer of lac in the country. A natural resin secreted by lac insects, lac is used in the manufacture of dyes, resins, wax, cosmetics, medicines and so on. “When the lockdown began in March, the lac harvesting season was mostly over in Jharkhand. Lac farmers sell their produce at the village haats (markets) to traders and agents of lac-processing industries. With strict lockdown measures in force and traders shying away from village haats, farmers have been left saddled with large quantities of sticklac and no takers,” Dr K K Sharma, the director of Indian Institute of Natural Resins and Gums (IINRG), Ranchi, told TOI. The shutdown of lac-processing units, absence of labour, lack of transportation, closure of agriculture shops selling chemical pesticides in March and April, pose further challenges for the thousands of lac farmers, who are already battling low demand, he added. For the second lac crop, whose harvesting time is scheduled during June and July, the first spraying of chemical insecticides to protect the lac crop could not commence. The only silver lining is that with restrictions now being eased and agri and horticulture activities allowed to resume, we have issued advisory to lac farmers that despite the delay, they need to undertake spraying of insecticides, the IINRG director added. When asked about the steps that need to be undertaken to recover lost ground in the lac sector, the IINRG director said, “There is a need to set up a ‘Lac Board’ — both at the national and state levels — to promote lac cultivation.” “The lac sector needs a fresh look. Lac is classified as a forest produce. Income from sale of forest produce is taxable under the Income Tax Act. To boost farm incomes and to ensure more purchasing power in rural areas, lac needs to be reclassified as agriculture produce, income from which is exempt from income tax,” he added. The minimum support price (MSP) of rangeeni variety of lac varies between Rs 130 to Rs 200 per kg, whilst that of the kusumi variety ranges between Rs 203 and Rs 275 per kg. The state government needs to ensure that all lac purchases by traders and agents be made at the determined MSP, the IINRG director said. More than 60% of all lac produced in Jharkhand are exported. However, exporters often experience wide fluctuations in ruling prices that vary between Rs 80 to Rs 800 a kg, depending on demand from foreign buyers. The state government needs to build a buffer stock of lac to offset fluctuations in overseas demand and prices, Sharma said. It might be recalled that on May 5, chief minister Hemant Soren visited the IINRG at Namkum in Ranchi and discussed possibilities of enhancing employment opportunities in the lac sector with Sharma and other officials of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-and-low-demand-double-whammy-for-lac-cultivators-in-jharkhand/articleshow/75983815.cms||Tapas Biswas
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||Heatwave alert for next 48 hours in 4 Jharkhand districts||RANCHI: Heatwave conditions will prevail over the northwestern parts of Jharkhand for the next 48 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ranchi said on Monday. Talking to TOI, Ranchi IMD director S D Kotal said four districts — Garhwa, Palamu, Chatra and Latehar — will primarily bear the brunt of the heat wave, while isolated pockets in other parts of the state may expect some thunderstorm and rain activity. Kotal said, “We have issued a heatwave alert for Garhwa, Palamu, Chatra and Latehar. The mercury in these four districts is expected to touch 45 degree Celsius. Dry and hot westerly winds blowing into the state has led to the rise in temperature. But in the northeastern part of the state, there is a slight trough with favourable cloudy conditions that could cause some light showers with thunderstorms.” The IMD has also issued an associated advisory regarding heatstroke for these four districts. Kotal said, “Although the heat will be tolerable for general masses, those with pre-existing health conditions will be vulnerable. So we are advising infants, the elderly or those with chronic diseases in these districts to avoid direct exposure to the sun during the heatwave.” In cities like Ranchi and Jamshedpur, the temperatures are expected to hover around 41 degree Celsius and 39 degree Celsius, respectively in the next 48 hours. The Met department predicted that the state will get respite from May 28 onwards. Kotal said, “From May 28, most of Jharkhand will get relief as rains are expected to bring down the temperature.” Meanwhile, strong winds lashed large parts of Ranchi and adjoining areas for less than an hour on Monday afternoon leading to uprooting of trees on the outskirts of the capital. In Namkum on NH-33, about half a dozen trees reportedly suffered damages causing a blockade on the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/heatwave-alert-for-next-48-hours-in-4-jharkhand-districts/articleshow/75983380.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||Bus carrying Bengal migrants overturns in Gola, 3 critical||RAMGARH/RANCHI: Thirty-eight migrants suffered injuries after a bus bound for Bengal from Mumbai carrying 77 people overturned near Kulhi village under Rajrappa police station on Ranchi-Gola Road on Monday. Police with the help of local villagers rescued the migrants. Ramgarh MLA Mamata Devi also rushed to the spot with her supporters to provide food and water to the migrants. The injured were rushed to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi. The officer in-charge of Rajrappa Police Station, Binod Kumar Murmu, said, “The driver wasn’t familiar with the valley and he lost control over the vehicle while taking a sharp turn.” Of the total injured, 25 suffered heavy injuries with three being critical till the time of filing this report. A few local eyewitnesses claimed that the vehicle was overspeeding. An eyewitness said, “Vehicles going to Bengal take this route to reduce travel time and distance as it connects with Bokaro highway. As the driver didn’t know the route well, he lost control while negotiating the steep valley.” Azim Bittu, a migrant worker who was travelling in the bus, said, “We rented the bus from Mumbai to Kolkata for Rs 3 lakh. We began the journey after taking permission from local authorities. All 77 of us are from West Bengal and were working in Mumbai.” Rims director D K Singh said they took extra precaution while attending the injured as they were from Mumbai, a red zone. He said, “The Ramgarh administration informed me about the accident at around 3pm on Monday. We soon swung into action” A fortnight ago, a trailer carrying migrant workers from Jamshedpur to Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh had overturned on NH-33 under Ramgarh town police station. In that incident, three migrants died and five others received injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bus-carrying-bengal-migrants-overturns-in-gola-3-critical/articleshow/75983994.cms||N K Agarwal
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||Covid tally breaches 400-mark as 28 migrants test positive in Jharkhand||RANCHI/RAMGARH/JAMHEDPUR/GUMLA: The number of coronavirus cases in Jharkhand crossed the 400-mark on Monday as the state recorded 28 cases, including one from the tribal-dominated Khunti, which, becoming the 23rd of 24 districts to be affected by the pandemic. Only Sahebganj district along the border with Bengal now remains Covid-free. All the new cases are migrants who have returned to Jharkhand recently. While it took 45 days for the state tally to reach the 200-mark after the first case was reported in Ranchi on March 31, it took just 12 days for the figure to double. Jharkhand coronavirus caseload now stands at 405, of which 253 are active, 149 have recovered and three persons have succumbed to the disease. The number of suspected Covid-19 cases tested also crossed the 50,000-mark on Monday with a total of 50,709 samples tested and the results of about 8,000 samples pending. Ranchi detected 10 fresh cases from Silli block on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state capital to 125. “All ten are migrants and have returned from Maharashtra, Gujarat and other southern states three days ago. They were in institutional quarantine since their arrival,” an official said. Simdega detected three fresh cases, all; migrants, with travel history to Maharashtra. “The patients are from Kolebira block,” said a district administration official. Ramgarh, Bokaro and Garhwa districts detected two cases each. “All of them are have returned from Telangana, Maharashtra, the officials in the respective districts confirmed Palamu, which had become Covid-free with the last of the 15 patients discharged on May 21, recorded one case on Monday. “The patient returned from Brijwasan in Haryana a week ago and was put at an institutional quarantine centre,” Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said. East Singhbhum, Khunti and Gumla also recorded one cases each on Monday. In Khunti, a resident of Karra block with travel history to Mumbai tested positive on Monday. “The patient returned on May 17 and was at a government quarantine centre with the others who had accompanied him. We have started tracing his contacts,” Khunti DC Suraj Kumar said. Simdega detected three fresh cases, all migrants with travel history to Maharashtra. “The patients are from Kolebira block,” said a district administration official. Ramgarh, Bokaro and Garhwa districts detected two cases each. “All of them have returned from Telangana, Maharashtra, the officials in the respective districts confirmed. Palamu, which had become Covid-free with the last of the 15 patients discharged on May 21, recorded one case on Monday. “The patient returned from Brijwasan in Haryana a week ago and was put at an institutional quarantine centre,” Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said. East Singhbhum, Khunti and Gumla also recorded one cases each on Monday. In Khunti, a resident of Karra block with travel history to Mumbai tested positive on Monday. “The patient returned on May 17 and was at a government quarantine centre. We have started tracing his contacts,” Khunti DC Suraj Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-tally-breaches-400-mark-as-28-migrants-test-ve-in-jharkhand/articleshow/75983726.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 26, 2020||Ranchi||International player ventures into forest for livelihood, hockey body helps out||RANCHI: Eighteen-year-old Sangeeta Kumari from Karangagudi Nayatoli village in Simdega district has represented India in the Under-18 Asia Cup and played in several national and international hockey tournaments. But during the lockdown, she is busy collecting firewood from the nearby forest to keep the wooden chulha in her home burning. Born to a family of farmers, Sangeeta said they had run out of money long ago and her parents often worked as daily wagers to make their ends meet. She said, “Our village does not have proper roads or drinking water facilities till date. Majority of the villagers do not have electricity and other basic facilities despite the tall claims by the government.” Simdega is known as the hockey nursery of the state and has produced several national and international players, including Sangeeta. However, the condition of most players in this underdeveloped district is pathetic and the lockdown has hit them hard. Moved by her plight, Hockey Jharkhand, the apex body of the game in the state, donated a cooking gas cylinder and a stove to Sangeeta’s family. Talking to TOI, Hockey Jharkhand vice-president Manoj Konbegi said, “From our end, we decided it is our responsibility to help our cadet and visited Sangeeta’s house on Monday. We provided a gas cylinder and a stove to help her family avoid the hassles of going to the forest and enduring smoke from the chulha.” He added, “Her family has eight members and is in acute poverty. Players like Sangeeta should be on the field playing hockey and not venturing out into the forest to collect firewood.” Thanking the association, Sangeeta said, “At least, my mother and sisters won’t have to battle with smoke while cooking food and I will be spared of going to jungles to collect firewood.” Konbegi, who is also the general secretary of Hockey Simdega, informed that there are several national and international players in the district who are struggling due to lack of proper patronage. He added that the Hockey Jharkhand has asked all its district units to prepare a list of players who are facing problems due to the lockdown. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh said, “I have asked all district units to conduct a survey and prepare a list of players battling odds during the crisis so that we can take up their case with the state government and support them at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/international-player-ventures-into-forest-for-livelihood-hockey-body-helps-out/articleshow/75983307.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 26, 2020||India||After UP, Rajasthan reverts to 8-hr factory shifts||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: Human resources experts, trade unions and civil society groups have lauded the Rajasthan government’s decision on Sunday to revert to 8-hour shifts in all registered factories in the state instead of 12-hour duty as mandated earlier to make up for the loss of labour-hours due to the Covid-induced lockdown. “Good sense has prevailed over the government” as it would have adversely affected the health, immunity and emotional stability of workers and would have led to their further exploitation, they said. Trade unions have welcomed the move, which comes days after UP rescinded a similar directive. AITUC said: “Economy would pick up if workers, the key components to provide their labour be it skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled in manufacturing, productions, and services are taken on board for ensuring them justice for workplace safety, health measures, proper wages, eight hours of working as per existing norms and social security coverage,” it said. The decision of the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government comes after AICC accused the Centre of diluting labour laws and also blamed some BJP-run state governments. The Rajasthan government order was issued on April 11. “It was done amid the Covid-19 crisis. It is a health issue. If you have more working hours then it adversely affects three things — emotional stability, health and immunity. It makes no sense to increase the working hours. The second aspect was that the mandatory recess was being given after 6 hours. It was very taxing for the workers. Even for three months, this order was unacceptable,” said Ashok Khandelwal, who is an expert on labour laws and an ex-faculty of VV Giri Labour Institute. “Moreover, this would have led to monetary loss for the workers as their wage would not have increased proportionately… Any kind of labour reform should not increase exploitation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-up-rajasthan-reverts-to-8-hr-factory-shifts/articleshow/75987543.cms||---
May 26, 2020||World||First test launch of Virgin Orbit rocket fails||LOS ANGELES: The first test launch of a rocket that is released from a jumbo jet at 35,000 feet and then propels itself into orbit to deploy a satellite failed on Monday, the Virgin Orbit company said. "The mission terminated shortly into the flight. Cosmic Girl and our flight crew are safe and returning to base," Virgin Orbit's Twitter account reported as the test was underway off the coast of California. The plane released the rocket cleanly, but the latter developed trouble of unknown origin after igniting its first-stage engine, the company said. Founded by British billionaire Richard Branson in 2012, Virgin Orbit wants to offer a quick and flexible launch service for operators of small satellites, weighing between 300 and 500 kilos (600 to 1,00 pounds), a market which is currently booming. The 70-foot (21-meter) Virgin Orbit rocket, named LauncherOne, does not take off from a vertical lift off, but rather is strapped to the underside of a wing on a converted Boeing 747 named Cosmic Girl. When it reaches the required altitude, the plane releases the rocket, whose own engine fires up to push it into Earth's orbit and place its payload in space. The company said that the initial phase of the test worked after Cosmic Girl took off from an airfield in the Mojave desert where a number of space launch companies are based. The plane flew to a designated area over the Pacific Ocean, off the coast of Los Angeles, for the rocket release. "Cosmic Girl has released LauncherOne!" the company said on Twitter. "We've confirmed a clean release from the aircraft," it added three minutes later, but noted that the mission had been terminated. Hours later the company explained: "LauncherOne maintained stability after release, and we ignited our first stage engine, NewtonThree. An anomaly then occurred early in first stage flight. We'll learn more as our engineers analyze the mountain of data we collected today." Before the test flight, the company had stressed that "this mission is the most technically complex thing we've tried to achieve yet." "The first few seconds after release are where it really all comes together," it said. Asked by AFP if the rocket had been lost, a company spokesman did not immediately respond. The concept of launching a rocket from a plane is not new. The rocket Pegasus, developed by the Northrop Grumman group, has been around since the 1990s. But Virgin Orbit wants to make a less expensive version of the launch. Launching a rocket from a plane is more flexible than a vertical blast off because theoretically all a company needs is an airstrip rather than a space launchpad. Richard Branson has founded another space company, Virgin Galactic, which is using a similar concept with the goal of taking tourists into space to experience weightlessness some 50 miles (80 kilometers) above the surface of the Earth. Branson had billed the first of these tourist flights for summer last year, and when that did not happen, for summer of 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/first-test-launch-of-virgin-orbit-rocket-fails/articleshow/75987618.cms||---
May 26, 2020||India||States will need UP's nod to take its workers: Yogi||LUCKNOW: A day after UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that other states would need his government's permission to get back the skilled work force which had migrated back to their home state, the move evoked a sharp reaction on Monday from the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and MNS chief Raj Thackeray. While proposing to set up a migration commission to provide employment and social security to over 24 lakh migrants who have returned to UP, Yogi had said on Sunday that any state hiring them back in future would have to provide them an insurance cover to ensure that the "workers are saved from exploitation in other states". On Monday, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray said the state government should take Yogi's announcement seriously. His Shiv Sena colleague Sanjay Raut, who was locked in a bitter Twitter war on Sunday with the office of UP CM over the latter's controversial statement, said that Yogi might have disliked the fact that the migrants who left by trains to UP chanted 'Uddhav Thackeray Zindabad' and 'Jai Maharashtra'.  Uddhav's cousin and MNS chief Raj Thackeray went a step further, saying: "No migrant labourer should be allowed to enter Maharashtra without checking whether he has due permission and has been registered along with identity proof and photograph with the Maharashtra police." Yogi announced on Monday that the proposed Labour (service and employment) Welfare Commission would provide insurance as a social security to the migrants. This would pave way for a mechanism wherein other states would be required to take UP government's permission before taking back the migrant labourers after the lockdown is fully lifted, he said. Yogi said the state government would skill-map the migrants and would assist them wherever they move across the country. "Energy of a worker from UP needs to be channelized for the progress of the state," he said. On Sunday, Yogi had alleged that migrants of Uttar Pradesh were living in "inhuman conditions and were discriminated against", especially during the lockdown, in other states. "They were craving for basic human necessities like food, water and shelter," the UP CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-will-need-ups-nod-to-take-its-workers-yogi/articleshow/75987832.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro set to restart, awaits Centre’s nod||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro, which has not been operating for more than two months, seems to be gearing up for resumption of services soon. According to Delhi Metro sources, the entire staff has been asked to report for duty on Tuesday. “There are over 14,000 staffers on DMRC’s rolls and we have all been asked to report for work on Tuesday. We were already on standby and were reporting for duty on a rotational basis. Now, a thorough briefing on how we should operate in the changed circumstances is expected to take place,” said a DMRC official who wished to remain anonymous. Metro ready to roll at 24-hour noticeWhile buses, cabs and auto-rickshaws were allowed as part of the relaxations during Lockdown 4.0, Metro services were not allowed anywhere in the country. Sources said Delhi Metro is likely to get the nod to resume services before May 31, when the current phase of the lockdown comes to an end. It is likely that initially only government employees and those involved in essential services might be allowed to travel by the Metro as Delhi government had earlier recommended. Operations are also likely to be restricted to a few hours during the day. “We were ready to start operations by May 18 but didn’t get the nod. Though the system has been kept ‘alive’ by running trains twice a day on all corridors, it would take three to four days for the entire Metro network to get into operational mode,” said the official. Delhi Metro seems to be preparing to start operations with a notice period of 24 hours. All station premises are being thoroughly sanitised and banners and signage to ensure social distancing are being put up on platforms, in the customer care areas and at the entry-exit points. The standard operating procedure (SOP) prepared for Metro operations makes it mandatory for passengers to wear face masks, undergo thermal screening and have the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones. Only smart cards will be allowed for travel and every alternate seat inside trains will be kept vacant. A limited number of passengers will be allowed to stand with a distance of at least one metre between them. These measures would mean that the carrying capacity of Delhi Metro will be reduced drastically from 300-350 passengers in a coach, usually seen during peak hours, to less than 50 passengers. A six-coach train that usually ferries 1,800 to 2,100 passengers on each trip will carry about 300. While many DMRC employees live in different parts of NCR, sources said they won’t have a problem in crossing over to Delhi. “Many of the employees have passes which they can show at the border and others may come from Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad on our own trains,” said the official. “It is very important that we resume our services because our financial position is not very good. We are thankful that we have been getting our salaries on time despite zero passenger revenue. We are geared up to operate the system in full strength again,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-set-to-restart-awaits-centres-nod/articleshow/75987824.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 26, 2020||Nagpur||HC rejects plea for selling liquor only to licence holders||Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday, rejected petition by a lawyer for directives to the government for providing liquor only to those possessing valid permit/licence. Quoting the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 and Bombay Foreign Liquor Rules, 1953, petitioner Anand Daga, through his father Dilip, demanded to declare designated licensed vendor of liquor as ‘officer authorized by the state government to issue permanent/annual/daily permit or licence’ for purchase and possession of liquor as per the rules. “We find it as purely a matter of policy and don’t want to interfere in it,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar said, before dismissing the plea. According to the petitioner, if liquor sale is regulated, it would effectively raise the state revenue and reduce the negative impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. “The government should compulsorily issue licence to the vendor as per the rules which clearly mention that liquor products should be sold only to those having permits,” he contended. Praying for directives to the vendors to mandatorily check liquor licences of buyers before selling their products, Daga said even permits issued on permanent, annual and daily basis, should be checked before the delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-plea-for-selling-liquor-only-to-licence-holders/articleshow/76046745.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 deaths in Gujarat at 888 with 30 more lives lost in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: The death march of Covid-19 continued unabated in Gujarat as 30 more people succumbed to the virus in 24 hours on Monday, pushing the death toll to the ominous figure of 888. State recorded 405 cases, taking the total tally to 14,468. It's the highest case tally in a day for the state in 20 days as it breached 400 case-mark - recording seven Covid cases every two minutes. Of the 30 deaths, 25 were reported from Ahmedabad, three from Gandhinagar and one each from Surat and Anand. Conforming to the international trend, analysis of Gujarat’s deaths reveal that 65% of male patients had died. Out of 888 deaths so far, 576 are males. Analysis of 548 deaths from May 1to 24 in Ahmedabad shows a slightly higher percentage of 66.3% deaths of males. Dr Tushar Patel, city-based critical care specialist, said number of patients with comorbidities is comparatively higher among men. “Two factors of older age and co-morbidities have resulted in high mortality ratio for several patients. It’s the trend also seen in several other non-communicable diseases like diabetes.” A senior medical officer at Civil hospital also confirmed the trend. “When we compare patients by gender, men tend to have higher viral load with more exposure to the virus. In most women, it was the transmission through their family. But in higher age groups, I believe the death rate is nearly the same,” he said. He added that biologically, women are a stronger gender and similar trends were observed in other viral outbreaks in the past. Of the 405 new cases, 310 were from Ahmedabad, 31 from Surat, 18 from Vadodara and 12 from Sabarkantha. It was second highest tally in a single day ever for Ahmedabad district. On May 5, Ahmedabad had recorded 349 cases. “Gujarat recorded discharge of 224 patients, taking the total to 6,636. The discharged patients include 136 from Ahmedabad, 34 from Surat, 13 from Vadodara and 11 from Rajkot,” said a senior state health department official. “Number of active patients in Gujarat is at 48% now. Out of 14,468 total cases, 6636 (46%) are discharged and 888 (6%) are dead.” Out of active patients, 6835 patients are stable, and record 109 patients are on ventilator in the state as on Monday evening. It’s for the first time that the number of patients on ventilator has reached above the 100-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-deaths-in-gujarat-at-888-with-30-more-lives-lost-in-24-hours/articleshow/75987866.cms||Parth Shastri
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ready to fly, but AP's quarantine plans unclear||VISAKHAPATNAM: As domestic flights to Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada airports resume in a limited manner from Tuesday, passengers travelling to the state are in a dilemma over the stringent quarantine measures issued by the state government. Further, passengers who had booked tickets for May 25 are unsure of their next steps as flights to Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada for this date were cancelled. The state government has made seven days of institutional quarantine mandatory for passengers flying in from six states with a high prevalence of Covid-19. Persons travelling from Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Mumbai (Maharashtra), New Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh will have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days. They will then be tested and sent for home quarantine if the results are negative for Covid-19. Persons travelling from low incidence areas and showing no symptoms would be sent to home quarantine for 14 days after their swab samples are collected upon arrival. The new guidelines issued by the state government do not specify quarantine measures for people coming to the state for a short period, such as for official purposes or on business, as some other states have done. The guidelines have also drawn the ire of fliers, many of who have taken to social media to express their displeasure. “The notification says 14 -day quarantine, but I have my tickets booked on June 7 from Bengaluru to Visakhapatnam and on June 13 from Visakhapatnam to Bengaluru. What should I do? What are the clear guidelines here for people in my situation? If there is such quarantine, why are the airlines allowing to book the return tickets?” questioned a flier, Siva. “What about the people who have already booked tickets like me going by the previous conditions set by the Centre? Now, it is mandatory to get permission from Spandana portal. My application with Spandana is pending for the last 15 days,” said another traveller, Chakradhar, who has been stranded in Chennai for over a month. He added, “I have called the AP government helpline for more than 100 times and lost all patience with no help from them. The guidelines are very confusing and we are all in the dark. I have lost my job and am running out of money.” Fliers and netizens have also complained of the slow response in obtaining permission through the Spandana portal. They also asked what measures will be taken for persons flying in from low-incidence states but with connecting flights in one of the states with a high number of Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ready-to-fly-but-quarantine-plans-unclear/articleshow/75983423.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: GTB Hospital to get 1,500 Covid-19 beds soon​, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: The number of beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals is likely to reach 8,500 in the next couple of days with the Delhi government setting up a 1,500-bed facility at the state-run Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in east Delhi. It will be the second largest Covid-designated health facility in Delhi after Lok Nayak Hospital, which has 2,000 beds. All beds will also have oxygen facility to take care of severe patients. Live info on vacant beds soon: CMThe 8,500 beds also include the 2,000 being earmarked in 117 private health facilities. With 3,500 new beds and 2,500 of 4,500 currently unoccupied in 13 government and private hospitals, CM Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi government was equipped to handle a sudden surge in corona positive cases. He also said the government was developing a new system to bring live information on vacant beds available in each hospital in public domain to ensure that people know which hospital to go in case a patient is required to be taken to a government facility. “The system would be ready in 2-3 days,” Kejriwal said. Sources said there have been several instances in the past where the families of Covid-19 positive cases were forced to go from one hospital to the other looking for a bed or ventilator for the infected person. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the government had expected a sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases with the announcement of more relaxations in the lockdown to restart economic activities on May 17. In the past one week, Kejriwal said, about 3,500 new cases emerged in the capital while 2,500 patients had recovered. While there were 9,755 corona cases in Delhi on May 17, the number had risen to 13,418 on Sunday with a rise of around 3,500 patients in one week. Of 13,418 cases, Kejriwal said 6,617 were active, 6,540 had recovered while 261 deaths had been reported. While the situation was currently in “control”, Kejriwal accepted that it may get difficult if there was a surge in serious patients. “It has been a week since some relaxations are given in the lockdown on May 17 but the situation seems to be under control. However, there will be a trouble if the number of severe patients increases to the extent that there is a non-availability of beds, oxygen, ventilators and other healthcare infrastructure,” the CM said. According to government functionaries, there are over 3,800 beds (about 3,180 with oxygen) currently available in five government facilities — both state-run and Centre’s combined — and nearly 670 in private health facilities in the capital. While only a few beds are left unoccupied in private hospitals, 2,500 beds in government-run facilities are still available. The addition of a GTB Hospital and 2,000-odd beds in private facilities will further improve the situation, said officials. Officials said the government was in the process of adding more beds. Kejriwal also said that only a few ventilators — 11 of 250 in government and 15 of 72 in private hospitals — were currently being used for Covid-19 positive patients while 3,314 patients with mild symptoms were being treated at home. “Most of the new cases of Covid-19 have mild symptoms and many of them are asymptomatic. These cases do not need to be admitted in hospitals and advised to be home isolated. Our health teams are in regular touch with them and their families,” the CM added. BJP on Sunday had slammed the AAP government for not making public the information on the exact number of available beds for Covid-19 patients. The opposition had alleged that the number of beds was inadequate to treat the large number of patients and several of them were forced to stay at home. The CM also warned hospitals of stern action if they denied treatment to any Corona positive patient. "We have served showcause notice to a private hospital for denying treatment to a patient who had admitted for breathing issues and later tested positive for corona,” Kejriwal said. Watch Prepared to handle surge in Covid-19 patients: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gtb-hospital-to-get-1500-covid-19-beds-soon-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/75987858.cms||Atul Mathur
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Crops go unsold, Araku farmers seek govt help||VISAKHAPATNAM: Restrictions on transport have rendered tribal farmers in Araku Valley unable to send their produce to the market. These farmers, who largely grow organic vegetables, are now seeking help from the government to recover losses. A majority of these tribal farmers are from the Sovva panchayat area at Dumbriguda mandal in Visakhapatnam agency. These farmers used to take their vegetables to the market in the Kriandul-Vizag train and even through roads to sell at rythu bazaars in Vizag city for better remunerative prices. But the lockdown imposed to stem the spread of Covid-19 has hit these farmers hard as they have been unable to sell their produce owing to the lack of transport facilities. Beans, cabbage, maize, cauliflower crops are sitting unsold in their inventories. G Simhachalam, a tribal farmer told TOI: “Before the lockdown, we used to sell our vegetables in Vizag city where there is a high demand for vegetables from Araku. We used to make decent profits. The lockdown has dealt a severe blow to our livelihoods. We have no markets in the region and can’t transport our crops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/crops-go-unsold-araku-farmers-seek-govt-help/articleshow/75983499.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In AP’s ‘lost’ villages, tribals seek recognition||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tribals of Pasuvulabanda and Jeelulova villages on the V Madugula-Ravikamatam border held a half-naked protest against the district administration on Monday by covering themselves with only ‘addakulu’ leaves, demanding that the state government recognise their rights and extend welfare schemes to them. The tribal residents of both villages have lived on the land for five decades, but have neither Aadhaar nor voter cards that would make them eligible for government benefits. Nor does the revenue department have records of these villages. Till 2011, both villages fell under the limits of Ravikamatam mandal but were later removed. Children here do not have birth certificates. “We don’t know which panchayat and mandal our villages fall under. Though the government recognised our villages and provided pattas under the Forest Rights Act in 2009, no officer provided any benefit to us,” said K Ghasi, a tribal. Sources say 18 families, including 18 children, of the Kondu tribe, a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG), have been residing in both hamlets for the past 50 years, six kilometres from the Kalyanapulova reservoir. Repeated requests for welfare benefits , they said, have fallen on deaf ears. At Monday’s protest, tribals warned that if the district administration failed to recognise the villages and extend government welfare schemes to them, they would stage a protest at the district collectorate on June 8 in traditional tribal attire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-aps-lost-villages-tribals-seek-recognition/articleshow/75983557.cms||Siva G
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tickets booked, Spandana approval hurdle irks fliers||Visakhapatnam: Fliers scheduled to arrive in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada airports from Tuesday on are left in the lurch owing to the state government’s decision to making it mandatory to get approval from the Spandana website. Airline officials and travel agents informed that the government is yet to clear approvals for most fliers till Monday afternoon. The first set of flights to Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada are scheduled to originate from departing airports early Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh (TTAA) said, “Earlier, it was mandatory to register on the Spandana app for people seeking to enter Andhra Pradesh. But there was no need of government approval. They only needed e-passes from departing states.” “But since Monday midnight, the government made it mandatory for fliers to get a government approval on the Spandana website. Almost all fliers are still awaiting approval. Such decisions should have been made before bookings,” Mohan added. Even airline officials are unsure about what would happen to those passengers who don’t secure the approvals before boarding. The government has only instructed airlines to check approvals before making future bookings. “Even that isn’t possible. Neither our websites, nor online portals have such systems,” said an airline official. Further, fliers are also worried about refunds in case they don’t get approvals. B Nagendra Reddy from Hyderabad, who works at a real estate company in Visakhapatnam, said that he had gone to Hyderabad in mid-March on holiday and hasn’t been able to return since. “I need to get back to work,” he said. “I registered myself on the Spandana app six days ago and was planning to go by car. Later, when airline services were restored, I booked a ticket for Monday. When Monday’s flight got cancelled, I booked another ticket for Tuesday. Now I get to know that my registration on the Spandana app requires government’s approval,” said a fuming Nagendra Reddy. Fortunately, Reddy’s approval came in late evening on Monday and he is ready to fly to Visakhapatnam and resume work. Outgoing passengers too are worried over different quarantine rules put in place by different states. Currently, Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada will have direct flights to four cities— New Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. Besides, an Indigo flight will run to Mumbai via Bengaluru from Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. An Air Asia flight will also connect to Kochi from Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tickets-booked-spandana-approval-hurdle-irks-fliers/articleshow/75983610.cms||Arpit Basu
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||HPC seeks info on styrene leak by May 31||Visakhapatnam: The high powered committee (HPC) constituted by the state government to probe the causes of LG Polymers gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam had set a deadline for submissions of information from all stakeholders by May 31. In a press release, HPC said that after gathering information in the next 10 days, they would be examining and filing its final report within seven days thereafter. The committee had detailed discussions on 9th, 10th and 11th May 2020 at Visakhapatnam, in which the district collector briefed about the incident, evacuation operations and the details related with immediate response after the incident. The committee had held detailed discussions with director of Indian Institute of Petroleum, Visakhapatnam and professor of organic chemistry (Retd.). This was followed with detailed interaction, with the director of Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, and industry Styrene expert from Mumbai (who were specially deputed by National Disaster Management Authority, Government of India). “All the immediate action points and understanding of the leak and implications were discussed in the meeting. The committee visited the incident spot and detailed examination was done at the storage tank site, the control room and the factory premises. Discussions were also held with the top officials available in the factory covering all aspects of the incident and subsequent events,” the HPC’s statement reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hpc-seeks-info-on-styrene-leak-by-may-31/articleshow/75983677.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC to invite bids for Polavaram DPR||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a first step towards bringing water from the Polavaram project to Vizag city, the proposed executive capital of the state, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has decided to invite bids to prepare a detailed project report (DPR). Apart from supplying water to Vizag city, the project will also supply water to rural areas of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. The successful consultant will be tasked with preparation of a suitable plan to draw and convey allocated water of about 12 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) to meet the water requirements of the city and other places along the route of the project. The GVMC plans to take advantage of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of major industries of the city as well as the Jal Shakti Abhiyan as the project covers rural areas in both districts. The consultant will have to submit the DPR in 120 days from the date of signing the contract. Currently, the Yeleru reservoir meets about 60% of the water needs of the city. The city’s other sources are Meghadrigedda, Raiwada, Tatipudi, Mudasarlova and Gambheeram reservoirs and the Gosthani river. However, the increasing pressure from industrial and domestic needs hits domestic water supply in summer. In the past, some industries in the city have operated at reduced capacity due to a fall in water supply. Further, the Yeleru’s carrying capacity has been compromised over the years due to accumulated silt, evaporation and unauthorised withdrawals along its banks. Even though around 135 million gallons per day (MGD) is currently released into the Yeleru canal from the Yeleru reservoir and the Godavari, the area under GVMC receives only about 65 MGD. GVMC chief engineer M Venkateswara Rao said they will conduct a pre-bid meeting in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-to-invite-bids-for-polavaram-dpr/articleshow/75983700.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 26, 2020||India||Union minister Gowda skips quarantine in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda, who flew from Delhi to Bengaluru on Monday, courted controversy by not going into quarantine as mandated by the Karnataka government. He later said the stipulation does not apply to "those who hold certain responsible posts".  Karnataka school education minister S Suresh Kumar also said, "He is exempted (from quarantine) as a minister handling the ph arma sector." In an addendum to the SOP issued in the evening, the government clarified that Union and state ministers and officials on duty travelling across states are exempted from quarantine.  According to the Karnataka government's SOP, Delhi is among the six states and UTs with high incidence of Covid-19 and travellers from these places have to mandatorily remain in institutional quarantine for at least 7 days.  Soon after arriving, Gowda was seen being escorted out of the airport terminal and led to a private car that sped away. Later, the minister told a news agency, "The guidelines on quarantine are applicable to all citizens but there are certain exemption clauses, for those who hold certain responsible posts." Watch How NDA leader Sadananda Gowda flouts quarantine norms at Bengaluru airport||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/union-minister-gowda-skips-quarantine-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75988113.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Workers gone, restaurants in Andhra Pradesh struggle to reopen||VISAKHAPATNAM: With migrant workers who fuelled the food service economy gone, hotels and restaurants in Andhra Pradesh are reeling under a severe workforce shortage. Meanwhile, the state government recently accorded restaurants to offer home-delivery and takeaway services. However, around 15-20% of restaurants in major cities across the state have not resumed operations. The lockdown had caused dine-ins in restaurants to close. Consequently, hotel owners made losses and employees went without income. Further, takeaways and home deliveries were also shut down in the first week of April. As a result, many hotel owners now say that they are unable to resume work due to a shortage of manpower primarily, among other hurdles. Speaking to TOI, T Satyanarayana, president of Andhra Pradesh Hotels Association (APHA) said, “There are over 600 restaurants in the Visakhapatnam. Of which, we have managed to reopen just around 50 to 60. The city’s food service industry employs nearly 12,000 people directly and indirectly. A majority of these skilled and semi-skilled workers are from Odisha and West Bengal. They have all gone home.” The situation in Vijayawada is worse. Only 25 per cent of the 400-odd restaurants in the city have been able to resume operations. Discussing the industry’s state of affairs, Sanjay Kumar Mehta, secretary of Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association said, “We are not just facing a staff crisis. We are also dealing with restrictions on food delivery executives.” Talking about the safety measures being adopted by restaurants while they reopen, Deepthi SG, the owner of a restaurant in Visakhapatnam said, “We are ensuring that social distancing is maintained in kitchens and employees wear masks. We re-launched home-delivery and takeaway a few days ago. But we don’t have enough people to cook our entire menu. It is difficult to run a restaurant like this.” The APHA president said further that the shutdown of restaurants has taken a heavy toll on business even as hotel owners were in complete support of the lockdown. “Under the present circumstances, operating costs of gone up given additional requirements such as sanitisation. But we haven’t increased prices. We home the industry picks up once the workers return from their hometowns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/workers-gone-restaurants-in-state-struggle-to-reopen/articleshow/75983723.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Accused of theft, three of family commit suicide in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: In a tragic incident, a man, along with his wife and 13-year-old daughter, committed suicide by consuming poison at their residence in Bapatla in Guntur district on Monday. The deceased were identified as Maruprolu Veera Reddy (40), his wife Ramana (38) and his daughter Polera (13). According to a suicide note left behind by Veera Reddy, he took the extreme measure as their family were depressed over ‘false theft case’ being filed against him on May 17. Police said they had received a complaint and booked Veera Reddy for allegedly stealing motors used in an aquaculture farm. However, Veera Reddy denied the allegations and named the complainants of the case – Manchala Pothireddy, Manchala Nagarju, Koki Venkateswarlu Reddy, Kondal Reddy, Kavuri Pedda Kotaiah and Kittu Srinivasa Reddy responsible for their deaths. “We had nothing to do with the theft, our family reputation was lost because of them,” Reddy wrote in his suicide note.  A case under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered at Bapatla police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/accused-of-theft-three-of-family-commit-suicide/articleshow/75983745.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||MNREGA work seekers double in a year in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Covid lockdown has unleashed a reverse migration from cities to villages which are witnessing a sudden spike in people seeking work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). Top officials conceded that number of villagers seeking work under the government scheme has more than doubled from three lakh in May 2019 to seven lakh in May 2020. Officials say they expect a further jump in MNREGA work seekers over the next two weeks as lakhs of villagers have returned home fearing corona disease and lack of employment following prolonged lockdown and subsequent lay-offs. "We expect the figure to rise to 10 lakh villagers seeking job work under MNREGA," said a senior official of the state rural development department. Officials say that as on May 20, 2019, a total of 3.64 lakh unskilled workers were engaged in various labour activities at the village level. This number spiked sharply to 7.18 lakh persons, who had applied to take up work under various MNREGA projects. Latest government figures say that this year, 1.14 lakh workers have already joined work in rural areas under MNREGA projects, while the corresponding figure for May 2019 was 21,727 workers. Number of MNREGA work seekers in state may hit 10 lakhAshwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister, said, “The CM has directed districts to ensure that all who apply for work under MNREGA are provided work. So far, 6,592 villages panchayats have started different projects in 33 districts under MNREGA.” The tribal-dominated Dahod district, which sends maximum migrant workers to the construction industry and agriculture sector in the state, as witnessed the biggest reverse migration. Similarly, a sizable number of diamond workers from Bhavnagar employed in the diamond cutting and polishing industry in Surat and Ahmedabad have returned to homes in villages sending those seeking work under MNREGA rising three fold from 26,370 in May 2019 to 76,859 this May. A senior official of the state rural development department said, "Conventionally, only one-fourth of the job cards are filled for MNREGA projects but Covid outbreak in major cities has led to massive influx of people back in villages seeking work under MNREGA.". He added that with the government permitting interdistrict travel, reverse migration from urban to rural areas will increase further. “We expect another increase in MNREGA job applicants and the number of job seekers is expected to touch the ten lakh mark,” the official said. The entire scheme is funded by GOI and the state government has already completed works worth over Rs 400 crore under MNREGA. Economist Y K Alagh said that MNREGA is proving a lifeline for workers forced to come back to villages following the Covid-pandemic and government needs to increase fund allocation for the scheme substantially to ensure poor have employment to put food on their plates. “This is an opportunity to hike the volume of MNREGA funds and undertake schemes which focus on sustainable development of villages. If people get stable employment in rural areas, the burden on cities will decrease and this will lead to balanced development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mnrega-work-seekers-double-in-a-year-in-gujarat/articleshow/75988117.cms||Kapil Dave
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s March-April deaths lower than in previous years||MUMBAI: Though the city has recorded 1,026 Covid-19 deaths since March, including 736 in May alone, civic officials claim these have not impacted its average mortality numbers. In fact, according to civic records, the opposite is true for the months of March and April when deaths showed a decline. BMC numbers showed that compared to an average of 6,568 deaths over the past three April months of 2017, 2018 and 2019, there are fewer deaths this year at 5,536. The decrease is significant at 16%. In April, Covid-19 had claimed 281 lives. Similarly, in March, when the first Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, there were seven deaths. While Covid deaths were not too high, there were fears non-Covid deaths would rise as dozens of hospitals were shut and thousands of beds were out of bounds for people. Civic numbers for March, though, showed a decline in average deaths. Compared to an average of 7,467 deaths in the March in 2017, 2018 and 2019, there were 5,699 this March—again a significant 24% decline. Dr Padmaja Keskar, BMC’s executive health officer, has attributed the drop to the lockdown, which has lowered road and train accidents. Moreover, she said, Mumbai is no longer seeing thousands of referrals from other parts of the country. “At least 50% of the load in Nair, KEM and Sion hospitals used to be from outside,” she said, adding numbers for first three weeks of May are being collated. A civic official said Mumbai’s death rate hovers around 4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-march-april-deaths-lower-than-in-previous-years/articleshow/75988128.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||At 8.1%, those over 60 top death rate in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The fatality rate for Covid-19 in the city has been the highest at 8.1% for those aged above 60. The rate is exactly half at 4% for those in the age group of 40-60 years and less than 1% for those under 40, shows a BMC analysis of 988 deaths. The diabetes -hypertension combination has emerged as the biggest predominant underlying co-morbidity among the deceased. On Monday, the city crossed 1,000 deaths to reach a toll of 1,026. The analysis of 988 deaths showed 67% of the deceased had one co-morbid condition, which made them susceptible to a more severe form of the infection. As many as 32% of the dead had both diabetes and hypertension—a lethal combo found in several critical patients. Over 60 account for 47% deaths, but just 19% of positive patientsAround 26% of victims in the city had only diabetes while 24% had hypertension. About 8% had underlying heart conditions while other co-morbidities, including kidney disease, hypothyroidism and obesity, were found in the remaining 10%. Intensivists have told TOI most critical patients had uncontrolled sugar levels (300-500) and hypertension. Worryingly, even in deaths below the age of 50, 20% co-morbidity was found. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said those with co-morbid conditions seem to suffer from a severe form of the disease. He said the BMC’s initiative of screening those with low oxygen levels was implemented to reduce deaths. “Age combined with co-morbidity increases the chances of fatality,” he said. Incidentally, 63% of the deaths were of men and 37% women—a trend seen the world over. The data shows 60-plus patients accounted for 47% deaths, even if they contributed to merely 19% of the cases. The age group of under 40 that accounted for 43% cases only comprised 7% of deaths. “It should be taken into consideration while making decisions on the lockdown. It shows the young are not so much in danger,” said a doctor. Dr Avinash Supe of the state’s Covid task force said Mumbai’s fatality rate has dropped from 7% in March to 3.2% now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-8-1-those-over-60-top-death-rate-in-mumbai/articleshow/75988116.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||LG Polymers plant premises sealed following Andhra Pradesh HC directive||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following directions of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, officials of police and revenue department sealed the premises of LG Polymers India Private Limited at RR Venkatapuram on Monday. Styrene leak from the plant claimed 12 lives. More than 500 people were hospitalised with various ailments. Assistant Commissioner of Police (West) GS Rani said they had locked the main gate of the plant and some police personnel are guarding the premises to prevent any possible untoward incidents. It may be recalled that the AP High Court had ordered the state government to seal the premises of LG Polymers in Vizag city and not allow the directors of the company to leave the country, without the court's permission. A division bench issued interim orders to seal the plant and the directive was uploaded on the court's website on May 24. The court had taken suo moto cognizance of the styrene leak and heard two petitions filed on the incident. The officials probing the incident will have to write their names on a register at the main gate of the plant before entering the premises.  The court further asked how the company was allowed to transport the styrene monomer to South Korea after registration of the crime and who gave the company permission to shift the styrene without a magisterial inquiry on the formation of an investigation team. After the leak, over 13,000 tonnes of styrene monomer stocked by LG Polymers at the plant and Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) in Vizag city, was shipped out. The victims have been demanding the closure of the unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lg-polymers-plant-premises-sealed-following-andhra-pradesh-hc-directive/articleshow/75988135.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Mango-pluckers in Konkan have no work, no train back to Nepal||Amidst the turmoil that untold numbers of economic migrants are caught in because of the lockdown, the plight of a silent minority has gone unnoticed. Thousands of Gorkha and other Nepalese workers- from the watchman of the lane to the plantation labourer -are stranded across the country. Without work for months, they have very little money, with their savings depleting with each passing day.  In Maharashtra, a huge number of them are stuck in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, in the Konkan. Every year, they arrive during the mango harvest season and leave for Nepal as the season ends. Some also work in fishing or take up jobs at roadside eateries and restaurants. They say they have been coming to the Konkan for over 15 years and have never faced such hardship as now. Demands have been made for special trains to ferry them back home. The administrations of both districts have initiated a process to list them, along with their contact details. State must decide on train for Nepali migrants, says rlysAround 50,000 Nepalese and Gorkha migrant workers arrive in the Konkan region to work in mango orchards or assist in fishing. They reach in September or October and leave by May or June. This year, only half of them arrived because of uncertainties in the fishing business,” said Jalal Kazi, an alphonso orchard owner in Jaitapur, Ratnagiri. Bharat Das, a Nepalese migrant, said, “We pluck and pack mangoes. I want to leave but there are no trains to take us to the border of our country.” Demanding trains for workers like him, former MLA Bal Mane in a letter to the railways has put their number between 12,000 and 15,000 in Ratnagiri alone. The route of return starts with the Konkan Railway, and then, after changing tracks, to UP, from where they cross back into Nepal. Konkan Railway’s chief PRO LK Verma said, “Based on the state government’s request, special trains are run. The state government pays for it. Hence, the state government has to decide on the Nepalese migrants’ issue.” Ratnagiri’s district information officer Prashant Daithankar and his Sindhudurg counterpart Hemant Chavhan said enrolment of the workers has started. “But it is at a nascent stage,” Daithankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-mango-pluckers-in-konkan-have-no-work-no-train-back-to-nepal/articleshow/75988136.cms||Umesh K Parida
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Last push in Kolkata’s final frontiers||KOLKATA: Two dark patches of Kolkata, one in the southeast and another in the southwest, remained the last frontiers in a desperate city’s fight to get back to normalcy five days after Cyclone Amphan gave it a once-in-a-century battering. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation blamed power utility CESC, which claimed it had succeeded in restoring power to 95% of the city’s consumers by Monday. But, amid the blame game and claims, people’s patience ran thin in several pockets that went without power and water for the fifth straight day. It prompted protests on the streets and, at places, residents commandeered CESC labourers and forced them to cut trees before working on power restoration. This, in turn, prompted cops to decide that CESC teams would henceforth be escorted into neighbourhoods that they might visit for restoration work. KMC board of administrators chairperson Firhad Hakim on Monday gave an ultimatum to the CESC to restore electricity in the city. “The utility has been blaming fallen trees coming in the way of restoring power lines. But I have told them enough is enough. I sought a deadline from them and they told me that they needed one more day,” Hakim said. But a tour of the affected areas by TOI revealed this might be easier said than done. More than a thousand trees were uprooted in areas like Ashoknagar, Azadgarh, Golf Green, Netajinagar, Sree Colony, Baghajatin and Suryanagar; 600 more were estimated to have been felled in the Behala-Parnasree belt. Several neighbourhoods along Prince Anwar Shah Road and in Charu Market, Garfa, Sapuipara and Santoshpur, too, remained power-less, largely because of the tree-fall problem. Naktala resident and former CESC official Partha Sarathi Roy has serious heart and kidney ailments. His daughter, Pamela Roy, said the household was running without power and water for five days. “We need to queue up at KMC taps to get a few buckets in the morning. The situation is so bad that even going to the washroom has become a problem,” she said. Baghajatin Colony resident Sarit Kumar Kar is worried about the consequences of lining up for water at the community taps. “We have no power at home since Wednesday. So there is no option but to fetch water from roadside taps. Social-distancing norms have all but been forgotten,” Kar said. Rabindrasangeet exponent and Garia resident Prabuddha Raha said he was without power for more than 100 hours. “I saw and tried to help an octogenarian climbing up to his fourth-floor apartment with a bucket of water,” he said. The CESC does not have the wherewithal to remove fallen trees and the KMC, too, faces an uphill task. “There are only two KMC parks department vehicles. Also, over 500 poles were uprooted in only three KMC wards (98, 99 and 100). CESC managed to provide only a few teams and one vehicle for restoration work in these areas,” a KMC officer said. Dozens of CESC and KMC contractual labourers having gone to their hometowns because of the lockdown have added to the problems. All this had its effect in the Tollygunge-Garia zone; CESC workers were threatened and made to cut trees before initiating restoration work in Azadgarh, Surjyanagar and Garia. The situation in the Parnasree-Shakuntala Park belt was worse, with neighbourhoods going without power even after removal of trees by the Indian Army and the Disaster Management Group. “CESC workers were commandeered to adjoining areas like Kazipara. They never came back to restore power here,” Behala resident Sreemoyee Das said. The lack of coordination between two service providers came to the fore in Sarsuna, where CESC and KMC staffers sparred over who would remove the fallen lamp posts. “CESC officials told us that they had just one gang to work in three wards here,” Jaideep Sinha, a resident of a gated complex, said. There were issues at even places where power came back on Sunday or Monday. Residents of Regent Estate and stretches along Prince Anwar Shah Road said they were told that the connections were “temporary”. “We have been told to run two fans and two lights. We cannot run refrigerators and air-conditioners,” Diptosh Chakraborty said. CESC officials on Monday said power had been restored in “95% homes” and the remaining 1.6 lakh consumers would get power back by Wednesday evening. The agency also advised consumers in areas where supply was restored “temporarily to be cautious about the load” as a sudden spike could trip the fragile local distribution system. Nor’westers remained a cause for concern and long-term repairs would take much longer, even months, as the damage had been substantial, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/last-push-in-kolkatas-final-frontiers/articleshow/75985416.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Chicken, mutton rates hit all-time high on supply crunch||KOLKATA: Prices of chicken and mutton — the two principal sources of protein for non-vegetarians — have hit all-time highs in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. Chicken rate, that has been on a roller-coaster ride since the lockdown began, touched Rs 250 on Monday and mutton sold at a phenomenal Rs 800 a kg. Retailers claimed the two will remain dear till the effects of the cyclone die down and supply normalises. While the spiralling of mutton price has been blamed on back-to-back disasters — first the Covid-inflicted lockdown and then Amphan — the surge in chicken price is due to the death of a large number of birds in the storm, traders say. “Our preliminary assessment is that 75 lakh mature birds were killed by the cyclone,” said Madan Mohan Maity, secretary of West Bengal Poultry Foundation With a majority of poultry farms in North and South 24 Parganas and Hooghly still shut after the Amphan devastation, procuring poultry products has become extremely difficult. Besides, blocked roads are preventing vehicles with poultry products from reaching markets. Retailers say, all these factors together have pushed the price of dressed chicken up. “The majority of the farms are still shut and the losses are mounting. The price of chicken may soar further due to the widening demand-supply gap,” said Rashid Khan, a wholesaler at New Market, even though the WBPF on Monday fixed the retail price of chicken at Rs 240 for the benefit of buyers in the lead-up to Jamai Sasthi this Thursday. For mutton lovers, the good news is that with lockdown restrictions easing, prices could slide once the state borders are opened next month. Most goats butchered in Kolkata are brought from Uttar Pradesh and other parts of north India. “Prior to the lockdown, we had been selling meat at Rs 640 per kg. With the state borders sealed, the supply of goats from the hubs stopped and prices soared since we had to depend on depleted local supply. At one point, with no supply, we had to close our shops. When we came back to business at the end of lockdown 3, the local supply was so low that we had to sell it at a premium. But prices will come down once the state borders are opened,” said Seraj Qureshi of Kohinoor meat shop at Beckbagan. Abdul Hamid of Standard Meat Shop in Behala, who has been selling mutton at Rs 800, said sales had taken a hit even in the middle of Eid celebrations. “We realize that the prices are so high, it has become unaffordable for many. The supply is low and we are buying goats at such hefty prices that we can’t help but sell at this price,” Hamid said. “I had planned on buying mutton this Sunday but the price forced me to back off and settle for chicken,” said Sujit Mondal, a resident of Behala Thakurpukur. Raziq Qureshi of Bengal Meat shop in Belgachhia hoped prices will come down soon. “At some places, like ours, prices are already coming down because of availability of goats from Bashirhat and Duttapukur areas. The cyclone had caused a sudden gap in supply but it has resumed from Monday. Once the state borders are opened after lockdown 4, there would be such an influx of supply that the prices could slide below Rs 700 again,” said Qureshi, who sold mutton at Rs. 780 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chicken-mutton-rates-hit-all-time-high-on-supply-crunch/articleshow/75985427.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Stop playing blame game, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh tells Mamata govt||KOLKATA: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Monday asked the state government to stop playing the “blame game” and act to get the state back on its feet, days before an MHA team comes to Bengal to make a damage assessment of Cyclone Amphan. “People in the city are suffering for the last five days. They are left to fend for themselves without drinking water and electricity. The government is turning its back on the problem and making CESC the scapegoat,” he said. Ghosh also expressed doubts over the utilisation of disaster funds. “We want to visit affected areas and find out if victims are getting support. But the chief minister isn’t allowing us to reach out to those areas. The Centre released Rs 1,339 crore for Aila-affected areas in 2009, when Left Front was in power. Mamata Banerjee formed the government in 2011. This government has submitted utilisation certificates for work amounting to Rs 525 crore only. Utilisation certificates for Rs 814 crore are pending. A major portion of this fund is related to embankment repair. We have urged the Centre to make direct cash transfers to victims as far as possible,” he said. “What is the guarantee that the state will properly utilise central funds when the CM has claimed that Amphan damage in the state amounts to more than Rs 1 lakh crore,” he added. Ghosh cited incidents of the nurse agitation at KPC Ray Hospital in Jadavpur and police unrest at Garfa police station to target the CM on the administration front. “Why are all these happening? A few days ago, a block development officer from Tapan in Dakshin Dinajpur died on way to a hospital in Siliguri because the administration couldn’t provide treatment in Dinajpur or Malda,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stop-playing-blame-game-dilip-tells-govt/articleshow/75985394.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Centre urges power utilities to muster manpower for cyclone-ravaged Bengal||NEW DELHI/KOLKATA: The Centre has asked its power utilities NTPC and POWERGRID to mobilise additional manpower and make them available to the West Bengal government to help restore power supply in the state. Union power minister R K Singh sent out this message to central power utilities on Monday while taking stock of progress in power restoration in Cyclone Amphan-hit Bengal and Odisha. The Centre has extended all help with regard to manpower and assistance to the two states to restore power supply and telecom network on priority basis. “We will remain in touch with the West Bengal government to provide them whatever help is necessary,” Singh said in a video conference. Participating in the video-con, Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said restoration work was in progress in Kolkata and the districts. The Odisha government has sent 40 teams to help KMC clear fallen trees from city roads. Five columns of the Army and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) too are helping the state in the task. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), presided over by Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, met for the fifth time on Monday to take stock of restoration work in Amphan-hit districts. He advised that complete power connectivity, telecom service and drinking water supply be restored on priority basis. Gauba also urged the Bengal government to indicate their additional requirements and directed the respective Union ministries to act in close coordination with the state government. Adequate stocks of foodgrain have also been kept ready for supply based on the state’s demand. Among those who attended the meeting were senior officials from the ministries of home affairs, power, telecommunications, food & public distribution, health, drinking water & sanitation, HQ IDS, NDMA and NDRF. The MHA will soon send a central team to Bengal to make a damage-impact assessment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already released Rs 1,000 crore as “advance assistance” to Bengal, which is grappling with the twin catastrophes of Covid pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has ordered a comprehensive assessment of the damage by state departments. The state is likely to compile the report within a week and submit it to the MHA team. According to preliminary estimates, 6 crore of Bengal’s 10 crore population have been affected by the cyclone. “A total 6 crore people in 15 districts have been affected, of which 73 lakh are from South 24 Parganas. Embankments along a 56km stretch in the Sunderbans have been wiped out; 10 lakh houses have been damaged in the district. The state government is working on priority basis to rebuild houses and provide drinking water to people as villages, farmlands, fisheries have been flooded with saline water,” the CM had said on Saturday after an administrative meeting at Kakdwip in South 24 Parganas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centre-urges-power-utilities-to-muster-manpower-for-cyclone-ravaged-bengal/articleshow/75985393.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Amid subdued Eid festivities, devout offer prayers at home||MUMBAI: After a frugal month of Ramzan, the city saw a muted Eid-ul-Fitr or Eid celebrations on Monday. Mosques were deserted and the streets near empty as Muslims prayed at home. Shunning communal feasts, many cut down on Eid delicacies even as they greeted each other by maintaining distance, and mostly online. “For the first time, I led an Eid prayer where only three people stood behind me and they were my sons,” said senior cleric and Imam Maulana Obaidullah Qasmi. “It is commendable that the community observed this Eid under lockdown with restraint and discipline. They maintained social distancing.” Many didn’t buy new clothes, instead they used the money to help the needy. “During Ramzan and for Eid we tried to reach out to many needy with ration kits and money. This Eid will be remembered for the austerity,” said city Congress vice-president Zakir Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-amid-subdued-eid-festivities-devout-offer-prayers-at-home/articleshow/75988324.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
May 26, 2020||Delhi||Burn notice in Delhi: At 46.2°C, Palam clocks highest temperature for the season||NEW DELHI: It was another hot day in the city with the maximum temperature at Safdarjung, the weather base for Delhi, reaching 44 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Heatwave conditions were witnessed in Palam and Ayanagar. While Palam recorded a maximum temperature of 46.2, five degrees above normal and the highest yet this season, Ayanagar clocked 45.6, four notches above normal. “On Tuesday, a maximum temperature of 44-45 degrees is expected at Safdarjung. Heatwave will continue over many parts of Delhi during Tuesday and Wednesday and an orange alert is in place. This is due to strong dry and north-westly winds prevailing over northwest India and Delhi,” a Met official said. On Monday, hot surface winds, 30-35km per hour, were witnessed during the day. Respite is likely from Thursday night, when the next western disturbance will affect northwest India, the official said. “From Thursday, easterly winds, too, will prevail in lower levels. Duststorm or thunderstorm accompanied with gusty winds are likely on Friday or Saturday,” he added. On Tuesday, clear sky is expected with strong surface winds during the day. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 45 and 28 degrees. In terms of air quality, Monday was a ‘moderate’ day with an AQI of 153, according to Central Pollution Control Board. According to SAFAR, due to longrange dust, AQI may deteriorate to the high end of ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ on Tuesday and to ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ on Wednesday and Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/burn-notice-in-delhi-at-46-2c-palam-clocks-highest-temperature-for-the-season/articleshow/75988326.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Flyers arriving with Covid symptoms will be taken to CNCI for swab test||KOLKATA: Flyers, who arrive in Kolkata airport with sore throat, fever or shortness of breath — all symptoms of Covid-19 — will be taken to the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in New Town for swab test and health assessment before being either allowed to go with the advice of self-isolation or home quarantine, or be admitted to the health facility for treatment. The revival of domestic flights was postponed from Monday to Thursday following a request to the civil aviation ministry by the state home department. Also, the number of flights have been majorly curtailed. While a third of pre-Covid services were supposed to be back in air, the services will resume with only 10 flights (10 departures and 10 arrivals). Amidst confusion among passengers on whether taking a flight to Kolkata will mean getting quarantined, the Bengal health department clarified that those who do not display Covid symptoms will be allowed to proceed to their destination with an advice to self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop symptoms, they will need to dial the state call centre. Symptomatic flyers will, however, be transported to the CNCI unit in New Town that is both Covid treatment and a quarantine facility. There, swab tests will be done. Thereafter, doctors will assess if the symptoms are mild, moderate or severe. Those displaying mild symptoms will be released and advised self-isolation. The rest will be admitted to the Covid facility. “All arriving passengers will be required to declare their recent travel history, symptoms, address in Kolkata and contact number so that follow up checks can be carried out. This form has to be submitted after they undergo thermal scan,” a health official at the airport said. During departure, only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the flight. Everyone will be required to wear a mask and follow hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette while maintaining social-distancing norms. Airport officials have warned that the procedures, both during departure and arrival, will take time. “Departing passengers should arrive three hours before the flight. Check-in counters will close an hour before departure. On arrival too, the formalities will take time and passengers may be able to walk out 45-60 minutes after landing,” an airport official said. “The sale of the middle seat is puzzling. How will flyers maintain social distancing in a 2.5-3 hour fight when there are people seated next to you on both sides? Many travellers aren’t comfortable with the idea,” said Travel Agents’ Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyers-arriving-with-covid-symptoms-will-be-taken-to-cnci-for-swab-test/articleshow/75984817.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Business||Speculation on ITC-Sunrise deal||Kolkata: Amid speculation over the size of the deal for ITC’s acquisition of Sunrise, one of the bidders who was in the initial fray initially, indicated that the cut-off price for the spice maker could be Rs 1,200 crore. Analysts though feel that the size of the deal may be anywhere between Rs 1,500 crore to Rs 2,000 crore going by financials of Sunrise, but those who were close to the deal hinted that it may be much below than this and could be not more than its turnover of Rs 600 crore for 2019-20. City-based FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco major ITC has entered into a share purchase agreement to acquire 100% of the equity share capital of Sunrise Foods Private Limited (SFPL), a company primarily engaged in the business of spices under the trademark ‘Sunrise’. City-based Sunrise is a market leader in eastern India in the fast-growing spices category with a rich heritage and brand legacy of over 70 years. In good times when economy was performing strongly, the price given for such acquisitions were even more than 20 times of ebidta, but considering the current situation it may not be that high, an analyst said. The ebidta of Sunrise Foods is Rs 110 crore. It was Rs 81.7 crore in 2018-19, while the turnover was Rs 504 crore. The PAT of Sunrise is Rs 68.2 crore in 2019-20. “We are listening that the deal has been stuck at a price which is not much higher than its last turnover though initially, in the first round, the cut-off was really high and those with offer of Rs 1,200 crore had to call it a day after initial due diligence. Sunrise promoters were expecting close to Rs 2,000 crore. But the final outcome may be different,” sources said. Earlier, Kolkata-based firms like ITC and Emami had made major acquisitions in the last 10-12 years. Emami had acquired Zandu Phrma in 2008 and Kesh King few years back while ITC had acquired Savlon and Shower to Shower from Johnson & Johnson in 2015. Emami had paid around Rs 1000 crore for Zandu along with real estate. At that point of time the turnover of Zandu was Rs 150 crore and the deal size was more thn 20 times of PE. In case of Kesh King also Emami paif Rs 1,651 crore when the turnover of Kesh King ws Rs 300 crore. The acquisiion of J&J brands though was not being revealed officially but it was not an expensive acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/speculation-on-itc-sunrise-deal/articleshow/75984063.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai fireman denied admission dies, is brigade's first||A Mumbai fireman, a suspected Covid patient denied admission at JJ Hospital on Saturday, died on Sunday a few hours after he was rushed there again.  Umesh Gonga, who was involved in fumigation work, is the first casualty from Mumbai fire brigade, officials said. Gonga, who had typhoid, was on leave from May 16 as he had bouts of diarrhoea and fever. On Saturday, JJ doctors refused him admission and sent him home after prescribing typhoid medicines. As he had high fever on Sunday, relatives took him to JJ again. After ECG and X-ray, doctors put him on oxygen support but he died within hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fireman-denied-admission-dies-is-brigades-first/articleshow/75988353.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Mumbai||Doctors in PPEs battle blackouts, skin rashes as temperature rises in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The stifling summer heat and soaring humidity levels have compounded the problems of doctors and other frontline workers who have to stay zipped up in non-porous personal protective equipment for long stretches. Several doctors across the city are reporting skin rashes, dehydration and blackouts. On Monday, as the temperature in the city soared to 33 degrees Celsius and humidity levels hit 72%, medical staffers in Covid hospitals said they struggled with the discomfort of sweat constantly dripping down their bodies. Duty rooms, which have air conditioners, are shut across hospitals to avoid medical personnel from congregating in one room, thereby increasing the chances of infection. "The PPEs are dehydrating and we tend to lose two to three litres of water in a six-hour shift. Doctors and residents are complaining of body ache, exhaustion, skin irritation. The increased humidity levels are making us sweat more," said a doctor from Nair Hospital which has started installing coolers. "The one-cooler-a-ward has brought some relief. We have also started distributing energisers, rehydrating formula and ORS," the doctor added.  At Sion Hospital though, there is no such facility. "Under the mask, we inhale the exhaled air which is termed as rebreathing. Often, we have to breathe through our mouths because we feel so suffocated. By the time we remove the PPEs, we are so drenched in sweat that our inner scrubs are stuck to the body," said another resident. Recalling the time oxygen spas were installed in IT companies for employees to get re-energised after long work hours, a doctor said, "Why can't the IT industry help us with that? By rebreathing the same exhaled air, our oxygen levels fall and some of us are even having blackouts and decreased immunity." For doctors in the gynaecology units of hospitals, which are crippled by lack of staff, shifts often extend to 12 hours. "I had so many back to back surgeries recently that by the end of the day, I nearly collapsed due to dehydration," said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-in-ppes-battle-blackouts-skin-rashes-as-temperature-rises-in-mumbai/articleshow/75988367.cms||Hemali Chhapia
May 26, 2020||Amritsar||Hindu from Mumbai who lost family & house finds home in Amritsar mosque||AMRITSAR: After losing his wife and daughter to illness and his house to the bank, a Mumbaikar septuagenarian has found home in a mosque in Amritsar where he reached in his quest for peace some days before Covid-19 lockdown was imposed.  On Monday, Narender Ramachandra, 73, took part in Eid celebrations at Madrassa Mohamaddia Jama Masjid Mian Samdhu Shah on Sultanwind Road and offered prayers urging Almighty to ease the pain and sufferings of mankind due to coronavirus.  Talking about how he reached Amritsar, Narender said his 15-year-old daughter died of illness and his wife who was unable to bear the shock, died soon after. "I had mortgaged my house to pay for their medical expenses but nothing could save them, may be it was destined," he said. After the bank took possession of his mortgaged house in 2019, he lost his job too, w ent into severe depression.  After drifting about in Mumbai for a few days, he said he boarded a train and reached Amritsar. This was in early March. He would partake langar at Golden Temple and spend the night anywhere. One day while wandering in the lanes and bazars of Amritsar, he somehow reached near the Madrassa where he came in contact with Imam Moulana Muzamil Hussain and members of Idgah Intzamia Committee. Moved by his plight, they asked him to stay at the Madrassa.  "He has been sent by God, we all call him Chacha and look after him like a family member," said Gurfan Alam, member Idgah Intzamia Committee. He said since Narender had no one in Mumbai, they had asked him to stay in Amritsar as long as he wished and assured him that they would take care of him like their elder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/hindu-from-mumbai-who-lost-family-house-finds-home-in-amritsar-mosque/articleshow/75988400.cms||Yudhvir Rana
May 26, 2020||Chandigarh||In lockdown, 20-25 runaway couples move Punjab and Haryana high court every day||CHANDIGARH: Marriage palaces, wedding planners or those running related businesses may be staring at massive loss due sudden drop in solemnization of marriages because of the Covid-19 pandemic, but the Punjab and Haryana high court is still a safe haven for runaway couples. Around 20-25 runaway couples from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are approaching the high court daily, apprehending threat to their lives from their family and relatives for choosing their life partners. Around 20-25 cases being filed daily in the HC is a significant number at a time when the hearing of cases is highly restrictive and only around 100 cases are being heard every day via video conferencing. Of 20-25 cases filed every day before the HC, the majority are from Punjab and Haryana and those from UT Chandigarh are comparatively low. After eloping with their partners, these couples reach the Tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali and after getting married in gurdwaras or temples, they approach the HC. HC issues directions to SSPs after checkingThe runaway couples ap-Prach the HC through protection petitions urging the court to protect their lives and liberty from their family or relatives opposing their relationship.However, after verifying facts of these cases, the HC has been issuing directions to the SSPs of concerned districts to protect the petitioners’ lives and liberty, if there is imminent threat from their families. During normal functioning of the high court, out of around 1,000 urgent cases, around 100-120 fresh cases of runaway couples were heard daily by different benches. The cases of runaway couples have been entertained by the Punjab and Haryana high court after October 2002 when the then Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court, Justice BK Roy set the precedent by granting protection to every runaway couple who approached the HC. In July 2012, the HC had empowered deputy commissioners (DCs), superintendents of police (SPs) and the district and sessions judges to protect life and liberty of these couples, whenever approached. However, the couples still are approaching the HC. In a majority of the cases, the petition is filed by the woman fearing threat to her life for marrying a man of her choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-lockdown-20-25-runaway-couples-move-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-every-day/articleshow/75988578.cms||Ajay Sura
May 26, 2020||Business||How we can use AI in fight against Covid-19||The Covid-19 pandemic has devastated lives and livelihoods across the world, but technology in general and artificial intelligence (AI) in particular is helping to significantly mitigate its effects, experts said on Monday at the global online conference, ‘AI Solutions for Covid’, organised by the Department of Computer Science Engineering of Bennett University. India must develop cutting-edge techTelecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the coronavirus-hit world needs to adopt technology and AI even more strongly and the efforts are required in areas such as agriculture, healthcare and education. Prasad said the government is already focused on harnessing technology to ensure inclusive growth and distribution of relief and social-sector benefits in an equitable manner. His ministry is also trying to see, for instance, how crop yields can be improved by predicting the weather. The government, he said, wants much of the cutting-edge technology to be developed within the country, for which it is also encouraging the startup ecosystem. Read AlsoNeed to adopt AI aggressively to ensure inclusive development in corona-hit world: Ravi Shankar PrasadEmphasising that the government’s Aarogya Setu app protects individual user’s privacy, Telecom and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday that the coronavirus-hit world needs to adopt technology and artificial intelligence even more strongly and the efforts are required in areas such asSandip Patel, GM for IBM’s India and South Asia business, said the world has witnessed a sudden adoption of digital across governments, businesses and individuals. IBM, he said, is deploying AI and technology for local language support on Covid queries in Andhra Pradesh. “We have been working to implement a Watson assistant which is hosted on the ICMR portal to respond to specific queries,” he said. Google Research India director Manish Gupta said technology and AI were deployed to help the thousands of migrant workers who were stranded to find, on Google Maps and through Google search, where food and night shelters were available. “We even allowed voice-based queries,” he said. Nvidia South Asia MD Vishal Dhupar said they are partnering with doctors to mitigate the Covid problem. AI cameras, he said, can tell if someone has high temperature. Prof RK Shevgaonkar, vice chancellor of Bennett University, said that technology has ensured that the disruptions due to Covid-19 do not destroy the world completely. Blended learning will be new normalAnant Agarwal, CEO of EdX, a learning platform founded by Harvard and MIT, said many people have now realised that online learning is okay. “These trends will stay with us into the future. Blended learning, with a combination of in-person and online classes, will become the new normal,” he said. “It’s like personalised teaching that took place in ancient times, the ones that a re mentioned in the Mahabharata and Ramayana. Princes and princesses had a chance to learn from the best sages at their own pace,” he said. Read Also‘AI will play a critical role in post-Covid recovery’Can Artificial Intelligence (AI) be deployed to rebuild the world and undo the damages caused by the coronavirus? Three global experts came together to debate the question and offer solutions to the prevailing challenges at a webinar organised by Bennett University on Monday.Rohini Srivathsa, national technology officer at Microsoft India, said data and AI are at the base of every new technology and these would play a critical role in accelerating the pace of recovery. Sanket Baraley, the founder/CEO of FIGmd, a Google Ventures backed company that manages health data for 40% of Americans, said India presents a lot of challenges when it comes to deploying AI for social good. The fact that less than a third of India’s population has smartphones also makes AI solutions less feasible, he said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  AI for contactless solutionsVinish Kathuria, founder, SenseAI, a venture fund, said solutions have to move towards a voice-driven or a biometric-driven contactless interaction, whether in retail, financial services, hospitality or others. “We as consumers are very used to a high-touch, high-contact environment,” he said. Startups, he said, can add a lot of value by developing indigenous Indiafocused solutions. Read AlsoAI will be key for contactless solutions across industries: StartupsArtificial Intelligence (AI) will be a key technology to find new contactless solutions across industries like retail, financial services, healthcare, education and energy, in the post Covid-19 world, according to leading AI-focused startups and investors.Adarsh Natarajan, founder of healthtech startup Aindra, said it would not be possible for a country like India to test its entire population of 1.3 billion and that’s where AI can play a critical role. “What really is the need of the hour is quick triaging, quick screening, using methods that are portable,” he said. Amardeep Sibia, founder, Drishya.ai, which develops AI solutions for the energy sector, said contactless tests is an area where AI can add value. Jaydeep Singh, founder of skill development platform Empass, said language benefits from AI tremendously. “It boils down to creating content which is of great quality.” Read AlsoAI can be used to determine human emotions during Covid-19BENGALURU: Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) can be used to analyse tweets to visualize topic modeling, study subjectivity, sentiments and to model the human emotions during the Covid-19 pandemic, Sanjay Madria, professor at the Missourie University of Science and Technology,AI can help manage social crisisAjay Gupta of the Western Michigan University said in this age of disinformation, AI should be used to counter false narratives of Covid-19. “If models can be developed, AI can be really handy there. It depends on how one collects data and curates it,” he said. Rajeev Agarwal, computer scientist at Engineer Research and Development Centre under the US Army Corps of Engineers, said graph algorithms use the relationships among network nodes to learn insights to make actionable predictions. “In the last few months, many graph-related Covid-19 projects have focused on tracing connections between people, identifying clusters of elevated activity,” he said. Bharat Bhargava, professor at Purdue University, said if the university does not reopen for the next session, the state of Indiana would lose about $2.1 billion, a majority from student tuition fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-we-can-use-ai-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75988582.cms||---
May 26, 2020||Noida||Woman (65), first in Noida to get plasma therapy, now home||NOIDA: A 65-year-old woman, the first Covid-19 patient in a Noida hospital to be administered convalescent plasma therapy, has made a full recovery and returned home, after spending most of May in hospital. She was among the more critical patients to be admitted and was on oxygen support. The woman, who is from Agra, was treated at state-run Covid-19 hospital GIMS, under the second phase of the nationwide plasma trials. “We have successfully treated a 65-year-old patient from Agra with blood drawn from a Covid-19 patient who had recovered earlier,” said Brigadier RK Gupta (retired), director of GIMS. The woman, who had hypertension and was overweight (comorbid factors in Covid-19 cases) had been admitted to GIMS from Metro Hospital after severe breathing problems. “The patient’s X-ray showed pneumonia and acute breathing problems and chronic lung disease. She was already on oxygen support when she was admitted,” said Dr Saurabh Srivastava, in charge of the Covid-19 ward at GIMS, who was handling the case. On May 5, she tested positive. She was still dependent on oxygen support. “Twelve days after she was admitted here, we started plasma therapy. After two days of being administered convalescent plasma transfusion, she recovered,” said Dr Gupta. She was discharged a fortnight after testing positive. The premise of plasma therapy is this — a person infected with Covid-19 develops antibodies to fight against the disease. “By the time the patient recovers, the blood develops rich antibodies. Those can boost another patient’s recovery,” said Dr Gupta. A recovered patient can donate plasma 28 days after full recovery and again 15 days after donation. The protocol has been used for patients with SARS, Ebola and H1N1 and has been seen to improve survival rates of patients whose condition continued to deteriorate — much like the patient at GIMS. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), however, has not approved of the procedure as a treatment protocol on a wide scale and allowed limited number of controlled trials “for research”. The second phase of the countrywide trials began in the first week of May. The data that comes up, ICMR has said, can help research until the efficacy of the protocol as a treatment method can be established. The guidelines call for plasma therapy only when a case turns moderately serious or critical, defined as cases in which patients need ventilators or oxygen support. The patient’s consent is imperative to beginning the procedure. Then, the hospital has to submit a list of cases for which it thinks the trial can begin to ICMR, which takes a call on whether medication should continue or plasma therapy be introduced. Once that approval is in, the hospital can begin treatment. “All information about the treatment has to be updated on the ICMR site, with a complete history of the patient’s case and recovery status,” said Dr Srivastava. In Noida, GIMS was the first Covid-19 hospital to apply for plasma therapy trials in April last month. The approval came through and on May 11, it got its first two plasma donors — a 30-year-old man from Bisnoli village in Dadri and a 30-year-old man from Accheja in Greater Noida. Both had been treated at GIMS. They donated 400ml units of plasma each. So far, the hospital has had five donors. One donor’s plasma can be used to treat two patients, Dr Gupta said. The hospital had asked another patient, a man from JJ Colony Sector 8, if he would also join the trial but he had declined. He recovered after 28 days of being on medication. Of the 128 actives cases in Noida — 54 each at GIMS and Sharda Hospital and 20 at Child PGI — 14 are serious. Seven are at GIMS, five at Sharda and two at Child PGI. Of the three, only GIMS has approval for plasma therapy. When a patient turns serious, sustained oxygen support of 12-13 litre per minute is immediately started along with a combination of medicines. Age is a factor while considering line of treatment, as are comorbid conditions (having more than one disease like diabetes, anxiety, hypertension, depression, among others) and respiratory problems (asthma, bronchitis, chronic pulmonary fibrosis, rheumatoid lung disease) — it would take longer for such patients to respond to treatment. These are cases considered for plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-65-first-in-noida-to-get-plasma-therapy-now-home/articleshow/75985129.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
May 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Smooth run for airport on reopening||MOHALI: The resumption of operations at the Chandigarh international airport on Monday saw 490 passengers arriving from three cities and 300 people leaving on the return flights. One flight from Dharamshala was cancelled owing to some operational issues, said an airport spokesperson. Indigo Airlines, Air Asia, Air Vistara and Air India connected the city with Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. IndiGo, Air Vistara and Air India operated from Delhi, Indi-Go and Air Asia from Bengaluru and IndiGo from Mumbai. Seven flights arrived and later left for their return trips. The first flight arrived at 11.40am from Mumbai carrying 142 passengers and departed for the maximum city with 38 passengers at12.10pm. Yamini of Shimla was the first passenger to walk out of the gate. “I went for an event to Mumbai and was staying with a friend. The stay was comfortable, but I feared catching the infection. Returning to my hometown is relaxing and relieving.” Like her, Raj Rani Sharma, 86, while coming out of the arrival bay on a wheelchair, was all smiles. “Hum Chandigarh ke rehene waaley hain, to ghar aane par achha lag raha hai. (We are residents of Chandigarh and are feeling good to be back.)” Her son Surinder Mohan Sharma and his wife Kanchan Sharma had gone to Bengaluru to meet their son. “Though we were at our son’s place, we were homesick. We are feeling better now,” Mohan said. Children accompanying their family could be heard telling their mothers that they will play with their friends in the neighborhood once they reach home, unaware of the fact that they will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. Passengers said there was not much confusion, but the Maharashtra government first cancelled all flights from Mumbai but later in the night they received messages from flight operators informing the boarding time. Ishrat, another passenger from Mumbai, said as far as social distancing was concerned, all the passengers were satisfied. Shreyas Karambe and his wife Saila Karambe said, “Only one thing we objected to was passengers sitting near each other in the aircraft. We saw people occupying all the seats in a three-seat row. The in-flight crew did not ensure social distancing.” Private taxi operators charged Rs 500 to Rs 700 per passenger to drop them to Chandigarh. Chandigarh International Airport Limited chief executive officer Ajay Bhardwaj said, “The number of flights will be increased to nine by May 27 and 13 by June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-smooth-run-for-airport-on-reopening/articleshow/75988606.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 26, 2020||Puducherry||Liquor prices more than double in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: Puducherry will no longer be a tipplers' paradise serving quality liquor at an affordable price as the special corona fee imposed has hiked the price of all liquor products at par with Tamil Nadu. The hike is the highest for the ordinary category of liquor brands, crossing 120%. For example, a popular brandy in the ordinary category which was priced at Rs 210 per 750ml bottle now costs Rs 480, a hike of Rs 270 after the special corona fee. The hike is also very steep in medium and premium segments so that the price is at par with Tamil Nadu. Beer drinkers will be the worst hit as the price of all brands of beer has been doubled. A 650ml Budweiser lager beer, which was priced at Rs 113, will now cost Rs 227. A 650ml Heineken lager beer, which was priced at Rs 145, will now be sold at Rs 508. There are 920 brands available in Puducherry under ordinary, medium and premium categories of liquor brands, and 154 brands common in both Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. The Puducherry government imposed a special corona fee on different slabs on these 154 liquor brands to match the liquor price in Tamil Nadu. The government has imposed a 25% special corona fee on the MRP of brands that are available only in Puducherry. Excise department is one of the major sources of revenue for the Puducherry government. The department generated more than 800 crore through excise duty, additional excise duty, license fees and label fees among others in 2018-19. The government had fixed a target Rs 1,100 crore for 2019-20 and excise sources said the department has generated about Rs 900 crore in 2020 so far. Puducherry produced Rs 31 lakh cases of Indian-made foreign liquor and Rs 37 lakh cases of beer in 2019-20, that are both consumed locally and exported. Industry experts said the consumption of liquor will drastically come down because of the steep hike in price and the special corona fee will not fetch the revenue the government had expected. "The government has imposed different tax slabs for different brands of liquor, and we will be in a position to access the quantum of corona tax only after we have the sales' figures of all the brands. The corona tax may not fetch more than Rs 50 crore in three months," said an industry source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/liquor-prices-more-than-double-in-puducherry/articleshow/75988619.cms||Bosco Dominique
