May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Cut the caffeine: Keep an eye on your daily fix while working from home||In our before-the-lockdown work life, coffee or tea often came to our rescue when we were stressed at office, needed to stay alert through back-to-back meetings or maybe, just as a day-starting ritual. But now when we work from home during this unsettling time, longer hours, demanding tasks and anxiety mean that we crave caffeine even more. This, however, can have an adverse effect on our health, warn experts. City-based techie Rekha Raj, who recently called on her family doctor complaining of sleeplessness, admits that her coffee intake has increased over the past two months, as she struggles to stay alert through the day. “Quite a lot of people are experiencing fatigue and impaired concentration due to long work hours and a lack of time to unwind and stay away from the screen. To tackle this, some people are resorting to excessive smoking, while others are consuming too much caffeine. And sometimes, even skipping meals and only relying on coffee or tea for long hours,” points out psychiatrist Dr Naveen Jayaram.‘Excessive caffeine may cause serious health problems’ According to nutritionist Kavita Devgan, excessive caffeine consumption may cause nervousness and insomnia. “Caffeine is diuretic and too many cups of coffee in a day can even dehydrate a person, resulting in lower immunity levels. Even though, it helps people to regain energy for a short period, too much dependency may lead to acidity and frequent headaches,” she explains.‘Reduce your coffee intake; don’t stop it abruptly’If you still can’t control your coffee/tea addiction, maybe, it’s time for a self-intervention. “Plan your daily coffee/tea intake. Restrict yourself to a maximum of 3-4 cups. Cut down in a phased manner, don’t go cold turkey,” says Kavita. ‘There are healthy alternatives to keep yourself energised’Your body and mind may take some time to adjust to the sudden cutting down on caffeine. But fret not, there are ways to tackle that too. Sharing some alternatives, Kavita says, “Soak two tablespoons of fennel seeds in a one-litre water bottle and sip it through the day. Fennel acts as a mild stimulant, and has a mild coffee-like effect on your system. You can also soak either chia seeds or basil seeds in one litre of water and have it at short intervals during the day. It is a good endorphin booster, and won’t make you miss your coffee/tea so much. One can also switch to having green tea instead of coffee, or go for de- caffeinated drinks.”FACT BOXAccording to experts, your daily intake of caffeine should not exceed 400 mg. One average cup of black tea gives about 48 mg of caffeine, compared with 95 mg from coffee, while in terms of green tea it’s about 30 mg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cut-the-caffeine-keep-an-eye-on-your-daily-fix-while-working-from-home/articleshow/76011506.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Sponsored live streams are the future for nightlife||In an online webinar with Bangalore Times, members from the city nightlife industry discussed the challenges and the way forward. With the pub capital of the country having to come to a standstill for two months, there are many problems and a new normal staring ahead. Restaurateur and DJ Rohit Barker, event management professional Rafiushan Pasha, DJ Jasmeet and singer Behram Siganporia discussed all this and more. Excerpts... Defining the new regulations and distancing norms Rohit says, "The biggest problem that stares at the industry right now is fear psychosis. People need to be reassured that they can come out and all is safe and secure. The authorities need to step in here to help people lower this fear." Jasmeet adds, " We need to define what is distancing, what will be seen as the new normal. We need to begin like the other industries already have, to figure out the situation." Online sponsored gigs are inevitable Behram explains, " Almost all my live concerts are monetized. I have been online on all kinds of pages - from those that sell mattresses to those that sell cars. Everyone wants to engage their audiences." Rafi adds, " Sponsored gigs from FMCG companies are going to be inevitable. They also make a more viable solution as there are lesser overheads like flights and logistics that will be involved since everything is digital here." An association for DJs and musicians is the need of the hour Jasmeet says, " A few of us DJs had a group chat recently where we decided that those with better infrastructure can help out the ones in need through live feeds that have donate buttons. It is unfortunate that DJs do not have a forum or association. This situation has made us realize that it is the need of the hour." Rohit adds, "We need a forum for all musicians in Bengaluru, so that we can support each other and allow those in need to take precedence in a time like this." Using virtual reality tools to mimic real life experiences DJs like Jasmeet have been using virtual backgrounds to add some variation and appeal to their live sets. Rohit says that virtual reality will play a big part. " In the near future, virtual reality will creep in to help enhance the experience. There are already some companies that are in talks with us. If we cannot get close to normal in the next few months, then we will get to a place where we will sell tickets to a live stream and ensure that the stream is really entertaining," he adds. Watch Bangalore Times Webinar: Challenges for the nightlife industry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sponsored-live-streams-are-the-future-for-nightlife/articleshow/76012322.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 27, 2020||India||Locust swarms ‘headed’ to Delhi, UP braces for 2nd attack||NEW DELHI: A swarm of desert locusts that infested Jaipur on Monday morning could be headed towards the capital, if wind speed is favourable. Delhi has been kept on alert as such swarms are currently active in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which is the most affected state. Normally, desert locusts are seen in western Rajasthan and Gujarat from June to November, but they were first spotted by the Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) in April. What’s more concerning is that usually they are either solitary or in small groups, meaning the current swarming is unusual. Entomologists said despite being an urban setting, the impact on Delhi could be severe as 22% of its area is under green cover, which can provide foraging material for the locusts. LWO deputy director K L Gurjar on Monday said, “The locusts may move towards Delhi in the next few days if wind speed and direction are favourable. As of today, the wind speed moved them north.” IMD has been asked to monitor the meteorological conditions to help the agricultural ministry forecast where the locusts may be headed next. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said, “Wind direction is favourable at the moment, largely remaining northwesterly.” Mohammad Faisal, an entomologist at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said the capital could suffer greatly, even if it had very little agricultural area. “The swarm, after surviving winter in the desert, moved out due to lack of food. Jaipur has plenty of green spaces, including parks, thus providing foraging material for them,” he added. “Delhi’s green areas can be impacted severely. A very small, one square kilometre locust swarm can eat the same amount of food in a day as about 35,000 people,” said Faisal, adding that in the past they have been known to affect water supply and railway lines. After their attack, railway tracks become slippery and need to be cleaned. They have been known to clog wells too. Faisal said, “A single locust can lay up to 500 eggs. We need to tackle not just the swarm, but their breeding grounds too.” Sohail Madan from Bombay Natural History Society said the swarm might not only impact gardens and greenery, but other insects who depended on the same plants for survival. Aswarm can be made up of 150 million locusts per square kilometre carried on the wind up to 150km in a day, experts said Watch Swarm of locust headed towards Delhi?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/locust-swarms-headed-to-delhi-up-braces-for-2nd-attack/articleshow/76018573.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 27, 2020||India||After rejecting PILs, SC suo motu takes up plight of migrants||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday took suo motu cognisance of the plight of migrant workers during the lockdown following constant criticism by activists, activist-lawyers and even retired judges that the court was “insensitive” and had “bowed to the government” by refusing to entertain PILs highlighting the condition of workers who are walking home or are being herded into trucks. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah sought responses within 48 hours from the Centre, all states and Union Territories on the issue and said the crisis pertaining to migrant labourers could be linked to lapses and inadequacies of the governments and that the need of the hour was to immediately provide them free transport, shelter and food. “Effective, concentrated efforts are required to redeem the situation,” the bench said and asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to put before the court on Thursday all measures taken to provide succour and adequate transport to migrant workers. Heart-wrenching stories relating to exodus of lakhs of migrant workers have been hitting the headlines and it finally persuaded the SC, which had steadfastly refused to manage the Covid-19 situation, to intervene. “We take suo motu cognisance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers who had been stranded in different parts of the country. Newspaper reports and other media reports have been continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable condition of migrant labourers walking on foot and cycling long distances,” the bench said. “They have also been complaining of not being provided food and water by the administration in places where they were stranded or in the way... this section of society needs succour and help from concerned governments, especially steps need to be taken by the Centre, states and UTs in this difficult situation to extend a helping hand to these migrant labourers,” the bench of Justices Bhushan, Kaul and Shah said. “Although the government of India and the state governments have taken measures, yet there have been inadequacies and certain lapses. We are of the view that effective, concentrated efforts are required to redeem the situation,” the bench said. It directed the plea to be taken up on Thursday and sought information on measures and steps taken by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-rejecting-pils-sc-suo-motu-takes-up-plight-of-migrants/articleshow/76018939.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 27, 2020||India||North India globe’s hottest region on Tuesday||NEW DELHI: As super-hot winds continued to pump into the region from the northwest ever since cyclone Amphan hit Bengal, severe heat wave conditions gripped many parts of north India on Tuesday, with Delhi experiencing its hottest day in May in 18 years. North India (along with south-east Pakistan) was the warmest region of the world on Tuesday. Churu in Rajasthan hit 50 degrees Celsius, becoming the world’s hottest spot of the day, along with Jacobabad in Pakistan, also at 50 degrees, according to the El Dorado website that tracks global temperatures. The temperature gauge at Delhi’s Safdurjung, considered the base for the capital, touched 46.0 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal, equalling the level reached in May 2002. A higher temperature than this was last recorded in 29 May 1998, when the mercury hit 46.5 degrees C. The all-time record for Safdarjung for May is 47.2 degrees C, recorded on 29 May, 1944. Palam was even hotter at 47.6, six notches above normal, the joint highest for the station since May 2010. The all-time record for Palam for the month is 48.4 degree Celsius, recorded on 26 May 1998. Other parts of the capital too recorded sizzling high temperatures — Ayanagar 46.8 degrees C, six above normal, and Lodi Road 45.4 degrees C, five points above normal.  According to a met official, heat wave conditions were witnessed at most places in the capital, while the Palam area experienced a severe heat wave. “Strong northwesterly winds from Rajasthan/east Pakistan have been blowing across the region ever since cyclone Amphan made landfall and moved eastwards, sucking the moisture away from north India,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. According to an IMD bulletin, heat wave conditions over plains of northwest India, central India and adjoining interior parts of eastern India are very likely to continue to prevail mainly during the next two days. “Meteorological sub-division wise, isolated severe heat wave conditions with heat wave at many places are very likely over Vidarbha during 26-27 May. Heat wave conditions are likely at a few places over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and at isolated places over Punjab and east Uttar Pradesh on May 27,” it stated. However, under the influence of a western disturbance and formation of an east-west trough in the lower levels and likely rain or thunderstorm from May 28 and 29, the maximum temperatures over plains of north India are likely to recede from 28 May onwards, with a substantial reduction of heat wave conditions from the 29th, it said. On Wednesday, mainly clear sky with strong surface winds during the day (speed 20-30 km per hour) is expected along with heat wave conditions at a few places. The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 45 and 28 degree Celsius respectively. In terms of air quality, it was a “moderate” day on Monday with an AQI of 154, according to Central Pollution Control Board. However, dust from desert regions of Rajasthan, Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan is expected to foul up the city air on Wednesday and Thursday. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), increased wind speed is forecasted for the next 48 hours and thereby increase in long-range dust is expected. “The AQI is forecasted to deteriorate and at the high end of moderate to poor category for Wednesday. Dust storm is likely over desert regions of Rajasthan on May 27 and 28,” However, the current wind direction (west–northwesterly) will not let it reach severe levels and thereby partial deterioration of air quality to poor category is expecting on May 28, it said. Watch TOI Daily: North India globe’s hottest region on Tuesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/north-india-globes-hottest-region-on-tuesday/articleshow/76019165.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi's comment sparks speculation about MVA govt instability||MUMBAI: Rahul Gandhi’s statement on Tuesday that the Congress was “only supporting” the Maharashtra government and was not “the key decision-maker” and NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s Monday evening meeting with CM Uddhav Thackeray at the latter’s Matoshree residence fuelled the theory that the barely six-months-old Maha Vikas Aghadi regime may be charting its course through troubled political waters amid the escalating Covid-19 crisis in the state. While Raj Bhavan on Tuesday scotched speculation that the state was headed for President’s rule by stating no such recommendation had been made to Rashtrapati Bhavan and ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis said BJP had no interest in toppling the government which “would collapse under its own contradictions,” Rahul’s statement gave fresh ammo to talk about differences and lack of coordination between MVA constituents, CM Thackeray’s alleged unilateral decisions against NCP’s wishes and the government’s disagreements with Governor B S Koshyari. Read Also‘Not key decision maker’: Rahul Gandhi sparks MVA rift talkRahul Gandhi’s statement on Tuesday that the Congress was “only supporting” the Maharashtra government and was not “the key decision maker” and NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s Monday evening meeting with CM Uddhav Thackeray at the latter’s Matoshree residence fuelled the theory that the barely“We are supporting the government in Maharashtra, but we are not the key decision-maker… There is a difference between running a government and supporting a government,” Rahul said at his presser when asked about the Covid-19 situation in the state. He said he was making a “differentiation” in the case of Maharashtra for this reason, and that the Congress was “the key decision-maker” in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry. Pawar’s meeting with Thackeray, which took place in the presence of Aaditya Thackeray and Sena MP Sanjay Raut and went on for 1.5 hours, assumed significance as he and the CM have had clear differences on lifting of lockdown curbs. Pawar has more than once underscored the need to announce relaxations, while Thackeray has been firm on enforcing restrictions in Lockdown 4.0. Read AlsoCM Uddhav Thackeray meets Sharad Pawar, Sena says Maha govt strongMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with NCP president Sharad Pawar in Mumbai, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while asserting that the state government is "strong". The two leaders met for about one-and-a-half hours late Monday evening, Raut said whileBoth Pawar and Raut denied there was any threat to the state government. “The government is stable, there is absolutely no threat,” Pawar said. Raut said, “There are no differences of opinion in the MVA government and there is no threat. The government will complete its five-year term. We (Sena-NCP-Congress) will contest the next assembly polls together.” Asked about Narayan Rane’s demand that President’s rule be imposed in the state, Raut said, “It should first be imposed in Gujarat as the high court there has criticised the government over the Covid-19 situation.” However, if a senior NCP leader is to be believed, it was on Pawar’s prodding that the MVA government on Sunday abruptly reversed its decision not to allow domestic flights from and into Mumbai. Sources said in Monday’s meeting too, Pawar spoke of the need to revive the economy and open shops and establishments, while Thackeray stuck to his line that though he was keen on reopening, it needed to be done in a phased manner. “This is a bone of contention between NCP and Sena,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said, “We are a three-party government and we consult each other before taking policy decisions. We are of the view that it is high time we relax lockdown norms. We will have to take timely decisions to avoid unrest. Pawar has expressed the same view.” State Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said there were no differences among MVA constituents but views were different. “Pawar has taken a view on relaxing lockdown. We will have to take note of it and an early decision will have to be taken,” Thorat said. On Rahul Gandhi’s statement, Thorat said Congress was one of the MVA constituents and it was not a key decision-maker as “all decisions are taken collectively.” But Fadnavis said Rahul was aware of the worsening situation and was trying to shift blame onto the Sena. “His party has not offered support from outside but is part of the government. He cannot shirk responsibility for the rapidly deteriorating situation,” the ex-CM said. -Inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar Watch Shiv Sena slams Rahul Gandhi, claims 'everyone has equal say in Aghadi'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhis-comment-sparks-speculation-about-mva-govt-instability/articleshow/76019525.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Rangareddy district in a tailspin as positive cases spiral||HYDERABAD: After a brief respite from Covid-19, Rangareddy district is struggling with more than 25 containment zones. A few days ago, the district did not have any samples to be tested but had taken up area-wise surveillance since the last few days. About 45 samples were sent for testing from Shadnagar itself. After a youth tested positive in Shadnagar, all areas within 1 km were brought under containment. “We had to do it after we found out that the youth went around the area before he was sent to Gandhi Hospital,” said officials. However, they expressed worry that many people have not understood the importance of social distancing and taking precautions to stop the spread of Covid- 19 cases,” said an official. Reportedly, many people did not even express concern when officials told them to be careful. “There are no deaths, but only fever. They say there is nothing to fear. In a way it is good, but lack of caution can land them in trouble,” pointed out an official. After Saroornagar, Shadnagar is becoming the hub of Covid now. Shadnagar Ganj, Vijaynagar colony and Eshwar colony are being kept under containment. Officials have conducted a survey and found that 677 people are in the high risk group. The number includes people with comorbid conditions and people above 60 years old. A total of 3,655 people were surveyed. A total of 913 households were surveyed. Officials are worried as there could be many primary contacts. On Tuesday, a nurse from Chest Hospital, a resident of Chandanagar, tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rr-dist-in-a-tailspin-as-ve-cases-spiral/articleshow/76015707.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four days on, hospital yet to let kin claim body||MUMBAI: Four days after a security guard died on a footpath while walking to the hospital, his nephew has been unable to perform his last rites yet as the civic-run Bhagwati hospital in Borivli, citing his pending Covid-19 report, has not handed over his body. The deceased worked as security guard at a football-ground in Dahisar and lived alone on the premises. He had been running a fever for the past few days. On Friday afternoon, he started walking toward Bhagwati Hospital, but felt uneasy and slumped onto a footpath, where he breathed his last. When asked about the delay in the test report, BMC health officials refused to comment. A video of the guard, sitting on the footpath and struggling for breath, has been circulating among people in the vicinity. Slumdwellers living nearby are said to have gathered around him after noticing him in distress, but no one ventured close to him. They claim they called the helpline, but didn’t get any help. They later managed to find the contact number of the security agency owner—Vasant Shetty who immediately rushed to the spot and after a brief struggle, managed to arrange a private ambulance to take the body to hospital. Shetty informed the guard’s wife in Uttar Pradesh about the tragedy. Former MP Kirit Somaiya said, “The victim was struggling on the footpath for hours, but he didn’t get help and he died. Now, for the past four days, the government authorities are making his relative wait for the last rites as his Covid test report is awaited.” Last week, the municipal commissioner had asked that all Covid test reports should be submitted within 24 hours. The deceased’s nephew said, “Since my uncle’s wife and two sons cannot travel due to the lockdown, they asked me to perform his last rites. I have already visited the hospital thrice. The hospital authorities say his Covid report is expected on Wednesday or Thursday, after which they will hand over the body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-days-on-hosp-yet-to-let-kin-claim-body/articleshow/76018600.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 27, 2020||Business||Non-MSMEs to get cheap, govt-guaranteed loans too||MUMBAI: Many businesses like hotels, restaurants and service providers — other than micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) — will be eligible to receive funding under the Rs 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme if they have bank loans, but for below Rs 25 crore. While the scheme has been broadly referred to as the MSME guarantee scheme, the terms of coverage are quite broad and will include other businesses as well. This will be a major relief for retail-facing businesses with fixed obligations who have seen their top line disappear because of several weeks of lockdown. While banks have been cautious in lending to this segment because of the uncertainty of future cash flows, the government guarantee will provide them with the confidence to provide loans. One of the conditions for the guarantee is that the banks will not have a credit risk spread for the borrower. As a result, many banks are providing loans at 7.5%. This is despite interest rate being capped at 9.25% for banks and 14% for non-banking finance companies. “This scheme has been expanded to include all business enterprises, anyone with loan limit up to Rs 25 crore, it does not have to be only MSME. It can be even a term loan and should be outstanding as on February 29,” said Union Bank MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai. He added that the bank was expecting to disburse nearly Rs 10,000 crore of loans under this scheme. The bank has an MSME portfolio of close to Rs 50,000 crore. Since the loans are backed by a sovereign guarantee, banks are expecting that the RBI will not require them to assign any risk weightage to these. This would mean that even after lending Rs 3 lakh crore to small businesses, the capital requirement for banks will not increase. Most banks are expecting to disburse around 20% of their loans under this scheme to the MSME segment. Under the scheme notified by the government, 100% guarantee coverage will be provided by the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Limited (NCGTC) for additional funding of up to Rs 3 lakh crore to eligible borrowers, including those under the MUDRA scheme, in the form of a Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line (GECL) facility. For this purpose, a corpus of Rs 41,600 crore shall be provided by the government, spread over the current and the next three financial years. One of the eligibility criteria is that the loan should not be more than 60 days past due. Loans provided under the scheme will have a tenure of four years with a moratorium period of one year on the principal amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/non-msmes-to-get-cheap-govt-guaranteed-loans-too/articleshow/76015533.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 27, 2020||Business||Airtel promoters sell Rs 8,400cr stake||Mumbai: Bharti Telecom, the promoters of Bharti Airtel, raised a little over Rs 8,400 crore, or about $1.1 billion, by selling 15 crore shares of the services provider at an average price of Rs 562 apiece. The shares, representing about 2.75% of the company’s equity, were sold through block deals on the BSE. French financial services major Societe Generale bought the largest chunk, of 3.5 crore shares, for nearly Rs 2,000 crore, or about $262 million, BSE data showed. The fund raising, aimed at reducing promoters’ debt, was managed by JP Morgan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airtel-promoters-sell-rs-8400cr-stake/articleshow/76015541.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Flights to Chennai resume from Trichy and Tuticorin||Tuticorin/Trichy: The first flight from Chennai to Tuticorin operated on Tuesday after a gap of more than 60 days. The Indigo flight landed with 42 passengers around 12.35pm and took off to Chennai with 53 passengers. The flight will be operated on alternate days till May 31, after which further schedules will be released.Meanwhile, IndiGo Air resumed its Chennai - Trichy service on Tuesday with its first flight arriving at the Trichy International Airport at around 11.15am with just 15 passengers and departing with 32. On Monday, the airline had cancelled its two services between the Trichy-Chennai sector.However, IndiGo Air’s evening service to Chennai was cancelled on Tuesday also. When contacted, a senior official from IndiGo Air told TOI that as per schedule, both morning Chennai and evening Bengaluru services operated. However, due to operational reasons, the evening Chennai flight was cancelled, he said.In Tuticorin, collector Sandeep Nanduri who inspected the airport said that arrangements have been made by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), health department and the district administration to ensure 100% compliance to standard operating procedure (SOP) to handle the passengers.“Temperature screening is performed on all passengers. If they are symptomatic they will be shifted to a quarantine facility. If they are asymptomatic their details are collected and they will sent for home quarantine for 14 days with a stamp on their hands,” the collector said. He added that revenue personnel will facilitate e-pass for those who arrive without one.Director of the airport, N Subramanian said that all SOPs issued by the ministry of civil aviation, ministry of health and family welfare and the government of Tamil Nadu have been followed. Passengers were screened by personnel wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) at the security check area.Passengers were provided with masks and gloves and their baggage disinfected. Stickers warning passengers to maintain social distancing while sitting in the terminal building, were also pasted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/flights-to-chennai-resume-from-trichy-and-tuticorin/articleshow/76015694.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Water to reach Madurai today||Madurai: Corporation officials are confident of bringing water from Vaigai river to the Vandiyur Mariamman teppakulam through Panaiyur channel, as the water released for wetting riverbed is expected to reach the city on Wednesday. The water was released from Vaigai dam at 6 pm on Monday. Water used to be released for the yearly grand event of lord Kallalagar entry into river Vaigai, a part of Chithirai festival. With the festival cancelled this year, water release did not take place. As the river bed has been parched without rains, officials decided to release 216 MLD of water. It will help local bodies to augment their drinking water source since a large number of infiltration wells will get recharged. Teams have been swung into action to clean silts and garbage dumping into Panaiyur channel, which carries water to teppakulam measuring 24 acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-to-reach-madurai-today/articleshow/76015720.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Passengers on ‘Moksha Kalash Yatra’ create stir||Jaipur: Chaos ensued as 39 passengers — who had left for Haridwar from Jaipur with the ashes of their deceased loved ones as part of the government’s ‘Moksha Kalash Yatra’ — showed resentment after being asked to huddle in one bus instead of two on their journey back to the city.These passengers had left in two buses and during their return journey, they were asked to ‘adjust’ in one bus, as they were told the other bus could be utilized to ferry migrant workers. After much protest, the passengers were finally brought back in two buses, after a delay of four hours.A few passengers called up transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and complained to him. The minister spoke to authorities and asked them as to why passengers were being compelled to return in one bus when social distancing was so crucial. Finally, the buses left for Jaipur but RSRTC administration put some migrant workers on back seat of the buses. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passengers-on-moksha-kalash-yatra-create-stir/articleshow/76018541.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 27, 2020||Business||Kotak Bank launches its Rs 7,500 crore QIP||MUMBAI: Kotak Mahindra Bank on Tuesday launched its qualified institutional placement (QIP) plan to raise about Rs 7,600 crore at a floor price of Rs 1,148 per share, with an option to offer a 5% discount. The exact price for the offer, being managed by Goldman Sachs, Kotak Investment Banking, Morgan Stanley and SBI Capital Markets, will be finalised on May 29. The floor price is at a marginal discount to Kotak Bank’s Tuesday close on the BSE at Rs 1,152. The fund-raising is aimed at, among others, augmenting the bank’s capital base and strengthening it. The stake dilution will also help Uday Kotak, its main promoter, to reduce his stake in the bank to meet RBI guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-bank-launches-its-rs-7500cr-qip/articleshow/76015534.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Business||Uber India lays off 600 employees||Bengaluru: Uber India has laid off about 600 employees, which make up around a quarter of the workforce in the country, as part of its global restructuring. The development comes after rival Ola also let go of a third of its workforce last week, or 1,400 employees, as revenues fell by 94%. “The impact of Covid-19 and the unpredictable nature of the recovery has left Uber IndiaSA with no choice but to reduce the size of its workforce. Around 600 full-time positions across driver and rider support, as well as other functions, are being impacted…..We made the decision now so we can look to the future with confidence,” said Pradeep Parameswaran, CEO of Uber India and South Asia, in a statement. Uber will give each employee a minimum of 10 weeks’ payout, medical insurance coverage for the next six months, outplacement support, allow them to retain their laptops, and give them the option to join the Uber talent directory. Besides front-facing consumer business, Uber also does its product development in India with offices in Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The impact of the layoffs is primarily in its front-facing consumer business. Uber has let go of 25% of its global workforce, or about 6,700 people, since the start of the pandemic, which has put a severe dent in its ride-hailing business. While cab-hailing services were shut for about two months in India, they were allowed to restart last week. Uber India has also tied up with online retailers like Bigbasket and Flipkart to do deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uber-india-lays-off-600-employees/articleshow/76015545.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Business||Rising freight will puncture corporate margins||Chennai: Truck freight rates on trunk routes have risen 20%-35% with transporters increasing one-way rates to make up for trucks returning without a cargo load. This is impacting agri commodities, FMCG and other consumables transportation with smaller companies and regional players being hit hard. “Trunk route truck freight is up between 20%-35% as only one-third of the 5.2 million goods carriers are now on roads. Since there isn’t enough cargo the trucks have to return empty forcing transporters to sharply increase one-way freight. Sample this: The Nashik-Delhi mango route has seen one way freight rise to Rs 75,000 from Rs 45,000,” said SP Singh, coordinator, Indian Foundation of Transport Research & Training (IFTRT). For companies, this is an added cost at a time when the distribution network is still not up and running properly and production is just about coming back to life. “The non-availability of truck drivers has pushed up freight costs. We are working with our business partners and transporters to manage the same,” said Dabur India executive director-operations Shahrukh Khan. Even the medicine and pharma sectors are facing this problem. “Freight charges have gone up across all modes of transport. Ship and air freight charges have nearly doubled. Courier charges have more than doubled. Further, there are frequent changes in the freight charges depending upon drivers and space availability, despite booking in advance. Cargo loading /unloading is also facing challenges due to shortage of labour,” said Yugal Sikri, MD, RPG Lifesciences. Understandably the worst hit — fresh produce industry — is looking at changing its sourcing plans. “The reason for a jump in freight charges is low availability of trucks and drivers. The vendors also have to factor in the increased cost of providing sanitation and protective equipment for their drivers. To deal with this, we had to change our sourcing points and reduce our dependence on air,” said Shan Kadavil, CEO, FreshToHome, an online platform that sells meat and fresh produce which has seen a 10% increase in freight charges and a doubling in air charges. For Nishant Chandran, founder of meat startup, Tender Cuts, freight rates have been volatile ever since the lockdown happened. “The current increase is at 15% for some routes. However, we have had to pay upto 3x for transporting perishables from southern Tamil Nadu to Nellore.” Transporters for their part say that big e-commerce and manufacturers have annual contracts which cannot be tweaked so transporters have to make up their losses somewhere. “There was a surge in demand when businesses opened in May to clear the backlog of old orders but after May 15, demand is down drastically. Some places there are no trucks, others there are no drivers. And where there are both available there is no cargo. Big e-commerce companies have longer term contracts. There the transporter has to consume the freight loss. Only the agri product transport is seeing a temporary increase. Currently only 30%-35% of the trucks are running – around 20% is for medical and essential supplies and just 15% is for the market,” said a Chennai-based transporter and general secretary of All India Confederation of Goods Vehicles Owners Association Rajinder Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-freight-will-puncture-corporate-margins/articleshow/76015344.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||3 Shramik trains cancelled on Tuesday||Pune: Three Shramik special trains were cancelled on Tuesday by the district administration, the Pune rail division officials said. “The three trains, from Pune to Basti, Miraj to Gorakhpur and Pune to Howrah, were cancelled by the administration. This is the first time that the services were terminated after scheduling of trains,” Pune rail divison’s PRO Manoj Jhawar told TOI. The Maharashtra government and the ministry of railways are at loggerheads over the movement of the Shramik Special trains. While CM Udhav Thackerey recently said that they were getting far less number of trains than what they had demanded, the ministry alleged that even though many trains were ready for operations, the state government was not asking for them. “It is the district administration which asks for the trains following which the arrangements are made and the scheduling is done. It is for the administration to answer as to why all these have been cancelled. While two of the trains (to Basti and Howrah) were set to leave at 10pm on Tuesday, the train to Gorakhpur was to leave in the afternoon,” the PRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-shramik-trains-cancelled-on-tuesday/articleshow/76015670.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 27, 2020||Business||Auto cos look at e-route, easy finance to up sales||Satyanarayan Iyer | TNN Pune: In perhaps the first of its scale, Skoda Auto India on Tuesday launched three cars in a virtual conference and also rolled out attractive financing schemes. This came after the 125-year-old Czech automaker did not sell a single car in April in India for the first time in its history. Zac Hollis, brand director, Skoda Auto India, said that digital launches like this one could well be the way forward and that the numbers of cars booked online on its centralised booking platform, so far, has been “encouraging”. Hollis said that the company is battling operational and sentimental challenges. “On the operational front, the challenge is to reinstate manufacturing facilities, logistics, supply chain, etc, and on the sentimental front, it is to battle negative sentiments of the last two years,” he said. On Wednesday, German luxury carmaker Mercedes Benz will digitally launch two of its products — the AMG C63 coupe and GT R. Automakers are also rolling out easy financing and EMI holidays for up to six months to hook customers in challenging times. “As the markets are gradually opening up and businesses are restarting their operations, Mercedes-Benz India wants to revive customer confidence and create incremental demand,” the company said, while announcing its EMI waiver for three months and offer for small EMI for six months. Skoda Auto on Tuesday offered the “buy now, pay in Diwali” offer for its newly launched Skoda Rapid. On its premium Skoda Superb offering, the company said that it will give an assured 57% buy-back value after 36 months. Last week, Tata Motors said that customers can drive home a Tiago at Rs 5,000 per month for six months and pay the rest later. “On its entire range of cars and SUVs, Tata Motors is offering a 100% on-road funding. Customers can also take advantage from the long-tenure EMI schemes (up to 8 years), thus lowering the amount of their monthly EMI payment,” Tata Motors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-cos-look-at-e-route-easy-finance-to-up-sales/articleshow/76015555.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 27, 2020||Business||Anant Ambani follows 2 older siblings, joins Jio as director||MUMBAI: More than five years after his older siblings were appointed to the boards of key RIL companies, Anant Ambani, the youngest son of chairman Mukesh Ambani, has also been inducted as a director of Jio Platforms. The telecom-cum-digital services company is majority owned by the Mumbai-based energy player. With Anant’s membership, all the three children of Ambani now serve on the board of Jio Platforms, which of late attracted marquee investors such as Facebook, Silver Lake and Vista. Besides Jio Platforms, Anant’s older siblings Akash and Isha are directors of Reliance Retail Ventures. There is a chance that Anant, 25, could also be inducted onto the board of Reliance Retail. Ambani, India’s richest person, has been betting big on telecom and retail to drive RIL’s growth in the future. His aim is to make the two units contribute as much as the core energy and materials businesses to RIL’s profits in the forthcoming years. The chairman also plans to take the consumer-facing units public at some point. Anant, a product of US’s Brown University, joined the board of Jio Platforms on March 16, more than a month before the company announced its first investor in Facebook. Often spotted with his mother Nita Ambani at cricketing events and a regular attendee at RIL’s annual shareholder meetings, Anant is on the board of a couple of firms, including Tattvam Enterprises that holds stakes in the energy major. RIL is in the midst of a rights offering and promoters have said that they will subscribe to their portion to maintain their holding in India’s most valued company. The Ambani family directly and indirectly holds 50% in RIL, which had a market capitalisation of over Rs 9 lakh crore at close of stock trading hours on Tuesday. It has been reported that RIL, which is building a resort in Mumbai’s Bandra-Kurla Complex, will name the property after Anant. To be branded as Anantvilas, it will be a luxe offering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/anant-ambani-follows-2-older-siblings-joins-jio-as-director/articleshow/76015512.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Business||FY21 GDP to shrink 5%, Q1 25%: Crisil||MUMBAI: Crisil Ratings has revised its FY21 growth forecast to -5% from its projection of 1.8% during the early days of the lockdown in April. With loss of over two months of most economic activity, the rating agency has forecast a staggering 25% contraction in GDP in the first quarter. The downward revision of nearly 700 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) from its April forecast takes into account the fact that about 10% of gross domestic product (GDP) in real terms could be permanently lost. “We believe that catch-up to the pre-crisis trend level of GDP will not be possible in next three fiscals,” said Crisil chief economist D K Joshi. Last week, the RBI said that India was likely to have negative GDP growth — the first since 1979. Other economists in Nomura and Goldman Sachs had also forecast that the economy would shrink by 5% in real terms. This was after the government announced its Rs 20-lakh-crore stimulus, which was structured more in the nature of a financing scheme. The agency said that the imminent recession would be India’s fourth and probably the worst since independence. “The economic costs now beginning to show up in the hard numbers are far worse than our initial expectations. Industrial production for March fell by over 16%. The purchasing managers’ indices for manufacturing and services sectors were at 27.4 and 5.4, respectively, in April, implying extraordinary contraction,” the rating agency said in report. Also exports contracted 60.3% in April, and new telecom subscribers declined 35%, while railway freight movement plunged 35% year-on-year. Part of the reason for the lowering of the forecast is the lesser-than-expected spending in the government’s stimulus package. “The package has some short-term measures to cushion the economy, but sets its sights majorly on reforms, most of which will have payoffs only over the medium term. We estimate the fiscal cost of this package at 1.2% of GDP, which is lower than what we had assumed in our earlier estimate, when we foresaw a growth in GDP,” said Crisil. Including lockdown 4.0, India has seen 68 days of confinement. S&P Global estimates that one month of lockdown shaves 3% off annual GDP on average across Asia-Pacific. “Since India’s lockdown has been the most stringent in Asia, the impact on economic growth will be correspondingly larger,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fy21-gdp-to-shrink-5-q1-25-crisil/articleshow/76015528.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Jamia students’ custody extended||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday extended the judicial custody of Safoora Zargar and Meeran Haider, Jamia Coordination Committee members booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), by 30 days. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana remanded them to further custody till June 25, after they were produced via videoconferencing from Tihar Jail. While Haider is a PhD student, Zargar is a MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia. It was argued by one of the counsels that the plea seeking extension of remand ought to be dismissed as it was illegal. The counsel argued that since the accused were earlier remanded by a judicial magistrate, who was not legally competent to pass such a remand order, the remand cannot be regularised by the present court sitting as a special court. On May 22 the district and sessions judge of Patiala House Courts had directed that all remand proceedings pertaining to UAPA and Special Acts be heard by the court of judge Rana. The prosecutor pressed for the extension of judicial custody only for Haider and Safoora as their previous custody was expiring on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a court extended the police custody of Pinjra Tod activists Devangana Kalita (30) and Natasha Narwal (32) by two more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-students-custody-extended/articleshow/76015741.cms||Aamir Khan
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn begins online Neet coaching||Madurai: R Rajarajeswari, a Class XII girl from Madurai Corporation-run Avvai school, is one of the students keenly attending online Neet coaching provided by the corporation, which began last Friday. The classes are conducted from Monday to Saturday. Although her daily waged parents could not afford a smart phone with internet connection, she joins her friend through Zoom video-conferencing facility, to make sure her learning is not affected. “I was missing coaching classes. Thanks to corporation officials, we are now continuing coaching through online mode,” she said. She is one among the 1,740 students (1,700 Class X students from 24 corporation schools and 40 best performing Class XII students), who have been brought under one roof for focused coaching. Class X students undergo revision since they their board exams start from June 15. The Class XII students attend coaching class to crack Neet and exams like JEE. Corporation educational officer P Vijaya said, “We are utilising teachers from some of the best schools in the city. Corporation teachers help Class X students with their revision. They are taught using slides by sharing screen with the students.” Officials said that revision class is conducted in two batches as they have capacity to include only 500 students at a time. WhatsApp groups have been created and link are shared in them. Class teachers have also been included in groups to make sure all students attend. However, the classes are not mandatory since some students cannot attend due to unavailability of smart phones and internet connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-begins-online-neet-coaching/articleshow/76015748.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Shramik trains to run till May 30||Jaipur: The state government will run Shramik Special trains till May 30 since the regular train services from Jaipur and other parts of Rajasthan would be restored from June 1. Till Tuesday, the government of Rajasthan has sent nearly 1.43 lakh passengers including students, pilgrims and migrant workers to various parts of the country by operating 105 trains with the help of North Western Railways (NWR). On Tuesday, a train from Nagaur to Mumbai via Jaipur departed with migrant workers.State government is now planning to suspend this service. “Shramik trains will run till May 30 and thereafter regular trains will start operating. Till Tuesday, we have managed to send 1,43,843 passengers including migrant workers and students to their native states,” transport commissioner Ravi Jald said. In coming days, trains are planned for migrants in Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. The government is planning to send at least 2 lakh workers till May 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shramik-trains-to-run-till-may-30/articleshow/76018554.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Law grads raise funds to charter Mumbai-Ranchi flight for migrants||MUMBAI: Alumni of the National Law School, Bengaluru, raised enough funds in less than half a day to lease an Air Asia A320 aircraft and fly 180 migrant labourers from Mumbai to Ranchi on Thursday. This will be the first time ever in the history of Indian aviation that a group of private individuals has planned to evacuate stranded migrants by a flight. “We have a commitment from the Jharkhand government they will take care of the migrants once they reach Ranchi. Tomorrow (Wednesday) we shall be coordinating with the Maharashtra government to get the migrants on board the flight,” said a member of the alumni requesting anonymity. Funds have been put together by former students across batches. Migrant labourers were identified through various NGO networks. Shyel Trehan from the batch of 2000 at the law school said her batchmates were just discussing a way to help migrants. They first thought of chartering a bus to take them from Mumbai to Ranchi, but soon found the cost per person for the journey was just marginally lower than that for a flight. One of her 2000 batchmates, Shuva Mandal, who works with the Tata group as its legal head, suggested a flight may be a better option as more people can be fitted. “The whole idea and its execution is a joint effort, helped by Tata group, the airline and Priya Sharma, research scholar, social sciences, IIT-Bombay,” said Trehaan. They chartered an Air Asia flight filled to capacity with 180 passengers on board. They have raised Rs 11 lakh via crowd-funding so far. The alumni have been doing various relief work in different states during this two-month lockdown period. “Movement of migrants is an issue. The cost of a flight ticket is the same as what the labourers are paying to go back by bus. So we decided to send them back by flight, as flights resumed from Monday,” said the member. Around 45 migrant labourers had been booked on a regular Wednesday flight from Mumbai to Delhi and then to Ranchi, which got cancelled. “We thought why leave others behind and decided to charter a flight which will fly directly to Ranchi. Of course, the cost is being borne entirely by us, including the charter charges,” said the member. “With all the money that is being spent by various people, all the migrants could have been safely evacuated by air during the lockdown period. Remember Spice Jet had even offered to fly them free. What is happening today (migrants going on foot) is criminal,” said the member. The alumni’s says this is “a very small effort given the scale of the problem”. Another member said, “We remembered the philosophy taught by our law school director Madhav Menon —to be agents of social change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/law-grads-raise-funds-to-charter-mum-ranchi-flight-for-migrants/articleshow/76018607.cms||Clara Lewis
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||25 new Covid-19 cases in Punjab, tally at 2,106||CHANDIGARH: Fresh cases of Covid-19 continued to mount in Punjab on Tuesday as 25 people tested positive for the virus, taking the state’s count to 2,106. The new cases are from seven districts. While 19 new patients are contacts of positive cases, two people reported their symptoms to health department. In Jalandhar, 10 people were tested positive, all contacts of positive cases. There were five cases in Pathankot, four in Hoshiarpur, and two each in Amritsar and Ludhiana. One case each was reported in Faridkot and Nawanshahr. This means that Nawanshah again has an active case and is not free of the virus. A total of five patients were discharged, taking the number of cured patients to 1,918. While three patients were discharged in Jalandhar, a patient each was discharged in Patiala and Fardikot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/25-new-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-tally-at-2106/articleshow/76015855.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop injured as gun goes off at TSPA||HYDERABAD: An inspector of RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA) suffered a bullet injury when a woman cadet SI’s pistol went off accidentally. The incident happened when SI cadets were training on the academy campus near Narsingi on Tuesday morning. The injured official is ZM Vinod, a 1996 batch reserve inspector of Telangana State Special Police battalions. The mishap occurred when Vinod, as a point officer, was training a squad of SI cadets. “At around 11 am, when the cadet SIs were practising at the academy’s firing range, a woman cadet’s 9 mm pistol went off. The bullet pierced through the left thigh of the RI,” academy director VK Singh said. The bullet exited the inspector’s leg and he was quickly rushed to a hospital in Gachibowli. “The inspector is out of danger. He has to undergo a minor surgery,” academy joint director K Ramesh Naidu said. During a preliminary probe, officials at the academy identified that the round was discharged from the woman cadet’s weapon. However, they are yet to confirm it. “Once the inspector recovers, we can get a better idea as to how the incident might have taken place,” said a academy source. As part of the initial enquiry, police team found out that the pistol was jammed during the practice. In the process of checking the weapon, the cadet might have accidentally pressed the trigger. Singh said it was an accident and did not warrant any disciplinary action. “Currently, over 2,000 cadet SIs and constables are undergoing training at the academy,” he said. Even during the lockdown period, TSPA has been conducting both indoor and outdoor classes for cadets. Narsingi inspector Gangadhar said the academy officials were conducting an internal inquiry and no complaint has been received so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-injured-as-gun-goes-off-at-tspa/articleshow/76015800.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Fishers slam easing of annual 61-day ban||Kanyakumari: Deep sea and mechanised boat fishermen of Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari districts have expressed displeasure at the relaxation given from the annual fishing ban by the Union and state governments. The annual 61-day ban to facilitate fish breeding has been reduced to 47 days after considering the number of days the boats have been off the seas. The relaxation for the east coast allows them to go fishing from June 1, while the west coast fishermen of Kanyakumari are allowed to fish from June 1 to 14 before the west coast ban comes into effect from June 15 to July 31. In a statement, fisheries minister D Jayakumar said the arrangement is only for this year. On Tuesday, nearly 100 mechanised boat representatives in Ramanathapuram district met at Rameswaram and resolved not to go fishing from June 1, but from June 15 as the workforce is expected to arrive only later. President of Rameswaram fishermen cooperative society and advisor of the Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry fishermen federation, N Devadoss told TOI that there are 2,200 mechanised boats in the district and the workforce would be more than 50,000. “Only 30% of the workforce are from the district. Around 30% is from other districts, while the remaining 40% are from Odisha, UP, WB, Assam and Jharkhand,” he said. Most of them have returned home due to the lockdown. “They will not be able to return till bus and train services resume. Transportation of fishing gear from other states is hit. Fish export is also affected and exporters are working with minimum workforce. So, they will not be able to buy all the catch,” Devadoss added. P Dickson, a deep sea fisherman from Kanyakumari said, “The 14-day window in the first two weeks of June will not help us. By July 31 we would have been off the sea for 130 days.” “We wanted the entire ban to be lifted this year,” said Charles Johnson, secretary of Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishers-slam-easing-of-annual-61-day-ban/articleshow/76015807.cms||M K Ananth
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Hindu Munnani stages squats protest to reopen temples||Cleared/175 WordsMadurai: Urging the state government to reopen temples, cadres of the Hindu Munnani resorted to squats’ protest in front of temples on Tuesday. Madurai district president S Alagarsamy, who led the protest at the Meenakshi Sundareshwarar Temple said protests were organised at 11 places in Madurai as part of a state-wide protest.“The temples are closed for more than two months and should be opened. Temples that are closed for many years should also be opened when the ban on entry to temples is lifted,” he said. Devotees are ready to practice social distancing and abide by the government’s directions to avoid Covid-19 spread in temples, he added.In Ramanathapuram district, HM cadres lit camphor and protest by squatting in front of the Ramanathaswamy Temple. They questioned the government for reopening Tasmac outlets where the chances of Covid-19 spread is more possible, but kept temples closed.They also said that police deployed for providing security and streamlining the crowd at Tasmac outlets could be used to regulate the crowds and ensure social distancing at temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hindu-munnani-stages-squats-protest-to-reopen-temples/articleshow/76015838.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Admissions for SY engg, pharma from Aug 10 to 14||Panaji: The directorate of technical education (DTE) has announced that admission forms for direct admissions to second year pharmacy and engineering degree programmes will now be accepted from August 10 to 14. The process has been deferred by over a month from the usual schedule due to the ongoing lockdown. There are 129 seats on offer in engineering degree programmes and 12 in pharmacy degree programmes in the state, where students who have completed BSc or diploma courses in engineering and pharmacy can directly seek admission to the related degree seats. DTE has asked students to access the prospectus for the admissions from its website and download and print the form from the same site. Students will have to pay Rs 1,500 to apply for the seat, the directorate said. Admissions to these second year seats are carried out based on the marks scored by students in the final exam of their diploma programme. The first priority for the second year lateral entry to degree programmes is given to students who have completed their diploma programme from institutions in Goa. The next priority is given to Goan students who have completed their diploma programme from institutes outside the state. However, the students have to have 10 years domicile in the state prior to their admission to the diploma programme. BSc degree holders will be able to apply for the seats in the streams of electrical and electronic engineering, electronic and telecommunication engineering, computer engineering, and information technology, if any seats are left unfilled by eligible diploma holders. The DTE prepares separate merit list for eligible diploma holders in engineering, eligible BSc degree holders and eligible candidates for pharmacy second year lateral entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/admissions-for-sy-engg-pharma-from-aug-10-to-14/articleshow/76018456.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Discontent over containment boils over||Nagpur: Around 200-250 residents of Parvati Nagar had thronged the Rameshwari Road protesting against the ongoing restrictions of movement on around 20,000 people within the containment zone whose livelihood has been jeopardized. City is witnessing similar protests against prolonged containment orders at other places too like Pandhrabodi and Jawahar Nagar. Leaders from different political parties too are getting involved in voicing their angst. After Congress MLA Vikas Thakre complained about the containment zones to CM Uddhav Thackeray, Pandhrabodi’s corporator Parineeta Fuke too wrote to civic chief Tukaram Mundhe to ensure relaxations. BJP MLA Mohan Mate is also learnt to have taken up the cause of relaxaxtion in Jawahar Nagar containment zone. With Parvati Nagar cordoned off since May 7 following the death of a 22-year-old Covid patient a day earlier, the residents are facing grave uncertainty regarding their future as the restriction order may stretch for almost another month. One of the shop owners, Leela Bhavsagar, said she had been paying Rs 10,000 rent and also facing losses as the materials are getting expired. “I have no business for last so many days but rent has to be paid,” she said. Sachin Karalkar, along with Bhupendra Borkar and others, said two women had attended the protest carrying letters from their offices that their services would be terminated soon. “If anyone commits suicide, we would hold the NMC officials as abettors,” said Advocate Rahul Jhamre. City police, gauging the mood of the place in south Nagpur known for sudden flare-ups, deployed a section of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) along with local cops and officers round the clock. The area, where another four have tested positive, is having a population of middle and lower middle class who are anxious about their fast drying up savings and also depleting ration stocks at home. If the Central government guidelines are to be followed regarding sealing the area upto 28 days from the date someone has been tested positive, the residents of Parvati Nagar may not have any respite till June 28. Asst municipal commissioner Minal Bagde, whose intervention quelled the tension, said she had sent a proposal to Mundhe for curtailment and relaxation. “As per the guidelines, there cannot be lifting of the sealing order. Still, we have moved a proposal and are waiting for the final order,” she said. Senior inspector Santosh Khandekar of Ajni police said he had already alerted the Special Branch and city police top brass about the possibility of law and order situation going out of control in south Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/discontent-over-containment-boils-over/articleshow/76015919.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Haryana hits 1,305 with highest one-day spike||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count rose to 1,305 on Tuesday with 94 new cases, which is the biggest single-day spike so far in the state, even as Gurgaon breached the 300 mark. The fresh cases include 12 cops from Gurugram. Meanwhile, 22 patients were discharged from hospitals, while one from Faridabad succumbed to the virus. The state’s death count is now 17. Now, Haryana has 464 active cases. The recovery rate has also come down to 63.14% and the doubling rate to 17 days. Earliuer, the health department corrected a discrepancy which had cropped up in its daily evening bulletin on Covid-19 cases. On Monday, the count included duplicate entry of two cases, which took the total to 1,213 . Health officials corrected the figure to 1,211. With the 94 new cases, the total has now risen to 1,305, said director general of health services S B Kamboj. Gurgaon reported 33, including 12 cops, of the 94 cases. The district’s count is now 317. With 22 cases and one death, Faridabad is close behind Gurugram and has a total Covid-19 count of 233. There were 12 fresh cases in Mahendergarh, five each in Ambala and Panipat, three each in Bhiwani, Kurukshetra and Karnal, and two each in Rewari, Hisar and Palwal. Nuh and Sirsa both reported one case each. The new patients in Karnal included a 32-year-old man from Kunjpura village, who returned from Delhi on May 26, a 42-year-old woman from Nirmal Vihar in Karnal city and a 28-year-old woman who had come from Varanasi. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said all three patients have been kept at the isolation ward of Mullana Medical College in Ambala district. Four of the cases in Panipat are people who returned form Delhi. ( With inputs from Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-hits-1305-with-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/76015933.cms||Manvir Saini
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Wani police book 2 for objectionable posts||Yavatmal: The Wani police booked two shopkeepers on Monday night under sections 501 and 504 of IPC for posting objectionable posters and derogatory statements against the state CM Uddhav Thackeray, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on the social media. The accused are Satish Pimpley (55), a resident of Nandepera Road, and Vivek Pande (45), a resident of Wani town. Shiv Sena taluka chief Ravi Bodekar had lodged the complaint against the duo. On Tuesday, the Sainiks, under the leadership of former MLA Vishwas Nandekar, ransacked the shops. The police have taken 7 Sainiks, including Nandekar, into custody. There was tension in the town which was brought under control by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wani-police-book-2-for-objectionable-posts/articleshow/76015960.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bhopal||Home budgets reworked to factor in Covid||Bhopal: Families have another task during the season of lockdowns — adjusting their household budget to factor in the new ‘necessities, and with declining income across the board, including additional expenses has become a challenge. Masks, sanitisers, gloves and immunity boosters were never so integral to people’s lives as they are now. Not part of household budgets either, now they seem to be essential for survival itself, thereby pushing people to rework their budgetary arithmetic in a manner that their priorities are redefined at least till the coronavirus pandemic persists. Somesh Tiwari, who works with an IT company, says, “As of now, we are not feeling the pinch that much. But, when you go to purchase an ordinary mask (use & throw masks as you call it) and have to shell out Rs20 to 25 for it, you do feel the pinch. Once the lockdown is over, my wife and two children, who have hardly stepped out of our home during the lockdown, would also go to school, markets and other places. They will all need masks and sanitisers. Use of soaps and detergents will go up manifold as everyone, who goes out, takes a bath on return and the clothes are washed. Even cars will need sanitisation. The coronavirus effect on our lives will definitely raise the cost of living by Rs2,000 to Rs3,000. Salaries, on the other hand, are either declining or are static.” When asked how the family proposes to.make up for the extra money required to meet the new expenses, he says, “We discuss the issue often and the solution appears to be to use less petrol and cut down on expenditures like eating out and outings on weekends.” Pratiksha Sharma, wife of an under secretary at Mantralaya, says, “We are already spending more as everyone is at home all the time. We are eating more, having tea and coffee more. Now, he has started going to office, so mask and sanitiser is additionally required. More washing powder is required, more electricity would be used as washing machine is being run more. We have not calculated how much extra we would be required to spend, but certain things like use of car or visit to mall will have to be reduced to make up for the extra expenses.” Vinod Shrivastava, a chemist, says that in addition to masks, sanitisers and gloves, people are spending a lot more on what is being sold in the name of “immunity boosters” — Chyavanprash, protein powders, multivitamin pills, aloe vera juice and things like that. “As far as where they will cut expenses to make up for their increased expenses on such stuff, I only presume that they won't eat or allow their children to eat junk food along with these things.” It is not only the middle class or poor sections of the society, who have suffered financially due to the pandemic, but affluents sections, too, and they are also finding ways to reduce their existing expenses. “I used to drink in a three-star hotel's bar. When liquor shops and bars got closed due to the lockdown, I purchased whisky in black, but it was not much of a difference to me as I was drinking at home and spending almost the same amount as I would have spent in the bar. Yet, it was pinching because there is no income for the past three months. So I have decided to continue boozing like this only after the liquor shops and bars open so that I spend less and could continue paying the staff of about 10 people that I have,” said a contractor, on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/home-budgets-reworked-to-factor-in-covid/articleshow/76015419.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||If vendors are legalized, they can become tomorrow’s shopkeepers||PM Narendra Modi announced a Rs20 lakh crore package to overcome the damage caused by Covid-19 to the economy. The uniqueness of this move is related to street vendors. It is particularly impressive because these are daily earners and have lost their earnings for almost two months. There are nearly fifty lakh vendors all over India and Modi proposes to give them up to Rs10,000 each as a loan (in all, amounting to Rs5,000 crore) through banks. No government in the last seventy years bothered to look into their problems and do something for their welfare. It is for the first time that this class has been taken note of for direct financial assistance from the central governmental. There is no law that controls street vendors. They are not covered even by the Shop Act. Their vending activities are illegal and need to be legalized by the local self governments to make them feel like honourable citizens. Yet they carry on with their business of vending by standing at some particular place on a footpath or any other area. Because they are not authorized to carry out their business on roads, they are at the mercy of corrupt police officials, musclemen and municipal tax collectors who exploit them almost every day by free eating/purchasing and ‘collection’. Hence their income is low. It can be a very good source of income for local governments if vendors are registered and legalized. It will save them from exploitation. The main objection against them from the elite is regarding their looks and the places from where they operate in large numbers. Through registration, local governments should make it compulsory for them to use official carts and uniforms. This will automatically improve their business. All classes of people eat from vendors. For singles, they are the best alternatives to hotels and restaurants. Their legalization is useful because they provide tasty and a variety of food items that are very economical. It suits many and vendors get business. Many mobile vendors sell vegetables or fruits. It is useful for many and particularly the aged. Tea vendors are the most popular because many cannot afford going to hotels. With the rising population of unmarried youngsters, these vendors provide timely food items and that too at a convenient place. Hotels can’t provide this service. In short, vendors are useful to the society at large. Objections against them can be done away with by their registration and enforcement of discipline. Many forget that the ancient Indian civilization welcomed street vendors and weekly markets. People used to throng such places. It characterized the culture of the place and visitors enjoyed going there. With colourfully-designed carts and proper uniform, the old and cultural outlook can be brought back to the cities. It will revolutionize the concept of urban beauty. Street vendors will also get the opportunity to become tomorrow’s shop keepers. Why can’t such khau-gallis with vendors be set up at many different spots to cater to the rising needs and requirements. Many footpaths serve no purpose as they are already occupied by these very street vendors, illegally. Why not get tax from them and avoid corruption? It amounts to converting the de facto situation into de jure situation. (The writer is a former chairman of VNIT)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/if-vendors-are-legalized-they-can-become-tomorrows-shopkeepers/articleshow/76015992.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Theft accused +ve; cops quarantined||Rohtak: A 22-year-old man who had been arrested for theft two days ago, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, following which the health department quarantined all staff of a police station, and jail staff and inmates, who came in contact with him. The man was arrested by a team from Civil Lines police station here on theft charges and then was remanded in judicial custody at Sunaria jail here. His sample was taken on the same day. Rohtak chief medical officer Dr Anil Birla said all personnel of Civil Lines police station who came in touch with the accused had been quarantined. The samples of police and jail staff, and inmates, will be collected on Wednesday. Dr Birla said directions had been issued to sanitise the police station cell where the theft accused was kept during his custody and jail barrack where he was lodged. An official of Sunaria jail said the theft accused had been sent to hospital for treatment after declaration of his report in which he was found infected. All four jail staffers who came in contact with him when was brought to jail were quarantined in hostels, while eight other inmates who shared barrack with him were also quarantined in the same cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/theft-accused-ve-cops-quarantined/articleshow/76016012.cms||Sat Singh
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Relief measures distributed||Madurai: Relief measures were distributed to 300 autorickshaw drivers in Madurai city by minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar on Monday. Speaking at the event, Udayakumar said that the Covid-19 crisis had affected more than 200 countries across the world and many people are suffering, due to lack of employment. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was taking all steps to ensure that people from different walks of life were not affected and announcing relief for them in a phased manner. As autorickshaw drivers had lost their livelihood in the last two months, they were allowed to start their services from last week, but they should ensure that they wear masks throughout their duty hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relief-measures-distributed/articleshow/76016020.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Tricycles come to aid of hawkers in Madurai||MADURAI: In the absence of public transportation, a large number of hawkers have started using tricycles to transport vegetables and fruits from the market to their selling point. Tricycles are widely used for transportation of grocery goods between shops and godowns in East Masi and adjoining streets. They are now commonly found on roads transporting vendors and their goods. Though the state government recently allowed autorickshaws to operate, hawkers could not use them as only one person could be passenger. There are close to 13,000 roadside vendors in Madurai city alone, of which 8,650 have been recognized by the corporation with identity cards. They are mostly distributed in Vilakkuthoon, South Veli Street, Kamarajar Salai, Bypass Road and Vilangudi areas. S Ponniammal, a fruit vendor at Vilakkuthoon said “I used to go on share auto rickshaw and government buses for the purchase. Three of us have now started sharing a tri-cycle, which costs lesser,” she said. A traffic police officer said although tricycles do not cause accidents, they cause traffic snarls. Hawkers have urged the state government to operate public transport services at the earliest to save their livelihood. Roadside Vendors Association general secretary S Sandhiyagu said they were facing various issues like police cases for “creating nuisance”, but the biggest issue was transport. Vendors not only find it difficult to procure goods for sales, but also have few takers. “They can eke out a living when people movement is increased and the only way to ensure that is to open up bigger textile stores and transport services,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tricycles-come-to-aid-of-hawkers/articleshow/76015983.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Amicus affirms diversion of lab equipment, manpower to Jalgaon||Nagpur: Even after assuring the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court to start VRDL centres to start Covid-19 testing at Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Gondia, the Maharashtra government has failed to do so. On Tuesday, amicus curiae Anup Gilda, submitted a note pointing out government’s failure to set up these laboratories at Government Medical College and Hospitals (GMCHs) of all three districts. TOI had published a detailed report in this regard on Sunday where it came to fore that equipment and manpower to operate them, meant for Vidarbha, were diverted to Jalgaon due to sudden spike in the Covid-19 positive cases there. The amicus pointed out the government, in an affidavit of April 23, had assured HC to make all three VRDL centres operational within three to four weeks. “However, despite surge in coronavirus cases at all three districts, those laboratories were not made functional even after a month,” he informed the HC. While adjourning the hearing by eight weeks on the main petition filed by CH Sharma (WP no 3427/2000) and others, a division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar asked Gilda to file a separate case on this issue. In his note, Gilda included all points in TOI report that mentioned that RT-PCR machine meant for Chandrapur was diverted to Jalgaon, while technicians required to install it at Gondia were also taken to Jalgaon citing emergency. In Yavatmal, though RT-PCR machine has been installed, due to non-availability of cold centrifuge machine from Haffkine’s Institute, the lab couldn’t be made operational. The amicus also pointed out that in same hearing of April 23, HC had directed the divisional commissioner to take stock of pending samples in each VRDL and divert them to other laboratories where capacity is underutilized. However, this directive too, wasn’t complied with by the authorities. According to him, the IGGMCH lab gives instructions over the phone to distribute the samples, which are not as per relations of suspects. “As a result, many times some family members who qualified for discharge are forced to stay back as reports of their relatives are pending. This anomaly has to be rectified at the earliest. Also, testing samples have to be distributed among the various certified testing labs in proportion to their testing capacity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amicus-affirms-diversion-of-lab-equipment-manpower-to-jalgaon/articleshow/76016045.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 27, 2020||Chennai||Let’s not forget the locker rooms that shame LGBTQI youth||Following the Bois Locker Room controversy that exposed the shocking normalisation of aggravated sexual assault and objectification of underage girls in the virtual world of urban teens, the CBSE rushed in to arm students with cyber safety handbooks. But ask any member of the LGBTQI community in the country, and they'll tell you the many ingenious ways in which they have struggled to take down countless homophobic and transphobic social media pages where public defamation of their gender identity has been the sole selling point. Most such pages thrive on memes and trolls created out of individual photos freely taken off pride marches and social media handles without the member’s knowledge or consent. And the worst part about this gross violation of individual privacy is that it rarely follows the kind of collective outrage that we recently saw, say community members. In a heart-wrenching Facebook post, young biotechnologist from Chattisgarh, Shreyansh Sharma, recently called out content creators of meme pages like 'The indian memer’ and ‘Yo Yo Funny Singh’, who had used his cross-dressing photos from the Mumbai pride march, and made a mockery out LGBTQI youth freely expressing themselves when one would expect them to be creating a vaccine to fight coronavirus. “They used my gender identity to question my potential, but the irony is that I am a biotechnologist, and just by virtue of that qualification, I am closer to creating a vaccine for this virus than these people will ever be,” he says. Shreyansh, who takes biology tutorials on YouTube, also had to face flak from his family who these posts reached, and who were already struggling to cope with his identity as a trans-androgynous person. For 24-year-old Vijayawada-based business analyst Sravan Telu, the only thing worse than losing close friends over his choice to learn and perform belly dancing, was getting publicly humiliated for it by a bunch of homophobes on a meme page. Telu, who identifies as a demisexual, had to repeatedly write to the admin of the Facebook page, after screenshots of his performance were taken off his Instagram handle and used to create defamatory content, giving way for vulgar and disturbing commentary. “After the incident, it suddenly struck me why the women in our belly dancing community – although professional performers - chose to keep their Instagram handles photos private,” says Telu, who also faced backlash from extended family members after the trolls went viral. Classical dancer and drag artist Patruni Chidananda Sastry, who identifies as a gender fluid person, found his images from an old photoshoot on an Instagram page called ‘Hyderabad Gays’, along with hundreds of others, which he later learned were photos of queer people taken off dating apps. In fact, a popular matrimony site for LGBTQI people recently found itself in a soup after the founder allegedly used photos of random queer couples to advertise their service. “It is so common that it’s appalling” says Patruni. “For a while now, I have been trying to take down a YouTube channel that survives on playing pranks on LGBTQI members in the garb of social experiment. I was even blackmailed by a married man in my residential community who had posed as a member on a dating site I was part of, and tried to use my photos against me,” he says. L Ramakrishnan of the public health NGO SAATHII says these maligning online campaigns are just an extension of the hatred and abuse that LGBTQI people and youth have always faced. “The hatred and abusive language that was once used in school playgrounds, has now also taken over chat rooms and social media. It’s part of the anxiety that adolescents face to prove their masculinity by putting down queer people and women. The sentiment is the same, only forums have grown.” IT professional from Chennai, Sri Krishna, who has been generating content for social media platforms from as early as 2009, has witnessed the homophobia snowball to monstrous levels in the last decade. Although Krishna, who identifies as a gay man, seldom discusses his sexual orientation online, he doesn’t do much to conceal it either. And yet, the 25-year-old says it has coloured discussions following every political blog or tweet he has posted. “If I put up a post about say reservation, or express a leftist perspective on an issue, it’s met with more trolls targeting my sexual orientation than rounded, constructive arguments about the politics they represent,” he says. “Clearly, they find their comfort zone in these personal attacks over something like my sexuality, which they consider to be shameful, but I believe is just a part of who I am. To me, it’s nothing more than cowardice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lets-not-forget-the-locker-rooms-that-shame-lgbtqi-youth/articleshow/76015329.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
May 27, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: 24 infected in Himachal Pradesh, all returnees||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 24 positive cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally for the coronavirus to 247. Fifteen cases are from Hamirpur, three each from Kangra and Shimla, two from Chamba, and one from Una district. In a majority of the cases, patients have returned from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Of the total cases, 175 are active, 63 have recovered, 4 have migrated out of state and 5 have died. All patients who tested in Hamirpur and Shimla had returned from Maharashtra, while the Una patients had returned from Delhi. Those who tested positive in Kangra district had returned from Gandhinagar in Gujarat, while those who tested positive in Chamba had returned from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh. With fresh detection of positive cases, Hamirpur district has 78 positive cases, of which 71 are active. Shimla has nine cases, of which seven are active. Kangra has 62 cases, of which 45 are active. Chamba has 20 cases, of which nine are active, while Una district has 31 cases, of which 14 are active. So far, 38,265 persons have been put under surveillance in the state, of them 12,843 have completed it. So far, 29,379 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 28,989 have tested negative and results of 143 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/24-infected-in-hp-all-returnees/articleshow/76016031.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Left out HP liquor vends go for Rs 35cr||Shimla: Despite lockdown and economic recession due to the Covid-19 crisis, retail liquor vends of Shimla, Nurpur, Kangra and Sirmaur zones, which were left out earlier, were sold for Rs 35.52 crore on Tuesday. Principal secretary (excise and taxation) Sanjay Kundu said against the retail liquor vend business of Rs 1,190 crore, the excise and taxation department has been able to earn Rs 1,180 crore. Kundu said except for Tuesday’s auctions, the rest sold at full value. He said liquor vends have been sold for the first time without negotiation on renewal tender cum auction basis. Last year, he said, net liquor business stood at Rs 959 crore. This year, he said, there has been business of Rs 1,180 crore. He said liquor vends of Shimla zone have been sold for Rs 2.30 crore, of Nurpur for Rs 6.03 crore, of Kangra for Rs 4.80 crore and of Sirmaur for Rs 22.39 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/left-out-hp-liquor-vends-go-for-rs-35cr/articleshow/76016054.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Wadettiwar hid financial info in poll affidavit: Plaint||Nagpur: A Nagpur businessman Deepak Mohta has lodged a complaint with Election Commission of India (EC) against state rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar for allegedly providing false information in his election affidavit. The minister had contested the October 2019 assembly election from Brahmapuri. The minister has also been accused of financial bunglings by showing non-existent loans. Mohta in his complaint stated that in Part F of the affidavit, Wadettiwar had shown he had received a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh from Shivanee Infrastructure Pvt Ltd while his wife Kiran got a loan of Rs 3.94 crore from the same company. However, Shivanee Infrastructure had filed a statement of account in July 2018 for closure of the company, which does not reveal any loans given to Wadettiwars. It just mentions the company had a capital of only Rs 1 lakh. The directors of the company had also filed an affidavit with Registrar of Companies in July 2018, which states that the company did not have any assets or liabilities at the time of closure. Thus it was clear Wadettiwars could not have obtained any loan from Shivanee Infrastructure. Mohta further alleged that Wadettiwar did not disclose in Part B of the affidavit that he and his wife were active partners in Devyani Logistics Services. Wadettiwar had also concealed the fact that he had provided a loan of Rs 1.84 crore to Vardhan Super Multispeciality Hospital and Research Institute Pvt Ltd, Nagpur. His wife had also provided the hospital a loan of Rs 68.85 lakh. Mohta alleged that Wadettiwar had violated Section 125A of Representation of Peoples Act, 1951, by not revealing his financial transactions. He has also indulged in forgery, cheating and misappropriation of public funds and hence should be booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Mohta has also forwarded a copy of the complaint to governor BS Koshiyari, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, state assembly speaker Nana Patole, leader of opposition in state assembly Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar and others. A copy of the complaint has also been sent to director of investigation, Income Tax department, Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wadettiwar-hid-financial-info-in-poll-affidavit-plaint/articleshow/76016065.cms||Ashish Roy
May 27, 2020||Goa||Rane defends CM, says oppn is frustrated||Panaji: Following a barrage of criticism aimed at the government over the latest standard operation procedure (SOP) for citizens arriving in Goa, health minister Vishwajit Rane staunchly defended the chief minister while hitting out at the ‘frustrated’ opposition. Speaking to reporters at the BJP headquarters on Tuesday, Rane said the reason behind holding the press conference was to quash rumours spread by the opposition that the administration has collapsed. Rane addressed the media after the opposition members alleged a rift between him and Sawant over fighting covid. One member even said that Rane is trying hard to bring in lot of changes to keep covid tally at its minimum but has no support from the chief minister. “We have been taking measures to tackle Covid-19 by consulting experts. The administration has been functioning smoothly, and under chief minister Pramod Sawant we are working to control the virus,” he said. Rane said that those criticising the government are the same people who were earlier ministers in the current dispensation and are now venting their frustration. “Everybody wants Goa to be safe. Constantly criticising the government after serving as ministers reflects poorly on the individual. I have been seeing people pointing out to difference of opinion between ministers and chief minister, which is wrong,” he said. Refuting the opposition charge that the government was unaware about the SOP, Rane said that the chief minister unveiled stringent protocols “to facilitate the return of our own people” after conducting tests. “We are not experts, and those criticising the government are not also experts. We are working hard. The opposition can advise the government on SOP. Don’t criticise the CM. We don’t have any differences among us. Infact, it is a pleasure to work under the CM,” Rane said. “The CM has not reacted as he does not want to pay attention to negativity spread by this opposition.” Rane also said that the government is trying its best to continue economic activities in the state without compromising on the health of the people. He also said that all 40 MLAs should work unitedly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-defends-cm-says-oppn-is-frustrated/articleshow/76016056.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Man, 63, dead as south TN Covid tally rises by 19||The total cases in ten southern districts rose to 1,301 with the addition of 19 more on Tuesday even as a 63-year-old man from Chennai, who died on May 24 in Tirunelveli, tested positive for Covid-19. Health officials said the man was attending his son’s wedding at Koodankulam when he suddenly fainted. He was brought to Kanyakumari MCH where he was declared brought dead. Soon after, when he was tested for Covid-19 as per protocol, his results returned positive after which he was cremated in Nagercoil. The man had no known co-morbidities and could have suffered heat stroke, officials added. Investigations are on to ascertain how the man could have contracted the infection while his contacts are also being traced. Meanwhile, Tuticorin district continued to see more influx cases as eight people who returned from Maharashtra and one person from Uttar Pradesh tested positive. The district now has 187 Covid-19 cases of which 132 are influx. Three people in Kanyakumari, a four-year-old boy in Dindigul and a 25-year-old man in Virudhunagar, all Maharashtra returnees, tested Covid-19 positive. In Ramanathapuram, a 46-year-old man who returned from Kerala tested positive. Madurai district reported two local cases, both contacts of infected patients. In the central region, a 58-year-old man hailing from Vilangudi in Ariyalur district who returned from Ahmedabad tested positive. The total cases in the district has now surged to 357 though there are only two active cases there now. There were no new cases in Perambalur or Trichy. Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital in Trichy discharged two patients. With this, the district has treated a total of 68 cases so far. The hospital had only eight Trichy patients under treatment besides one each from Perambalur and Theni. Meanwhile, 65 passengers from 13 districts who had landed at Trichy airport from Bengaluru on Monday night were sent home on the advice of 14 days home quarantine after they tested negative when the results were out on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-63-dead-as-south-tn-covid-tally-rises-by-19/articleshow/76016044.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Pharma sector: Self-reliance a myth, focus on reducing import dependence||HYDERABAD: At a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been pushing for self-reliance, the pharma industry feels the concept is a myth in a connected world and India must work towards reducing import dependence on China in key active pharmaceuticals ingredients (APIs) and raw materials to safeguard our healthcare system. “China supplies almost one-third of the global requirements. India is also largely dependent on China. While depending on somebody’s expertise is good, it should not affect your healthcare system. Pharmexcil director general R Uday Bhaskar said at the session on ‘Pharma & Biotech: Global Ambitions With A Hefty Dose Of Self Reliance’, as part of TOI’s virtual conclave: ‘Reboot Telangana - Making Telangana Future Positive, which is being supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Saket Pranamam, Janapriya and Agromech. BDMAI senior VP, RK, Agrawal said said the pharma industry, which follows stringent environmental norms, is unfortunately always targeted by authorities. Indian Immunologicals Ltd MD K Anand Kumar called for stronger collaboration between industry and academia to boost research ecosystem in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pharma-sector-self-reliance-a-myth-focus-on-reducing-import-dependence/articleshow/76015326.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Nod to SHOs to act against lockdown violators||Chandigarh: To ensure prosecution of those booked for violating the prohibitory orders issued under Disaster Management Act, the Haryana government has authorised station house officers (SHOs) to move a complaint against violators while presenting chargesheet against them. Additional chief secretary (ACS) home Vijay Vardhan issued a notification to this effect on Monday. Now, the scope of violators taking advantage of this lacuna has has been plugged. According to information, till Monday, 9,703 persons have been arrested in 6,821 FIRs registered under 11,527 violations during the four lockdowns. Besides, 15,575 vehicles have been impounded and fines totalling Rs 33.22 crore imposed on violators under the Motor Vehicles Act. According to procedure followed so far, cases were registered on complaints or written communication from executive magistrates, sector magistrates or duty magistrates who were delegated the powers of district magistrate. The cases were investigated by police, but they required the written communication from district magistrate which was attached with case file at the time of presentation of challann. Now, the application moved by SHO will be enough “This decision has been taken as there are thousands of cases made so far. It is not possible for investigating officer or district magistrate to monitor or keep track for the purpose of prosecution, hence the power has been delegated to SHOs. Now, this will expedite trials and other proceedings,’’ additional director general of police (ADGP) Navdeep Singh Virk said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nod-to-shos-to-act-against-lockdown-violators/articleshow/76016069.cms||Manvir Saini
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||All cotton will be procured in Ytl before June 5: Minister||Yavatmal: District guardian minister Sanjay Rathod declared on Tuesday that all the cotton would be procured from the online registered farmers across the district before June 5. He also urged officials to expedite the procurement process and instructed them to process 900 carts per day. Rathod announced the decision after a video conference with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, and a review meeting at the Planning Conference Hall. There were 2,45,554 cotton growers in the district during 2019-20 harvest season and 50,27,172 quintals have been procured. However during March 24 to May 2 the procurement was stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On April 29-30, 30,876 farmers registered their names online in the APMCs. Out of the 52 ginning mills, 44 have signed procurement agreements with CCI and the federation. However, only 28 ginning mills could start due to the lockdown. Till May 22, 3,19,534 quintals have been procured from 12,000 registered farmers by CCI and the federation. Private agencies have purchased a total of 2,70,000 quintals till May 22. Cotton from 17,432 farmers is yet to be purchased, and according to the plan, it should be procured before June 5, said Rathod. The cotton left now with farmers is estimated at 4.50 lakh quintals. A door-to-door survey has already been underway since May 20 and farmers have been asked to produce their credentials and the stock with them when the survey team visits their houses. As per CCI norms, each farmer can sell maximum 40 quintals only. Farmers should not manipulate their stock with the connivance of private players, Rathod said. Regarding procurement of tur and gram (chana), the minister said 49,912 farmers have registered their names to sell tur. So far 96,000 quintal of tur has been purchased through 16 procurement centres. Till June 15, 9,000 quintal of gram was also expected to be purchased, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-cotton-will-be-procured-in-ytl-before-june-5-minister/articleshow/76016079.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Madurai||Experts moot sewage testing to track spread of Covid-19||Madurai: While testing sewage to track and assess outbreak of a disease is still a relatively new field of study, experts said that with more research, it could be greatly helpful when it comes to the Covid-19 pandemic since testing samples of people is still limited. At the same time, practical implementation of sewage testing and studies at the grassroots level is still a challenge.The Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council (WSSCC), a United Nations-hosted organization has recommended all countries to do testing of wastewater to monitor the status of the emerging pandemic, said Dr PS Navaraj, who is a member of the council. He said that research on the same is being done across the world and that it must be properly studied in India as well. “A variety of sewage samples could be collected from septic tanks and sewerage network in Covid-19 hospitals, quarantine facilities, containment areas, raw sewage entering sewage treatment plants, and treated sewage etc., The samples can be collected 2-3 times a week for testing. Health planners can develop a strategy accordingly,” said Dr Navaraj, who is also the founder of Madurai Science Forum.Assistant professor of community medicine Dr Sudharsan B, meanwhile, said that such testing of sewage following a reverse methodology could greatly help in prediction and assessment of spread of Covid-19. “Such testing to monitor an outbreak has been done earlier I the case of polio virus, which too leaves traces in faeces. It is a non-invasive method to study outbreak of a disease in a community without having to test every single person in a population,” he said. At the same time, the doctor said that practical implementation would be difficult in India when we can’t be sure of the origin or source of all sewage. “The method works better for nations, which have a fixed common sewerage network and can easily define which areas it is connected to. We won’t be able to get accurate results when we can’t be sure of the source of the sewage. We have a number of open drains as well and open defaecation could also be a factor,” added Dr Sudharsan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/experts-moot-sewage-testing-to-track-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/76016068.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Malkajgiri project a mirage? Two lakh suffer as locals get water once in 5 days||SECUNDERABAD: Residents of Malkajgiri are facing a severe water crisis, with some not getting water for five days at a stretch. A petition demanding potable water has garnered over 1,000 signatures. The petition started by Phani Mylavarapu, a resident of Devinagar in Malkajgiri, on change.org states that dewatering of RK Puram lake for rejuvenation work has adversely affected the ground water levels. The petition, addressed to the chief minister and other top officials, adds: “Colonies are only provided Hyderabad Metro Water Board supplied drinking water (which happens to be a basic right) once in five days. This is after successfully completion of ‘comprehensive drinking water project’ in Malkajgiri, a project which was supposed to address the concerns of residents of Malkajgiri area.” Residents blame the focus on the western zone of the city for the lack of water this part of town. BT Srinivasan, general secretary, United Federation of All Resident Welfare Associations, said: “Enough water has not been allocated to this area. While Manjeera water was usually used for Kukatpally and Hi-Tec City, with it drying up now Krishna and Godavari water is being used for them.” He added that almost two lakh people were suffering because of a lack of water. Sivaramudu, president Vivekanandapuram Welfare Association, said: “The problem has intensified from the past a month. Not just is the water given only once in four to five days, but its timing and pressure remain erratic.” As per the most recent groundwater report, Malkajgiri was one of the worst affected areas in the city with ground water going as deep as 29.94 meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/malkajgiri-project-a-mirage-two-lakh-suffer-as-locals-get-water-once-in-5-days/articleshow/76016094.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||We can make KTC profitable: Pvt bus owners||Panaji: In a challenge to the state government, the All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association has stated that they can revive the sinking economy of the Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL) “to save the government treasury and pocket of the exchequer”. The association has demanded that the present management of the KTC be scrapped and the reigns be handed to them instead. “The KTC till date cannot make a profit, and from time to time is dependent on the government for financial assistance to provide salaries to their staff,” association president Sudip Tamhankar stated in a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday. The association has expressed the desire to appoint a managing director of their own choice. They also stated that association members are “well experienced in the transport business” and appealed to the CM to consider their proposal. The association has asked to handover all the buses in the KTC fleet to them along with bus stands, depots, garages, fuel stations and staff by maintaining their present status. “The association accepts the challenge to bring KTC into profits within six months,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-can-make-ktc-profitable-pvt-bus-owners/articleshow/76016091.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Mandi locals oppose cremation of patient||Manali: The residents of Balh subdivision in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh opposed the cremation of a 65-year-old Covid-19 patient near Suketi khud in Kansa area on Tuesday. The woman, who was a patient of chronic kidney disease and admitted to Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital, Ner Chowk in Mandi, on May 19, had died during treatment on Monday. The district administration was taking the body for cremation in an ambulance when the residents blocked the road with stones, saying the victim was a resident of Ratti village in Hamirpur district and should be cremated there. However, they relented after police intervened. The woman died on Monday. Mandi SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said, “The residents later cooperated with the police and allowed the cremation. This place has been identified by the administration for cremation of the Covid-19 victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mandi-locals-oppose-cremation-of-patient/articleshow/76016099.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Driver, woman killed by kin in two cases||HYDERABAD: A 31-year-old driver was killed by his elder brother after a tiff in the wee hours of Tuesday at Amberpet. In another incident, a goldsmith murdered his wife in Bachupally suspecting her fidelity. In the first incident, the deceased was identified as Mohammed Munawar, a resident of Chennareddy Nagar. On Monday night, Munawar consumed alcohol. Between 1am and 1.30am, picked up an argument with elder brother Mohammed Shahid (38), who stays in the same house. “Munawar allegedly commented on Shahid’s daughter. He got offended and the argument turned ugly,” said apolice officer. While Munawar was under the influence of alcohol, Shahid strangulated him using a rope leading to his death. “Munawar would often get drunk and pick up fights with his elder brother. It was found that Munawar’s wife has been staying separate due to this issue,” said the police officer. Munawar was the youngest of eight siblings. Shahid, who is on the run, has been booked on murder charges. In another incident, a husband killed his wife suspecting her fidelity. The accused, P Satish (39), married Jayalakshmi (32) 16 years ago and the couple have two sons. For the last four months, Satish has been harassing his wife. “Elders in the family told him that once the lockdown is lifted, they will talk to clear the air and resolve the issue. However, on Monday night, in a drunken condition, he picked up an argument with Jayalakshmi. In a fit of rage, Satish killed his wife,” said Bachupally inspector P Jagadeeshwar. She died of a severe head injury. Satish, a goldsmith and resident of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Bachupally, fled from the house. A case was registered under sections 498-A and 304 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-woman-killed-by-kin-in-two-cases/articleshow/76016103.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Lobo receives GCZMA nod for private jetty||Panaji: Parra sarpanch and wife of minister for waste management Michael Lobo, Delilah, has been granted permission by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) for construction of a wooden jetty on a water body in Nerul. The permission was granted after an expert member of the GCZMA inspected the site where the jetty is proposed and found that there is already human influence in the area and there are no mangroves in and around the site. “The expert member, who had visited the site, informed that the wooden jetty is for private use and not for commercial gains. He also informed that there are no mangroves in the area where the proposed private jetty is supposed to be built up. The members thus decided to approve the proposal of the applicant to construct the private jetty,” the GCZMA members decided in its meeting held on May 6. The site inspection was carried out on February 25 by Santosh Valvoikar, representative of GCZMA, and Ashley Pereira. A jetty and walkway has been proposed on the Western side of the creek. The expert member noted that there are three houses near this part of the river and the GCZMA has already in the past granted approval for reconstruction of the houses. Therefore, Valvoikar recommended that the 30sqm jetty be approved as proposed. “The proposed wooden jetty is located in a vacant area. Since it is for personal use, and the location is also within the existing dwellings, there may not be more adverse environmental impact. The proposed site doesn’t have any mangroves or other trees,” the expert member told GCZMA. The expert member noted that there are three houses near this part of the river and the GCZMA has already in the past granted approval for reconstruction of the houses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-receives-gczma-nod-for-private-jetty/articleshow/76018460.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Promote Hyderabad as go-to healthcare destination: Healthcare industry||HYDERABAD: The healthcare industry has urged Telangana government to promote Hyderabad as the ‘go-to destination’ for medical care and allow flights to land here so that patients from other states can avail healthcare facilities here. “We have to let the world know that we are capable of providing best of healthcare at a fraction of cost, compared to the rest of the world,” Apollo Group Hospitals president Dr Hari Prasad said on Tuesday while speaking at the session on ‘Nursing Healthcare Back to Life’, as part of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave: ‘Reboot Telangana- Making Telangana Future Positive’, supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Saket Pranamam, Janapriya and Agromech. He pointed out that private hospitals in Hyderabad are safe as compared to their counterparts in other metros like Mumbai, that have been roped in to manage Covid-19 burden. AIG Hospitals chairman Dr Nageshwar Reddy said there has been a marked decrease in the flow of regular patients Hospitals have to ensure they give their staff a safe work environment which means increased costs, he said. Medicover Hospitals executive director Hari Krishna sought clarity in matters of communication from the government. “ While on one day, it says you are allowed to treat, on the next day, it says, you are not…,” he said. Ekincare CEO Kiran Kalakuntla said that due to Covid-19, tele-consultation has picked up. “We have seen over 300% jump in tele-consulting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/promote-hyd-as-go-to-healthcare-destination/articleshow/76015335.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party questions government’s claims on coronavirus among migrants||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday questioned the logic behind government’s claims that most of the migrants returning from Maharashtra and Delhi have coronavirus infection. “At least 25 lakh migrants have returned to UP, how come only a few thousands have tested positive,” Akhilesh asked. Speaking at a webinar on Monday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said 25 lakh migrant workers returned from other states, adding that 75% from Mumbai and 50% from Delhi had coronavirus infection. The CM also said 25-30% migrants from other states were infected with the disease. Akhilesh said, “According to the unique political arithmetic of the chief minister, 75% of migrants from Mumbai (Maharashtra), 50% from Delhi and 25% of remaining migrants are infected with coronavirus. Then how come despite the return of 25 lakh migrants, only a few thousand people have tested positive in UP so far?” Leader of the opposition in the state assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Sanajwadi Party said, “On the basis of CM’s statement, the state presently has around 10 lakh coronavirus-infected people, including migrants.” “Actually, it is not his fault. He has read out what his bureaucrats gave to him. He didn’t even realise what his statement will translate into numbers,” Chaudhary said. The SP chief demanded help to farmers who are sowing kharif crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-questions-govts-claims-on-corona-among-migrants/articleshow/76018551.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
May 27, 2020||Goa||Public angst against new travel SOP goes online||Panaji: An online petition requesting chief minister Pramod Sawant to make Covid-19 testing compulsory for all persons entering the state was signed by over 200 people within a matter of hours. Initiated by Richard Dias, a citizen, the petition has been marked to Sawant and the chief minister’s office (CMO). It states that Goa has been lucky to have a low Covid-19 count, and, more importantly, no community transmission so far. “This has been because of the excellent effort of our government, ensuring that all those entering the state are tested ,” the petition reads. It further states that the new SOP issued by the CMO provides an option to bypass this practice, which could result in the beginning of community transmission. “There are three options available to people coming in: (a) carry a negative Covid 19 certificate; (b) get tested on arrival on payment of Rs 2,000 and remain in institutional quarantine till results are out and (c) those who can’t pay Rs 2,000 can opt for 14-day home quarantine. “We appeal to our CM to review option ‘c’. It should not be offered as there will be no way of ensuring that the quarantine is followed properly. Option ‘b’ should be tightened. Every individual coming in must be tested,” the petition reads. It also states that option ‘a’ should be disallowed “as it opens a possibility of someone contracting the virus after the test and before landing in Goa. This person may be asymptomatic on arrival, but could transmit the virus”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-angst-against-new-travel-sop-goes-online/articleshow/76016106.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Govt to bring in reforms to revive econ||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that necessary reforms will be brought about to revive the state’s economy based on the recommendations made by the economic revival committee (ERC). The final report has been submitted to the government. Sawant said that he has instructed the chief secretary and finance secretary to go through the report department wise. “After taking the minister concerned on board, the government will try to help all sectors,” he said.  The ERC has recommended measures on reviving tourism, mining and agricultural sectors and MSMEs, Sawant said. “They have made various suggestions , including exemption of fees for those in tourism and MSME sectors.” The CM said that the ERC has told him that industries have not been able to start full-fledged operations due to shortage of work force. “I have suggested that they use maximum work force available within the state. Till June 1 we cannot decide on getting work force from outside, but we have to take call after that,” he said. The committee, headed by industrialist Shivanand Salgaocar, in its final report submitted to the government, has laid maximum thrust on boosting agricultural and allied activities to make Goa self-sufficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-bring-in-reforms-to-revive-econ/articleshow/76016119.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Suffocating & sweaty: Ordeal of wearing PPEs for long hours||HYDERABAD: Suffocation, fogging and restricted mobility are the most common challenges doctors said they faced while wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). PPEs have made work more cumbersome and the heatwave has only made matters worse for healthcare staff at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle. “Earlier we used to wear a sterile gown in operation theatre. But now, a PPE is necessary as there is no way of knowing if patients are asymptomatic,” said Dr Nabeel Qadri, a paediatric surgeon. “With summer at its peak, we feel really warm and suffocated,” he said. Dr Laxmi Priya G of Osmania General Hospital added, “We wear a PPE for six to eight hours. Due to heatwave, we are continuously sweating.” Qadri says with N95 masks inside and face shields on the outside, fogging of visors is a major issue. “Our masks cloud up in the midst of surgery. Without jeopardizing patient’s care, we have to pause and adjust.” Some doctors are coming up with their own versions of the PPE , that are safe and easy to use. Dr Vijaykumar C Bada, head, surgical gastroenterology, KIMS, Kondapur, has come up with three novel measures. The first is inverting the face shield. This, he says, will prevent viruses from entering from below. “There are often sudden spurt of blood or fluid that a regular face shield does not prevent. Exposure to fluid in the abdomen is one of the ways surgeons can contract coronavirus. This can be prevented by inverting the face shield. The benefit is there is no fogging. A surgical hood can also be used on top.” He has been using scuba diving headgear. “The vents have filters which allows purified air to enter.” For gasses released in the OT from the stomach, for this he suggests using a filter and trapping the gas in suction jar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suffocating-sweaty-ordeal-of-wearing-ppes-for-long-hrs/articleshow/76015340.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Churches feed needy, pay rents and raise funds||HYDERABAD: Churches in twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad raised funds to donate grocery kits, paid rents for needy during the lockdown and distributed food to migrant workers travelling to their hometowns. The youth bodies of four churches and two chapels under the Malankara Orthodox Church in Hyderabad, following the Bangalore Diocese Bishop, His Grace Abraham Mar Seraphim, launched the campaign #SupportKaroNa with a motive to feed the needy. In April, the youth body of the Orthodox churches, called MGOCSM and OCYM, headed by Fr. Lijo Joseph, raised nearly Rs 4 lakh from church members. “Most of the money was spent on distributing grocery kits through a Hyderabad-based NGO, Freeration.in., which delivers groceries at the doorstep of needy persons and another group ‘FeedTheNeedy’, formed by seven IT employees ,” said Fr Lijo Joseph, vice-president of MGOCSM and OCYM. Each grocery kit consists of essentials for a four-member family to last for over a week, he further added. Apart from that, they have also distributed grocery kits and cooked food for needy people near the premises of the churches. “We also distributed money for people who struggled to earn enough during the lockdown to pay off their rent. With the remaining funds, we plan to distribute slippers and cooked food to migrants working walking back to their homes,” said Rajiv Mathew, advisor of the youth body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/churches-feed-needy-pay-rents-and-raise-funds/articleshow/76016116.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Direct sales help trawler owners net bigger profit||COLVA: With the wholesale fish market at Margao yet to resume activities and owing to restrictions on movement of interstate vehicles, trawler owners have been forced to sell their bumper catch directly to customers. Ironically, this move has paid rich dividends. Trawler owners claim that besides the increase in profits, they are satisfied selling the fresh catch to their own people. Varca trawler owner Hector Da Costa said that he is happy with the response from his village and even from surrounding areas. “With the wholesale market closed and imported fish not coming to Goa, we bring the fish directly from the jetty to the village. Customers are happy that it is fresh and not laced with chemicals.” he said. Peter Rodrigues from Benaulim said, “People are assured they are getting fresh fish without any additives. Customers are avoiding close contact.” Trawlers owners said that the profits margins are more even though they have to buy ice to store the fish, engage workers to bag, weigh and hand it over to customers. Another trawler owner Alex Pedro Fernandes said that they get cash selling directly to customers. “Selling it to transporters is like trading and hence payments were blocked. Selling it at the wholesale market was difficult as we had to wait, then sell at half the cost and sometimes give it away at a throwaway prices for fish meal plants.” However, Rodrigues from Benaulim said that selling openly is time-consuming. “Before the trawler could even dock, trawler owners strike a deal with transporters, and as soon as the fish arrives, my workers would unload the baskets from the trawler to the jetty and our job was done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/direct-sales-help-trawler-owners-net-bigger-profit/articleshow/76016128.cms||Nisser Dias
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Temple trust chief visits RJB after 28 years||AYODHYA: With the Babri mosque demolition trial moving into the final phase and temple construction ready to take off after the lockdown, the president of SC-mandated Ram Temple Trust and one of the frontline leaders of the temple movement, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, paid a surprise visit to Ramjanmabhoomi (RJB) for the first time in 28 years. Ayodhya’s most influential mahant, who offered prayers to Ram Lalla on Monday after nearly three decades, was last seen on the premises on December 6, 1992, when the mosque was razed and is an accused in the demolition case. Chief priest of Ramjanmabhoomi temple Acharya Satyendra Das confirmed the mahant's visit to Ram Lalla after 28 years. “After the mosque demolition, Mahant Das did not visit or offer prayers to the deity even once. He has been busy with seers and disciples and did not find time. On Monday, he also witnessed the land-levelling work,” said the chief priest. However, the Next Friend of Ram Lalla Virajman Triloki Nath Pandey did not find anything unusual in the mahant’s visit after a three-decade hiatus. “It would have been traumatic for Mahant Das to witness Ram Lall caged in a makeshift temple under a tarpaulin. So, he chose to offer prayers after the deity was shifted to a permanent structure,” he said. However, political observers say the Ram Temple Trust president avoided a visit to Ramjanmabhoomi even after the Ayodhya verdict in November last year and was not present when CM Yogi Adityanath took part in the idol-shifting ceremony from sanctum sanctorum to the new structure on Navratra this year. With Supreme Court setting the deadline of August 31 to deliver the verdict in the Babri demolition case, the special CBI court, Lucknow, will be recording statements under Section 313 of CrPC of 32 accused, including temple trust president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das and its secretary Champat Rai, former UP CM Kalyan Singh, former deputy PM LK Advani. Charges had been framed against them 13 years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/temple-trust-chief-visits-rjb-after-28-yrs/articleshow/76018474.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Urbanisation trigger for rainfall bursts: University of Hyderabad study||HYDERABAD: Unprecedented bouts of heavy rainfall in recent years in various cities in south India, including Hyderabad, could be a result of the change in land use pattern in mega cities. A research study by the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has revealed that fast urban expansion and its consequent impact on the local climate, particularly temperature and humidity, is leading to the change in rainfall pattern. Of late, the city has been receiving sudden and heavy rainfall within short spans of time, resulting in inundation and loss. As part of the research, the UoH group with researchers from King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Saudi Arabia, analysed satellite data of the city and other parts of the state, besides cities in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Increasing urbanization in the state and other places is likely to enhance the rainfall during the heavy rainfall events by 20 per cent to 25 per cent, the researchers warned. They focussed on 12 heavy rainfall events in the three southern states and through simulations they noticed that urbanisation produces higher surface temperatures, larger sensible heat fluxes, less water vapour, and more water-vapour mixing in the atmospheric boundary layer. This creates more convective available potential energy. One in four rainfall in the recent heavy rainfall events over South India can be attributed to the changes in land use and land cover (LULC) and increased urbanization in the last 10 years. The UoH team comprised Prof K Ashok and research scholar A Boyaj from the Centre for Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences. Prof Ibrahim Hoteit and Dr Hari Prasad Dasari of KAUST, Saudi Arabia, collaborated the research study. “We find considerable changes in the LULC in Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Kerala. This change is mainly due to increasing urbanization, in addition to the change of prevalent mixed forest into deciduous needle/leaf forest in Kerala. We study the impact of these LULC changes over a decade on the extremity of 12 heavy rainfall events through several sensitivity experiments,” the researchers said adding this is the first investigation of multiple and multi-regional cases of heavy rainfall over the Indian region. The results of the study were published in the latest issue of scientific journal ‘Quarterly Journal of Royal Meteorological Society’. The researchers showed that the precipitation during heavy rainfall events in these states has significantly increased from 2000 to 2017. LULC data was obtained from ISRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/urbanisation-trigger-for-rainfall-bursts-uoh-study/articleshow/76015362.cms||Syed Akbar
May 27, 2020||Trichy||85t int’l cargo lifted from Trichy in May||Trichy: Despite the lockdown, the cargo terminal continues to handle tonnes of perishables to Singapore. Spice Jet flight took off from Trichy airport to Singapore with 15 tonnes of vegetables, fruits, flowers and banana leaves late on Monday. With that, the terminal had handled 85 tonnes of international cargo in May. Spice Xpress (Spice Jet) operated an all-cargo flight (Number SG-7190/7191 of B737/800) on Bangalore-Trichy–Singapore sector on Tuesday night. “The carrier was a passenger flight lifted the cargo in hatrack, cabin and also in its belly. The flight transported 12 export perishable cargo shipments consisting of vegetables, fruits, flowers and leaves in 1,762 packages, weighing 14.94 tonnes and one export shipment of general cargo (mask) in 10 packages weighing 264kg to Singapore,” a senior official at the airport said. This was the fifth cargo flight operated by Spice Jet from Trichy during the Covid-19 lockdown period to Singapore. So far the carrier had lifted 72 tonnes of perishables to Singapore in May. This apart, IndiGo had lifted 10 tonnes of cargo from Trichy International Airport. Earlier, Air India Express flight operated under the Vande Bharat Mission lifted three tonnes of cargo to Kuala Lumpur on May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/85t-intl-cargo-lifted-from-trichy-in-may/articleshow/76016132.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP government push to revive real estate sector||LUCKNOW: Amid scores of housing units stuck due to the Coronavirus-induced lockdown, the state government has decided to roll out a slew of measures to revive the real estate sector which contributes majorly to the state revenue. Sources in the housing department told TOI that the state government aims to expedite construction activities while waiving penalty for developers in case of a Corona infected person making way to the construction site. The move is seen as an attempt to lend a push to developers left bruised following the lockdown. Principal sector, housing and urban planning, Deepak Kumar told TOI that primarily the motive is to start construction activity while taking developers into confidence. “We have allowed construction activity with the help of on-site workers. The developer would not be penalised in case any on-site person is found to be infected with Coronavirus. At the same time, the state government would not allow transportation of workers to the site as that could potentially escalate the possibility of an infected person making way to the construction site,” he said. Kumar said that work on about 250 sites, including on government owned projects, has already started. “We are in touch with the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) and apprising them of the measures which the government plans in the coming future,” he said. Kumar said that the government was also considering extending the one time settlement scheme for buyers by three to six months. The scheme is scheduled to end by June 5. The scheme envisages waiving additional surcharge on delayed payment of instalments by buyers. Housing department officials said that the scheme needs to be extended as many people were faltering on payment of instalments. Real estate developers, however, maintained that the Corona crisis is likely to leave scores of units stuck for more than a year. Chairman of UP chapter of CREDAI, SK Garg said that most of the housing units require a booster dose as on-site labourers migrated and people in the industry lost their jobs. “The sector will take at least a year to revive itself,” he said. This is despite the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) extending the deadline for developers to pay their loan instalments to banks by three months and Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rera) giving an additional window period for completing their projects by at least six months. Rera expert, Venkat Rao said that the situation is unlikely to improve soon. “The already delayed projects are expected to be delayed further while the ones started recently may also see deferment by at least a year,” he said. The state government, housing sources said, also banks heavily on affordable rental houses complex (ARHC) envisaging giving houses to migrant workers and urban poor on rent. The Centre will convert the government funded housing in cities into affordable rental housing complexes under PPP model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-push-to-revive-real-estate-sector/articleshow/76018482.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: As cancellations persist, only two flights arrive at Dabolim||PANAJI: Domestic air travel continued to experience a tepid response with just two flights landing at Goa International Airport on Tuesday. Both the flights, which arrived from the national capital, brought a total of 40 passengers to the state while 142 passengers took the flights out back to Delhi. For passengers and airlines, it was yet another day of cancellations and disappointments. On Monday, three flights had landed at Dabolim bringing 99 passengers and taking close to 300 fliers to Delhi and Bengaluru. A source said that airlines are unhappy with the passenger load as their losses are only mounting up since the Centre allowed scheduled domestic flights to take to the skies. “Aviation fuel costs have not reduced, the taxes have not reduced and airport charges have remained the same, but each flight does not bring in more than Rs 1.5 lakh for the company in the present scenario,” said a source. Fares for the Delhi to Goa flights have been limited to a band of Rs 4,500-13,000 per person. On Tuesday, Vistara flight UK 847 from Delhi brought in just 13 passengers along with one infant. The passenger load factor was relatively better with 47 passengers boarding the flight back to Delhi. IndiGo flight 6E 367 arrived with 26 passengers and returned with 93 passengers and two infants, suggesting that a lot of stranded tourists and visitors were returning home. Many passengers who are keen to fly to Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru are waiting for the flights to stabilize while also keeping a watch on the number of rising Covid-19 cases in the country, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cancellations-persist-only-two-flights-arrive-at-dabolim/articleshow/76016137.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||PWD temporarily repairs damaged road in Quepem||Quepem: A day after TOI reported the danger posed to two-wheeler riders at Tanki due to the damage caused to the road by the ongoing pipeline work undertaken by the PWD there, department officials conducted a site inspection and carried out temporary repairs to make it motorable. The PWD is laying a 400mm pipeline from Sirvoi to Guddemoll and from Sanguem to Bhatti under JICA funds. Locals of the area have alleged that PWD has undertaken the work in an unplanned manner by excavating the newly hot mixed Tilamoll-Curchorem road. A family from Quepem had recently met with an accident at the site after the rider lost balance on the dug up road. Locals also complained that the work had caused repeated damage to the existing pipeline causing them to go for days without water supply. PWD assist ant engineer Sanjay Gawde, who is in-charge of the area, along with technical assistant engineer Amit Borkar and other officials inspected the site on Tuesday morning and ordered the contractor to repair the damage by evening. The Rs 13-crore tender was issued to Sai Sudhir Infrastructure in 2009 to lay a new 33km-long pipeline, which also included reservoir tanks, pumps and ground level reservoirs. However, the contractor abandoned the work in 2017 due to bankruptcy, but completed 26km of the pipeline, officials said. “The contractor laid the pipeline only at easy places and left out many places in between,” Gawde said. The PWD issued a new tenders twice in November 2019, but not a single contractor applied. The third tender was bagged by Wibro Constructions Pvt Ltd to complete the remaining 7km length of the pipeline, including the reservoirs, at a cost of Rs 7 crore. Approximately 3km of the 7km distance has been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-temporarily-repairs-damaged-road-in-quepem/articleshow/76018462.cms||Johnny M
May 27, 2020||Trichy||No crowds, no noise, Trichy’s temple elephants enjoy ‘vacation’||TRICHY: As the lockdown has kept devotees away from temples for the past two months, temple elephants in Trichy city are having a rejuvenation camp-like experience. Srirangam temple elephant Andal and Thiruvanaikoil temple’s Akila feel relaxed and even sleep for ample time as the temples have become calm due to the absence of devotees. However, the devotees are not happy as they yearn to get back to the routine. Srirangam Ranganathaswamy temple’s Andal, 42, begins her day around 3.30 am to accompany the Vishwaroopa darshan rituals at the temple. According to her mahout K Rajesh, the jumbo feels relaxed due to minimal commitments. “Andal sleeps for about an hour in the day due to the calm ambience. The noise due to vehicular movement outside the temple is down. She exhibits similar mannerisms as she usually does at Thekkampatti elephant rejuvenation camp,” Rajesh told TOI. As she goes for a walk near Chakkarathalwar shrine in the evening, the mahout acknowledged that Andal sense a difference in the temple’s environment. “Devotees badly miss our jumbo in the lockdown. We let Andal play in the shower twice a day to keep her engaged,” Rajesh added. Thiruvanaikoil Jambukeswarar temple’s Akila, 18, the friendliest jumbo among temple elephants here, is on the same page with her neighbour Andal. The two jumbos, identified as friends, were often seen hanging out together with Sengamalam of Mannargudi Rajagopalaswami temple during the rejuvenation camp. The day begins for Akila by 6 am, when she takes a leisure bath under the shower. “Her food comprising fruits is the same but she gets a feel of being in Thekkampatti. I notice Akila missing the crowd that adorns her,” says, B Jambunathan, Akila’s mahout for nine years. Akila is very attached to the routine devotees, he said. Akila has a daily commitment to be with temple workers and priests during the morning prayers, one of the few crowd contacts she makes in the past two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-crowds-no-noise-trichys-temple-elephants-enjoy-vacation/articleshow/76016138.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 27, 2020||Trichy||4 trees chopped for smart city project||Trichy: Trichy Corporation, which has been advising local people to plant trees for increasing the city’s green cover, has felled four well-grown native trees in the heart of Trichy city for a smart cities mission project. The residents are annoyed as the authorities have not explored the possibilities of tree translocation. At a cost of Rs 69 crore, the corporation has taken up the work on smart pedestrian platforms. The project envisages at establishing a smart pedestrian platform with ducts system. One week ago, the civic body started demolishing the existing platforms on the West Boulevard Road near Mainguard gate, which is identified as one of the 75 spots. While carrying out the work opposite to Ibrahim Park on West Boulevard Road, four well-grown trees were felled by Trichy Corporation, said local people. The native trees (Pungai breed) were at least a decade-old. Ironically, the trees were planted as replacements for the trees felled during the widening of West Boulevard Road. Local people lamented that felled trees could have been transplanted to nearby public parks. Recently, the BHEL Trichy was successful in translocating dozens of native trees during the work on the NHAI flyover project. “We have instructed our officials to save the trees. Corporation will definitely consider translocating the trees,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation added. Officials also promised to conduct a training session for their employees on tree translocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-trees-chopped-for-smart-city-project/articleshow/76016157.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 27, 2020||Goa||Oppn seeks white paper on preparedness||Panaji: Opposition MLAs and the Goan Seamen Association of India demanded a white paper on the state’s preparedness to counter a worst-case scenario in view of the sudden spike in confirmed Covid-19 cases. The opposition led by GFP president Vijai Sardesai and Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco along with representatives of the association met chief secretary Parimal Rai and demanded to know the steps to protect the vulnerable sections. They sought a factual position on the status of the critical healthcare infrastructure, like the number of ventilators, ICU beds and PPEs. The delegation also demanded that the government revert and rationalise the declared SOP for international travellers, especially Goans who wish to return. Terming the SOP as totally discriminatory to native Goans compared to the SOP for domestic travellers, they demanded that international travellers also be given the option of home quarantine and no Goans be charged for any health related measures such as testing. The two memorandums were presented to Rai who is also the chairperson of the state executive committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-seeks-white-paper-on-preparedness/articleshow/76016160.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Trichy||Major textiles, jewellers seek nod to open||Trichy: Representatives of major textile outlets, jewellery and vessel stores submitted a petition to the district administration seeking relaxations for resuming business. The establishments said they ought to take up maintenance work in the shops closed for over two months now. Petitioners from Tamilnadu Vanikar Sangangalin Peramaippu said that around 45-50 largescale shops-cum-showrooms of textiles, jewellery and vessels in Trichy urban district alone provide 50,000 direct and indirect jobs. “Though the major outlets in the city have paid wages to employees, it is getting difficult as we proceed with the lockdown,” Ve Govindarajalu, state general secretary of the traders’ federation said.  The district administration has assured to take up the demands with the state government. A section of traders opined that sales will not be good even due to the economic impact of the pandemic. However, they want to give it a try at least for meeting expenses. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/major-textiles-jewellers-seek-nod-to-open/articleshow/76016148.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Close shave for 70 as plane lands safely after tech glitch||Hyderabad: Passengers on board a Jaipur-Hyderabad-Bengaluru AirAsia flight had a narrow escape on Tuesday afternoon after the aircraft made an emergency landing at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA). The A320 flight, i51543, took off from Jaipur at 11.56 am with 70 passengers on board. Just minutes before the scheduled arrival at RGIA, the aircraft encountered a technical snag due to which a full emergency landing was declared at the airport once the pilot informed about the snag. “AirAsia India aircraft VT-IXC operating as i51543 from Jaipur to Hyderabad on May 26, 2020, encountered a technical issue and carried out a precautionary engine shut down,” said an AirAsia spokesperson. Aviation sources said there could have been a fuel leak, but they were examining the aircraft for any such issue. The flight, which was scheduled to land at the RGIA at 1.40 pm, made an emergency landing at 1.26 pm. As per protocol, all operations were shut down and emergency services were kept on standby till the flight made a safe landing at RGIA. “We are carrying out a detailed inspection of the aircraft, having informed DGCA we are assisting in the investigation to establish the cause,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/close-shave-for-70-as-plane-lands-safely-after-tech-glitch/articleshow/76015369.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘We clapped in joy as flight touched Lucknow runway’||Lucknow: Sighs of relief and tears of joy filled the air as domestic air travel resumed at Amausi airport after two months on Monday. Exiting the airport was an emotional moment for many including Lucknow resident Rekha Gupta, who beamed with happiness as she landed. “As the flight touched Lucknow runway, some passengers started clapping while some had tears of joy and relief,” said Gupta, who had gone to Mumbai to meet her son for Holi. “I was to return in April but all hell broke loose when the nationwide lockdown was announced. The maximum city gave us maximum woes. Since Maharashtra is one of the epicentres of Covid-19, we were too scared to even stand in our balcony. We were based in Mahim, near Dharavi slum, which accounts for more than 1,000 coronavirus cases,” Gupta added. Neha Tripathi, a professional in Pune, said she wept every day praying for her safe return to Varanasi. “As if mental turmoil wasn’t enough, my company sacked several people including me, citing financial loss. All my savings were exhausted during the lockdown and I had no money to even book a flight ticket for Rs 15,000. A friend proved to be a godsend,” said Tripathi. Echoing similar sentiments, IT professional Sarvagra Arora said: “I was worried for days wondering when flight service would begin. I had gone to Mumbai to attend a friend’s wedding. I am relieved that I will finally meet my parents.” Many waiting to go back had similar plight. Bengaluru’s Navin DM, who had been stranded in Lucknow, said he would finally meet his three-year-old son. The family had come to Lucknow for a function in March and while Navin’s wife and son left on March 13, he stayed back. “Initially, my son talked to me over video call. But now, he’s angry and hasn’t spoken to me since March 30,” said Navin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/we-clapped-in-joy-as-flight-touched-lucknow-runway/articleshow/76018454.cms||Ankur Tewari
May 27, 2020||Agra||Farmers in Agra hit as lockdown disrupts supply chain||AGRA: Farmers across Agra district are staring at huge losses as the lockdown has disrupted the supply chain. With no way to sell, most farmers have now left fruits and vegetables to rot in the fields. Farmer association leaders claimed that hundreds of quintals of Phalsa (a species of Grewia), Ridge Gourd, Pumpkin, Capsicum, Gourd, Cucumber, Green chillies, Jackfruit, Blackberry, Sugarcane among others are getting wasted in fields. Senior Samajwadi Party leader and former union cabinet minister, Ramji Lal Suman who visited several villages under the Etmadpur sub-division on Tuesday, said, “Lockdown has affected the small farmers most. So far, the state government has been able to take cognizance of them. CM Yogi Adityanath should order physical inspection for assessment of losses incurred to the fruit and vegetable growers. Farmers need to be compensated otherwise they would be forced to commit suicide due to financial crisis.” There are 2.69 lakh registered farmers in Agra district. According to the horticulture department records, fruits and vegetables are cultivated on 35,000 hectare of land. Since last two months, local vegetable markets, hotels and restaurants are not operating due to lockdown. Besides, wedding and other functions are also not taking place. Farmers also claimed that they are facing problem in transporting their produce to the major cities. Mohan Singh Chahar, regional president of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, said, “Farmers are among the worst hit by the lockdown. They are not being able to retain their investments in production of fruits and vegetables. Supply chain is badly affected and hundreds of quintals of produce is rotting in fields. The situation is not much different in other districts of UP. State government must take cognizance of the situation and make required arrangements to ensure farmers get some relief”. Jitendra Singh, a Phalsa grower from Ittora village in Agra, said, “Due to lockdown we are not able to transport the fruit to Azadpur fruit market in New Delhi. Besides, the farmers are not able to sell their produce to the local traders. Due to lockdown, a major part of the fruit crop is decaying in the fields.” Farmer leader Somveer Yadav said, “Besides fruits and vegetables, milk producers are also in trouble. Local authorities are not allowing supply of milk in the city areas. In rural areas, the price of milk has reduced over 50 percent. Wheareas, the cost of fodder for cattle and other expenses remain the same.” Meanwhile, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh chaired a meeting with farmer leaders on Tuesday afternoon. Farmer leader Shyam Singh Chahar handed over a memorandum addressed to CM Yogi Adityanath highlighting problems being faced by the farmers due to lockdown. DM assured of time bound action on the issues raised by the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-hit-as-lockdown-disrupts-supply-chain/articleshow/76015371.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Day two: Turbulence in air, passengers fly into a rage||HYDERABAD: Chaos and confusion continued the second day after domestic flight operations resumed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) thanks to last-minute cancellations by airlines. Many passengers, who made a long journey to RGIA early on Tuesday had to return home after they were informed that their flights had been cancelled only after reaching the airport. Among them was Mangal Pradeep, who was set to fly to Patna on Tuesday morning. “Since my flight was scheduled at 10.30 am, I reached the airport at 6 am. On May 25 night, the airline sent me a link through which I web-checked in and was also allotted a seat. However, a boarding pass was not issued. When I sought my boarding pass from the airline helpdesk at the airport, I was told that the flight was cancelled,” said Mangal. Many passengers blamed poor coordination between the civil aviation ministry and the government for the cancellation of flights. Passengers rued that airlines customer care helplines were of little help as they could not get any information on departures. “Last evening, I repeatedly called customer care to find out if my flight would take off. I shot multiple mails to customer care service staffers but received no response. Passengers like us are left at the mercy of these helpdesk and customer care operators who have little idea on departure and arrivals,” said Inderjeet Jaisingh, a passenger who was set to fly to Mumbai A few passengers of a Lucknow-bound flight were irked as the flight took off from RGIA in the morning despite the airline sending a cancellation message to passengers last evening. “Today morning, I had flight from Hyderabad-Lucknow. Got an email and a message yesterday that my flight has been cancelled. But the same flight is departed today morning. The customer support also not answering properly,” tweeted Rajesh Kumar, who subsequently received refund as credit-shell by the airline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/day-two-turbulence-in-air-passengers-fly-into-a-rage/articleshow/76015384.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Social distancing up in smoke as Amausi airport comes alive||Lucknow: Ritika Seth freaked out when a man sitting next to her coughed in a flight from Delhi to Lucknow. Scared as hell, she chanted ‘Gayatri mantra’ during her 45-minute journey. Mandatory social distancing protocol went up in smoke as domestic passenger flights resumed on Monday after a two-month hiatus at Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport in Lucknow. Besides, flyers were not informed about the delays in arrival and departure of flights and there were widespread glitches in web check-ins, leading to more confusion on Day One. “Earlier, there were news reports that the middle seat would be vacant to maintain social distancing. However, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri recently said it is not viable to keep the middle seat vacant as airlines will be forced to hike ticket price by 33%. Then what was the hurry?,” Seth said. Like Seth, several passengers arriving in the state capital from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Kashmir shared that though the standard operating procedure was being followed generally, social distancing was compromised. “It was a safe and healthy environment with an emphasis on contactless procedures, but social distancing went for a toss. Right from boarding the flight to landing at Lucknow airport, it was nowhere to be seen,” said Akhilendra Tripathi, who is part of the construction of Chenab bridge in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir. Hailing from Mau district in UP, Tripathi reached Delhi via a special train and then boarded a flight from IGI airport. He would be travelling to Pratapgarh for an official work. Some travellers suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and spondylitis struggle to carry their luggage as trolley service has been temporarily suspended. Before boarding the flight, passengers were provided free N95 masks, face shields and sanitizers. A large number of passengers also complained about the poor quality of sanitizers provided to them before they boarded the flight. “Sanitizer bottle was so small that it was finished in the journey itself. Also, the quality of sanitizer was substandard,” said Devansh Jaiswal, on eof the flyers. Social distancing was also violated big time outside the airport, where prepaid taxi drivers was waiting for passengers. After being pointed out by TOI, an airport official finally disbursed them. However, they were unrelenting and soon appeared in groups. Talking about key difference in flying pre and post-Covid, Shruti Gupta, who travelled from Pune to Lucknow, said: "Flying will never be same again and the world will be knows as pre-Covid era and post- Covid era... There were more restrictions now. We were not allowed to carry newspapers, food. The entire airport area was sanitised before the resumption of operations. Thermal screening of passengers was done before they were allowed to board their flights." Talking to TOI, airport director A K Sharma said: “In all, three fights arrived and six departed for various destinations from Lucknow on Monday.” Asked about the quarantine protocol, Sharma said: "Passengers will be quarantined as per the SOP released by the state government.” As the country geared up to restart domestic travel, the Uttar Pradesh government released a travel protocol meant for residents and visitors to the state. As per the protocol, residents of UP coming back home will have to serve a mandatory two-week home quarantine upon their return to their home district. But those coming to state as visitors for official/business purposes will be exempted even as they will have to follow a strict protocol. The duration of the short visit should not be more than one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/social-distancing-up-in-smoke-as-amausi-airport-comes-alive/articleshow/76018477.cms||Ankur Tewari
May 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two arrested for cutting, burning trees in Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary||KERI: A day after TOI reported that patches of forest in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary had been cleared illegally in Hulan, Caranzol, the forest department on Tuesday arrested two persons. Range forest officer Vilas Gawas visited the site on the Hulan hill where indigenous trees had been cut and burned down along with an entire patch of forest vegetation and conducted panchanama. “Today, two persons — Santosh Gawade and Nakul Naik — from Caranzol have been arrested in the tree felling incident. The panchanama was conducted and we are investigating the matter,” Gawas told TOI. An area of more than one hectare has been cleared, forest officials said. “Our forest officials have already booked cases against two accused from Caranzol. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and other concerned laws, we will take action against those involved in the incident. Also, forest officials concerned will be asked for an explanation about tree felling going on in the area for long,” additional principal chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar, who also is the chief wildlife warden, told TOI. Environmentalists have alleged that such illegal activities have been going on unhindered in several areas of Caranzol ever since the checkpost there became non-functional after it was burned down by some culprits on May 26, 2019. They also said that the lockdown, which has restricted movement of forest staff, has only made it easier for villagers to clear protected forest areas to prepare ground for cashew plantations. While several forest patches in Caranzol have been cleared by villagers earlier, environmentalists from the area said that the Hulan hill is a more recent target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-arrested-for-cutting-burning-trees-in-mhadei-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/76018464.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 27, 2020||Trichy||School uses paintings to woo students||Trichy: While many private schools are opting for online campaign for admissions, a government school in Trichy goes with wall paintings to highlight best practices of the school. As schools are anticipating announcement on reopening considering the relaxation in the lockdown norms over the last few days, a wall painting at Punganoor reads that government middle school, Pirattiyur offers education up to class VIII from LKG with English as medium of instruction. Another advertisement highlights extra-curricular activities such as music, Yoga, Karate, traditional folk arts forms offered free of cost for children. “While private schools manage to attract parents with the extra-curricular activities, not many parents know that we offer all what they get in a private school,” said Ramesh, science teacher from the school. The school identified over a dozen places in the 3-4 km radius of the school to raise wall paintings in villages such as Punganoor, Kothamangalam, Ramji Nagar, Iniyanur and Nachikurichi. This is the time when we make door-to-door visits to houses close to the school to identify children who could be admitted to the entry-level classes. Now that there has not been any announcement on the reopening yet, we chose to use the time in raising wall paintings, said headmistress K Asha Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-uses-paintings-to-woo-students/articleshow/76016211.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Bigger battle for women doctors||Hyderabad: Women doctors are finding working with PPEs even more problematic, especially during their menstrual cycles. Speaking to TOI, Dr Shilpi Reddy, HOD, KIMS Cuddles, says: “We have to come prepared to stay for long hours without using the washroom. In case we need to change, the PPE has to be disposed.” She adds healthcare workers have to think twice about a change, keeping in mind the expense of PPEs. Agreeing a nurse working at a government facility, who wished to remain anonymous, said: “I have started using tampons so I can work longer hours.” Another issue is that one size does not fit all. Dr Nalini Nagalla, senior consulting pulmonologist, Continental hospitals, says: “The standard PPE which is unisex doesn’t always fit women, who are a majority of nursing care. A large size is often less effective and restrictive, tempting some to remove them.” She added patient interaction has also taken a hit due to the restrictions that the PPE brings with it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bigger-battle-for-women-doctors/articleshow/76015416.cms||Uttara Varma
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Pilots on cloud nine after return to cockpit; flyers heave a sigh of relief||LUCKNOW: As domestic flight service resumed after a two-month break, pilots and air hostesses, despite being in high-risk zone, took to the skies once again saying it was a great stress-buster for them as it “satiated their addiction for flying”. “Flying is like an addiction. Once you take to the skies, you can’t stay grounded for long,” said Priyanka Singh, copilot of a Delhi-Lucknow flight. “Technically, we were never off duty. Airlines have been conducting online workshops for us. But wearing our uniform and boarding the flight once again was a great experience,” she said. Asked if they were scared of flying amid coronavirus threat, a pilot, Sumit S, quipped: “Not even for a second. Our happiness knew no bounds after taking to the cockpit again.” According to officials, all airline staff and crew members have been provided personal protective equipment (PPE) and asked to periodically sanitize their hands. Before flight, passengers receive an email notification to declare their health status. The boarding pass is issued only after the clearance of health declaration. “We are taking all precautions and using Aarogya Setu app which is of great help in knowing if somebody is sick around us,” Sumit said. He said all flyers are being provided free kits by airlines with necessary PPE including masks, sanitisers, face shields and gloves to ensure safe travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pilots-on-cloud-nine-after-return-to-cockpit/articleshow/76018478.cms||Ankur Tewari
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Vegetable supply dips, prices soar||Kolkata: The yawning gap between demand and supply owing to severe destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan has led to scarcity of vegetables in some city markets and almost doubled prices. Even though the supply chain issues of the vegetable transportation were largely resolved after removal of uprooted trees, drop in production has dried up the wholesale and retail markets in the city. For other daily necessities like bread, the supply of which had stopped temporarily due to Eid, is likely to resume from Wednesday. On Tuesday, vegetable supply to Koley Market — the largest vegetable wholesale hub in the city — dropped from 350 trucks a day to 70 trucks. Bengal was largely immune to lockdown price rise in vegetables, thanks to its bumper production so far, this year. But Amphan changed the scenario and much of the agricultural land in the state is under water now. Wholesalers and retailers, wary of a lower production, feared a high price in the days to come. “In coming days, prices of vegetables will rise further with supply continuing to be scant,” said Kamal Dey, president West Bengal Vendors Association. “For vegetables like beans, capsicum and drumsticks that are imported from other states, prices are almost stable. It has been a disaster for the vegetable grown within the state,” said Anup Gupta, a wholesaler at Koley market. Over the past one week, vegetables brought from places like Ranchi, Nasik and Coimbatore have increased by Rs 5-10 a kilo. “Wholesale prices for beans or capsicum, imported from Ranchi and Nasik, have increased by Rs 5-10 per kilo. But for the vegetable grown within the state prices have gone haywire,” Gupta said. At retail markets, almost all vegetables were sold above Rs 40 a kilo. Prices of parwal, tomato, bitter gourd, cucumber, ridged gourd, papaya, bottle gourd, pumpkin, brinjal have been rising steadily. Cauliflower was sold at Rs 60 a piece. “This will remain like this for next one month, it seems. Around 11.30am on Tuesday, there was not a single vegetable left at Koley market. We haven’t seen such scarcity before,” said Kartik Saha, a vegetable retailer in Maniktala. “Vegetables like cucumber will not be available for some time. Whatever little we are getting at the wholesale market is being sold at a huge premium,” said Dilip Mandal, a vegetable retailer at Gariahat. Fruit markets are also witnessing a scarcity. “The sudden supply of mangoes in local markets is due to distress sale by some farmers. It will dry out in a few days,” said Shahjada Alam, a vendor at College Street. “There is demand of 10-12 lakh pound bread in Kolkata per day. Due to lockdown, we are able to supply half of it. The supply constraint on Tuesday morning was due to closure of some bakeries for Eid,” said Idris Ali, secretary of Joint Action Committee of West Bengal Bakers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vegetable-supply-dips-prices-soar/articleshow/76015472.cms||Rohit Khanna
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Men who sold goats for tickets to fly on June 1||MUMBAI: Three labourers who had pooled their savings and sold goats to buy tickets for a Monday flight to Kolkata, only to reach Mumbai airport to find it cancelled and the airline refusing to refund them, will finally get to fly. TOI reported their plight on Tuesday and tweeted about it too. The tweet garnered more than 3,000 retweets and likes in a few hours, which had the airline, IndiGo, take to Twitter to post: “We are reaching out to these passengers right away. Rest assured, we shall be accommodating them on the next available flight or providing them with a full refund.’’ The airline later said they have been booked on a June 1 flight as the labourers decided not to take the first flight out on May 28. Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, too, tweeted the issue has been resolved. @ManjuVTOI @IndiGo6E This has been resolved. Th e airline had to cancil because of the restrictions by the concerne… https://t.co/3K962udXwx— Hardeep Singh Puri (@HardeepSPuri) 1590510191000The three worked on construction sites in Mumbai. “I haven’t been home in 20 months because I couldn’t afford it,” said Sona Mullah (46), one of the labourers, who earns Rs 15,000 a month and sends home Rs 10,000. His wife back home in Murshidabad keeps goats. “We earn about Rs 6,000 a year from keeping the goats. Last week, we sold all the three for Rs 9,600 so that I could pay Rs 10,200 for my air ticket,’’ he said. Watch Mumbai: Men who sold goats for tickets to fly on June 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/men-who-sold-goats-for-tickets-to-fly-on-june-1/articleshow/76015166.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Trichy||Bullock carts in Trichy can transport sand||Trichy: The PWD has allowed bullock carts having radio frequency identification (RFID) tag to transport sand from the quarry at Keelamullaikudi in Trichy on Tuesday. 327 carts were allowed to load sand from 7am to 5pm. District president of Sand Bullock Carts Owners Association GK Ramar welcomed the decision.  They have also demanded to allow mining in the Kollidam river after June 12 when the Mettur dam will open for irrigation. PWD officials have said that chances of opening quarries in Kollidam are less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bullock-carts-in-trichy-can-transport-sand/articleshow/76016286.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 58-year-old woman dies waiting for train token||MUMBAI: A 58-year-old woman, who was to board a Shramik special train to UP on Tuesday night died at Suncity ground in Vasai, where migrants gathered since morning. Six trains left Vasai for UP on Tuesday, and till late evening over 10,000 people gathered there. Vidhotma Sukla, a resident of Nalasopara, reached by auto with her son around 10am. They were waiting for a token to travel to Jaunpur, to where four trains left on Tuesday. Around 5pm, Vidhotma complained of discomfort and nausea, as she had waited in the sun. She was rushed to Golden Park hospital but was declared dead before arrival, said Manickpur police inspector Rajendra Kamble. This is the second death of a migrant in less than two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/58-yr-old-woman-dies-waiting-for-train-token/articleshow/76016390.cms||Sandhya Nair
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana raises another Rs 2,000 crore, fourth time in 45 days||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government raised bonds for the fourth time in a span of 45 days on Tuesday. The state government has raised another Rs 2,000 crore, which includes bonds with maturity dates in 2025 and 2026. The state government received 17 bids for 2025 bonds and two bids for 2026 bonds. The state had raised Rs 4,000 crore through bonds in April. This is also the first time that the state has raised funds through bonds after borrowing limit was hiked to 5% of GSDP under the FRBM Act. The state has raised a total of around Rs 8,000 crore through bonds in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-raises-another-rs-2000-cr-4th-time-in-45-days/articleshow/76015474.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Bakra Mandi not to be operated from residential area: NMC to HC||Nagpur: In a respite to the Wathoda residents, the civic body has assured Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday that Mominpura’s Bakra Mandi shall not be permitted to be operated in their residential area. The aggrieved residents had opposed Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) decision of May 4 to relocate the market known as ‘Bakra Mandi’ from Mominpura to their residential area near Symbiosis International University. Earlier, both petitioners and corporation agreed to allow the market to operate from Agriculture Produce Market Committee’s (APMC) premises. It was made clear that neither slaughtering nor selling the meat would be permitted there. NMC lawyer Sudhir Puranik informed that when Bakra Mandi would be established on the APMC’s premises, the May 5 order would be recalled and it wouldn’t be allowed to operate from the residential area. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar directed the APMC to give intimation in this regard to the NMC, which will then take immediate steps to ensure that such market wouldn’t function from the residential area. The petitioners, through counsel Kartik Shukul assisted by Aman Verma and Raghav Bhandakar, apprehended that residents from the containment area of Mominpura would be visiting their locality which may lead to spread of Covid-19 infection. Petitioners — Umesh Unthkhede, Krishna Maske and Dinesh Yewle, had argued that relocating the market defeats the very purpose for which containment zones were declared. They said there is every possibility that such a market would result in rapid spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bakra-mandi-not-to-be-operated-from-residential-area-nmc-to-hc/articleshow/76015475.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 27, 2020||Trichy||Rotary Club donates medical equipment to MGMGH||Trichy: Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy got key medical equipment from Rotary Club of Tiruchirappalli Metro for providing exclusive treatment to paediatric patients, here on Tuesday. The office-bearers from Rotary Club presented two bubble CPAPA with accessories, two Schiller-multi para monitor, three infusion pumps to baby ward, one video laryngoscope each to the newborn ward, paediatric ward and labour ward. And high flow nasal therapy equipment to the paediatric ward. The club also donated four foot operated washbasins to Covid-19 isolation ward, newborn ward and labour ward at MGMGH. The total cost of the equipment was Rs 22.50 lakhs. District convenor of the club, Dr A Zameer Pasha and others handed over the equipment to dean of the hospital Dr K Vanitha and medical superintendent Dr R Yeganathan. Neo-natal specialist Dr K Senthilkumar at the department paediatrics said that the addition of two CPAPA and non-invasive ventilation equipment added strength to the facilities at neo-natal intensive care unit (NICU). Pregnant women being infected by Covid-19 were reported in Trichy regularly. The babies have been tested negative for Covid-19 in almost all cases. An exclusive CPAPA equipment can now be used for the non-Covid-19 newborn, said the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rotary-club-donates-medical-equipment-to-mgmgh/articleshow/76016475.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP planning low-cost shops, homes for migrant workers||LUCKNOW: The state government is formulating a policy under which it can provide low-cost shops and houses to migrant workers who have returned to their native villages across the state from different parts of the country owing to the lockdown. Meanwhile, the government has completed skill mapping of 16 lakh workers, a first of the kind exercise in UP and perhaps across India, which will help the government to create skill specific jobs for these migrants. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that skill mapping of all returned migrants should be completed within 15 days. Officials said the urban development department has been tasked with coming up with a plan for cheap housing and rentals for migrants and chief secretary will coordinate with various departments for drafting it. “During an interaction with migrants a few days back, the CM asked one of them what was preventing him from setting up a shop. Worker said he had no money. It was then decided to provide cheap houses and shops to workers,” said an official. ‘Relief in GST can be provided to private builders’The urban development department will make a presentation to the CM by the end of this week,” said an official. Among various proposals being worked out is asking local bodies and private builders to provide space to the workers in multi-storied buildings. For this, relief in floor area ration, GST etc could be provided to the builder. Government buildings and land will also be identified for creation of dormitories and shops. These will come with water, power and sewer facilities, an official said. He added that rents could also be reduced for migrant workers for both residential and commercial use of a property. Meanwhile, the government has also mapped the skill set of about 16 lakh migrant workers. About 200 people out of the 500-odd working with the CM Helpline to contact migrant workers are being tasked to contact all those who have returned to cross check their skill sets. Other measures are also being put in place to expedite the work of collecting details about their skills. Additional Chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that so far, a lot of carpenter, those who have worked in the real estate industry, drivers, gardeners, painters etc have registered with the government. Attempts will be made to connect them with the MSME department to find them jobs. On Tuesday, the CM reviewed the work taking place under the newly set up Workers (employment and livelihood) Welfare Commission. Using the skill set data, district level employment offices will try and provide jobs locally to those who have returned to the state while the state-level committee will help in securing jobs outside the home districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-planning-low-cost-shops-homes-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/76020033.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Kondapochamma project launch on Fri||Hyderabad: In another milestone in the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, along with seer Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, will inaugurate Kondapochamma Sagar Project on Friday. Two lifts of Kondapochamma reservoir and pumping houses under package 14 will be inaugurated. KCR, who reviewed the progress of Kondapochamma Sagar scheme works to lift water from Ranganayakasagar to Kondapochamma Sagar, has directed officials to complete the works of Akkaram and Markuk pumphouses and make it operational before monsoon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kondapochamma-project-launch-on-fri/articleshow/76015483.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Socialising on the sly leads to spurt in Covid cases in Hyderabad & Rangareddy||HYDERABAD: While the health officials rack their brains on the pattern of novel coronavirus spreading in Greater Hyderabad limits and Rangareddy district, ‘secret socialising’ is what’s leading to a spurt in the positive cases, it is learnt. A majority of the Covid-19 positive cases reported on Tuesday relate to people contracting the virus after attending social gatherings. Four members of a software engineer’s family in Kondapur and 19 persons in a single family in Pahadishareef contracted the virus, owing to secret socialising. The case of techie, who tested positive, is interesting as he insisted that he had gone to the market only once in the last two months. When police stepped in and spoke to him, he spilled the beans. He had met one of his friends who returned from Mumbai. While the techie tested positive a few days ago, his family members are now Covid-19 positive. A youngster from Borabanda was infected with the virus a few days ago after he attended a small party in Pahadishareef along with his wife. He turned out to be a ‘super spreader’ is his area with 15 persons testing positive on Tuesday. “He had also visited his relatives in Maheswaram, spreading the infection to four others,” an official said. Officials say this is worrying as another 100 people are to be quarantined because of the super spreader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/socialising-on-the-sly-leads-to-spurt-in-covid-cases-in-hyd-rangareddy/articleshow/76015509.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 50 children hospitalised after eating pani puri in Adilabad||HYDERABAD: In a case of food poisoning, at least 50 children were admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Adilabad town on Monday night. Four of the children, who are said to be critical, are being monitored round-the-clock. Doctors said the children fell ill after having pani puri. “Our entire medical team is attending to them. It looks like the pani puri was contaminated,” director, RIMS, Dr Banoth Balram Naik said. The children, who are being administered saline, are in the age group of 5-12 years. Soon after having the pani puri, the children began vomiting and having diarrhoea. Some children even fell unconscious. The First few cases were reported to RIMS at around 9 pm and by midnight, there were as many as 50 children who needed medical help. Among those admitted to the hospital also included two adults. Meanwhile, police have begun investigation into the incident. “Efforts are on to trace the pani puri seller,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-children-hospitalised-after-eating-pani-puri-in-adilabad/articleshow/76015481.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 27, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Elephant rescued after 10-hour-long operation||DEHRADUN: After a 10-hour-long rescue operation, a team of around eight forest officials succeeded in rescuing a tusker from Ganga near Bheemgora barrage. The elephant had entered into the river from Chilla range and was trying to head towards human population in Saptrishi area of Haridwar, when it was stopped by the forest team. The team tried to make the elephant return to the forest but due to heavy water flow, the elephant got stuck midway. The elephant was tranquilised by a team of veterinary doctors and taken to Chiriyapur rescue centre for further treatment late on Tuesday. The tusker got injured in mutual fight in the forest according to staff. Meanwhile on Monday, a worker from Nepal was trampled to death near Rishikesh in Chilla range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elephant-rescued-after-10-hr-long-operation/articleshow/76015155.cms||Shivani Azad
May 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP to highlight achievements of Modi 2.0 govt’s one-year||BHOPAL: BJP will highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi 2.0 government by focussing on the scrapping of Article 370, Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), paving the way for the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, the successful control of Covid-19 crisis through timely lockdown and Rs20 lakh crore economic package as it prepares to celebrate the first anniversary of the NDA government from May 30. The party will also hold two ‘virtual rallies’ and organise 50 conferences using e-platforms across Madhya Pradesh. “One year of Modi 2.0 government has been historic and full of achievements and would be written in golden letters. To mark the first anniversary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s second term, we will reach out to the public from May 30,” BJP state president V D Sharma told the media on Tuesday. Sharma said BJP leaders and booth-level workers will reach out to 10 crore houses across the country, with two workers visiting each house by maintaining lockdown norms, social distancing and equipped with safety gear, to highlight the achievement of the Modi 2.0 government and collect feedback. “Modi is the world’s most popular leader and during the first year of his second term, he along with Union home minister Amit Shah, took historic decisions to fulfill people’s decade-old aspirations. The abrogation of Article 370, law against triple talaq, paving the way for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya, CAA, controlling Covid-19 through timely lockdown in the country and the Rs20 lakh crore economic package are some of the historical decisions taken in the public interest,” said Sharma. Sharma said, “All party fronts will participate in the anniversary programmes across MP by using digital media, though the promotions will be toned down this year in the light of the Covid pandemic”. BJP said the overall campaign theme will focus on how the PM has protected millions of lives through timely interventions like the lockdown and ramping up of medical infrastructure. “With the resolve to become ‘Atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) by promoting use of local products, we will reach out to all sections of the society,” Sharma added. Sharma also hailed BJP workers participating in relief works and said that the booth-level workers were actual corona warriors who are tirelessly helping the society, including migrant workers from other states and providing them relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-to-highlight-achievements-of-modi-2-0-govts-one-yr/articleshow/76015482.cms||Rajendra Sharma
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana man stabbed to death in Sharjah||HYDERABAD: A worker from Telangana was allegedly stabbed to death in Sharjah. The victim, D Naveen (27), from Korutla in Jagtial district, worked at a car wash firm in Sharjah. Naveen was stabbed in the stomach by another worker from Kerala on Saturday at Al Sajja of Alimoosa area in Sharjah, UAE. The accused was overpowered by his co-workers, who later handed him over to the police. The victim died while undergoing treatment at a hospital on May 24. Sources said that there was no enmity between Naveen and the accused, however, during dinner, the accused was seen wielding a knife angrily as he was said to have had a fight with another worker earlier in the day. “When Naveen went to take his plate, the accused stabbed him repeatedly,” sources said. Naveen’s family in Korutla has been informed about his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-man-stabbed-to-death-in-sharjah/articleshow/76015489.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 27, 2020||Dehradun||Lack of tourists hit sale of Kafal fruit in state, farmers incur losses||MUSSOORIE: Kafal (Myrica esculenta), the state fruit of Uttarakhand, has finally made appearance in the markets but the sales this season are nowhere close to what they were in previous years. Farmers of the wild fruit say that the outbreak of coronavirus has severely impacted their trade. “Every year, villagers collect kafal and sell it at prices ranging between Rs 100 and Rs 150 per kilogram. The fruit is quite popular among tourists and thus, farmers are able to earn good profits from its sales every year. However, villagers have not been able to market kafal this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. This has resulted in economic losses,” said Dinesh Kumar, a resident of Nainital’s Bhiyalgaon village. He added that farmers in Nainital had been earning Rs 10,000-Rs 12,000 in one season on an average from kafal sale in previous years. Mohammad Ikram, a fruit vendor in Mussoorie, told TOI, “Kafal is always in high demand among the tourists but this year, Covid-19 scare has hit our business. I came with 5 kilograms of kafal today but have been able to sell just 1 kilogram of the fruit till evening.” Owing to its unique taste and medicinal properties, kafal has become extremely popular among tourists in the past few decades, say observers. “From a fruit which was consumed only locally, kafal has now become an important source of seasonal income for the village communities as it is in high demand among tourists. However, the lockdown restrictions have impacted its trade this year,” says Kamal Badoni, a rural livelihood expert. Notably, kafal also finds mention in the folklores of Uttarakhand. Locals believe that a bird species (locally called Kaffu) chirps ‘“kafal pako mai ne chakhyo” (kafal fruits are ripe but I have not tasted them) on the trees of the Himalayan fruit. Badoni suggests that efforts should be made by the state government to explore processing options for kafal in order to increase its shelf life. He also calls for conducting research on fruit’s medicinal properties. Kafal is a small-sized tree (or shrub) that grows at elevations ranging from 900 to 2,000 metres in Uttarakhand. Its fruiting season commences from early May and continues till mid-June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lack-of-tourists-hit-sale-of-kafal-fruit-in-state-farmers-incur-losses/articleshow/76015158.cms||Anmol Jain
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Bars can home deliver liquor but 5% tax a dampener||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakare has permitted bar owners of the district, including Nagpur city, to home deliver their existing stock of liquor at maximum retail price (MRP). Bar owners had urged the state government to allow them to sell beer as its life would get exhausted. The government allowed them to exhaust their entire stock. The order has failed to enthuse bar owners as they say that they would incur a loss if they sold liquor at MRP. The government has asked them to pay 5% sales tax which they say has spoiled the arithmetic. Thakare in his order made it clear that bar owners would not be permitted to buy fresh stock from wholesalers. The excise department will have to ensure bars stop selling liquor once their stock is exhausted. The bars can sell only sealed bottles. The bottles of whiskey, rum, vodka, etc that have been opened can’t be sold. Home delivery can only be done between 11am and 6pm. The owner will have to furnish the details of the liquor permit holder and take permission of excise staffers before delivering the stuff. Some bars had started home delivering liquor from Tuesday morning soon after Thakare issued the order. Sahil Deshmukh, owner of a bar in Madhav Nagar, said it was practically not possible to sell at MRP. “If we open our shutters then our expenses will increase and cause losses. So I have decided to keep shutters closed,” he added. Bar owner Vinod Koyadwar said the order was unjustified. “It would have been feasible had the department relaxed the 5% sales tax criterion or allowed us to collect that from customer. We need to pay staff salary, electricity bill and the delivery person will also demand conveyance,” he added. Koyadwar further said a bar’s operating expenses were far higher than that of a wine shop. Another bar owner Sagar Johri said, “Compared to wine shops, we have double or triple the staff. If liquor or beer is sold at MRP the remaining margin will be 8% and on top of that we are told to pay 5% as sales tax. On remaining 3%, I won’t be able to start home delivery of the stuff stocked up inside my bar since lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bars-can-home-deliver-liquor-but-5-tax-a-dampener/articleshow/76015486.cms||Ashish Roy
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Aarogya Setu to pinpoint future hotspots in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Even as Ahmedabad has one of Gujarat’s lowest contact tracing numbers, 6 people per Covid-19 positive patient, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is now relying heavily on the granular data of Aarogya Setu app. It is tracing the location and proximity of individuals to Covid-19 positive people over a fortnight to target upcoming hotspots in the city. The data provided by the central government is so granular that even emerging residential society hotspots can be pinpointed. In fact, the movement history of Covid-19 positive patients in a ward, between wards, or a society is being collected and a relative future spread matrix is simulated in the area. The data also shows where social distancing was violated the most. “Our health teams are now working with more focus and isolating vulnerable population and testing early in areas that may be susceptible,” says a senior official who did not wish to be named. Earlier, the data was provided to the AMC per ward, which forced many to scatter blindly in a large geographical area. “The latest granular data pinpoints potential Covid-19 patients and also societies,” adds the official. As is clear, access to Bluetooth is key for the app to establish proximity range between two people. “Location and proximity data of Covid-19 patients who did not have Aarogya Setu in their phones previously is being collected as well,” says the official. “But as more smartphones install Aarogya Setu and come in each other’s Bluetooth range, the app collects information. If a person has already tested positive, the contact tracing app will alert the other person and also help the government trace potential cases.” The drawback, however, is that officially only 15 lakh people in the city have the app on their smartphones. And not all of the persons have their Bluetooth or location on all the time as it consumes a lot of battery power. Meanwhile, the AMC on Tuesday registered 23 Covid-19 deaths, including that of a 25-year-old woman from Rajpur area who was eight months pregnant. Of the total deaths on Tuesday, three were reported from the western part of the city. This included a 67-year-old man from Jodhpur, an 80-year-old man from Gota, and a 75-year-old man from Paldi. Of the total, six victims had no co-morbidities, while a large set of patients had hypertension and diabetes. Other patients had liver problems. Sixteen victims were above 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aarogya-setu-to-pinpoint-future-hotspots/articleshow/76015494.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Dehradun||At 39.8 degrees Celsius, Dehradun sees season’s highest temperature||DEHRADUN: Hot and dry weather prevailed in most places of Uttarakhand with state capital Dehradun recording this season’s highest maximum temperature. However, mild relief is expected from the scorching heat in the next two days due to an approaching western disturbance. Dehradun, on Tuesday, recorded the season’s highest maximum temperature at 39.8 degrees Celsius, almost four notches above normal, according to the regional meteorological center. Although during evening hours on Tuesday, Dehradun witnessed light showers accompanied with gusty winds. Mussoorie too received light rains. Jaspur in Udham Singh Nagar remained the hottest place in Uttarakhand with mercury touching 42 degrees Celsius. Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre, told TOI, "Due to dry weather, temperatures have been settling three to four notches above normal in both hills and plains." The scorching heat conditions are likely to continue in the plains and foothills on May 27 as well before the weather changes in the Himalayan state from May 28 onwards. The regional meteorological centre on Tuesday issued an orange alert of hail, lightning, thunder squall and rainfall at isolated places in both plains and hills of Uttarakhand on May 28 and 29. "Rain and thunder activity will be witnessed across the state between May 28 and May 31. Light to moderate rainfall will occur in the plains and foothills during the period," Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/at-39-8-degrees-celsius-doon-sees-seasons-highest-temperature-rain-and-thunderstorm-in-offing-from-may-28/articleshow/76015162.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR adds 2 more freight terminals||Secunderabad: The South Central Railway (SCR), which has been operating both freight and parcel trains during the lockdown, has added two more freight terminals to facilitate food grain movement from the zone to different parts of the country. The two private freight terminals (PFTs) that have been added are of Lakshminarasimha Infra at Nagireddypalli Railway Station of Yadadri-Bhongir district and Sri Lakshmi Venkateshwara Warehousing at Kaukuntla railway station of Mahbubnagar district in Telangana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-adds-2-more-freight-terminals/articleshow/76015492.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Vegetable supply dips, prices soar in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The yawning gap between demand and supply owing to severe destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan has led to scarcity of vegetables in some city markets and almost doubled prices. Even though the supply chain issues of the vegetable transportation were largely resolved after removal of uprooted trees, drop in production has dried up the wholesale and retail markets in the city. For other daily necessities like bread, the supply of which had stopped temporarily due to Eid, is likely to resume from Wednesday. On Tuesday, vegetable supply to Koley Market — the largest vegetable wholesale hub in the city — dropped from 350 trucks a day to 70 trucks. Bengal was largely immune to lockdown price rise in vegetables, thanks to its bumper production so far, this year. But Amphan changed the scenario and much of the agricultural land in the state is under water now. Wholesalers and retailers, wary of a lower production, feared a high price in the days to come. “In coming days, prices of vegetables will rise further with supply continuing to be scant,” said Kamal Dey, president West Bengal Vendors Association. TimesViewThe normal demand-supply dynamics seem to have gone for a toss post Amphan after the city managed quite well following the initial corona-period hiccups. Stabilising market prices should be the priority now.“For vegetables like beans, capsicum and drumsticks that are imported from other states, prices are almost stable. It has been a disaster for the vegetable grown within the state,” said Anup Gupta, a wholesaler at Koley market. Over the past one week, vegetables brought from places like Ranchi, Nasik and Coimbatore have increased by Rs 5-10 a kilo. “Wholesale prices for beans or capsicum, imported from Ranchi and Nasik, have increased by Rs 5-10 per kilo. But for the vegetable grown within the state prices have gone haywire,” Gupta said. At retail markets, almost all vegetables were sold above Rs 40 a kilo. Prices of parwal, tomato, bitter gourd, cucumber, ridged gourd, papaya, bottle gourd, pumpkin, brinjal have been rising steadily. Cauliflower was sold at Rs 60 a piece. “This will remain like this for next one month, it seems. Around 11.30am on Tuesday, there was not a single vegetable left at Koley market. We haven’t seen such scarcity before,” said Kartik Saha, a vegetable retailer in Maniktala. “Vegetables like cucumber will not be available for some time. Whatever little we are getting at the wholesale market is being sold at a huge premium,” said Dilip Mandal, a vegetable retailer at Gariahat. Fruit markets are also witnessing a scarcity. “The sudden supply of mangoes in local markets is due to distress sale by some farmers. It will dry out in a few days,” said Shahjada Alam, a vendor at College Street. “There is demand of 10-12 lakh pound bread in Kolkata per day. Due to lockdown, we are able to supply half of it. The supply constraint on Tuesday morning was due to closure of some bakeries for Eid,” said Idris Ali, secretary of Joint Action Committee of West Bengal Bakers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vegetable-supply-dips-prices-soar/articleshow/76015499.cms||Rohit Khanna
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra government may conduct Elisa test as per ICMR’s advisory||Nagpur: In a twist to ongoing controversy over use of rapid antibody test kits for Covid-19 surveillance, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday, informed that it may go for ‘Elisa kit’ as now recommended by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), instead of former. In a statement before Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, government pleader (GP) Sumant Deopujari informed that the state is thinking to go by ICMR’s advisory and would take a policy decision within a couple of days in this regard. He said the government would also come clear on use of rapid antibody test kits, whose results were found unsatisfactory and their use is put on hold by the ICMR itself, after some of the kits supplied by the Chinese firms were found to be faulty in Rajasthan and other states. The GP added that the chief secretary would soon be convening a meeting of all senior officials in this regard. While adjourning the hearing of a PIL by Citizen Forum for Equality through counsel Tushar Mandlekar, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar granted time to the government to take a decision in this regard. The petitioner through President Madhukar Kukde had prayed for conducting rapid antibody test on all front-line workers, including doctors, police, pharmacists and para-medical staff. On a HC’s poser, Deopujari, who was accompanied by Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) dean, Dr Ajay Keoliya, informed that the state was bearing entire expenditure of all RT-PCR tests conducted in VRDL centres like at IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS, MAFSU and NEERI. Every RT-PCR test approximately cost around Rs4,500. Quoting collector Ravindra Thakare’s affidavit, the GP said, the government had twice sanctioned Rs10 lakh each for the police officials for purchasing masks, hand gloves, sanitizers and other necessary equipment required to getting infected from the deadly virus, while discharging their duties. “We’ve also started testing police personnel from the containment areas as directed by the HC on pilot basis and had already tested 81 of which only one was found positive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-govt-may-conduct-elisa-test-as-per-icmrs-advisory/articleshow/76015497.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 27, 2020||Agra||Conscious decision to send trains on alternative longer routes: Rly officials on delays||Agra: Amid many Shramik Special trains reaching their destinations late -- sometimes by days -- and causing hardships to passengers, many of whom ran out food and water during the excruciatingly long journeys, senior railway officials have now said it was their "conscious decision" to send trains on "alternative and longer routes". Rajesh Dutt Bajpai, executive director (media communication), Railway Board, told TOI,“Unreasonably delayed departures by the states where these trains originated caused an upset in the staggered route schedules of the special trains we had planned. We had to opt for alternative routes which were longer.” Since May 2, over 3,500 Shramik Special trains have been operated to ferry migrant workers to their home states by Indian Railways, out of which 80% were bound for UP and Bihar. However, in the past week, incidents like a train heading for Chhapra from Surat with 1,200 on board landing in Rourkela (Odisha) and another heading for Patna reaching Purulia (West Bengal) have raised eyebrows. TOI spoke to multiple railway officials about the peculiar cases and was told that "alternative but long routes actually helped the state administrations of the destinations to buy time" and arrange transport, food and medical facilities for the passengers. “When 75-80% of Shramik Special traffic is bound for UP and Bihar, congestion is bound to happen. On any given day, we are running 250-300 trains and the situation aggravates when the state where the trains originate is delaying the operation for several hours,” said a senior railway official whose traffic control team has been dispersing trains to UP and Bihar. “A 22 to 24-coach rake (train) is between 600-700 metres in length. When you run 150 such rakes on a particular track and they happen to be running at the same time due to late departures, a total of 105 km of distance is merely covered by the length of these trains. Such a situation leads to clogging at the destinations. Therefore, a conscious decision of sending these trains on long alternative routes was taken,” the official said. In railway jargon, this is referred to as route rationalization. According to railway route rationalization plan for Shramik Specials, trains coming from western railway zone stations such as Mumbai and Ahmedabad, and going to northern and north eastern railway zone stations such as Gorakhpur, Ballia, Mau, Deoria, Chhapra and Samastipur have been asked to travel via Palwal (Haryana), Ghaziabad and Moradabad. This is the longest route for trains bound for eastern UP and Bihar. Besides, the railways is also using Bilaspur (Jharkhand)-Jharsuguda-Rourkela (Odisha) route for Shramik Specials originating from Maharashtra and Gujarat and going to Bihar and UP. “We have massively revamped the train operations and are ensuring that trains don’t get delayed any further. Long journeys require provisions of food and water, which railways has arranged for the passengers,” Bajpai said. In an official statement issued on long train delays, the ministry of railways on Monday said, “The rail route congestion which was being witnessed on May 23 and 24 is over. The congestion had occurred due to convergence of more than two-thirds of rail traffic on routes to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and late clearance of the terminals due to health protocol set that needed to be completed by state authorities. The matter has resolved through active consultation with state governments and also finding other feasible routes for the journey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/conscious-decision-to-send-trains-on-alternative-longer-routes-rly-officials-on-delays/articleshow/76015174.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||City hottest place in state at 43.7°C||Ahmedabad: The city was the hottest place in Gujarat along with Porbandar and Bhavnagar with a maximum temperature of 43.7C, two degrees above normal, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The city’s minimum temperature of 27.5C, was 0.2 degrees lower than the normal, they added. For the next two days, the maximum temperature will remain between 41 and 43C, the IMD forecast on Tuesday.  On Tuesday, isolated places in Surat and Bhavnagar districts and the union territory of Diu witnesses a heat wave. IMD has not forecast a heat wave in the next four days. “Light rain, thundershowers very likely at isolated places in the districts of South Gujarat namely Surat, Valsad, Navsari, in districts of Saurashtra including Bhavnagar and Amreli along with union territories of Diu, Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli,” the IMD forecast for May 28 to 30 states, adding that other parts of the state will have dry weather. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that the showers are pre-monsoon activity and are not due to any specific system. “A system is being formed in the Arabian Sea and we are keeping close watch on it. We will know its future course in a few days,” he said. After Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar and Porbandar, which had maximums of 43.7C, weather stations that recorded high temperatures on Tuesday included Gandhinagar (43.2C), Amreli (43C), VV Nagar (42.9C), Deesa (42.4C) and Kandla (42.2C).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-hottest-place-in-state-at-43-7c/articleshow/76015501.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM announces Rs 50 lakh for Covid-19 hospitals whose staff is not infected||DEHRADUN: To encourage our medical staff in battle against Covid-19, state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday announced Rs 50 lakh allowance for hospitals where Covid-19 positive patients are being treated and yet none of its staff has got infected. The encouragement allowance is being seen as an effort to keep the doctors and other health staff safe and ensure that they take required precautions while treating a coronavirus patient. CM Rawat said, “The doctors as well the other hospital staff are working in tough conditions and we have to ensure that they take all the required precautions. Be it ASHA worker, nurses, doctors, or other staff, they are working hard to save lives of Covid-19 patients.Therefore, we have decided to give Rs 50 lakh encouragement allowance to those hospitals where Covid-19 patients are being treated and yet none of its staff has got infected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-announces-rs-50l-for-covid-19-hosps-whose-staff-is-not-infected/articleshow/76015169.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop, girlfriend held for blackmail in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A cop with Odhav police station and his girlfriend were booked by city crime branch for extortion, after they made calls to a Nikol-based businessman, demanding Rs 15 lakh to not publish videos and pictures of his 22-year-old daughter and defame her. In his FIR, filed at the detection of crime branch (DCB) police station in city, a man who runs an embroidery business in Nikol, states that the accused Dashrathsinh Parmar, 34, a constable with Odhav police, and Rupal Mahesuria, 23, his girlfriend and a resident of Nikol, had made extortion calls to him between May 22 and May 24 demanding money. The complainant stated: “I got a missed call from an unknown number for the first time at around 4.30pm on May 22. When I called the number, the person confirmed my name and disconnected the call.” He further states, “Later, he called me through WhatsApp and demanded Rs 15 lakh, telling me that he had my daughter’s pictures and videos using which he would defame her if I did not give him the money.” The caller told the complainant to pay him the money by 11pm on May 22 or he would circulate the videos and pictures. The businessman could not arrange the money and the caller called him again at around 8.30am on May 24, warning him against approaching the police. “The caller threatened me saying, even if he were caught he would get a jail term of one-and-a-half year and then no one would be able to stop him from publishing the reportedly obscene material of my daughter,” states the FIR. The businessman approached cyber crime police station first, where the caller was identified as the Odhav police constable and his girlfriend Mahesuria, who was a classmate of the complainant’s daughter. Crime branch arrested them on Monday and charged them with extortion and abetment. On the motive behind the crime, ACP Bhagirathsinh Gohil of crime branch said, “They needed Rs 15 lakh to fulfil their needs.” Gohil did not further specify what needs the two had.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-girlfriend-held-for-blackmail/articleshow/76015521.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun magistrate holds meeting on monsoon preparations||DEHRADUN: In a bid to prepare for the upcoming monsoon season and ensure flood control management, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava held a meeting with SDMs and other senior officials on Tuesday. During the meet, he directed the heads of municipal corporation, municipal council, irrigation, power, and public works department to conduct inspection of their respective jurisdictions and ascertain availability of the equipment and workforce needed to tackle any monsoon crisis. He added that a detailed report of the same shall be submitted by every department at disaster management office. The municipal corporations and municipal councils of Dehradun and Rishikesh have been asked to ensure cleaning of drains for smooth flow of rainwater. In addition, the officials of PWD and National Highway Authority of India have been asked to ensure availability of JCB machines for roads that are prone to landslides during the monsoon. DM Srivastava has instructed to ensure that hoardings providing information of emergency contact numbers are put along roads for the convenience of passengers. The departments have also been asked to establish a flood outpost in their respective areas for any emergency situation and also issue landline numbers for helping people in need. The officials have also been directed to ensure availability of medicines, medical staff, food stock in the godowns before June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dm-holds-meeting-on-monsoon-preparations/articleshow/76015172.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kin try to come to terms with Amphan loss||Kolkata: The sight of three bent poles lying at the crossroad of a Behala stretch outside her house still haunts Arpita Gayen every time she has walked down the lane in the last one week. This was the very place, where her husband Pintu (39) was electrocuted and lay dead for hours on a waterlogged stretch last Wednesday, after the city was struck by Amphan in which 19 persons were killed in Kolkata. “My husband was the only breadwinner in the family and I have no clue how I will tide over the crisis especially with an eight-year-old daughter. When I was walking past the stretch of Jairampur post office connector where my husband had died, I saw the bent poles were still lying there. I just wish the authorities fix them quickly unless another tragedy may happen,” said Arpita. Pintu was electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire that had got snapped in the storm and fallen in the water last Wednesday. Gayen said she was offered a Rs 2.5-lakh compensation cheque by the state government on Monday that can help them for the time being. “But the hollow left behind by the death of my husband can never be compensated,” she said. At Upen Banerjee Road housing complex in Parnasree, Pavneet Singh Sethi would have turned 31 last Saturday if Amphan had not snuffed the life out of the young and passionate biker and businessman. Life seems to have come to a standstill at the household after his death. “The death of Pavneet has left the entire family shattered. My mother has fallen sick and my father refuses to eat or speak with anyone. He was such a bright boy,” said Angad Pal Singh Sethi, Pavneet’s brother. Pavneet’s body was found floating in a waterlogged street, barely 500 metres from his house, the morning after the cyclone. Family members said he had gone out on Wednesday evening to fetch a medicine for his father and didn’t return. The next morning, his father had to drag his lifeless body out of the waterlogged street. “We held a small condolence meeting at our complex with all social distancing protocols in place, remembering Pavneet on Monday. Earlier in the afternoon, electricity was restored in the area, five days since the cyclone. But the moment was even more shocking for the entire family as it reminded us of the period when CESC had not switched off electricity in our area during the storm which eventually led to my brother’s death,” said Sethi. Meanwhile, at Jhingerpole in South 24 Parganas, around 35 kms from Behala, several families, who had become homeless on the evening of the cyclone, still continue to live in shelter homes and have no clue when they can again rebuild their houses. “In these areas, land is quickly overtaken unless you keep possession. Hence, even as most of our houses have got blown with the wind or damaged by rain and storm, we sleep at shelter homes, but spend the entire day sitting by our ravaged homes. The local panchayat has promised to offer some help, but so far we have received nothing,” said Mofizul Khan, a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kin-try-to-come-to-terms-with-amphan-loss/articleshow/76015520.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 27, 2020||Delhi||More sweat and tears for homeless at night shelters in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The extended Covid-19 lockdown has not only robbed hundreds of daily-wage earners of their income, but also of the comfort of fans and air coolers in this extreme weather. With mechanical workshops closed due to the lockdown, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which provides night shelters for the city’s homeless, has yet to install new coolers or get the old ones repaired. And with many of the shelters comprising porta cabins and tin sheds, the sleeping spaces are now veritable ovens. According to the data available on DUSIB’s website, there are 78 permanent night shelters run from concrete buildings, 115 porta cabins and 11 temporary shelters. Taking social distancing as a factor, these 204 shelters can accommodate around 7,000 people, and with the inordinately hot weather making even the nights outside uncomfortable, most shelter homes are almost filled to capacity. Though DUSIB has installed air and water coolers in the shelters to make conditions easier for homeless people, it has yet to make the appliances operational. “The summer action plan for the homeless states that the night shelters should have the provision of desert coolers. Despite the summer being at its peak, the action plan has yet to be rolled out,” alleged Sunil Kumar Aledia of the Centre for Holistic Development, a not-for-profit organisation working with the homeless. “The desert coolers are either missing or lying dysfunctional and their repair is yet to be undertaken. In some of the shelters, even the fans are not working.” DUSIB’s summer action plan also includes a coat of reflective paint on the roof of porta cabins to keep temperatures inside low, additional water storage, arrangement for cold water for drinking and regular fogging to control mosquitoes. Indu Prakash Singh, member of the Supreme Court-appointed state-level Shelter Monitoring Committee, said that even the fans at the shelter homes were not adequate for the current heatwave. “In the permanent shelters, where the residents stay in big halls, the number of fans for rooms of their size is disproportionate,” Singh noted. “Large sections of the rooms remain uncovered by the fans, and this creates great discomfort in this weather.” DUSIB officials accepted that repair and purchase of desert coolers were held up by the lockdown. “We had a meeting earlier where we prepared a detailed plan on the repair and purchase of coolers and fans for shelters,” disclosed DUSIB member-expert Bipin Rai. “But neither are shops open nor are mechanics available. Still, they remain a top priority.” With relaxations in the lockdown, markets are opening and DUSIB hopes to get the equipment repaired or buy new ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-sweat-and-tears-for-homeless-at-night-shelters/articleshow/76016562.cms||Atul Mathur
May 27, 2020||Pune||Decision on airport transport soon: Pune district collector||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday said a decision on increasing the modes of public transport to and from the Lohegaon airport would be taken in a couple of days, while the number of air travellers slightly increased a day after the resumption of the domestic flight operations from the city. “On Tuesday, a total of 1,200 air passengers flew out of the city and 558 flew in. On Monday, 985 passengers had flown out and 672 came in. The number of flyers is increasing steadily. There was no cancellation of flights till late afternoon on Tuesday,” an airport official said. The transport to and from the airport remained a challenge, though. Pune district collector Ram said, “We are monitoring the situation and shall take a decision soon on the issue. For now, people can bring their private vehicles or opt for ‘Dial an Autorickshaw’ service to reach or return from the airport.” Flight services resumed from Lohegaon airport on Monday after two months of lockdown because of coronavirus outbreak. Air travellers flying in and out of the city on the first day of the domestic flight services resumption had little to complain about the protective measures taken at the airport. But many complained about finding transport to and from the airport. As per the norms of the district administration and police, flyers can travel to or from the airport only in private vehicles or use the service of “Dial an Autorickshaw” with valid boarding passes. No privately hired taxi or cab service is allowed. This has posed problems to many air travellers having no access to private vehicles or avoid travelling in autorickshaws. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday set up a 24X7 help desk in the airport arrival area to screen and stamp the passengers landing in Pune, as per guidelines prescribed by the state government. Late on Monday evening, some of the arriving passengers had claimed that no official was present in the arrivals area to screen and stamp them. A PMC officer said, “The help desk will serve only the arriving passengers. The airport authorities are not screening them. This is now being done by us. Passenger details are being obtained from airlines and their temperature is being checked. The inbound passengers’ left hand is being stamped and they are being advised to be on 14-day home quarantine. From Wednesday, a doctor will also be present at the help desk. All details will be passed on to the PMC officials monitoring the Covid-19 situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-transport-to-airport-soon-dist-collector/articleshow/76015517.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Bars can home deliver liquor at MRP||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakre has permitted bar owners of the district including Nagpur city to home deliver their stock at maximum retail price (MRP). Bar owners of the state had urged the state government to allow them to sell beer as its life would get exhausted. The government allowed them to exhaust their entire stock.Thakre in its order made it clear that bar owners would not be permitted to buy fresh stock from wholesalers. The excise department will have to ensure that bars stop selling liquor after their stock is exhausted.The development is good news for tipplers as wine shops were unable to meet the huge demand for liquor and people were still buying it in black market at twice or thrice the price. Panic buying by tipplers also led to shortage of liquor in many wine shops. Some people purchased six to seven bottles of hard liquor and two to three crates of beer.The bars can sell only sealed bottles. If they have bottles of whiskey, rum, vodka, etc which have been opened then they can’t be sold.Home delivery of liquor can only be done between 11 am and 6 pm. The bar owner will have to furnish the details of the liquor permit holder and take permission of excise staffers before delivering the stuff.Some bars had started home delivering liquor from Tuesday morning soon after Thakre issued the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bars-can-home-deliver-liquor-at-mrp/articleshow/75998090.cms||Ashish Roy
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Doctor tests negative twice at government labs, private pathology confirms Covid-19 infection||LUCKNOW: A female doctor (54) and a colon cancer patient (45) were among four persons tested positive for coronavirus infection on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 336. The doctor, a resident of Vinamra Khand (Gomtinagar) was tested at a private pathology. She had tested negative twice earlier in two government labs – once in Delhi and again at RML Institute of Medical Sciences in the city. The infection was confirmed in the third test at a private pathology in Lucknow. A senior health official said, “The doctor was at Gangaram Hospital in Delhi since November for treatment of her younger son. On May 15, her son was diagnosed with Covid-19. She got herself tested at the same hospital on May 16 but was found negative. She came back to Lucknow the same day with her elder son and they quarantined themselves at home.” “After 2-3 days, she developed influenza-like symptoms and got another test done at RMLIMS on May 20 but that too was negative. As symptoms continued, she got herself tested again at a pathology on Sunday which confirmed the infection,” he added. The colon cancer patient from Nishatganj area was admitted to a private hospital on Sunday where he was tested positive by a private lab. The patient is the neighbour of a railway hospital attendant who tested positive on Saturday. “The hospital will be closed for sanitization and the staff will be tested,” an official said. A 36-year-old migrant worker, a resident of Kaiserbagh, who was quarantined at SR Institute of Engineering and Management in Bakshi-ka-Talab, and a 55-year-old man who came from Aligarh to his home in Vinamra Khand in Gomtinagar were also diagnosed with Covid-19. The migrant had come from Shramik Special train from Ahmedabad, Gujarat, on Sunday and was quarantined at Alambagh bus station. The patient from Gomtinagar is a government engineer posted in Aligarh. He had come to Lucknow on May 22. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “The migrant worker has been admitted to Lokbandhu hospital and the other patient is undergoing treatment at KGMU. Their family members are also being tested.” Meanwhile, 10 patients have been discharged from Lokbandhu hospital. On Monday, a 38-year-old resident of Mumbai was also tested positive at a private pathology lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doctor-tests-ve-twice-at-govt-labs-pvt-pathology-confirms-infection/articleshow/76016585.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 27, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Six-year-old girl’s charity initiative inspires adults||BHARUCH/SURAT: She may be just a tiny tot studying in Class I, but the depth of six-year-old Durva Modi’s thinking capacity will definitely stun even the most erudite in the society. The student of Sanskar Bharti school at Jhadeshwar near Bharuch, undertook a little act of kindness that eventually made a huge difference in many poor children’s lives. It was the plight of a few street children, who Durva had seen on TV, playing in the scorching sun without food and clothes that moved her. Almost immediately, the charitable heart knew she had to act and ameliorate the condition of the families living on the side of College Road in shanties. But she didn’t confide to anyone about her noble intentions. Durva started collecting clothes and shoes first from her eight-year-old Prachit, and then from their friends before asking parents to reach these poor children. Durva’s parents, Ankit Modi, who works with a private firm and Nikita who is an accountant, was awestruck with their daughter’s initiative. Talking to TOI, Ankit Modi, Durva’s father said he was overwhelmed with pride and joy for his daughter’s sensitivity. “I am a lucky father. In fact, sometimes I am left speechless with Durva’s sensible thoughts and her concerns for the welfare of others, which goes beyond her tender years. In this lockdown she has been extremely agitated seeing people’s plight and wanted to help anyhow.” The parents too joined in Durva’s efforts and distributed clothes, shoes, games and also grocery kits and the best part was seeing all the children play together irrespective of their backgrounds. “ While hardly anyone saw the children in the miserable picture, little Durva's Himalayan action is indeed a great motivation to all of us in this so-called civilized society,” said Kamlesh Udani, trustee of Sanskar Bharti Vidya Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/six-year-old-girls-charity-initiative-inspires-adults/articleshow/76015177.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||HD Deve Gowda, M Mallikarjun Kharge may return to Parliament as RS members||BENGALURU: Having tasted defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda and Congress veteran M Mallikarjun Kharge are likely to return to Parliament as members of Rajya Sabha. Polls to four seats of the Upper House are scheduled sometime in June. In the May 2019 LS elections, 87-year-old Gowda left his traditional stronghold of Hassan — from where he was elected five times between 1991 and 2014 — to his grandson Prajwal Revanna and unsuccessfully contested from the Tumakuru seat. Popularly known as ‘Solillada Saradara’, (leader without defeat), 78-year old Kharge, a nine-time MLA and two-time LS member, also suffered his first electoral loss in the same polls against BJP candidate Umesh Jadhav from Kalaburagi. Since then, the two stalwarts have been sulking. With polls to four RS seats and 16 legislative council seats likely next month, they hope to return to active politics through alliance of convenience. The four seats from Karnataka will fall vacant when MV Rajeev Gowda and BK Hari Prasad of Congress, Prabhakar Kore of BJP and D Kupendra Reddy of JD(S) retire. The composition of state assembly is such that BJP has 117 seats, apart from the backing of three independents, Congress has 68 and JD(S) 34. The other two seats are with BSP and a nominated member each. To win the RS polls, each candidate would require the support of 44 MLAs, which means BJP can get two members into the Upper House comfortably, while the Congress can elect one. JD(S) is short of 10 MLAs to directly elect a member from its party and needs Congress’ support to do so. Congress, on the other hand, wants JD(S) help to win some seats in the Upper House. While BJP is expected to win four seats and bag five nominated MLC posts, Congress is likely to win two and JD(S) one. This is increasingly becoming a possibility since new KPCC chief DK Shivakumar shares a good rapport with the Gowda family as he was the one who orchestrated the JDS-Congress coalition government in Karnataka after the 2018 assembly polls. The Congress-JD(S) bonhomie was out in the open recently when Gowda participated in a video conference held by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, which was attended by leaders of 22 parties from across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gowda-kharge-may-return-to-parliament-as-rs-members/articleshow/76015232.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Legalize vendors, they have potential to be shopkeepers||PM Narendra Modi announced a Rs20 lakh crore package to overcome the damage caused by Covid-19 to the economy. The uniqueness of this move is related to street vendors. It is particularly impressive because these are daily earners and have lost their earnings for almost two months. There are nearly fifty lakh vendors all over India and Modi proposes to give them up to Rs10,000 each as a loan (in all, amounting to Rs5,000 crore) through banks. No government in the last seventy years bothered to look into their problems and do something for their welfare. It is for the first time that this class has been taken note of for direct financial assistance from the central governmental. There is no law that controls street vendors. They are not covered even by the Shop Act. Their vending activities are illegal and need to be legalized by the local self governments to make them feel like honourable citizens. Yet they carry on with their business of vending by standing at some particular place on a footpath or any other area. Because they are not authorized to carry out their business on roads, they are at the mercy of corrupt police officials, musclemen and municipal tax collectors who exploit them almost every day by free eating/purchasing and ‘collection’. Hence their income is low. It can be a very good source of income for local governments if vendors are registered and legalized. It will save them from exploitation. The main objection against them from the elite is regarding their looks and the places from where they operate in large numbers. Through registration, local governments should make it compulsory for them to use official carts and uniforms. This will automatically improve their business. All classes of people eat from vendors. For singles, they are the best alternatives to hotels and restaurants. Their legalization is useful because they provide tasty and a variety of food items that are very economical. It suits many and vendors get business. Many mobile vendors sell vegetables or fruits. It is useful for many and particularly the aged. Tea vendors are the most popular because many cannot afford going to hotels. With the rising population of unmarried youngsters, these vendors provide timely food items and that too at a convenient place. Hotels can’t provide this service. In short, vendors are useful to the society at large. Objections against them can be done away with by their registration and enforcement of discipline. Many forget that the ancient Indian civilization welcomed street vendors and weekly markets. People used to throng such places. It characterized the culture of the place and visitors enjoyed going there. With colourfully-designed carts and proper uniform, the old and cultural outlook can be brought back to the cities. It will revolutionize the concept of urban beauty. Street vendors will also get the opportunity to become tomorrow’s shop keepers. Why can’t such khau-gallis with vendors be set up at many different spots to cater to the rising needs and requirements. Many footpaths serve no purpose as they are already occupied by these very street vendors, illegally. Why not get tax from them and avoid corruption? It amounts to converting the de facto situation into de jure situation. (The writer is a former chairman of VNIT)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/legalize-vendors-they-have-potential-to-be-shopkeepers/articleshow/76015851.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||247 reach, 113 fly out of city on Day 2||Nagpur: On Tuesday the second day of commercial operations resuming at the Nagpur airport the number of flights landing at the city came down to two, as against four on Monday. The airport director Abid Ruhi said 247 passengers reached Nagpur and 113 flew out. The two flights of Indigo Airlines which came down from Mumbai and Delhi and flew back to the same destination. As per the new schedule effective till May 31, four flights will operate from the Nagpur airport. These are two to Delhi and one each for Bengaluru and Mumbai. Ruhi said however, it is expected that a flight to Kolkata and Ahmedabad may start in a day or two. The airlines have approached the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA). The final decision will depend on DGCA approval, availability of slot and also the other state’s approval to allow flights from there. Earlier the Nagpur-Kolkata flight was scheduled to begin from Monday but was postponed due to the cyclone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/247-reach-113-fly-out-of-city-on-day-2/articleshow/76015523.cms||Shishir Arya
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Want to risk lives in open courts or safety in virtual court?||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court is conducting a survey among the practising lawyers to know their opinion on whether they want to start physical work in courtrooms and risk lives or to continue with the present virtual courtroom through video conferencing amid Covid-19 pandemic.The HC has prepared a questionnaire to know from the advocates whether they feel that physical working in courtroom would be safe for all in the Covid-19 situation that is prevalent in Ahmedabad. “In the present crisis and the conditions prevalent in the city of Ahmedabad of pandemic, would you prefer conducting the cases by physical working of the High Court or before the virtual court…Don’t you believe that the mechanism of conducting virtual court adopted in present crises time shall take care of safety of lawyers, officers and staff of Registry, Government officials, litigants and other stakeholders as well?” reads the questionnaire.The questionnaire has come after the president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association dashed off a letter urging Chief Justice Vikram Nath to open courtrooms and let the courts start functioning from its campus in Sola. At present, it is virtual court proceedings and the judges conduct matters sitting at their respective residences and lawyers are required to file petitions through e-mail. In a note with the questionnaire, the CJ stated, “With many representations received for moving forward in the functionality of court and as the condition in the city of Ahmedabad continues to be extremely worrisome, in a move to make this exercise more participatory and all inclusive, this questionnaire is forwarded to each member of the Bar for them to respond to the situation, thoughtfully and wisely fulfilling obligations of the citizenry.”The survey form has questions about lawyers’ experience with the virtual court, whether they feel any problems with gadgets and connectivity; whether they require any assistance in case filing and technical training or professional guidance to conduct cases through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/want-to-risk-lives-in-open-courts-or-safety-in-virtual-court/articleshow/76015524.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Indore||Labourers leave realtors in troubled waters||Indore: Mass migration of labourers to their native villages is seen creating a vacuum in construction impacting real estate work post Corona induced lockdown, claimed builders and developers. A likely labour shortage and a jump in raw material prices are seen adding to the cost of construction post lockdown by over 10 per cent, said industry players. Naveen Kumar Mehta, President, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (CREDAI), Indore said, “Scarcity of labour has already started pinching besides cost of materials such as cement and steel have also gone up. Cost of project is seen going up by almost 10-20 per cent.” The increase in cost of construction is expected to affect almost all segments from affordable to high-end property with some builders expecting property over Rs 60 lakh to get worst hit as demand for affordable and middle range property will emerge post lockdown, they said. Developers said they will have to shell out more on labourers due to shortage of workforce and constraints. CREDAI Indore chairman Liladhar Maheswari said, “Smooth availability of steel and cement is another major challenge faced by the sector and this is seen increasing cost of project. We have also demanded the government to keep a control on sudden jump in prices of cement and steel.” Builders said amid a slump in demand in past months, profit margins have already squeezed sharply and further absorption of an increased cost of project will be difficult. Anticipating increase in demand for residences post lockdown due to reverse migration of people from Metros and realizing the need of safe house after pandemic, CREDAI has urged government to reduce home loans to 5 per cent for at least 5 years to woo home buyers. Vipul Agrawal, property consultant said, “People have now understood the importance of home and now it’s on their priority list to buy a home at least for those who don’t have their own house. Home loan interests are all time low now around 7 per cent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/labourers-leave-realtors-in-troubled-waters/articleshow/76015529.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Congress and BJP spar over death of farmer at wheat procurement centre||INDORE: A day after death of a farmer at wheat procurement centre in Agar-Malwa district, Congress accused BJP government of showing negligence in establishing a proper system and making required arrangements at wheat procurement centres in Madhya Pradesh. Criticising the state government over the farmer’s death , former chief minister Kamal Nath has demanded compensation of Rs 50 lakh for his family and appropriate action against officials concerned. सरकार सिर्फ़ झूठे दावे में लगी हुई है , ज़मीनी धरातल पर स्थिति विपरीत है।सरकार इस मृत किसान के परिवार की हरसंभव मद… https://t.co/r5HR6a0w38— Office Of Kamal Nath (@OfficeOfKNath) 1590474876000Nath has launched a tirade against CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan alleging that all tall claims of the state government related to wheat procurement were far away from reality as farmers are facing huge difficulties in selling their crops. In his three back-to-back tweets, Nath alleged that the farmer had died in stress due to mismanagement at the wheat procurement centre. “The government should render all possible help to the farmer’s family and take stern action against those responsible for it” he tweeted. The state BJP has rejected allegations made by Congress about death of the farmer and said that the government was making all possible efforts to help farmers across Madhya Pradesh amid the Covid-19 crisis. BJP state president V D Sharma said that so far, the state government has procured a record 114 metric tonne of wheat from around 15 lakh farmers. “Congress has nothing to talk about and is making baseless allegations on wheat procurement. The MP government has made a record by procuring114 metric tonne of wheat during the initial phase of procurement from 15 lakh farmers. The last date of procurement has also been extended till every farmer is covered,” said Sharma. Rejecting Congress’ allegations, Union minister Faggan Singh Kulaste too, said that the BJP government has left no stone unturned to help farmers during exigencies. “The charges made by Congress have no base as the government has made all possible arrangements to procure rabi crop from the farmers. The death of a farmer during the procurement is unfortunate and it is not related to the procurement procedures. The government has not denied any farmers and all of them will be covered by the procurement scheme. All farmers will be benefited,” said Kulaste at the BJP state office on Tuesday. The farmer, Prem Singh of Malwasa village, had received an SMS on May 19 from local administration to bring his wheat produce at government wheat procurement centre in Tanodia village. However, he had to allegedly wait for a week for his number to come and when his produce was being weighed on May 25, he complained of uneasiness and fell unconscious. Later, doctors declared him death. District collector Sanjay Kumar said that the farmer was sent the SMS to bring his crops at the procurement centre on May 19, but, he had turned up on May 23. “Some problem appeared in procurement process on May 23 due to shortage of gunny-bags. The process resumed on May 24 afternoon and the entire team worked even on Eid to clear backlogs,” said collector. “Short postmortem report of the farmer has revealed that he died of heart-attack. Under government scheme, we have provided a cheque of Rs 4 lakh to his kin,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cong-and-bjp-spar-over-death-of-farmer-at-wheat-procurement-centre/articleshow/76015522.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Indore||Virtual internships for newbies end the corporate conundrum||Indore: Aaruni Khare, a management student, was all prepared and had her bags packed to enter the corporate world, face a brand new team in 2020 by interning with a leading multinational cosmetic brand. But little did she know that entry will be through a virtual platform. The spread of Covid-19 pandemic has changed the dynamics as companies are now offering virtual internships to students amid lockdown. Khare, a PGP (postgraduate programme) student at Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Indore interning with a multinational cosmetic company said, “Initially it was tough to be able to take ownership of the project in virtual mode. The learning curve was steep but slowly I started getting a grip on ways of the organization.” IIM, Indore has around 500 students interning virtually for different companies such as Amazon, L’Oréal and Walmart among others. Professor Himanshu Rai, director, IIM Indore said, “This year amid Covid-19 circumstances, students are undergoing virtual internships. The institute is taking all necessary steps to ensure academic learning does not suffer while taking care of health and wellbeing of students.” A few companies have asked interns to work in person from July-August while most of them have assigned remote jobs handling data, analytics, survey, revamp strategy, forecasting demand, talking to customers among others. A spokesperson from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Indore told TOI, “We are able to convince companies to conduct internship hiring drive through remote process or any other online platform. Many companies have assigned WHF task while a few willing to give field work exposure to students have asked for in-person presence from August.” Prachi Gharpure, director, Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies, Indore said, “The pandemic has changed dynamics for most companies and even the way of operations. Though one cannot replace the usual internship programmes but the virtual mode has taught students to work professionally, learn about their domain, participate in team work and collaborating from remote locations with utmost sincerity.” To give a heads up to students before entering virtual internships, many institutes also provided online trainings in coordination with companies and placement cell. Dr Yogita Mandhanya, faculty, School of Retail Management, Symbiosis University of Applied Sciences, Indore said, “We offered elaborate training to our students to how to define problem statements, help companies in digitalization and frame revamp strategies from remote locations during their internships.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/virtual-internships-for-newbies-end-the-corporate-conundrum/articleshow/76015531.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 27, 2020||Pune||Signals start at key junctions, action against road rule violators through e-challan system||Pune: Traffic signals at key junctions across the city have started functioning from May 22, after two months of lockdown restrictions. Police said the move is aimed at securing better movement of vehicles as traffic has increased after the 7am to 7pm relaxation to travel. Of the 241 traffic signals, as many as 211 are functioning. Additional commissioner of police (traffic) Sanjay Shinde told TOI, “We have made traffic signals operational on all main roads in non-containment zones for reasons like sudden increase in the flow of vehicles, regulating traffic and preventing accidents. We shall also act against the vehicle users caught in gross violation of traffic rules.” DCP (traffic) Akkanouru Prasad P said, “The action against the traffic rule offenders will remain confined to CCTV-based e-challan system. We have to consider safety of our men involved in regulating traffic.” Citizens demanded the other signals should also be functional to prevent accidents. “With the number of vehicles increasing, it is essential to start other signals as well,” said Pramod Deshpande, a working professional from Kothrud. Several citizens claimed that a few were still violating the traffic signals. “People stop beyond the stop line or on zebra crossing and even drive past when the signal is red. As the city reopens, it is essential to send a clear message to people that traffic violators will not be spared,” said Vinay Pawar, a businessman. Road safety activist Harshad Abhyankar said, “People are not following signals as they do not see policemen. There should be a fear among people. It can only be instilled by random policing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/signals-start-at-key-junctions-action-against-road-rule-violators-through-e-challan-system/articleshow/76015526.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 27, 2020||Ludhiana||38 patients discharged from isolation wards||Ludhiana: 38 patients were discharged from the isolation wards, including two from the civil hospital, Khanna, and 35 from Mother and Child Hospital and one from the civil hospital, son Tuesday. Dr Rajinder Gulati, senior medical officer, said, “Two persons who were accused and admitted in isolation ward have tested negative. They have been handed back to the police.” 35 patients were discharged from Mother and Child Hospital, which include 32 RPF personnel and three others (one from Guru Nanak Nagar, one from Kanganwal and one from Railway Colony). Dr Rajesh Bagg,a Civil Surgeon said, “All these patients remained asymptomatic with stable vitals during their stay in the isolation ward and have been quite cooperative. They will now remain confined to home isolation at their residence for seven days and will be visited by a rapid response team daily from their respective areas.” “In these cases, a care taker of the patient at home will take hydroxychloroquine tablets as prophylaxis. Attendant of the patients were also counselled at the time of discharge and advised that the patient should strictly follow advisory for home isolation.” Bagga also informed that one patient, a 14-year-old girl from Haibowal, was discharged on Tuesday evening under new policy after remaining in isolation ward for about 10 days. Till date, total of 6,143 samples have been taken, of which reports of 5,845 have been received. Of these, reports of 5,701 samples are negative and reports of 182 samples are is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/38-patients-discharged-from-isolation-wards/articleshow/76015178.cms||Mehak Jain
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to continue 14-day quarantine of –ve persons even in case of peak||Nagpur: Even though asymptomatic corona positive persons are getting discharged without testing on 10th day, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has continued 14-day institutional quarantine of their high-risk contacts who have tested negative, and will continue to do so even if there is a spike in cases. The reason given for the decision is to avoid risk, contain spread of Covid-19, and end existing chains, as some patients tested positive in second samples.A person from Jawahar Nagar tested positive for Covid-19 on May 9. His high-risk contacts were quarantined and tested on May 10. Reports of all were negative. Their samples were taken again on May 23, on completion of 14 days, and the reports of two persons came positive on May 24.A NMC official told TOI, “The chain would have continued and Covid-19 might have spread if they were not kept under institutional quarantine. Therefore, we have taken a decision to continue institutional quarantine of high-risk contacts of positive persons. We have the infrastructure, so there’s no reason to take a risk,” he said.Earlier, some people from Gittikhadan, Kanhan, Mominpura, Satranjipura etc had tested negative in first sample and later positive in second samples in the district.While directing preparation of high capacity beds and hospitals for projected spike in cases, the state government had given an option to NMC to let persons who test negative go home, while keeping asymptomatic positive persons in Covid Care Centres (CCC), moderate severity patients in Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) and severe patients in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH). The option was also given to convert all institutional quarantine centres into CCC.NMC official said, “It would have been easy for us just to convert institutional quarantine into CCC but we decided to develop new CCC so that high-risk contacts of positive persons remain in quarantine for 14 days.”NMC and district administration had identified 21 institutional quarantine centres with capacity of 15,000, and many are in use like MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati, VNIT Hostels, Wathoda, flat scheme of police at Panchpaoli etc.The NMC team led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai and additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar had developed a new CCC with 5,000 beds capacity on Kalmeshwar Road. The plan is to develop two more CCCs as per requirement. As per projected peak, the city would require CCC with capacity of 6,668 beds.The development of new CCC also proves NMC’s decision to continue institutional quarantine centres.NMC had opposed implementation of new discharge policy. The DCHs — IGGMCH and GMCH — have implemented it and are discharging asymptomatic corona positive patients without testing on 10th day after taking affidavit of home isolation for seven days. The decision was taken as per new guidelines from the centre and state.Even pandemic specialist Dr Sanjay Zodpey, director of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), New Delhi, and member of one committee at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in his report had suggested that NMC continue tracing close contacts of positive persons and quarantine them by scaling up infrastructure. He said this should be one of the key measures in post-lockdown period to contain spread of Covid-19.NMC’s model to investigate close contacts, mass quarantine, and institutional quarantine for 14 days had helped keep mortality and cases low.NMC’s officials said the guidelines are to maintain 14-day institutional quarantine and further 14-day home quarantine for persons testing negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-continue-14-day-quarantine-of-ve-persons-even-in-case-of-peak/articleshow/75998035.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders Centre for fresh take on castor oil coating of pulses||Ahmedabad: The four-decade-old dispute between traditional method and modern scientific thinking has led the Gujarat high court order the central government to evaluate once again whether castor oil coating on tuver dal (pigeon pea) makes it adulterated and unsafe food and whether castor can be considered as preservative. The dispute over traditional way of using castor oil as preservative for pulses with the central government’s prohibition on the practice saw a new turn because the ministry of health and family welfare’s stand on the subject was contradicted by the central government’s own department of Council of Research in Ayurveda and Siddha. The latter’s opinion on use of castor oil was found quite opposite to the National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad. In the wake of conflicting opinions in two government departments, the high court has ordered the central government to take a fresh view on its position that use of castor oil as preservative for pulses is harmful to human health and hence it was prohibited.Since 1970s, the Gujarat Pulses Manufacturers’ Association has been fighting against the government’s stand that castor oil is not a preservative and hence its use for coating pulses should be banned. Since 1985, the association has been resisting Gujarat government’s insistence to ban the practice of applying castor oil coat on tuver dal. The government had been claiming that castor oil is not a preservative and hence its use makes tuver dal an adulterated food and hence it is an offence under the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954. In 2003, the Centre prohibited this coating practice. The association moved the HC against the decision and the practice was allowed to continue by a stay order. In 2006, the Centre brought out the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 further strengthening its position to prohibit the castor oil coating. Meanwhile, during the hearing before the high court, the association relied on traditional wisdom of castor oil coating of pulses. It claimed that people rinse pulses before cooking and therefore also it is not harmful. To counter this, the government cited the Hyderabad-based institute’s findings how castor oil is dangerous to human health, though it is also considered an Ayurveda medicine as laxative. However, the association turned the table by placing the before the court the opinion of Council of Research in Ayurveda and Siddha on castor oil. The HC has asked the Centre to come up with a final opinion on the subject within six months after consulting “competent authorities including Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha and National Institute of Nutrition as well as the concerned department of ministry of Ayush.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-centre-for-fresh-take-on-castor-oil-coating-of-pulses/articleshow/76015530.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Presidency alumni turn friends in need for Boipara||KOLKATA: Retired surgeon of UK’s National Health Service Nabakumar Basu is restless. Books floating in water and flattened stalls lining the two sides of College Street have prompted him to connect with friends across the globe to find out how funds can be generated to help re-build the book hub, which cradled his adolescence, youth and his intellectual foundation. Son of Samaresh Basu, one of Bengal’s best known fiction writers, Basu, too, is an author. He still spends hours on College Street on his frequent trips to home. Basu is just one of the many people whose reaction to the boipara destruction post Amphan is emotionally charged. College Street and the lanes and bylanes that open up from it , all dotted with tiny bookstores, have been more than just a location for generations. It’s no wonder that people have come together to raise funds to bring boipara back to life. The Presidency alumni have started their a crowdfunding initiative because it was around the periphery of the college-turned-university that a large number of the makeshift book stalls had been housed for ages. Some of the alumni behind the initiative are former state home secretary Prasad Ranjan Roy, former advocate general Jayanta Mitra and former CEO of Prasar Bharati Jawhar Sircar. “Alumni have been calling from abroad to find out how they can contribute. Ritendra Banerjee, a 1995 alumnus from the physiology department, who is now the group managing director at a leading data analytics firm in California is one of them,” said secretary of the alumni association Bivas Chaudhuri. The alumni proposed to rebuild 800 bookstalls by transferring Rs 3,000 to every owners’ bank account. The near-centurion, Mitra O Ghosh, has teamed up with crowdfunding agency Milaap to start the ‘Boi Para Relief Society’ to collect donations to help re-build as many stalls as possible. In four days, people with roots in the city donated a total of Rs 9 lakh to the fund, said Mitra O Ghosh spokesperson Indrani Roy Mitra. The Publishers and Booksellers Guild has, too, started a crowdfunding platform with SBI. Poet Srijato has also started a crowdfunding project, ‘Boi Parar Pashe’, with two poets Akash Ganguly and Susnato Chowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presidency-alumni-turn-friends-in-need-for-boipara/articleshow/76015532.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 27, 2020||Agra||Conscious decision to send trains on alternative longer routes: Rly officials on delays||AGRA: Amid many Shramik Special trains reaching their destinations late -- sometimes by days -- and causing hardships to passengers, many of whom ran out food and water during the excruciatingly long journeys, senior railway officials have now said it was their "conscious decision" to send trains on "alternative and longer routes". Rajesh Dutt Bajpai, executive director (media communication), Railway Board, told TOI,“Unreasonably delayed departures by the states where these trains originated caused an upset in the staggered route schedules of the special trains we had planned. We had to opt for alternative routes which were longer.” Since May 2, over 3,500 Shramik Special trains have been operated to ferry migrant workers to their home states by Indian Railways, out of which 80% were bound for UP and Bihar. However, in the past week, incidents like a train heading for Chhapra from Surat with 1,200 on board landing in Rourkela (Odisha) and another heading for Patna reaching Purulia (West Bengal) have raised eyebrows. TOI spoke to multiple railway officials about the peculiar cases and was told that "alternative but long routes actually helped the state administrations of the destinations to buy time" and arrange transport, food and medical facilities for the passengers. “When 75-80% of Shramik Special traffic is bound for UP and Bihar, congestion is bound to happen. On any given day, we are running 250-300 trains and the situation aggravates when the state where the trains originate is delaying the operation for several hours,” said a senior railway official whose traffic control team has been dispersing trains to UP and Bihar. “A 22 to 24-coach rake (train) is between 600-700 metres in length. When you run 150 such rakes on a particular track and they happen to be running at the same time due to late departures, a total of 105 km of distance is merely covered by the length of these trains. Such a situation leads to clogging at the destinations. Therefore, a conscious decision of sending these trains on long alternative routes was taken,” the official said. In railway jargon, this is referred to as route rationalization. According to railway route rationalization plan for Shramik Specials, trains coming from western railway zone stations such as Mumbai and Ahmedabad, and going to northern and north eastern railway zone stations such as Gorakhpur, Ballia, Mau, Deoria, Chhapra and Samastipur have been asked to travel via Palwal (Haryana), Ghaziabad and Moradabad. This is the longest route for trains bound for eastern UP and Bihar. Besides, the railways is also using Bilaspur (Jharkhand)-Jharsuguda-Rourkela (Odisha) route for Shramik Specials originating from Maharashtra and Gujarat and going to Bihar and UP. “We have massively revamped the train operations and are ensuring that trains don’t get delayed any further. Long journeys require provisions of food and water, which railways has arranged for the passengers,” Bajpai said. In an official statement issued on long train delays, the ministry of railways on Monday said, “The rail route congestion which was being witnessed on May 23 and 24 is over. The congestion had occurred due to convergence of more than two-thirds of rail traffic on routes to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and late clearance of the terminals due to health protocol set that needed to be completed by state authorities. The matter has resolved through active consultation with state governments and also finding other feasible routes for the journey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/conscious-decision-to-send-trains-on-alternative-longer-routes-rly-officials-on-delays/articleshow/76015180.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli health team takes Covid-19 awareness to Maoist den at Abujhmadh||Nagpur: A team of health officials under District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Shashikant Shambharkar defied acute hardship and potential threat to reach the farthest corner of the state, at Binagunda in Maoist-affected south Gadchiroli, to spread awareness about Covid-19 as part of a pre-monsoon survey among Madia tribe. The health team had to drive through forested stretches, cross riverine nullahs and also trudge kilometres to reach the villages in inhospitable terrain on hillocks. It was a five-km ordeal for the team under Dr Shambharkar and taluka health official Dr Milind Meshram. This area, around 250km away from Gadchiroli district headquarters, is also considered one of Asia’s most lethal belt for malaria. The tribal villages of Binagunda remain mostly cut-off during the monsoon. These hamlets are a part of Abujhmadh, spread across the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border, which is considered the Maoist headquarters. Dr Shambharkar is likely the first officer of his rank to visit these villages of Fodewada, Turaimarka and Binagunda, whose total population is less than 500. Under collector Deepak Singla, the district health team has been visiting different remote hamlets, especially the 450 that remain disconnected for four months during the monsoon, for anti-malarial check-ups, surveys and stocking medicines. This year, creating Covid awareness was an added agenda. “Since there had been a case of Covid in Bhamragarh, we felt taking the awareness as far and as deep would be helpful,” he said. Considered as highly sensitive area for security forces, these areas are a threat to other government officials also, as Maoists might kidnap them to force release of their comrades from jail. So, these villages are mostly avoided by senior officials. Possibility of blasts and firing at any point of time in these localities cannot be ruled out as Maoists fiercely guard their dens, where several top cadres camp in hideouts. Dr Shambharkar said three teams were working in different directions from Binagunda. “Three teams were formed. One went towards Kuwakori, Perimilbhatti and Pongasur while we had gone to Fodewada, Turaimarka and Beengagonda. One team was already camping there,” he said. Under Shambharkar, the medical check-ups were conducted of the ashramshala children, women and senior citizens. “Due to the involvement of our ASHA workers, the villagers already knew about corona. We explained more aspects of Covid to them in their language,” he said. Watch Health team in Maharashtra takes Covid-19 awareness to Maoist den at Chhattisgarh's Abujhmadh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-health-team-takes-covid-19-awareness-to-maoist-den-at-abujhmadh/articleshow/76015540.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU professor is Atal med varsity’s 1st VC||Lucknow: The head of plastic surgery department of King George’s Medical University, Prof AK Singh will be the first vice chancellor of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University. The announcement was made by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday in a tweet, stating that Prof. A K Singh has been appointed as the first vice chancellor of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University. According to official sources, 14 government medical colleges and 37 private ones will be affiliated to the university in first phase once it comes into existence, while nursing and paramedical colleges will get affiliated with it in the second phase. Construction of the university campus will start at Chak Ganjariya in Gosainganj soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-prof-is-atal-med-varsitys-1st-vc/articleshow/76016664.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Alipore zoo loses 40 trees; two enclosures ravaged, most animals left traumatised||KOLKATA: Even as animals have escaped unhurt, Cyclone Amphan has ravaged the Alipore Zoological Gardens extensively, taking a toll on the 50-acre patch of green in the middle of the city. The cyclone uprooted nearly 40 trees in the 144-year-old zoological garden, the oldest one in the country. Most of the trees felled by the cyclone there are around half-a-century old. The biggest loss is the 60-year-old iconic buddha narkel (coconut tree), an extremely rare breed that can only be found in two other places — Shibpur Botanical Gardens and Agri-Horticultural Society of India (AHSI) at Alipore. The other trees include mango, bakul, bot, jelibi, jarul and shegun. Established in 1876, the Alipore zoo has 1,100 animals, including tigers, lions, leopards, elephants, zebras, giraffes and a variety of exquisite birds brought from all over the world. While most of the animals were locked inside enclosures since morning, some like giraffes, deer, zebras and birds were out in the open when the cyclone had struck the city on May 20. “Since these animals can’t be locked inside and must be left in the open, they were extremely traumatized when Amphan hit the zoo on Wednesday evening. They started making noise throughout the night. From the next morning, the animals stopped eating and responding to us. But a week after the cyclone, they have now started behaving normally. Some of them have also eaten their proper diet on Tuesday,” Asis Samanta, director, Alipore Zoological Gardens, told TOI. The cyclone has also damaged the enclosures of deer and ostrich, on which the trees had fallen. Strangely, most of the uprooted trees have fallen on the other sides of the enclosures, some on the open spaces and the rest on the fences and boundary walls in five places. Samanta said, “Preliminary estimate pegs the loss at Rs 25 lakh. But the uprooted trees can’t be replaced or replanted. So, the loss is just not monetary.” The zoo’s gardening staffers have been working round the clock to clear the enclosures. “It will take around 15-20 days to clear the entire zoo and remove all the uprooted trees. Since there is no visitor due to the lockdown, we can concentrate on cleaning up the clutter throughout the day,” Samanta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alipore-zoo-loses-40-trees-two-enclosures-ravaged-most-animals-left-traumatised/articleshow/76015535.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to test home deaths in containment zones||Nagpur: In yet another proactive step, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started Covid-19 test of all suspicious home deaths in all containment zones. In the regular tests, five more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city, taking district’s tally to 434. NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “Any death in containment zone is considered as suspected case. Therefore, our team first inquires about symptoms before home death and then takes a decision. In case of any symptoms, the body is taken to IGGMCH or GMCH, and samples are tested for Covid-19. It will help containing spread of Covid-19,” he said. NMC zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “We have informed our teams on door-to-door survey in containment zones and also police to get details of persons who die at home. On Monday evening, we learnt about a home death in an area near Golibar Chowk, where some had tested positive earlier. We inquired and took the body to IGGMCH. Samples came negative on Tuesday and body was handed over to the family for cremation,” he said. Dr Khwaja also said this was the third such case in Mominpura containment zone. At present, 19 containment zones are in existence in the city. Apart from mass quarantine, the civic body had launched special testing camps for pregnant women, high-risk patients etc. Among five persons who tested positive on Tuesday, one is a 57-year-old resident of Hawrapeth, Onkar Nagar, in South Nagpur. He had fever for last couple of days and visited a private hospital which advised a test. His samples came positive from Dhruv Laboratory and he was admitted at AIIMS. Hawrapeth is likely to be a new containment zone. A 23-year-old pregnant woman from Tipu Sultan Chowk area in North Nagpur came for check-up at IGGMCH and tested positive. This area will be a new containment zone. Till now, over 20 pregnant women have tested positive for Covid-19, of which four delivered babies in isolation ward and got discharged. Thus, new cases from 11 non-containment zones were registered in last four days. A 35-year-old man from Pathan Chowk, Amravati, was admitted in a private hospital situated at Chhaoni Square six days ago following an accident. His samples were reportedly negative after admission. The doctors were supposed to perform surgery, so they tested him once again and samples came positive on Tuesday. He has now been admitted at GMCH. Nine doctors and staff from the hospital were quarantined at Vanamati. NMC closed down the hospital on temporary basis for fumigation. A 42-year-old man from Mominpura quarantined at Pachpaoli Centre tested positive in second samples. He reportedly refused to get admitted in isolation ward since he was negative in first samples. The NMC team somehow managed to admit him in IGGMCH isolation ward. The number of cases from Mominpura have increased to 226. A 23-year-old woman from Butibori quarantined at MLA Hostel also tested positive. A youth had returned from Mumbai and he along with his father got tested at AIIMS and came positive a couple of days ago. The latest case is from among their family members who were quarantined. One corona positive patient was discharged from IGGMCH, increasing total number of discharged persons to 353. With eight deaths, 73 are active cases and undergoing treatment at AIIMS, IGGMCH and GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-test-home-deaths-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76015538.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Man convicted of AQ links placed in home quarantine||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old engineer from the city, who had been convicted in USA for having links with Al-Qaeda, reached Hyderabad on Monday night after being deported from the United States on May 19. After reaching home, he was placed under quarantine. Family members of Mohammad Ibrahim Zubair, along with Cyberabad police went to Nagpur and brought him to his residence in Hasmathpet, Alwal. “He has been placed under home quarantine at his family’s flat in Hasmathpet,” Cyberabad police said. A resident of Moghulpura, he finished his graduation in engineering from Osmania University and later moved to USA in 2001 to pursue higher education. Subsequently in 2006, he married a US national. Zubair was convicted by a US grand jury in 2011 and sentenced to five years imprisonment after he pleaded guilty of providing material support to Al-Qaeda leader Anwar al-Awlaki. “There are no cases against him in India. Once the quarantine period is over, we will question him,” said a Telangana police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-convicted-of-aq-links-placed-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/76015536.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases rise to 401 in Uttarakhand as samples pile up||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported 44 new cases on Tuesday, 13 of them passengers of the Mumbai-Haridwar Shramik Special Express. With this, the tally of Covid-19 cases reached 401 in the state. According to the health department, three people were found positive in Dehradun, while Nainital (the district with the most coronavirus cases so far) reported 10 cases on May 26. Haridwar reported six new cases, among them a government hospital nurse and a 9-year-old child. Apart from these, six new cases were reported from Tehri, two from Udham Singh Nagar, three from Almora and as many as 14 from Pithoragarh. On Tuesday, the coronavirus recovery rate dropped to 16 per cent, with 329 active cases in the state. Meanwhile, the state is grappling with the problem of Covid-19 test samples piling up. Samples collected as far back as May 16 haven’t been tested yet. Even as three out of four Covid-19 laboratories in Uttarakhand are conducting pool tests, reports of 3,500 samples are awaited in the state as of Tuesday. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) and Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani are conducting pool testing . Harish Thapliyal, the PRO of AIIMS Rishikesh said , “We have around 1,200 samples pending from May 20 to 24 and are deep freezing the rest of the samples given \after that. Scarcity of kits was one of the prime reasons behind slow testing.” Dr Pankaj Pandey of the health and family welfare department said that the reason for delay in arrival of reports was because more sampling is being done. “We are doing our best to deliver test results faster. We also plan to allow some private labs in the city, which have proper facilities, to conduct Covid-19 tests,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-rise-to-401-in-state-as-samples-pile-up/articleshow/76015184.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone spells more trouble for locked-down Sunderbans||Gosaba: Cyclone Amphan had swamped her land and blew away a part of her home in the world’s largest mangroves. A week on, Arita Singha, 26, still lives under the open sky with her aged in-laws and two children and stares at an uncertain future. Even as the family is grappling to cope with the destruction unleashed by Amphan, there is no news of her husband Biswajit who works in a hosiery factory in Tirupur in Tamil Nadu and has been stuck there due to lockdown. “The cyclone has dealt multiple blows to our family. It has not only rendered us homeless but there is also no news of my husband who has not been able to return to the village due to lockdown. When I last spoke to him a day before Amphan struck he told me he has run out of all the money and was surviving on food provided by a local NGO,” said Singha, casting a sad glance over her three cottahs of land flooded by water from river Gomor during the cyclone last week. In Sunderbans, Arita’s story is echoed in every home or under every temporary hutment put together by tarpaulin sheets and bamboo poles. When Cyclone Amphan struck Bengal on Wednesday it hurled on Sunderbans with such fierce intensity that it wiped away large swathes of the world’s largest mangroves in a matter of few minutes, destroying lives, cattle and properties alike. Every morning brings a fresh set of ordeals for the 300 families of Satjelia, Gosaba, Luxmipur and Jatirampur as high tides flood their battered homes and fields with saline waters of Bidya and Gomor forcing them to take refuge on the breached embankments. “The saline water has not receded in the past few days totally destroying the land. It will take us years to cultivate crops on this land again,” said Singha. The plight of Singha and other residents of Sunderbans, a fragile Unesco World Heritage Site, highlights the challenges of the humanitarian response to Cyclone Amphan that swept through the state, killing almost 90 people, ravaging infrastructure and leaving thousands homeless in several districts. The water covering vast tracts of land in the archipelago has not receded increasing the risk of outbreak of diseases even as locals grapple with Covid-19, the size of the disaster zone makes getting aid to the most needy difficult. “The local representatives have not even come here once to survey the extent of damage. In a time like this we need the support of the government to even make an attempt to get our lives back on track. But in the absence of even proper drinking water and food, we are losing precious time to salvage our losses,” said Rathin Haldar, a resident of Gosaba. Arita, Rathin and other residents have survived the fury of the cyclone for the time being but the road ahead for them is full of uncertainties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-spells-more-trouble-for-locked-down-sunderbans/articleshow/76015542.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s greenest stretch changes forever||KOLKATA: Southern Avenue, arguably the greenest road in Kolkata, has turned grey after losing over 300 full-grown trees and hundreds of smaller trees, plants, saplings and creepers. A week after Amphan ravaged the city, a reality check revealed that the once dense, impenetrable canopy over Southern Avenue has become porous with wide openings. “The sight is unbearable for me. I have grown up seeing these trees. As I walked around in my locality, I unknowingly developed a relationship with them. Their presence soothed my frayed nerves and revived my childhood memories. With their disappearance, a part of my existence, my memories were erased brutally,” said Subhasish Mazumdar, a resident of Keyatala Road. Some 20 odd trees got uprooted in and around the Keyatala Road-Southern Avenue intersection and kept both the flanks blocked for three days. From Golpark to SP Mukherjee Road, the 3km stretch bears telltale signs of Amphan. There is hardly any stretch — either on the sidewalk or in the boulevard — where trees have not got uprooted. “Even smaller plants were not spared, as if a giant hand tore apart everything came on its way. A big tree fell on my house,” said Prabir Bose, who grew up and still lives on Southern Avenue. “The selection of tree species was wrong when the Left Front government zealously started re-planting trees in the early 80s in an attempt to widen the road. Some trees were on the chopping block. During the plantation drive, the focus was on faster growth, not the sustainability of the trees,” said Subhas Datta, city’s foremost green crusader. The tree species destroyed by Amphan include Krishnachura, Radhachura, kadam, bakul, karamcha, pakur, akasia, bottle brush, fishtail chapa, dumur, subabul and many other varieties, said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, an environment activist who stays close to the avenue. “It is not easy to restore the amount of greenery lost. But there should be well-calibrated ways for plantation. Species must be indigenous, the spots of plantation must not interfere with underground utilities. There must be significant gap between two trees,” suggested Datta. “We need to have more indigenous fruit bearing trees. We also need to desist from carrying out pruning during Durga Puja as this is the mating season of the biodiversity. We have to adopt scientific pruning of trees,” said Raja Chatterjee, an wildlife expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citys-greenest-stretch-changes-forever/articleshow/76015181.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 27, 2020||Ludhiana||PSIEC MD visits cycle valley at Dhanansu village||Ludhiana: Sumeet Jarangal, managing director, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), along with senior officials of the corporation and other government departments visited the site of the hi-tech Cycle Valley at Dhanansu village, near here, on Tuesday. S K Rai, vice-chairman of Hero Cycles Limited and other senior officials of the company were also present on the occasion. The company officials highlighted some important issues requiring PSIEC’s attention. Speaking on the occasion, Jarangal said, “The PSIEC has embarked upon its ambitious project of development of hi-tech Cycle Valley on an area of 380 acres, out of which 100 acres had already been allotted to Hero Cycle Limited on December 21, 2018. The possession of the site has been delivered on April 14, 2019. The company has already constructed a boundary wall and a site office, whereas internal development of the plot is in progress. Further, the company is striving hard to commence the commercial production much before the target period of three years i.e. by April 13, 2022. Upon completion of the project by Hero Cycles, the company will generate employment opportunities for 3,000-5,000 persons.” He further said that to provide un-interrupted power supply to this cycle valley, 30 acres have been allotted to the PSPCL for setting up of 400KVA sub-station. The work of internal development of remaining 250 acres i.e. concrete roads, storm drains, sewerage, electrical trench and water supply network has been started at the site and will be completed within 15 months i.e. up to August 31, 2021. The construction of a concrete approach road and a high level bridge over Buddha Nullah is in progress and the same will be completed by December 31. He added that the PSIEC was now planning to put up a 50-acre undeveloped chunk of land on e-auction very soon. All-out efforts are being made to make up for the delay that occurred due to the curfew/lockdown owing to Covid-19. Various executing agencies were given targeted timelines for completion of the project and timely inputs by the corporation were also ensured .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/psiec-md-visits-cycle-valley-at-dhanansu-village/articleshow/76015182.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Government seeks clean chit for Civil Hospital; Gujarat HC says it’s too early||AHMEDABAD: Disturbed with the observations made by the Gujarat high court about the mess in the Civil Hospital and questioning involvement of the health minister, the Gujarat government rushed to the court on Monday, a holiday, to say that all is well with the Civil Hospital and the minister and health secretary are working hard. The state government took exception to the HC observation that the Civil Hospital is worse than a dungeon and claimed that the observations based on anonymous letter were “seriously demoralizing the Covid-19 task force” and “has given rise to a lot of fear and anxiety in the patients, who are declining to get admitted in the Civil Hospital.” The government told the HC that everything is alright with the Civil Hospital, there is absolutely no grievance on part of resident doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, ward boys and the patients are all content with the health services. There was a problem in the hospital in April, but issues were addressed immediately. It urged the HC to make “suitable observations” so that it inspire confidence in the mind of a person who wants treatment for Covid-19 at the Civil Hospital. The government claimed that the anonymous letter by a resident doctor does not reflect true and correct picture and is in contrast to the report given by the senior doctors from Delhi. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said that what the government said about the hospital is a reality, “then we appreciate the same. Prima facie, it appears from the materials which has been placed on record that due and proper care is being taken for the treatment of the COVID¬19 patients”. The HC said further, “However, the matter does not end over here. It is too early for this court to give any final certificate to the state government as regards the Civil Hospital at Ahmedabad. There are many problems which the State Government needs to look into closely and try to resolve the same at the earliest in the larger interest of the people of Gujarat, more particularly, the city of Ahmedabad.” Committee of senior doctors examining Civil issues: Jadeja Gandhinagar: Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state (MoS), home and law, said that following directions from the high court, the state government has formed a committee of senior doctors to look into issues raised by resident doctors and other staff at the Asarwa Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. “A committee comprising of Dr Pankaj Shah, Dr Tejas Patel, Dr Atul Patel and Dr Harish Doshi has been formed to look in to the issues raised by resident doctors and other staff. These doctors filed a report in the high court expressing satisfaction over the action taken by the government and facilities at the Ahmedabad civil hospital,” the minister said. He added, “The state government also invited the high court to visit Civil Hospital to experience the facilities provided by the government and the high court has accepted it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-seeks-clean-chit-for-civil-hc-says-its-too-early/articleshow/76015550.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Panel says all’s well at Civil, HC orders inquiry||Ahmedabad: The state government told the Gujarat high court that the three-member inquiry committee looking into the allegations of mismanagement at Civil Hospital has declared that everything is well with the hospital. Last week, the HC set up a committee of three Civil Hospital doctors – Ami Parish, Advait Thakore and Bipin Amin – and asked it to inquire into the grievances expressed in a tabulated note that suggested solutions. The government said that the note was circulated in the first week of May and since then, things have been rectified at the hospital. The committee has given a clean chit to the hospital management on all counts. Besides, the anonymous letter to the Gujarat high court by a resident doctor describing the pathetic condition of Civil Hospital and the resident doctors’ distress remained a bone of contention in the urgent proceedings on Monday. The government dubbed it incorrect and the HC found that it was “the most disturbing feature of this litigation”. The HC rebuked the government for dismissing the anonymous letter as “rubbish”, saying, “We expected the government to look into the contents of the letter very closely so as to take appropriate steps at the earliest, but it seems that the state government has dismissed it as rubbish.” On its anonymity, the court said, “No resident doctor will muster the courage of coming forward disclosing his identity for the purpose of redressing such grievances.” Looking at the clean chit, the HC ordered an independent probe into the anonymous letter by reputed city doctors not connected to Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/panel-says-alls-well-at-civil-hc-orders-inquiry/articleshow/76015548.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Buses to ply on 40 Kolkata routes from today||KOLKATA: In a move towards easing transportation woes, West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) will start bus operations on 40 major routes, covering most of workplaces, markets, healthcare, business and banking districts from Wednesday. However, the services will be available from 7am to 7pm and the passengers and the operators will have to follow Covid-19 safety protocols and social distancing norms. WBTC has already procured PPE kit, gloves, masks for bus drivers and conductors. There is bus-disinfection protocol to be followed after the completion of every trip. Instead of pressing fixed number of buses on a particular route, WBTC is planning to make the services dynamic, thanks to its ability to track real-time demand. Keeping in mind the heightening travel demand with workplaces being thrown open, the resumption of services will alleviate the commuting trauma of office-goers, said a transport department officer. Buses will ply with 50% passengers. WBTC MD Rajanvir Singh Kapur said: “More routes have been increased to meet the increased demand of commuters.” Earlier, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had hinted that near-normal situation would be restored from May 27, with all shops, except those in the malls and containment zones, will be thrown open. Most of the business establishments can now operate with 50% workforce. In the dynamic service system, WBTC will closely monitor the real-time demand of buses and accordingly scale up or scale down the number of buses on those routes. This ensures maximum utilization of fleet and effective deployment of buses on routes where demand peaks at a particular time, said a WBTC officer. This will also be a kind of warm-up exercise for WBTC before full-scale operations are resumed on June 1. “This is why we will keep a watch on routewise passenger demand,” said the officer. However, private buses are unlikely to resume services on May 27. So, the STU will have to take the load of the huge demand of passengers. Bus operations will also resume in south Bengal on Wednesday. South Bengal State Transport Corporation MD Godala Kiran Kumar said, “From May 27, we will run 750 buses on all south Bengal routes from 5am to 7pm, complying with all Covid-19 restrictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buses-to-ply-on-40-city-routes-from-today/articleshow/76015185.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Cablemen for all seasons come to rescue of city neighbourhoods||Kolkata: Local cablemen have proved to be a Godsend in the present time of crisis, helping in removal of the wires left on roads by Cyclone Amphan. Even as cable connections remain disconnected or continue to flicker on and off across large parts of Kolkata, the operators’ men have started removing the wires to hasten their job. It has helped in opening of the blocked roads, enabling CESC men to do their clean-up and restoration work faster. In vast areas of south Kolkata, for instance, uprooted trees have left cable wires tangled with branches and lampposts. Till they could be removed from the electrical posts, power restoration couldn’t begin. At the Lord’s crossing on Prince Anwar Shah Road, cablemen were the first to disentangle their wires that helped the chopping of felled trees. As a result, several blockages along Prince Anwar Shah Road could be freed early on Sunday. Similar efforts by cablemen were seen along Harish Mukherjee Road, Paddapukur Road, Elgin Road and NSC Bose Road. At several intersections along these roads, cablemen were the first to swing into action. “Of all the agencies working now, we were the first to reach. Our restoration job started on Thursday morning, hours before tree-chopping had started. By Friday, almost 80% of the snapped cables had been removed in vast stretches of south Kolkata. Unfortunately, that didn’t lead to restoration of cable connections at most places since uprooted trees and lampposts prevented re-installation,” said Tapash Das of Ideal Cable Operators’ Association. Even as protests and roadblocks continued, demanding restoration of power, cable lines returned steadily across parts of Tollygunge, New Alipore, Kasba, Chetla and Rashbehari Avenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cablemen-for-all-seasons-come-to-rescue-of-city-neighbourhoods/articleshow/76015543.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 27, 2020||Goa||Grade separator will ease airport traffic woes: CM||Vasco: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday morning inaugurated the Rs 41-crore grade separator in front of the Goa International Airport at Dabolim. The grade separator, which is formed by a 686m approach road towards Verna and a 579m flyover on the Mangor side, along with the slip road, is expected to solve traffic problems outside the airportby easing traffic movement towards the airport from Verna and Vasco. It will also prevent congestion near the traffic signal in front of the airport. “This project was started by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar but it could not be completed while he was alive. There were many obstacles, but eventually everything was sorted out,” said Sawant. “Many will criticize the inauguration of this grade separator amid the pandemic and lockdown, but there are many such projects waiting to get inaugurated and should not be kept pending as Goa should move forward and achieve all-round development,” Sawant added. Panchayats minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho requested that the beautification of the grade separator be taken up. Remembering Parrikar, Godinho said, “He gave me four important projects— the sub-district hospital at Chicalim, the grade separator, first modern panchayat Ghar at Chicalim and a joggers park.” He also stated that Chicalim will soon get a garbage treatment plant, like the one at Saligao one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grade-separator-will-ease-airport-traffic-woes-cm/articleshow/76018469.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Dehradun||Gen-OBC employees’ body to move court over reservation roster||DEHRADUN: As the government offices have been allowed to re-open, the issues of changes made in the reservation roster for direct recruitment has once again come into limelight. State’s General-OBC Employees Association, which has been opposing the move, has said that the decision is “against norms” while adding that they will challenge it in the court. Deepak Joshi, president of the association, told TOI, “There is a percentage of quota already provided in government jobs to SC/ST candidates but if the first vacancy is reserved for them, it will clearly violate the norms. We have decided to send a memorandum to the CM and also meet him on the issue.” He added that the matter had been put on backseat due to Covid-19. “However, we have to take up this matter seriously now. If the government does not listen to us, we will approach court,” he added. In government jobs, the state provides 19% reservation to the SC community, 4% reservation is given to the ST community, a 10% reservation is given to people from financially weak backgrounds, and 14% reservation is availed by OBC candidates. On the recommendation of a committee headed by Uttarakhand transport minister Yashpal Arya, the state, in September 2019, had announced a new roster for direct recruitment. According to which, the first position was given to general candidate and the sixth was for SC category. This led to large-scale protests by candidates from the SC community who termed it an attempt to sideline them in government jobs. After much hue and cry, the state government formed a sub-committee headed by urban development minister Madan Kaushik. On the recommendation of the sub-committee, the state government on March 19, 2020, reverted to the previous order by overruling the change made in 2019. Virendra Gosain, general secretary of the organisation said, “We held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the issue and we have unanimously decided to approach the court, if the state government does not listen to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gen-obc-employees-body-to-move-court-over-reservation-roster/articleshow/76015183.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘We kept waiting for medical help for 2 hours’||LUCKNOW: Test report of quarantined migrant worker who died on Sunday following high fever was negative for coronavirus infection. The worker’s family and villagers, however, demanded action against those responsible for negligence which allegedly led to his death. Yaar Mohammad (21), nephew of the deceased migrant Taj Mohammad of Bahrauli village, said his uncle returned from Mumbai on May 10 and quarantined in a school. Taj worked in a steel vessels factory in Mumbai was the lone bread-earner of the seven-member family. “He had influenza-like symptoms for last 10 days but officers did not take action despite several complaints. On Sunday, we called 108 ambulance service but we ourselves had to carry him to the vehicle without PPE kits as ambulance staff did not cooperate and kept waiting at Balrampur hospital for two hours before doctors came and pronounced him brought dead. We then waited for an hour to shift body to the mortuary,” he claimed. The families of 12 people including a pregnant women in quarantine in the school alleged they had to give food to their dear ones through the window. The centre lacked sanitization too. “We complained to lekhpal and tehsildar but to no avail,” said Mohammad. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “A three-member committee has submitted a probe report. Action will be taken soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/we-kept-waiting-for-med-help-for-2-hrs/articleshow/76016712.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||After 154 hrs, our patience is running out||One hundred and fifty four not out. Well, that’s not a batting score for Rohit Sharma or Smriti Mandhana but the number of hours we have spent without power at home till late on Tuesday.Even as a week has passed since the cyclone left the city, power is yet to be restored at our home. My four-year-old daughter has turned jittery and life has become extremely difficult without power. While a neighbour from the next apartment that has power gave us a direct connection from their house to use a bulb and table fan, other neighbours opened their doors to us for using their electrical gadgets, including refrigerators, mixer grinders and power sockets. These days, my husband has done everything, from visiting the CESC office to running after the local councillor and even participating in road blockades, but nothing has happened. The CESC men have restored temporary power connection in some households but our apartment was left out for some reasons unknown. I still have patience, but if nothing happens in a day or two, I will have to shift to a relative’s place with my daughter. (The 34-year-old Thakurpukur homemaker spoke to Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-154-hrs-our-patience-is-running-out/articleshow/76015546.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Surat||Desperate to meet girlfriend in Valsad, teen dresses as woman; caught||SURAT: Love ke liye kuch bhi karega! While this mad-in-love teenager did not take any unpleasant step, he decided to dress up as a woman and go to meet his girlfriend in Pardi town of Valsad. However, 19-year-old’s assumption that police would not check women proved wrong as the cops caught him, that too in the dead of the night. At around 2.40am on Tuesday, police noticed someone in Punjabi dress and face covered with dupatta moving around on a moped on Bhoslapada-Pariya Road. Initially, cops did not stop the rider thinking it was a woman. But after sometime when he crossed the spot again, he was stopped for questioning. Thinking she was a woman, cops asked ‘her’ the reason for moving around so late. As he did not speak and tried to communicate using hand gestures fearing that he would be exposed, police got more suspicious and asked the person to remove the dupatta. “His face was also covered with mask and dupatta. He was wearing a proper Punjabi dress and it was difficult to find out that a man was wearing woman’s clothes. Under the dress, he was wearing pant and t-shirt,” said Pardi police station officials. During questioning, he told police that he dressed up as woman to avoid being caught by the police as well as by his girlfriend’s parents. A resident of Motiwad Fatak, the teen was booked under Indian Penal Code for violation of order issued under public notification, negligent act that can spread disease, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act, 2005. He was released on bail on Tuesday evening. The teen works in a a local industry. Even as lockdown has been relaxed in most parts of Gujarat, barring the containment zones, curfew has been clamped from 7pm and 7am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/desperate-to-meet-girlfriend-teen-dresses-as-woman-caught/articleshow/76015187.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t leave the dead, test them for Covid-19: Telangana HC to government||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the state to test all those who die in government hospitals for Covid-19 before releasing the bodies. The state must ascertain whether the virus affected them or not, a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said and added that not conducting enough tests was like inviting a Trojan horse in your midst. The judges gave the order while hearing a batch of PILs accusing the state of conducting very few tests. They sought to know from the state, and particularly from Suryapet and Nirmal district collectors, the number of tests they had conducted. They also wanted to know the reasons and basis for changing the zones of the two districts from red to orange to green. The bench pointed out that Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Maharashtra and AP were testing many more of their citizens and asked it to increase the number of tests to arrest the spread of the virus. “Financial constraints cannot be cited as a reason when it comes to saving lives of people from a pandemic,” said the Chief Justice. “Increase the number of tests and give us the details, including the ones you conducted on migrants and asymptomatic.” The advocate general has been asked to table a report by June 4. Terming the number of tests by Telangana as very low, the bench set aside a circular issued on April 20, 2020, that said that there was no need for testing the dead. “Unless you ascertain facts, how do you deal with the situation?” the bench asked. “If the body tests positive, it carries a danger of spreading the virus to all those who come close to it including kin and those who carry it for cremation.” Chikkudu Prabhakar, the counsel for professor P L Visweswara Rao, one of the petitioners, wanted the state to follow World Health Organisation norms. Advocate general B S Prasad said that the state had been following ICMR norms and those of the Centre’s health and family welfare departments. “Even a mighty state such as the US fell prey to the coronavirus and has lost close to one lakh of its people despite possessing the best medical infrastructure,” the bench said. “We cannot afford to sit back and relax. We have to strengthen our infrastructure. Doing less number of tests in a densely populated country is like inviting a Trojan Horse,” the bench said and sought details of migrant workers coming to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-leave-the-dead-test-them-for-covid-hc-to-t/articleshow/76016730.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Busy stretches to become more pedestrian-friendly||Coimbatore: A few months after temporarily developing Big Bazaar Street and Raja Street to provide more space for pedestrians and regulate traffic movement, the city corporation has decided to develop a few crowded stretches based on the tactical urbanism concept. Corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar on Tuesday said they would come up with a permanent design based on the feedback on the pilot project. “A total of Rs 4.5 crore is allocated to redevelop Big Bazaar Street under the smart city missions.” He said they would create eco-mobility corridor with exclusive non-motorized transport (NMT) infrastructure benefitting about 5 lakh people for a total of 30km, NMT routes for about 300km and 26 pedestrian hotspots that would benefit more than 10 lakh people. Sravan Kumar was speaking at a virtual programme titled instant street interventions for safe walking and cycling. The event was organized by the smart city mission and ITDP India programme in association with the World Bank and GIZ smart-SUT programme. Pointing out that social distancing has become the new norm of day, the corporation commissioner said it was imperative to enforce safety measures at crowded areas, including footpath and markets. When a lion’s share of road users are pedestrians and cyclers, priority should be given to them, he said. Explaining that about 60% of the city population was dependent on public transportation and non-motorized transport, he said close to 1 lakh people were using cycles in 2011. “Now, more people have started using cycles. With 2 million population, the city sees about 30 lakh trips a day.” During the pilot study that was carried out on Big Bazaar Street and Raja Street, the city corporation had increased the footpath area to 34% of the total road space from the earlier 10%, while the bus corridor was reduced to single lane. “There are safe pedestrian crossings and the overall movement of traffic has become smoother.” Aswathy Dilip, senior programme manager, ITDP Indian programme, said, “If we don’t act now, physical distancing might become a challenge and our streets might become a hotspot for transmission of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/busy-stretches-to-become-more-pedestrian-friendly/articleshow/76015552.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Shooed by making noise, locusts would be ready for breeding soon||Nagpur: On Tuesday afternoon, small swarms of locust were seen in a farm at Kalmeshwar, 25 kms from the city. The pests did not stay there for long as farmers were able to shoo them away by making noise. Director of Centre of Sericulture and Biological Pest Management of Nagpur University, Manoj Rai said the locusts had just entered maturity stage. “The insects would be ready for breeding in a week,” he said. Rai, with whom TOI went to the site of havoc, said, “Since the insects were in the pre-breeding stage, it indicates that the egg-laying has happened close by. It can be anywhere between 100 to 200 kms from Kalmeshwar.” A researcher on locusts, Rai was part of a Canadian-funded project on the pest problem in Gujarat from 1984-90. He also had a stint in International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology in Kenya. Nagpur University’s centre has been conducting laboratory research on locust since 1990s. “The locusts were still tender which means that they haven’t flown enough for their muscles to harden. This indicates that the insects have bred somewhere close-by and have found a new breeding ground which was so far known to be only in the arid areas of Gujarat and Rajasthan along the Pakistan border,” he said. Locust eggs take 11-12 days to hatch. The eggs are laid in marshy areas. Once out, the insects cannot fly for 40 days and are called hoppers. “The 40-day period is divided into five phases. The insects begin flying the day after wings emerge, initially only for distances,” said Rai. The hoppers remain in confined vicinity till they are able fly. “Now the challenge is to find out the egg laying areas and destroy the pest. A female locust can lay eggs multiple times after one copulation,” said Rai. Sunil Konde, at whose farm the pest was seen, said that at around 1pm he saw a few swarm heading towards his field. “I quickly asked the workers to make noise and in 15 minutes the pests were gone. Strangely they were flying against the wind,” said Konde, who is also an etymologist. He said the swarms went towards Mohpa and towards Nagpur-Amravati highway. Zilla Parishad member and NCP leader Salil Deshmukh said he had alerted the authorities after the swarms were spotted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shooed-by-making-noise-locusts-would-be-ready-for-breeding-soon/articleshow/76015547.cms||Shishir Arya
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Glad to know health minister is active’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has said that it is good that the health minister is active, but it is his duty to ensure public health in this time of the Covid-19 pandemic. The court also said that it is the time for the state government to establish that Civil Hospital is not only the largest hospital in Asia, but also the best one. The HC said so when the state government rushed to the court on Monday, two days after the HC castigated the administration for the Civil Hospital mess, and asserted that the health minister visited the hospital campus five times and the health secretary visited the campus on 20 occasions. The HC had questioned whether the minister had visited the hospital at all. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora was not impressed with the defence and said, “We are glad to know that the health minister of the state is active and taking keen interest in the administration of Civil Hospital. It is otherwise also the bounden duty of the health minister to ensure public health. As a health minister of the state, he shoulders huge responsibilities. It is expected of the health minister to discharge his responsibilities.” On the state government’s insistence on a clean chit to Civil Hospital administration, the HC said, “The state of Gujarat should not hesitate to take stern action against any erring officials found to be negligent or careless in discharge of his duties. This is the only way the state government will be able to repose confidence in the mind of a common man.” Comparison with France, Italy Ahmedabad: The state government has compared the Gujarat condition with the ones prevailing in France and Italy, one of the worst affected countries in the world. The state government’s clarification application reads, “While comparing the State of Gujarat with countries like Italy and France, the population of which is similar and where the available medical facilities are very much superior to that available in the State, yet the rise in number of COVID-19 cases has been substantially slow in the State as compared to the said countries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/glad-to-know-health-minister-is-active/articleshow/76015567.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Heaved a sigh of relief after five days||I was exasperated, scared, nervous and pained to see my elder sister Mallar Mitra (65) lying on her bed without any suction and nebulisation support for more than five days. My sister, a former professor of archaeology at Calcutta University, has been in semi-comatose since she suffered a brain stroke in August last year. The power supply got snapped around 6pm on May 20 in the Jodhpur Park locality where I live with her. I knew that the power cut happened due to the cyclone and I was hoping that it would be back at least by the next morning. But that did not happen and I became very worried. My sister cannot speak. On looking at her face, I could sense that she had been in extreme discomfort. She started putting in more efforts to breathe through the oxygen support. As she also started sweating profusely, the nurse shifted her from one room to another for some more air. By Sunday evening, I felt she started sinking slowly. But with none of the monitoring devices working, the nurse too was nervous and clueless. I kept calling up the police and local councillor but no help came in. I feared that I would lose her. But the fighter that she has always been through her life, she kept going. The power supply was restored around 7.30pm on Monday, much to our relief. (The Jodhpur Park resident spoke to Sumati Yengkhom)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/heaved-a-sigh-of-relief-after-five-days/articleshow/76015553.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Goa class X paper goof: DoE cracks whip against four teachers||PANAJI: Taking a stern view of the controversial contents in the Class X English question paper, the directorate of education (DoE) on Tuesday shot orders to managements of three aided schools to take action against their teachers engaged as paper-setters by the state board. In the case of the fourth paper-setter, a memo has been issued as the teacher is working for a government school. Director of education Vandana Rao has asked the school managements and the government school teacher to respond within seven days, an official said. An inquiry by education secretary Nila Mohanan is also expected to be held. Here, the chairman and secretary of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will also be asked for an explanation, sources said. The Class X English question paper, which over 19,000 students answered on May 23, was found to have several errors and touched on many controversial issues. The most widely-criticized was a conversation provided as part of grammar-related question, where it was suggested that opting for a Portuguese passport is a good choice as jobs are scarce in Goa and cannot be bagged without use of influence or bribery. The DoE initiated action on Tuesday after chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant held a meeting with Mohanan and Rao. “In the case of aided schools, the teachers are the employees of the management and so the DoE cannot directly act against them. Therefore, chairmen of the three school managements have been issued instructions to act against the teachers,” an official said. Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said that a separate inquiry into the matter by the board is on. “We have initiated the process of inquiring into the matter and our investigation is on,” said Samant. For each paper of the Class X and XII public exam, the board engages four or more teachers who set around five question papers depending on the subject. One of these question papers is picked, and only a chief of the panel of paper setters scrutinizes the selected paper. No other checks are carried out in-between, to ensure confidentiality. Former chairman of Goa Board PR Nadkarni said that as teachers from aided schools are only requisitioned by the board for the public exam work, the board cannot directly enforce any major penalty on the teachers. “In the 1981 marks scandal, barely any action was taken against the teachers indicted. In fact, one was awarded a state award in later years. During my term as chairman, too, we had suggested major penalties for malpractices against teachers of aided schools, but I saw no action being taken by school managements,” said Nadkarni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-x-paper-goof-doe-cracks-whip-against-four-teachers/articleshow/76027960.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: May issue stricter SOP for those coming from Maharashtra, says CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that the state government is mulling over introducing a more stringent standard operating procedure (SOP) for persons entering the state from Maharashtra. He said that the government is thinking in that direction since 90% of Goa’s Covid-19 positive cases are those who came from Maharashtra. “We are thinking of having a separate SOP for those coming in from Maharashtra,” Sawant told reporters on Tuesday. However, he said that for now, the SOP that has been issued by the state government (on Sunday) shall continue to be in operation. He said that the state government has commenced communication with the Union railways and civil aviation ministries regarding its fear of more cases from Maharashtra. “After discussions, we may issue a new SOP for those entering from Maharashtra,” he said. Meanwhile, the CM said that the government expects all active Covid-19 cases in the state to recover. “The situation in Goa is under control,” he said. “Not a single person living in Goa has been found positive. Our patients are those who came to Goa by rail, road or air. Till date, we don’t have community transmission. Goa is safe and in the Green Zone.” On Sunday, the state government issued a revised SOP for all travellers entering the state. According to it, all entrants, irrespective of mode of transport, have the option of providing a Covid-19 negative certificate from a laboratory approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to avoid being tested in the state. Those who do not possess the certificate have two options — pay Rs 2,000 and get a test done, or be sent to 14-day home quarantine. Explaining how this works, Sawant had said, “After their samples are taken, they will be given a protocol which they will have to follow, including home quarantine, social distancing, and not mixing with people. If the sample tests positive, they will be admitted to the Covid-19 hospital and their family members will be placed in facility quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-may-issue-stricter-sop-for-those-coming-from-maha/articleshow/76016725.cms||Murari Shetye
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Hotels cashing in on paid quarantine option for flyers||Coimbatore: From a time when multiple cab services set up kiosks outside the airport to fish for passengers, hotels are now trying to attract passengers with “paid quarantine” options. Hotels are marketing the quarantine option through the district administration. The paid quarantine option has provided them with a small revenue stream at a time when business has taken a body blow, apart from providing relief to passengers afraid of being sent to a government facility.Officials from public health department said at least 120 of the 364 passengers arriving at the airport and instructed to quarantine themselves on Monday chose “paid quarantine” in one of the city’s hotels. At least 40 of the 185-odd passengers who arrived in the first half of Tuesday also chose this option. “We offer hotels in three pricing grades, Rs 1,500, Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,500 to Rs 6,000. We allow passengers to choose their options. Around 18 hotels have come forward agreeing to quarantine passengers,” said Ganesh of Express Holidays, who is coordinating this initiative as a social service mission.The hotels offer a minimum 24-hour package, including a night stay and three meals, airport transfers and small concessions. “Some passengers request at least their luggage be sent off to their homes and families. They want their relatives to come and drop something off to them in the hotels among others,” said Ganesh. As per the current trend, 60% of people who opt for paid quarantine opt for the Rs 1500 odd bracket, the remaining 25% opt for the Rs 3,000 per person bracket and the remaining 15% opt for the Rs 4,500 plus bracket. Hotels say it is a risky proposition to allow quarantining of travellers, but it’s a small business opportunity coming their way. “As per government guidelines, we don’t open our restaurants, only offer room servicedon’t allow the quarantine guests to enter any of the common areas, have a created a separate check in counter for them and we carefully monitor their services like food preparation linen handling etc, since we can’t risk anything going wrong,” said Ramesh Chandrakumar, general manager of Grand Regent Hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hotels-cashing-in-on-paid-quarantine-option-for-flyers/articleshow/76015560.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist health dept falls short of sample target||Ludhiana: Even as the Punjab health department has directed the district health department to sample 250 persons daily, the latter is yet to meet the target.The media bulletin issued over the past some days stated that 116 samples were taken on Tuesday, 123 on Monday, 162 on Sunday and 149 on Saturday.The circular to increase sampling that the state had issued on Sunday stated, “The number of rapid response teams (RRTs) can be increased in the district, if required. The RRTs as well as the surveillance teams will refer at least 10 cases each, as per the protocol, per day to the nearest flu corner and collection centre.”The state has also directed that sampling be done at community health centres, too, so as to increase the sample collection capacity of the district. Samples should also be collected from low-prevalence areas and mobile testing teams formed for containment zones and high-density areas, it added. State health department spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Field staff at flu corners and ground teams are well trained for sample collection. As many as 2,200 to 2,500 samples are collected per day in the state. Inter-district variations are there, but overall the efforts are satisfactory. TB patients are being screened and the suspected ones tested. Samples are taken at flu corners and for travelers, we have set the protocol.”Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “I have given directions to all SMOs of respective centres to monitor the functioning of rapid response teams. They have been told to collect 10 samples from each team and five from flu corners at community health centres. The teams are, anyways, collecting 10 samples during door-to-door survey. Those showing influenza-like illness symptoms, too, are being tested. To strengthen sampling, pregnant women, healthcare workers and cops, too, will be tested. Our target is to go beyond 300 samples a day.” Testing of domestic passengers at airports The health department said random sampling of domestic passengers belonging to Punjab would be done at airports. But all symptomatic passengers would be tested as per the protocol. “Their proper record, like name, address, port of departure and mobile number, should be maintained by teams stationed at the airports,” it added.According to the health protocol, if a person tested positive, (s)he would be shifted to a government isolation facility. Those testing negative and the asymptomatic ones would be home quarantined for 14 days. They will self-monitor their health status and report to the nearest government health facility in case of development of any Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-health-dept-falls-short-of-sample-target/articleshow/76015165.cms||Mehak Jain
May 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Lockdown violation: Clip of b’day party inside Lodhi Club goes viral||Ludhiana: Reports of celebration of birthday of an office-bearer of Lodhi Club on the premises have emerged on social media. The reports say for lunch, food items were brought from outside as all of club’s restaurants were closed. An audio clip too has gone viral in which a club member is questioning another executive committee member as the latter admitted that gathering of about seven persons took place and a birthday cake was cut followed by lunch. The security guard who had tried to capture the incident in his mobile is now missing and not reporting on duty. Due to lockdown, clubs have been ordered to remain close till further notice.According to Nitin Mahajan, club’s general secretary, “I was out of town on Sunday and came to know of the incident from the WhatsApp group. According to the social media reports, six to seven members of the executive committee took part in the birthday celebrations of an office-bearer and the on-duty security guard filmed it. The security guard is not reporting for duty for the past two days and we are trying to contact him. Moreover, till now no one has lodged an official complaint and in case someone does, I will take action in consultation with the deputy commissioner, who is the president of the club.” The office-bearer at the centre of the controversy refuted all claims. He said, “This is a conspiracy by some persons to malign my image. No celebration took place on the club premises. It was just a meeting of executive committee to discuss the upcoming projects. These are routine meetings, which are not banned. Moreover, I have enough evidence to prove that no celebrations of this sort happened. And what is wrong in bringing home-cooked food and water inside the club in the time of pandemic. This is a story cooked up by my detractors and I am considering legal action against them. Besides, my birthday was not on Sunday. It falls on May 21.”The TOI tried to contact club’s president DC Pardeep Agrawal, but he did not respond to calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-violation-clip-of-bday-party-inside-lodhi-club-goes-viral/articleshow/76015156.cms||Mohit Behl
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Covid Warrior serving beggars, quarantined people tests positive||Nagpur: A 45-year-old private doctor, who was working with the police department, serving beggars on roads, counselling and taking care of requirements of people at institutional quarantine centres, has contracted coronavirus. The Covid Warrior was admitted to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) isolation ward. “I have been cleaning, dressing up, and giving new clothes to beggars on the roads for last 12 years. I came across a beggar near Gandhi Putla a few days ago. I checked him and realized he was suffering from some ailment. I did his dressing, gave him water and told him I will return. I was in a hurry due to my roza. The next day, the beggar was not there. When I got admitted at IGGMCH, I saw the beggar in the isolation ward and realized he too had tested positive,” the Covid Warrior told TOI. The doctor works as a medical practitioner at a private hospital at Ramdaspeth. He had 15 days leave for Ramzan period to serve the needy. He added, “I visited institutional quarantine centres whenever called by doctors of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and police department for counselling people, which was multiple times in last two months. I never hesitated to do any work in these two months and have no regret for testing positive,” he said. The doctor was very active in supplying fruits, food etc during Ramzan period to people in institutional quarantine centres. “As a Covid Warrior, I ensured supply of meals and drinking water to around 5,000 passengers travelling in Shramik Specials in association with police department,” he said. The doctor is associated with eight NGOs. He and his team held many health camps in last two months to counsel and treat people in Mominpura and Satranjipura containment zones. NMC zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin said, “The doctor is a real Covid Warrior. He runs a charitable trust through which he holds health camps and distribute medicines. He served a lot of people in institutional quarantine. Today, we had to quarantine his family members.” The doctor also said, “I had some symptoms like fever, cough for last 2-3 days. I got tested and my reports came positive at 8pm on Monday. I informed NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, who consulted doctors at IGGMCH. I walked out of my home with all things and waited at Seva Sadan Chowk on Central Avenue for the ambulance for an hour. Then, I was admitted at IGGMCH,” he said. Even during the floods at Satara and Sangli last year, the doctor had carried medicines worth Rs2.5 lakh and distributed them to the needy over his 17-day stay there. In disasters, he has visited and distributed medicines even in Kerala and Jammu & Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-warrior-serving-beggars-quarantined-people-tests-positive/articleshow/76015559.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Sacked from job, bank employee ends life||Times News Network Ludhiana: Upset over losing his job due to Covid-19 outbreak, a 34-year-old bank employee committed suicide by jumping into Doraha Canal. Even as Ravish Kumar had jumped into the canal on April 22, his body was recovered late on Monday night. Ravish, a resident of New Subhash Nagar, Jodhewal, worked as a private agent at a Sahnewal bank’s gold loan department. Sahnewal police station SHO inspector Inderjit Singh said, “Ravish was an ad hoc employee, with monthly salary of Rs 10,000. A few days ago, the bank gave him his job termination letter. Even as he tried to reason with his seniors, he was shown the door.”On April 22, he recorded a video and uploaded it on his Facebook account. “In the video, he blamed in-charge of gold loan branch Narinder Singh and bank’s Sahnewal branch manager Rohit for his taking the extreme step. Thereafter, he jumped into the canal,” the SHO added.In the video, Ravish also said that he had gone to Jodhewal and Sahnewal police stations several times to take up the matter with cops. But he was asked to come on some other day.A case has been registered against Narinder and Rohit under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC. Ravish is survived by his elderly parents and pregnant wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sacked-from-job-bank-employee-ends-life/articleshow/76015163.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kozhikode||321 cases in 7 days: Will more testing in Kerala do the trick?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to amend its Covid-19 testing strategy in the wake of more cases being reported through contact and with unknown sources. A minimum of 3,000 samples will be tested a day. A review meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to increase the number of daily tests as the virus clusters are increasing among people with no travel history. The tests will be increased in areas where more cases were reported after May 7. Vijayan said the testing would be extended to possible disease carrier categories. "The sentinel surveillance is being done only in priority groups now. The testing will be extended to people in regions where more cases have been reported," he said. The health department has already augmented testing of samples in Kannur and Palakkad. The department has been conducting only below 1,500 tests a day till date. Only 56,704 samples were tested in the state so far since the first reported case on January 30, besides 8,599 samples collected from among priority groups. As many as 32 persons were infected through contact since May 22, and the department is yet to trace the source of infection in at least 10 cases among these. After May 7, the number of cases without known source of infection is 29. Experts have been pushing for more tests in the state to check the spread of the virus. They had also pointed out that the state was way behind the national average in testing. "Home quarantine alone cannot bring down the number of cases or arrest spread. We have to test all symptomatic persons and we have to raise the number of testing centres for this. At present, there are only one or two testing centres in a district,” internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/321-cases-in-7-days-will-more-testing-do-the-trick/articleshow/76022845.cms||Rajiv G
May 27, 2020||Kochi||321 cases in 7 days: Will more testing in Kerala do the trick?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to amend its Covid-19 testing strategy in the wake of more cases being reported through contact and with unknown sources. A minimum of 3,000 samples will be tested a day. A review meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to increase the number of daily tests as the virus clusters are increasing among people with no travel history. The tests will be increased in areas where more cases were reported after May 7. Vijayan said the testing would be extended to possible disease carrier categories. "The sentinel surveillance is being done only in priority groups now. The testing will be extended to people in regions where more cases have been reported," he said. The health department has already augmented testing of samples in Kannur and Palakkad. The department has been conducting only below 1,500 tests a day till date. Only 56,704 samples were tested in the state so far since the first reported case on January 30, besides 8,599 samples collected from among priority groups. As many as 32 persons were infected through contact since May 22, and the department is yet to trace the source of infection in at least 10 cases among these. After May 7, the number of cases without known source of infection is 29. Experts have been pushing for more tests in the state to check the spread of the virus. They had also pointed out that the state was way behind the national average in testing. "Home quarantine alone cannot bring down the number of cases or arrest spread. We have to test all symptomatic persons and we have to raise the number of testing centres for this. At present, there are only one or two testing centres in a district,” internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/321-cases-in-7-days-will-more-testing-do-the-trick/articleshow/76022846.cms||Rajiv G
May 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||321 cases in 7 days: Will more testing in Kerala do the trick?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to amend its Covid-19 testing strategy in the wake of more cases being reported through contact and with unknown sources. A minimum of 3,000 samples will be tested a day. A review meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to increase the number of daily tests as the virus clusters are increasing among people with no travel history. The tests will be increased in areas where more cases were reported after May 7. Vijayan said the testing would be extended to possible disease carrier categories. "The sentinel surveillance is being done only in priority groups now. The testing will be extended to people in regions where more cases have been reported," he said. The health department has already augmented testing of samples in Kannur and Palakkad. The department has been conducting only below 1,500 tests a day till date. Only 56,704 samples were tested in the state so far since the first reported case on January 30, besides 8,599 samples collected from among priority groups. As many as 32 persons were infected through contact since May 22, and the department is yet to trace the source of infection in at least 10 cases among these. After May 7, the number of cases without known source of infection is 29. Experts have been pushing for more tests in the state to check the spread of the virus. They had also pointed out that the state was way behind the national average in testing. "Home quarantine alone cannot bring down the number of cases or arrest spread. We have to test all symptomatic persons and we have to raise the number of testing centres for this. At present, there are only one or two testing centres in a district,” internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/321-cases-in-7-days-will-more-testing-do-the-trick/articleshow/76015576.cms||Rajiv G
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Test applications pile up as rules change||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat is third in India in terms of positive cases and second in terms of Covid-19 mortalities. However, in terms of tests per million population, the state is nowhere near top five in India. Health experts pointed out that a stringent cap on the tests at private labs by the state government could cause more problem than becoming part of the solution. By end of April, the state had attained capacity of daily 3,000 tests with majority of the government colleges and four private labs engaged in the testing. As on Tuesday, Gujarat has 37 labs including 21 government-run and 16 privately-owned that can carry out tests. Still, rough estimates of pending applications are northwards of 15,000 according to experts. “The state has frequently changed the rules for testing – earlier everyone could test, then those who did not have any symptoms were excluded from the ambit citing ICMR guidelines, then there was diktat of government permission for testing, then there were categories which were allowed to take test, then the order was amended with appointment of new permission authorities,” said a city-based hospital administrator who did not wish to be named, adding that so far six-odd notifications have been issued that amended the provisions time to time. When TOI approached Dr Pina Soni, medical superintendent of Sola Civil Hospital, issuing authority for Ahmedabad, she said that they receive 250-odd applications daily. “You can check with Dr Prakash Vaghela (additional director, health department) for the number of approvals. We follow the guidelines and provide approvals to the categories decided by the state government,” she said. Sources said the skeletal staff and infrastructure with the office that has to go through all the applications, find out the reason/need for test and then issue approval. “If the patient is not indoors, there is no approval; if the person has no symptoms, there is no approval; if the person is not an expectant mother or the one undergoing surgery, chances of approvals are slim,” said an official close to the development. City-based associations including AMA and Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) have written multiple times to authorities such as Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), to look into the matter. In a letter dated May 23, AHNA had even wrote that the state is going in opposite direction than the world where the norm is to carry out maximum tests to find the patients quickly and isolate them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/test-applications-pile-up-as-rules-change/articleshow/76015565.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: HIV+ Covid-19 patient recovers in 9 days||LUCKNOW: A 34-year-old HIV positive man who successfully defeated Covid-19 was discharged from KGMU on Monday after his two consecutive tests for novel coronavirus came negative. The patient was brought to the trauma centre on May 16 after sustaining head injuries in a road accident while he was going to Delhi from Gonda. During treatment, he told doctors that he was HIV positive. As per the protocol, he was tested for Covid-19 and found positive for it as well and shifted to isolation ward and recovered in nine days. KGMU vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt said: “It was our first case wherein patient carried both HIV and novel Coronavirus infections. Since HIV positive people have low immunity, his recovery had come as a moral-booster for doctors.” “The patient had concussion caused by a blow to the head. He was examined by the neurosurgery team regularly and given medicines to reduce pressure on the brain due to accumulation of fluids,” said in charge of infectious disease unit at KGMU, Dr D Himanshu. “There was no need to take extra precautions for HIV because all the steps taken for novel coronavirus were enough. We continued his antiretroviral therapy to keep viral load of HIV virus low and keep up the T cell count that are responsible for better functioning of immune system. Simultaneously, we gave symptomatic treatment for Covid-19,” he added. “It is too early to draw any conclusions that because of antiretroviral treatment recovery of the patient from Covid-19 was quick because both are different in nature,” he said. The patient has been advised 14-day home quarantine and then visit for follow-up when he would tested again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hiv-covid-patient-recovers-in-9-days/articleshow/76016735.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Air India security official tests positive||Ludhiana: An Air India security official tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Tuesday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Of 116 samples, 115 were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and one to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital virology lab. Of 115 reports received from Rajindra Hospital, one is positive. The report is of a 50-year-old Air India security staffer. Those who have tested negative include 10 passengers who arrived from Delhi. The DMCH report is pending.”The security staffer, who has been quarantined at an airport facility, said, “My throat swab was taken at Community Health Centre, Sahnewal. I am a resident of Mayur Vihar, Delhi, and came here with 11 passengers on board Delhi-Ludhiana flight on Monday. I have no symptoms like fever, cough and cold. I have now been quarantined at the accommodation provided by Air India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/air-india-security-official-tests-positive/articleshow/76015175.cms||Mehak Jain
May 27, 2020||Goa||Once tourism resumes, all visitors to Goa must be tested, says tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar||PANAJI: Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar has said that the situation sparked by the Covid-19 pandemic must improve further if tourism is to be restarted in the state. He also said that while a lot depends on the Centre’s decisions, conditions would have to be put in place and all tourists coming into Goa would have to be tested. Ajgaonkar held a meeting with tourism stakeholders on Tuesday. On Saturday, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that the state government would come up with an SOP to start tourism activities in Goa after the end of lockdown 4.0 on May 31. “Only those who meet our conditions ought to be allowed. We will submit our report to the government in a few days, probably after discussing the issue once more in another meeting,” Ajgaonkar told TOI. He also said his department was keen on eradicating illegalities in the sector as and when tourism resumes. Among the conditions that are likely to be strictly implemented is that every tourist entering the state will have to stay at a hotel or guest house registered with the tourism department. “We have an opportunity to act against online aggregators who take bookings by bypassing the tourism department,” Ajgaonkar said. However, a tourism stakeholder who attended Tuesday’s meeting rued that it was inconclusive. “I hoped to see some concrete measures in terms of economic relief to the sector. We have been making demands since March, when it became clear that the tourism sector would be hit the most,” the stakeholder said, adding, “While we had initially thought of opening up in September-October, I am no longer sure as many nations are still battling the virus.” At the meeting, representatives of the hotel industry said many hotels would not be able to start immediately even if permission to resume tourism was granted. Nilesh Shah, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), said many small hotels have sent their staff home and that if fresh staff were recruited, they would need to be trained. “TTAG wants tourism to resume at the earliest, but it will have to be done with all precautions and protocols in place so that people are safe when footfalls increase,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/once-tourism-resumes-all-visitors-to-goa-must-be-tested-says-mantri/articleshow/76016747.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases rise in west Ahmedabad with active screening||AHMEDABAD: Active surveillance in the city has resulted in more cases coming to light, especially in the western part of the city in areas like Nava Vadaj, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Satellite, Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Thaltej and Vejalpur. On Monday, the city reported 308 cases, of which 105 were reported from the western part. Of these, 38 were from Bodakdev, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Vejalpur among others. The Ahmedabad district has reported 251 fresh cases of which six were from the areas outside Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Between May 23 and May 25, West Zone areas — Navrangpura, Paldi, Naranpura, Vadaj and Sabarmati — had 144 fresh cases, while the South West Zone — Sarkhej, Maktampura, Jodhpur and Vejalpur — had 66 cases. Total 57 cases were reported from North West Zones — Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev, Chandkheda. In three days, the western part reported 267 fresh cases against 852 reported in the entire city in these three days. On Monday, the city reported 308 cases of which 182 were found positive in active surveillance. Of the 308 cases, 105 cases were in western part, of which 88 were tested positive through active surveillance. Twenty-eight cases, the highest, were reported from Nava Vadaj, followed by 12 fresh cases in Vejalpur area, 10 from Sardar Patel Stadium and eight cases each from Navrangpura and Thaltej areas. Of the 272 cases reported on May 23, 109 cases were in the western part. Of these, 65 were tested positive through active surveillance. An AMC officer said that the civic body, in order to increase surveillance, has in the last five days checked 50,000-odd persons through Dhanvantri and Arogya raths. The officer said as a part of the active surveillance drive, 80-odd Dhanvantri Rath (ambulances), which have Ayurveda, homeopathy and allopathy doctors along with lab technicians, pharmacists and paramedical staff, are moving in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-rise-in-west-with-active-screening/articleshow/76015574.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Migrant labourer on Shramik Special dies in Wardha||Wardha: A 42 year-old migrant labourer on the Shramik Special from Surat in Gujrat to Jharkhand was dropped off at Wardha railway station due to coronavirus symptoms on Monday evening. Later he died on the way to district general hospital. The health department has quarantined six people including doctor and railways staff. Officials said the worker was having fever when he boarded the train at Surat. His health deteriorated near Badnera station. “We were informed by Badnera station master that a patient was serious on train. The train was reaching Wardha station in evening around 6pm. We were told to arrange a medical team,” said Shrikant Wagh, a railway staff. Station manager S Sawai then informed the health administration. civil surgeon P Madavi had arranged a team of doctor and health workers at station before arrival of train. The health workers deboarded him and were rushing him to hospital. Dr Madavi, said unfortunately the worker died in ambulance before reaching the hospital. “We can’t determine the reason of his death. Swab samples of all persons who handled him including doctor, railway staff and his two relatives have been sent for testing and they all have been quarantined,” he said. The train left for Noamundi in Jharkhand after dropping off the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrant-labourer-on-shramik-special-dies-in-wardha/articleshow/76015571.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 27, 2020||Goa||Exams only for final year BE and LLB students: Goa University||PANAJI: Goa University on Tuesday said that, for the current academic year 2019-20, only final year exams for BE, LLB and BA LLB programmes will be conducted starting from July 1. For all other years, no exams will be held for these programmes and students will be assessed based on internal assessments carried out or to be carried out by respective colleges, the varsity said in two separate circulars. No semester end examinations (SEE) will be held for students of second, fourth and sixth semester of BE programmes. Instead, students will have an option to answer additional internal tests. From three internal tests, the best marks scored by a student will be considered, Goa University registrar Y V Reddy said in a circular. In the case of LLB and BA LLB programmes offered in affiliated colleges, students will be evaluated based on semester exams and projects. Students of all law and engineering degree courses will not be detained and will be given additional chances to pass or improve scores. These chances will not be treated as second attempts, the university said. “The students of BA LLB shall be graded based on marks scored by them in the intra semester assessment (ISA) during the current semester. In those cases where ISA could not be completed, the same shall be conducted whenever the circumstances permit. The results of such students shall be declared on completion of the ISA examination,” the circular stated. Students of LLB degree will be graded based on submission of projects for 25 marks. The course teacher will allot topics, which students will have to submit online. Presentations and viva voce also shall be conducted online, GU said. The varsity, however, said that if regulations or guidelines are subsequently issued by the Bar Council of India, they will supersede the GU circular. Earlier, Goa University had said that for general stream programmes like BA, BCom, BSc in affiliated colleges, only final year exam will be held from July 1 and for first and second year evaluation will be done based on ISA. In the case of BE students, the university said that those in the second, fourth and sixth semesters will be graded based on marks scored by them in the internal tests given during the current semester. They will also have the option to answer a second internal test to be held based on portion covered up to March 14, 2020. The third internal tests will be based on portion covered after March 14 till the end of the term. “The best of the three internal test marks scored by a students shall be considered as her/his sessional marks and scaled upward to compute the end semester marks of the course,” GU registrar has said. Earlier, GU had said that exams for BE for all semesters will be conducted by the concerned colleges during June-July. This now stands altered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exams-only-for-final-yr-be-llb-students-gu/articleshow/76016743.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat borrows Rs 1,500 crore to repay debt||GANDHINAGAR: The prolonged lockdown is having a serious effect on the Gujarat government’s financial position. The state government has borrowed Rs 1,500 crore from financial institutions and plans to borrow another Rs 1,000 this week to make its monthly debt repayments of Rs 3,550 crore, which goes towards both the principal and interest. The state government plans to make its Rs 3,550 crore monthly repayment by borrowing Rs 2,500 crore and paying the remaining Rs 1,050 crore from its share of central taxes and its reserve funds. With its revenue projections going haywire due to the lockdown, the Gujarat government is finding it increasingly difficult to pay its employees salaries and service its debt. The Gujarat government plans to approach the Centre and the RBI, seeking concessions in its repayments. A source in the government said that the two-month lockdown has hit the state government’s revenues severely, while its fixed repayments remain. “The state government has to make provisions for Rs 3,550 crore every month for repayments, even if it has no income. This month, we will borrow Rs 2,500 crore, while the remaining Rs 1,050 will be managed through income from VAT on petroleum products and gas, along with grants received from the Centre,” the official said. The official said that the government is looking at seeking concessions from the government of India and the Reserve Bank of India. “We will seek a waiver of interest or a delayed payment option, as it is becoming increasingly difficult to manage the finances as of now,” the official said. He added that this month, the Gujarat government received Rs 1,500 crore as its share of central government taxes and Rs 1,800 crore in grants for centrally sponsored schemes. “We are in a slightly better position because of these funds and we also earned around Rs 600 crore as VAT on gas and petroleum products. We will be in a position to pay salaries and debt repayment this month. Next month, it will not be possible unless we get concessions from the central government,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-borrows-rs-1-5k-cr-to-repay-debt/articleshow/76015292.cms||Kapil Dave
May 27, 2020||Goa||K’taka has submitted new DPR on Mhadei to Centre, Goa to intervene: Sawant||Panaji: The Karnataka government has submitted a new detailed project report (DPR) to the Union government on the diversion of the Mhadei river, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. “We are concerned about the development,” he said. “In the coming days, Goa will do a lot of things.” He also said that the Goa government would take up the issue with the Centre. On March 2, the Supreme Court rejected Goa’s plea to stop Karnataka from starting work on the Mhadei, but said that Karnataka could begin construction only after getting permission from the Centre and the preparation of a detailed project report. The apex court also said that the 2014 interim order of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal would remain in force. This effectively meant that Karnataka can go ahead with its water diversion projects provided it gets permission from the wildlife board and environment ministry, besides other agencies. The tribunal interim order on April 17, 2014, stated that Karnataka cannot start work without a revised DPR, which has to be approved by the Union government or the Mhadei Water Management Authority. After Goa did not object to Karnataka’s plea to notify the tribunal’s August 14, 2018, award, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to notify it. On February 28 this year, the Centre notified the tribunal’s final award. On August 14, 2018 the three-decade old dispute between Goa and Karnataka over the sharing of Mhadei water ended after the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal rejected Karnataka’s demand for 36.5tmc (thousand million cubic) ft of water and allotted only 13.4tmc ft, including 3.9tmc ft for drinking purposes through diversions against its demand for 7.5tmc ft. But the tribunal also made it clear that the diversion of water would be permitted only during the five months of monsoon — from June 1 to October 31. “Even if some inflows are observed into the reservoir(s) during the non-monsoon period, no diversion is permitted out of the inflow during the non-monsoon period starting from November 1 to May 31,” the tribunal, headed by Justice J M Panchal, observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-has-submitted-new-dpr-on-mhadei-to-centre-goa-to-intervene-sawant/articleshow/76016835.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bus carrying migrants overturns, 33 injured||Visakhapatnam: Thirty-three migrant workers from West Bengal in a group of 42 passengers sustained injuries when a private travel agency bus carrying them from Bengaluru to Kolkata overturned on National Highway (NH)-16 near Baligam in Srikakulam district on Tuesday morning. Both the driver and the assistant driver are on the run. Locals who witnessed the accident called the police, who, in turn, rushed to the spot and shifted the injured persons to the government hospital in Palasa town for treatment. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the driver lost control over the wheel while over-speeding and trying yo manoeuvre the vehicle on a small bridge. Police also suspect that the driver might have dozed off behind the wheel. Sub-inspector of Mandasa police station, Ch Prasad, said the migrant workers, who had completed their 14-day quarantine in Karanakata, had hired a private bus and were on their way home in West Bengal. A case has been registered, the sub-inspector said. The injured migrant workers have requested the Srikakulam district administration to provide them with transport so that they can reach home once they recover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bus-carrying-migrants-overturns-33-injured/articleshow/76015194.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Few takers for hotel quarantine in AP, most line up for govt facilities||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district administration, medical and health departments and hoteliers’ association have jointly agreed to keep around 1,000 rooms ready as paid quarantine facilities for foreign returnees to the city but barely 50 rooms are occupied, with nearly 200 returnees in the past week instead opting to stay in free government quarantine facilities on account of financial constraints. Speaking to TOI, Dr Devi Madhavi, head of the department of community medicine at Andhra Medical College-King George Hospital (AMC-KGH) and in charge of quarantine centres in the district, said, “So far we have around 248 foreign returnee passengers kept in various hotels and mostly in government quarantine centres. Some of them alighted in Vizag in the four flights under Vande Bharat Mission between May 19 and 23. Some others alighted in Tirupati and Vijayawada airport and were brought to their native district Visakhapatnam by special buses. Those who alighted in Vizag but natives of other districts were sent to their respective home towns by buses. Seven of them hailing from Gulf countries have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.” On the low occupancy of quarantine facilities provided by hotels, Singu Prasanth, president (HR) of AP Hotels and Restaurants Association told TOI, “Most of the returnees are petty employees in Gulf countries, including labourers. They have not got last two months’ salary and in the airport they said that they do not want to spend Rs 15,000 for 14-day’s stay at budget hotels but would rather opt for free government quarantine facilities in hostels and colleges, which are also of standard quality.” He added, “So far, we have 30 foreign returnees who have opted for 3-star Daspalla Executive Court, five others opted for 5-star facility at The Park and nearly 15 returnees are staying in a few budget hotels. Pregnant women and elderly above 65 years of age are staying for three days for Covid-19 test and once they test negative, they are being sent home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/few-takers-for-hotel-quarantine-most-line-up-for-govt-facilities/articleshow/76015248.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Govt lays down SOP for retail outlets||Visakhapatnam: A memo issued by the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department has laid down detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by garment, jewellery and footwear shops and street vendors in the fourth phase and after the lockdown. For bigger outlets, online booking shall be encouraged ahead of making a visit. The outlet shall maintain a register to record the details of all customers entering the shop. Customers and staff should be allowed only after thermal screening and sanitising their hands. Those with a temperature above 99 degrees Fahrenheit or any Covid-19 symptom shall not be allowed inside. Sanitizers should be kept at each counter and at each entry and exit point and no customer will be allowed to enter without a mask or sanitising their hands. In case of jewellery shops, customers will be provided with disposable gloves before handling any item. No trial of any item will be permitted. Bigger outlets will have footwear disinfectant at every entry. The shop management shall ensure cleanliness of rest rooms and ensure sufficient quantity of sanitizers, soaps and paper napkins are maintained. Only one person or one group will be allowed to use the elevator at a time and a staff at the shop will operate the elevator. Physical distancing between customers (six feet) shall be maintained. Floors can be taped/marked to ensure physical distancing norms. Cash transactions are to be avoided as much as possible and digital payments encouraged. In case of card payments, the cashier will help sanitise the card before and after use. Contact-less transaction will be ensured for cash payments. For valet parking, car keys will be disinfected before they are handed over. Staff inside the shop shall wear mask and gloves. It is mandatory to dispose off the gloves in a safe manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-lays-down-sop-for-retail-outlets/articleshow/76015261.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Congress leaders visit Civil Covid facility||GANDHINAGAR: A delegation of Congress leaders visited the Asarwa Civil Hospital on Tuesday to study the condition of its Covid-19 treatment facilities, even as the high court slammed the government over the condition of the hospital’s treatment facilities. GPCC president Amit Chavda, who along with leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani and few MLAs visited the hospital, criticized the government for not conducting adequate tests, because of which people were being admitted to hospitals in a critical stage. The delegation had to wait for about an hour, as M M Prabhakar, the officer on special duty for 1,200-bed Covid facility, could not make himself available. Chavda asked if the official was acting at the behest of state health minister Nitin Patel by not meeting them. Other doctors refused to share any information about the treatment for Covid-19 patients or speak about the controversial Dhaman-1 ventilators, which were developed by Rajkot-based firm Jyoti CNC and supplied to government hospitals, he said. “However, they agreed that it was not a ventilator, but was just a machine that supplies oxygen to patients,” he said. Chavda further claimed that doctors had attributed the high mortality rate at the hospital to low testing rates, which had led to delayed diagnosis and admission. Dhanani accused the government of wrongdoing over Dhaman-1 ventilators and said the equipment had received approvals within 24 hours and it was supplied in large numbers to government hospitals even when it was not effective on critical Covid-19 patients, as stated by experts. He alleged that an Ahmedabad-based firm had got the job of upgrading these ventilators with an additional cost of Rs 2.91 lakh per unit without a proper tendering process. Meanwhile, state BJP spokesperson Prashant Vala hit back at the Congress, saying it was making baseless allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-congress-leaders-visit-civil-covid-facility/articleshow/76015287.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||Water shortage strikes Pimple Saudagar societies||Pimpri Chinchwad: Many housing societies in Pimple Saudagar are facing a water shortage, forcing them to call for water tankers. Santosh Maskar, chairman of Roseland housing society, said, “We need 15-20 water tankers daily to meet the needs of residents of 982 flats in the society.” Joint city engineer Ramdas Tambe said, “We are providing alternate day water supply to the entire city. We expect the construction of two elevated storage reservoirs to be completed by December-end. The civic body is trying to bring water from Bhama Askhed and Andra dams to increase water availability.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-shortage-strikes-pimple-saudagar-societies/articleshow/76015569.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 27, 2020||Pune||Symptomless patients’ homestay to save hospital beds: Rajesh Tope||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said asymptomatic patients would not be admitted in hospitals in Pune and Mumbai, considering the inadequate number of ICU beds and the likely surge in the number of cases in the coming months. The minister said strict instructions had been issued to the medical staff to ensure adherence to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, which allow for home isolation of asymptomatic patients. “In Mumbai and Pune, there is a need for enough allocation of ICU beds as a surge in cases is expected in the coming months. So, it is imperative that asymptomatic patients who do not have any issue continue to stay isolated at home and follow the quarantine measures rather than occupy the beds in the hospital,” Tope said. He said they were planning to ramp up the number of beds to 1 lakh from the present 60,000 in Mumbai itself. “In Pune too, meeting has been held with the private sector to avail of 80% of their beds.” On the state’s wait for ICMR clearance on pool testing, the minister said at present, there were no instructions. “According to ICMR guidelines, less than 2% of the total tests conducted should be positive for pool testing. The state’s percentage of positive cases is more than that at present. I have been following on the matter but ICMR is yet to approve pool testing in the state,” the health minister said. With the state government touching over 3,000 cases in a single day, Tope said the numbers were expected to rise. “What is more important is to concentrate on controlling deaths, for which patients with co-morbidities should be attended to early. Instructions have been issued to all municipal commissioners to ensure that there is enough surveillance to check for any symptoms and co-morbidities, especially among senior citizens,” he said. Divisional commissioner to step up surveillance Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Tuesday pledged more surveillance to arrest Covid-19 death rate. He said an assessment of 264 deaths had shown that nearly 90% of these patients had co-morbidities. On the mortality rate at the Sassoon hospital, Mhaisekar said the mortality rate had peaked during April. However, it was true that more critical patients were getting admitted in Sassoon than other hospitals, he said. As of May 26, of the 125 critical patients, 47 are admitted in Sassoon hospital. The divisional commissioner also warned private doctors or hospitals of proceedings under MESMA act if they failed to cooperate with the administration. Seeking help of nurses returning from Middle EastMalayalee nurses from the Middle East, who are being forced to return to India, may soon find jobs in the health sector in Pune and Mumbai, with Pune divisional commissioner already in talks with the World Malayalee Council to act as a nodal agency to address the shortfall of medical staff in Pune. “The talks have been initiated to check the possibility of these nurses coming to the state,” said TP Vijayan, global vice-president of the World Malayalee Council. President of its Pune branch Harinarayan told TOI that they were also roped in to persuade the Malayalee nurses who had put down their papers in various hospitals in Pune after being assured that these nurses would be provided with all safety equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-symptomless-patients-homestay-to-save-hosp-beds/articleshow/76016802.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt compares Gujarat with France, Italy||Ahmedabad: In a bid to show before the Gujarat high court how the state government is successfully dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic and to make suitable observations and remove adverse remarks, the state government has compared the Gujarat condition with the ones prevailing in France and Italy, one of the worst affected countries in the world. The state government’s clarification application reads, “While comparing the State of Gujarat with countries like Italy and France, the population of which is similar and where the available medical facilities are very much superior to that available in the State, yet the rise in number of COVID-19 cases has been substantially slow in the State as compared to the said countries.” The government goes on further to state, “Similarly, the number of deaths has been substantially less in Gujarat as compared to Italy and France.” The government also told the HC that it was unjust on its part to compare the Civil Hospital with the newly built SVP Hospital, for the accommodation facilities in the latter is much less than the Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-compares-gujarat-with-france-italy/articleshow/76015578.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ex-servicemen come to rescue of RPF to secure railway station||Ludhiana: As the entire local staff of Railway Protection Force (RPF) is being quarantined after 57 officials tested positive in the past few days, it has became a tough task for the railway authorities in managing the security while keeping in mind the seven long-route passengers trains which will chug through the city railway station from June 1. But for getting through this situation, the high command of the RPF has deployed 40 ex-servicemen, along with 15 officials, which have been called from different districts of Punjab for managing the security arrangement at the city station for smooth functioning of all specials trains. The railway authorities have taken the help of local Government Railway Police (GRP) force also, which is conducting patrolling at different railway crossings for restricting the migrant workers from making the use of illegal ways for catching the special Shramik trains plying between different districts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Sources in the railway department have revealed that, “After hearing the reports about several officials of RPF testing positive, the high command of the force has sealed the entire check post of the city railway station and issued guidelines to all ex-servicemen regarding following a healthy lifestyle and giving duty for at-least eight hours across the station premises as far as handling security related issues are concerned.” “Moreover senior officials of the RPF are also motivating the the local railway protection force, which is being home quarantined by appreciating their dedication towards their job during the tough circumstances,” the sources further said. An inspector rank official of the RPF, who is home quarantined, on the condition of requesting anonymity, said, “The high command of the RPF is taking regular health update from each RPF jawan, who has been quarantined recently.” The high command has given specific instructions related to doing proper yoga twice a day and following health diet plan for quick improvement in their health.” “Moreover, for boosting up the morale of these officials, some high rank officers are frequently calling them on their cellphones and praising their efforts during their hard duty,” the inspector rank official of the RPF said. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “The high command of the RPF has deployed enough forces on station premises to deal with security arrangements for next few days until home quarantined period of more than 100 officials will be over in the next few days.”“Moreover, government railway police force is also helping the local railway authorities for managing the security issues at different railway crossing after several reports emerged that migrant labour breaching the security arrangements of specials trains by getting illegal entries into bogies”, told station director to TOI. box- As per data available with TOI, as many as 57 officials of railway protection forces have been found positive in throat swab testing process of district health department. Apart from that, more than 100 officials of railway protection force, which is being deputed at Ludhiana station, have been held home quarantined by high command of railway protection due to safety reason and early recovery. Among of all 57 officials, 45 officials hail from Delhi, three officials from Udhampur, nine officials belong from local railway protection force for managing the security arrangements issues of special shramik trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ex-servicemen-come-to-rescue-of-rpf-to-secure-railway-station/articleshow/76015191.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 27, 2020||Pune||Cops detain 2 corporators||Pimpri Chinchwad: The police on Tuesday detained two corporators for opposing the quarantine facility set up by the civic body at an Akurdi college. “NCP corporator Raju Misal, Shiv Sena corporator Amit Gawde and two supporters were detained for opposing the facility. We also took action against the two others. They were detained under provisions of the Maharashtra Police Act and served notices under the Indian Penal Code,” said inspector Rajendra Rajmane of Akurdi police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-detain-2-corporators/articleshow/76016890.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Virus fears keep customers away from eateries||VIJAYAWADA: Even as restaurants in Vijayawada restart takeaway and home deliveries after a brief hiatus on account of the lockdown, the beginnings have been rocky owing to customers’ fears over the spread of the novel coronavirus. Fear of virus spread is making many reluctant to ordering food from restaurants. Sanjay Jain, secretary of Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association said, “People are apprehensive about the quality of food at hotels. As a result, people are sticking to homemade food. But restaurants and eateries are following guidelines. Reluctance of consumers to order food is really hurting business.” Most hotels and restaurants are running takeaway services and are strictly maintaining hygiene in kitchens, Sanjay said adding that only healthy employees are being put to work and packaging is done without contact as much as possible. K Brahmiah, a food delivery executive, said, “Before the lockdown, I used to deliver at least 40 orders per day. Now, my orders have come down to 12 on average.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/virus-fears-keep-customers-away-from-eateries/articleshow/76015303.cms||Venu Lanka
May 27, 2020||Vijayawada||In lockdown, air quality in Andhra Pradesh gets top rating||VIJAYAWADA: With the state completing two months of the lockdown period, the Air Quality Index (AQI) has witnessed a massive improvement across Andhra Pradesh. Around 90% of the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring stations have rated air quality levels as ‘good’. The latest AQI data taken on May 18 shows that pollution levels came down below 50 across Vizag city, Tirumala, Velagapudi and Rajahmundry. Speaking to TOI, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) scientist BV Prasad said the major reason behind depreciating pollution levels was lack of vehicular movements and construction activity. “The PM 2.5 or PM 10 particles predominantly rise due to vehicle pollution and also with construction activity coming to a standstill we can see that the dust pollution is pretty much less,” Prasad told TOI. Prior to the lockdown, the AQI levels across Vijayawada, Vizag, Tirupati, Amaravati and Rajahmundry used to be rated between moderately polluted to satisfactory. This time, none of the CAAQM stations has breached the satisfactory levels in the last two months. However, officials explained that it would only take a matter a two days for original pollution levels to be restored once the lockdown is lifted. “The buffer time for pollution levels to come down could be evaluated once in every 10 days and we see a gradual decline in particle matter. While decreasing pollution might take time but pollution increase will take only a matter of two days once the lockdown is completely lifted,” Prasad added. In terms of water pollution, APPCB officials said there has not been much of a difference in the last two months as the domestic sewage linked to the rivers continues to remain the same. “Since the rivers in AP doesn’t have any industrial pollution involved, the lockdown did not contribute in improving the water quality in the state. Places like Tungabadra in Kurnool, Krishna river in Vijayawada, Godavari river in Rajahmundry side does have few domestic sewage connections leading to the river. The pollution levels remain the same,” Prasad added. Officials said that AQI could not be recorded properly in Vijayawada as the station is being shifted to Pinnamaneni Polyclinic Road where power connection is yet to be attached. However, they acknowledged that the last reading during the early stages of the lockdown did rate it as ‘satisfactory’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-lockdown-air-quality-in-state-gets-top-rating/articleshow/76015305.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Ganja trade picks up as restrictions ease||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ganja smuggling from tribal pockets in the state to cities have once again picked up following relaxations in the inter-district movement of private vehicles. Three persons — a police constable and two youths — were recently held at Boddavara checkpost in Vizianagaram for transporting over four kilograms of dry ganja from Araku to Vizag, via S Kota. The constable, Ch Srinivas, attached to Anantagiri police station in Visakhapatnam district, was helping the two smugglers, B Sai Ganesh and B Kishore, from Vijayawada. In another incident, Vizag rural police on Sunday seized around 10 kg dry ganja and arrested two persons for transporting the substance near Yelamanchili. Deputy excise commissioner, Vizag, T Srinivasa Rao said the absence of transportation and increased police patrolling during the lockdown had checked ganja smuggling. Police and officials of the prohibition and excise department said ganjja smuggling from Vizag Agency hit a low following demonetisation in November 2016. Four months later, however, smuggling had resumed. This time as well, smuggling is gathering pace after two months into the lockdown as restrictions ease, officials said. Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (task force), Vizag city, A Trinad Rao said that during the lockdown, police raided a house in Vizag city and seized around 10 kgs of dry ganja. “The lockdown has controlled ganja smuggling. With the relaxations, the private vehicles are plying so we are also taking steps to check possible ganja transportation and nab smugglers,” Rao added. The remote tribal tracts in Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts and the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB) are notorious for the large-scale cultivation of ganja. Locals in the interior pockets of the region cultivate the Sheelavathi variety of ganja which fetches a high sum from inter-state drug peddlers and sells at a premium in cities in the state and metros across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ganja-trade-picks-up-as-restrictions-ease/articleshow/76015309.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Man killed over suspicion of practising ‘witchcraft’ in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: A man was killed under suspicion of being a ‘tonhi’ (practitioner of witchcraft) at Tankasingi village under GL Puram mandal in Vizianagaram district on Tuesday morning. The deceased was identified as Toyaka Narasimhulu (55), a small farmer in the tribal village. The police said that one Kondagorri Prakash, also a resident of Tankasingi village, had previously accused Narasimhulu of being a witch and entered into arguments with him. Things took a turn for the worse after the health of Prakash’s brother-in-law, who was suffering from a disease, deteriorated. Prakash and his family started to suspect that Narasimhulu was working spells on people to make them sick. On Tuesday morning, Prakash went to Narasimhulu’s house, stabbed and then beat Narasimhulu to death with a stick. Though Narasimhulu’s family members tried to save him, their efforts were futile and they suffered injuries. Police rushed to the spot and registered a case against Prakash under Sections 302, 307 and 324 of IPC. . The body was shifted to a morgue. Assault over fear of witchcraft continues in certain tribal pockets in the state, many of which go unreported. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-killed-over-suspicion-of-practising-witchcraft/articleshow/76015315.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||Hardikar blames Puneites for spike||Pune: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Tuesday said people from the containment areas of Bhawani Peth, Wadarwadi and Yerawada, and other areas in Pune had moved to their relatives’ places in Pimpri Chinchwad causing a surge in Covid-19 cases. “These people tested positive for nCoV after they moved to Indiranagar, Rupeenagar, Mohannagar and Anandnagar slums in PCMC ,” Hardikar told TOI. Their movements were unreported till some had to be hospitalised, he added. “We have apprised the PMC authorities. The police and the civic authorities must ensure that such movement from containment zones does not happen. We had to deploy a separate team for contact tracing,” he added. Anandnagar slum recorded 130-plus cases in the last four days. On Tuesday, 34 new cases were reported from Rupeenagar, Anandnagar, Wakad, Pimpri, Bhosari, Kasarwadi, Valhekarwadi and Bhatnagar slums. Additional commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad police Ramnath Pokale said they have deployed adequate personnel in PCMC’s containment zones. “People have taken disadvantage of relief measures and travelled to other places,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hardikar-blames-puneites-for-spike/articleshow/76016859.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Six women doctors held liable for death of Gadwal mother, baby||HYDERABAD: The state government will soon initiate disciplinary action against six women doctors in three government hospitals, holding them responsible for the deaths of a young woman from Gadwal and her one-day-old baby boy. It also said state-run hospitals should not stop admitting pregnant women in the name of Covid-19 duties. Special chief secretary, health, A Santhi Kumari on Tuesday admitted in the Telangana high court that R Janeela and her son would have been alive had doctors at Mahbubnagar Government General Hospital (GGH) admitted them when she sent there by government hospital in Gadwal. Janeela died in Osmania Hospital on April 27, a day after her son died in Niloufer Hospital on April 26. She gave birth to the boy on April 25 at Petlaburj Maternity Hospital. Before that Janeela had to make rounds several hospitals but doctors at all the hospitals she was turned away as she had come from the Covid-19 red zone of Gadwal. But when she was eventually tested for the novel coronavirus, the report was negative. “We have fixed responsibility on Dr Prashanti and Dr Radha of Mahbubnagar GGH, Dr Amrita of Government Maternity Hospital in Sultan Bazar, Dr Mahalakshmi and Dr G Sharmila and Dr Apurva of Gandhi Hospital,” Santhi Kumari informed a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy. The bench resumed hearing in two PILs questioning the way the doctors in Mahbubnagar and Hyderabad hospitals refused treatment to Janeela when she came with extreme labour pain. “Had they admitted and managed her at the first instance when she came to them, the outcome would have been distinctly better,” Santhi Kumari said, referring to the doctors at Mahbubnagar GGH turning away Janeela and her husband on April 24. Then came the role of gynaecologist at the Sultan Bazar Government Maternity Hospital who refused to examine her and instead referred her to Gandhi Hospital. “At least, Gandhi doctors should have admitted her and managed her condition,” the special CS said, citing contents of an inquiry report. Santhi Kumari, in her affidavit to the court, also explained that a fleet of 633 ambulances, exclusively for pregnant women, had been kept ready all over the state to provide transportation for anti-natal, pre-natal care, deliveries and post-natal care. “We are keeping a watch and monitoring the expected date of deliveries. They cannot be stopped in the name of Covid-19,” she said. It may be recalled that SHRC, after learning about the incident, had also sought a detailed report from the government on the woman’s ordeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-women-docs-held-liable-for-death-of-gadwal-mother-baby/articleshow/76016968.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Locust swarm was 17km long, 2.5km wide: Official||NAGPUR: Swarms of desert locust were spotted for the first time in Vidarbha two days ago in Amravati district. One was seen in Katol tehsil of Nagpur district on Monday evening from where it has now vanished. So far there has been no major loss as there are no standing crops at this time. “The next location can be known after sundown,” said officials of the state’s agriculture department. Locusts continue to be a threat to vegetation in general, according to agriculture department sources. Originally found in arid areas of Indo-Pak border, they are migratory pests. Officials accept that their numbers are huge and not much can be done to eliminate them. Farmers have been sent advisories not to panic and shoo them away by making noise. “It is hoped they will terminate in natural course. If they do not, they may even end up finishing the vegetation they do not prefer to eat,” they said. “The swarms were huge. In one area it was reported to be over 17km long and 2.5km wide,” said Ravindra Bhosle, the joint director agriculture (JDA), for Nagpur division. There are no standing crops in the fields. “There were some vegetables in small pockets which were damaged. The locusts were seen on orange orchards but did not damage the plants leaves. This is because the pest does not prefer the bitter taste. It was seen on neem trees but did not damage the foliage,” said Bhosle. The pest had flown into Warud and Morshi tehsils of Amravati through Betul in Madhya Pradesh and then reached Nagpur and Wardha districts. “We had received a warning a week ago from the central and state agriculture ministry. However, we did not expect it would reach here so fast. We were prepared though,” said Bhosle. “Fire fighting continued throughout the night. Fire tenders were used to spray chemicals to kill the locust. This helped. Now the next location will be tracked,” said the official. Bhosle shared pictures of scores of dead locust after the spraying. Bhosle accepted it may not be possible to wipe out the swarms soon. Farmers have been advised to apply neem paste as locusts do not like bitter leaves. Sources said the swarms may turn to other leaves in the forest areas if they do not get crops which are its regular diet. Subhash Nagre, JDA (Amravati), said locust are expected to have been feeding on the grass near Upper Wardha irrigation project. “There was no tangible loss to crop,” he added. Manoj Jawanjal, an orange grower form Katol, said farmers of the area had a close shave from disaster. “Except vegetables grown by 10% of the farmers, there was no loss. The orange trees were saved too,” he said. Jawanjal added that he had heard that locusts had left mango trees bare at Morshi in Amravati. “The pest has left the area,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locust-swarm-was-17km-long-2-5km-wide-official/articleshow/76016934.cms||Shishir Arya
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Man sets wife on fire in Podanur, arrested||COIMBATORE: A 40-year-old alcoholic set his 37-year-old wife ablaze over a family dispute at Ganeshapuram in Podanur on Tuesday. He also sustained burn injuries as the woman, who was in flames, tried to catch hold of him. The Podanur police identified the deceased as Sagunthala, wife of Joshilal, from Uttar Pradesh. The couple, along with their child, were staying at a rental house at Ganeshapuram in Podanur. A police officer said Joshilal has been working with a rubber moulding unit at SIDCO (Small Industries Development Corporation Limited) in Sundarapuram for the past eight years. “An alcoholic, he used to fight with his wife whenever she questioned him about spending all his earnings on liquor. On Monday night, he fought with his wife and doused her with kerosene. He also attempted to set her ablaze. However, neighbours rushed to the house hearing the commotion and saved her. They warned Joshilal not to harass his wife and threatened to inform police,” the officer said. On Tuesday morning, Joshilal again picked up a fight with his wife. “He doused her with kerosene and set her on fire. As he locked the house from inside, she ran towards him and tried to catch hold of him. However, he escaped with minor burn injuries,” the officer said. When Joshilal attempted to escape, neighbours caught him and handed him over to the Podanur police, who registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and admitted him to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-sets-wife-on-fire-arrested/articleshow/76015584.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Covid tally drops to 39 after 9 more cured, no new cases for 1st time in 11 days||Panaji: Goa’s active Covid-19 tally dropped to 39 on Tuesday after nine patients were cured and placed in facility quarantine. The number of patients cured of the novel coronavirus in Goa thus rose to 28. Tuesday was also the first time in more than ten days that the state didn’t see a single new case, with 536 of the 565 samples testing negative, and 29 results awaited. The nine patients who were discharged on Tuesday will remain in facility quarantine for seven days, followed by another seven days in home quarantine. As per the protocol followed by the state, a patient is tested twice, and only if both reports are negative is the patient declared recovered and discharged. Tuesday also saw ten suspects admitted to isolation wards, and 647 persons placed in facility quarantine. In total, Goa has seen 67 cases of the novel coronavirus, of which 39 are active and being treated at the Covid hospital in Margao. Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday issued a notification specifying the standard operating procedure (SOP) for persons travelling by road, rail and air. While the SOP, issued on Sunday, was applicable for air and rail travellers from Monday, it was enforced for road travellers on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-tally-drops-to-39-after-9-more-cured-no-new-cases-for-1st-time-in-11-days/articleshow/76016916.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Akola Covid-19 debacle: 435 cases, 28 deaths in 49 days||Nagpur: Akola surpassed Nagpur in number of confirmed Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. With 20 new cases, Akola’s total cases stand at 435 — two more than Nagpur. While Nagpur took 75 days from its first case to the 433rd case, Akola took only 49 days. Akola also recorded three deaths — including two patients undergoing treatment in isolation ward — on Tuesday, taking Covid-19 death toll to 28. With this, now half of the Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha have happened in Akola. The figures above will be far more frightening if one adjusts them for Akola district’s 19 lakh population, to be statistically fair to Nagpur city, which has around 30 lakh people. So, Akola district leaves Nagpur far behind in number of cases and fatalities, most of which have been from Akola city. Novel coronavirus has spread across the district, and 80% wards of Akola municipal corporation, said officials on Tuesday. Taking serious note of this situation, collector Jitendra Papalkar on Tuesday announced health check-up of every citizen in Akola. “From May 28 to June 3, we will conduct health check-up of each and every member of every family in municipal limits. The city has been divided into four zones for this. Fruit vendors, milkmen, and vegetable vendors will be checked on priority,” he said. Sources claimed Akola has many unreported cases of Covid-19 too. There has been unusual surge in deaths in hotspot regions, and many of them could be Covid-19 patients who went unreported. The grave situation has forced the administration to appoint additional collector Narendra Lonkar as administrator to GMCH Akola. Interestingly, Akola is headquarters of the health services division and has its own Covid-19 testing facility at GMCH in town. Now, Lonkar, an IAS, will look after coordination between all departments of GMCH, the lab facility and administration. In last six days, from May 20 to May 26, Akola has recorded 156 new cases and eight deaths. Akola has also seen the highest number of deaths in Vidarbha. The only suicide in Vidarbha region also happened in Akola. Out of the 28 deaths in Akola, 13 have happened in the isolation ward with the patient undergoing treatment. Doctors at the GMCH blame comorbidities of patients who died in isolation. A senior doctor in ENT department said most cases here came in very critical condition. The overall health check-up of entire population might bring some good results for the town, the doctor said. AKOLA AT A GLANCE Population: 19,40,966 (estimates as per Aadhaar uidai.gov.in, Feb 2019 data) Samples tested: 4,350 (approx 216 people per lakh population) Negative: 3,864 (88%) Positive: 435 (10%) Pending: 51 (2%) Discharged: 289 (66.43% recovery rate) Deaths: 28 (6.43% mortality rate)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-covid-19-debacle-435-cases-28-deaths-in-49-days/articleshow/76016993.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 27, 2020||Pune||PCB to hire additional doctors, nurses||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board will hire 10 doctors, along with 20 nurses and paramedics, on contract at its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel General Hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) chief executive officer, Amit Kumar, said, “Rising cases of coronavirus infection in the cantonment area has prompted us to strengthen our hospital’s workforce. These fresh appointments will be on a three-month contract basis. We have planned a 10-bed intensive care unit (ICU). The newly hired medical staffers will help us to run it properly. The hired doctors will be general physicians. ” At present, the hospital has 24 doctors, 40 nurses and 40 paramedics. Resident medical officer VD Gaikwad said, “We need to have adequate staff so that we can allocate prescribed duty hours to them. The newly hired doctors will be general physicians.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-hire-additional-doctors-nurses/articleshow/76016942.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur: Four boys held for bid to murder man||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police on Tuesday arrested five people including four minor boys for attempting to murder a grocery shop owner at Palayakadu. On Monday night, the minor boys were riding motorcycles in a rash and negligent manner and they altered the silencer of their motorcycles which created noise pollution. The grocery shop owner, Rajesh, 26, questioned the minor boys. Later, the boys came with a group of youth from New Ramakrishna Puram and attacked Rajesh with knives. The injured was admitted at the Tirupur government hospital for treatment. Based on his complaint, the Tirupur North police registered an attempt to murder case against Stephen Raj, 21, and four minor boys. Police arrested the minor boys and Stephen Raj. The minor boys were produced before the juvenile justice board and later sent to juvenile observation home at Lakshmi Mills Junction in Coimbatore. Stephan Raj was lodged at the sub-jail, Avinashi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-boys-held-for-bid-to-murder-man/articleshow/76015579.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Muslim body conducts last rites of Hindu man in Akola||Nagpur: The youth wing of Kutchi Memon Jamaat performed the last rites of a 78-year-old Hindu man, who passed away following a heart attack, in Akola on May 23 as his son refused to take possession of the body. The man himself was Covid-19 negative while his wife is admitted to Akola GMCH for Covid-19 treatment. The deceased’s son is a resident of Ambazari in Nagpur. He couldn’t be contacted. On getting the news, the son reached Akola but refused to accept his father’s body allegedly over fear of contracting coronavirus infection and consequently being placed in institutional quarantine for 14 days. The Baidpura Youth Wing of the Jamaat has performed last rites of six Hindu persons including three unidentified ones so far. Among the three identified persons, relatives of two had accompanied the group’s volunteers to the crematorium and even lit the pyre. However, in case of 78-year-old man, the volunteers of Kutchi Memon Jamaat had to lit the pyre as the son returned from hospital itself. Jamaat’s president Javed Zakaria said volunteers have been doing it since April 12 when Akola recorded death of an Assam man who committed suicide at GMCH after testing positive for Covid. The volunteers had buried the man’s body at local qabrastan. “Positive or negative, we are performing last rites for all. In case of unclaimed bodies of Muslims, expenses are borne by the Jamaat. AMC sponsors cremations of unidentified persons,” Zakaria said. Besides the 78-year-old man, Zakaria said they performed janaza of a corona positive woman from Akola, a positive man from Akot-Fail, two corona-free persons and cremated one unidentified male from Umri, Akola on Tuesday too. “We have bid adieu to 65 persons. Of these, 22 were Covid-19 patients. Of them, 16 were buried and six cremated. The six included three unidentified persons,” he said. Zakaria said he and his volunteers carried out the task while fasting during the Ramzan. Akola Municipal Corporation (AMC) sanitation department head Prashant Rajurkar said the son paid Rs5,000 towards funeral expenses. “We asked him to conduct the last rites but he was not ready to take possession of the body. We are thankful to the Kutchi Memon Jamaat’s youth wing for performing last rites of not just Covid-19 victims but also of unclaimed bodies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslim-body-conducts-last-rites-of-hindu-man-in-akola/articleshow/76015582.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 27, 2020||Madurai||HC stays transfer of sanitary worker||Madurai: The Madras high court has granted interim stay on the transfer of a cleanliness worker at the Ramanathapuram municipality who was punished for questioning the authorities on the provision of safety gear for workers involved in Covid-19 work. K Balu, 55, said he is working as a cleanliness worker for the past 32 years. There are nearly 96 permanent cleanliness workers and several contract workers in the municipality. Following the announcement of lockdown in March, all the workers have been rendering effective service for the containment of Covid-19. Despite the spread of Covid-19, safety gears such as masks, hand gloves, sanitizers, boots were not provided to them. Since he is the president of the cleanliness worker welfare association, he questioned the same for which the authorities had refused to provide him salary for 10 days. As the safety gear was not provided, he along with the cleanliness workers staged a protest on April 26. Following the protest, he was transferred to the Usilampatti municipality in Madurai district by an order dated April 28 passed by the Madurai regional director of municipal administration. Stating that order was passed with a malafide intention and that it would take nearly six hours to travel between Ramanathapuram to Usilampatti daily, and would not be possible due to lack of public transportation, he moved the Madras high court Madurai bench seeking to quash the order. When the case was taken up hearing on Tuesday, justice J Nisha Banu granted interim stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-stays-transfer-of-sanitary-worker/articleshow/76015580.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||‘Cases will peak sooner in Maharashtra; lockdowns inflict huge additional costs’||Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, a global health think tank, says lockdowns cannot be part of long-term strategy in India. In an interview with Nisha Nambiar, he analyses India’s Covid-19 situation, with focus on Maharashtra. Excerpts from the interview: What is the way forward for Maharashtra?Despite what appears to be a bad situation, the state has done well on Covid-19. It was the first to be seriously impacted because of flyers from Covid-hit countries. Given Mumbai’s density, the virus was bound to spread rapidly there. Cases will also peak sooner in Maharashtra. The state has to now contain new clusters by counting cases and deaths correctly. Second: avert deaths by identifying at-risk patients. Hospitalise them early. On air travel....Maharashtra will have both incoming and outgoing cases. The state should now focus on reducing deaths. Any individual above 65, with even slight symptoms, should be prioritised for testing and hospitalised if there’s need. Places without facilities for RT-PCR testing or cluster containment may opt for pooled RT-PCR tests. This is a vital tool for identifying community clusters as they are done by taking samples from many people at one go. Serological surveys can’t identify a current set of infectious patients on time. But serological studies can determine extent of spread and if population immunity is being built up. What about lockdowns?Compared to the West, lockdowns are both less effective (because of population densities) and more expensive in terms of livelihoods for India. The curbs were to be a short-term measure. The lockdown should be replaced with a disciplined approach that uses pooled testing, serological surveys, cluster containment at a very local level, social distancing and a ban on mass gatherings. These measures will have to be a part of our lives for next six months. After lockdown 4, do you expect cases to surge?The lockdown is an artificial situation that cannot be repeated without inflicting huge additional costs on the country. Cases of Covid-19 are likely to surge, not just in the states where there are more cases at this time, but in other states as well. The past two months should have been spent readying important healthcare infrastructure across the country. Lockdowns are not a permanent solution; they are temporary measures that let authorities purchase more time to prepare preventive steps against the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-will-peak-sooner-in-maharashtra-lockdowns-inflict-huge-additional-costs/articleshow/76016973.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 27, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Casualty count rises to 289 as nine more die, 327 turn positive in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: Nine patients succumbed to Covid-19 infection, while 327 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, taking the casualty and case counts to 289 and 6,480,respectively, so far. On Monday, the PMR had added 459 fresh cases, primarily on the account of pending reports. Among 327 fresh cases, the Pune municipal limits recorded 255 cases, while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas reported 40 cases and the rural areas added 32 cases. The PMC’s health department said 140 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after they were declared cured. Over 176 patients were in critical stage, of which 44 were on ventilator, a civic health official said. Among the nine deaths, four were reported at Sassoon General hospital. These included a 30-year-old woman of Yerawada, a 76-year-old man from Nana Peth, a 48-year-old woman from the Camp area and a 67-year-old woman from Hadapsar. Five deaths were reported at private hospitals. These included a 52-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 41-year-old man from Yerawada, a 48-year-old-man from Nana Peth, a 82-year-old man from the Parvati area and a 52-year-old woman from Hadapsar. PMC pushes swab collection to 2,044 The PMC on Tuesday collected 2,044 swab samples, highest on a day so far. The swabs were collected mainly of the suspected patients, close contacts and high-risk contacts, health officials said. At the beginning of the month, PMC had pushed up daily swab collection beyond 1,000. The civic administration has so far collected over 43,000 swabs for testing. PCMC officials said most of the fresh cases were from Rupeenagar, Anandnagar, Wakad, Pimpri, Bhosari, Kasarwadi, Walhekarwadi, Bhatnagar and Ambegaon areas. “Four positive patients were discharged on Tuesday. With this, 173 positive patients have been discharged after being cured till now,” a PCMC official said. ( With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/casualty-count-rises-to-289-as-nine-more-die-327-turn-positive-in-pmr/articleshow/76017010.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Vendors allowed to be back on streets||Coimbatore: The city corporation granted permission for street vendors to resume their business on Tuesday by sticking to the government guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. A city corporation source said the vendors have been asked to wear masks and not to entertain the customers who violate the physical distancing and face mask norms. He said they were allowed to do business from 7am to 7pm. “They have to disinfect the vending area and their push carts. They shouldn’t allow customers to crowd them. The vendors also have to ensure enough distance among them.” If they are not adhering to the norms, the source said, their permission would be revoked, and their products would be seized. The city corporation has advised the vendors to enable digital transactions like Google Pay, Paytm and PhonePe. On their part, street vendors have assured to follow all the guidelines and extend their support in all possible ways to control the spread of infection. P Mani, district president of Coimbatore Street Vendors’ Association, said, “It has been more than two months since we have closed our business. Our savings had exhausted within a few days into lockdown. We managed to survive so far only with the help of ration products that the government distributed and the assistance of volunteers. But, how long can we depend on others.” According to him, there are more than 10,000 street vendors, of which, close to 6,100 are registered with the civic body. He said now they would be able to earn to survive the crisis situation. They had earlier in the day petitioned the city corporation, seeking permission to resume their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vendors-allowed-to-be-back-on-streets/articleshow/76015585.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lack of workers, buyers hits shopping complexes in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Less than half of shopping complexes in the city resumed operations on Tuesday, and that too with just 10-15% shops open, on being granted permission. Owners said they could not open shops since workers did not come, either in fear of risk or due to lack of public transport. Traders’ associations said around 50 of 185 commercial complexes in city resumed operations. The district administration had allowed 33% shops in shopping complexes to open from 7am to 7pm. In a reality check, TOI found few complexes open in Aliganj, Hazratganj, Jankipuram, Alambagh, Kapoorthala, Indiranagar, Vikasnagar and Gomtinagar. Though safety protocols were followed, footfall was low to moderate. Even Sri Ram Tower, the mobile sales and repair hub, saw moderate footfall. Just few shops opened in Lekhraj Market, Bhootnath and Munshipulia. “Footfall increased in the evening, but sale was dull,” said Prakash Chandra, a shopkeeper. In Patrakarpuram, single brand shopping complexes struggled with thin footfall. Ashish Singh, a shopowner in Aashiana said most shops are offering home delivery due to lack of staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lack-of-workers-buyers-hits-shopping-complexes/articleshow/76017068.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamils stranded in UK seek state govt’s help to return home||Coimbatore: Around 300 Tamils stranded in the UK have sought the state government’s intervention to facilitate their returning home. Shyamala Surendran, 34, a Chennai resident, who is doing her PhD in University of Bristol, told TOI over the phone that around 300 Tamils across the UK were desperate to return home but were stuck due to cancellation of flights. Shyamala, who is part of a WhatsApp group ‘Tamils Stranded in UK’, said on May 14, a group of Tamil people reached Chennai from the UK under the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission. “There are no flights to Chennai as cases are raising there. However, the Centre is operating flights to Kochi, Vijayawada, New Delhi and Mumbai and people from these states are returning home. We are ready to travel to other states. We will bear the cost of tickets and undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine. We seek the help of the state government in coordinating with other states and the Centre to facilitate our return,” she said. We have registered online for a flight to Chennai and we urge the Centre to operate a rescue flight to Chennai, she added.Shyamala said stranded people include both students and working people in various sectors. Some of them are cardiac and diabetic patients who find it difficult to get services in the overcrowded UK hospitals, she said. We are struggling to get basic items and services here as lockdown rules are severe, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamils-stranded-in-uk-seek-state-govts-help-to-return-home/articleshow/76015588.cms||A Subburaj
May 27, 2020||Pune||PMC survey set to contact 5 lakh at-risk individuals||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation is set to take a more focussed approach to reduce deaths among a surveyed 5 lakh at-risk citizens.Officials said the civic body will reach out to people with comorbidities, elderly and pregnant women. A survey will start this week to check if any of these individuals have Covid-19 symptoms. They will be immediately hospitalised if need arises.The data on at-risk citizens is the result of door-to-door surveys. Information collected by the civic body shows 122 clusters were earmarked for the house-to-house analysis. A total of 1,500 surveyors carried out the first six studies, covering an average of 50,000 houses every day. In total, the surveys have made 1.2 crore contacts. People have been contacted multiple times. The seventh survey, starting this week, will focus only on at-risk patients. Civic staff involved in the study will also create awareness on the infection and its likely impact on at-risk individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-survey-set-to-contact-5-lakh-at-risk-individuals/articleshow/76017038.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Parents & students happy, schools fret over new CBSE exam rules||Nagpur: Union human resources and development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal’s confirmation about pending CBSE board exams to be held in students own schools rather than the earlier assigned centre, has made parents and students happy but left schools fretting over the logistical challenge. From July 1-15, a total of 23 exams of Std X and XII, postponed due to Delhi riots and then national lockdown, will be held. A close aide of Pokhriyal told TOI that the minister had tweeted about this decision and CBSE will release the details in due course. “The HRD minister has said that students will appear for the exams in their own school. Also the number of centres will be increased from 3,000 to 15,000. If new admit cards are to be issued, students will be informed through their schools,” the aide said. Parents were unaware about this development as no notification has been issued yet. Amit Anand, parent of a Std XII student, hoped that invigilators would be “strict even though they are from the same school”. “It should not turn into any advantage for a student who is not well prepared over those who have slogged for the entire year.” Sharad Agrawal, whose daughter will appear for Std XII exam in Nagpur, felt he decision was good “considering from a psychological point of view as familiar faces will be all around”. “Students already have to deal with new guidelines like carrying a hand sanitizer, wearing face masks, Covid distancing etc. So putting them in a familiar atmosphere will be comforting,” he said. For academicians, the biggest challenge is logistics. “If exam centres are being increased then a large number of staff will be required. We hope all travel restrictions are eased to enable that. Also, question papers routing will need to be sorted out because number of students at centres will change,” a teacher said. A school’s trustee said question papers are marked for specific centres. “Obviously the number of students appearing in those centres is also fixed. Let’s assume that 50 more students will now appear at that centre, so from where and which set will the extra papers be taken. Who will do that, in whose presence? These are sensitive issues which will put additional stress on our staff members,” he said. A senior official, who did not wish to be quoted, said that preparations are on to make things clear. IN A NUTSHELL Papers for Std X and XII from July 1-15 Total 23 papers 11 for Std X only in north east Delhi Pending due to riots in that area, held as per schedule across country 12 for Std XII will entire country TIME TABLE (Std XII) July 1 | Home Science July 2 | Hindi Elective/Core July 7 | Informatics prac/Computer Sci/IT (old and new course) July 9 | Business Studies July 10 | Biotechnology July 11| Geography July 13 | Sociology||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-students-happy-schools-fret-over-new-cbse-exam-rules/articleshow/76017051.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wind power generation balloons to 3,396MW||Ahmedabad: Wind power generation in Gujarat has seen a noticeable increase with higher wind speeds. Maximum wind power generation in the state stood at 3,396MW on May 25, shows data compiled by the Gujarat government’s state load dispatch centre (SLDC). “Gujarat recorded wind power generation of 63.3 million units as on 4pm on May 25. Wind power constituted 20% of the 320 million units consumed on the same day,” city-based energy expert K K Bajaj said, citing SLDC data. Private sector power plants accounted for 45.5% (6,718MW) of the maximum demand catered to on Monday, state and central sector power plants contributed 12.5% (1,723MW) and 18.4% (2,071MW), respectively. The contribution of solar power remained at 3.9% (1,024MW). According to the western region load dispatch centre (WRLDC), a central government undertaking, total wind power generation capacity is 5,691 MW. WRLDC data pegged Gujarat’s peak wind power generation at 50.64 million units on May 24. “With the resumption of industries at low capacity following the relaxation in lockdown, power demand in Gujarat increased to 15,000MW on May 25 from around 9,000MW on March 23,” Bajaj said. “Demand is likely to rise to 16,000MW soon with higher temperatures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wind-power-generation-balloons-to-3396mw/articleshow/76015281.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||100-year-old undergoes second hip surgery in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 100-year-old patient — a physician himself specialising in cardiology – recently underwent successful hip surgery at a private hospital in city. J C Mehta had slipped and fallen at his residence in Anand Vihar on April 13. His son, Sanjeev Mehta, who is also a doctor, told TOI that due to lockdown many hospitals were shut and routine surgeries were on hold. “Given my father’s age, I wasn’t sure if any surgeon would agree to operate on him because of the Covid-19 risk. But, Dr L Tomar at Max Patparganj agreed to operate on him,” the 65-year-old son said. He said that his father has undergone three angioplasties in the past and only two years ago he had undergone another hip surgery. “My father has a strong will. He has always been active. He retired as chief medical officer of Northern Railway,” the son said. According to Dr Tomar, director and unit head, orthopedics and joint replacement at Max Super Specialty Hospital, Patparganj, the patient had severe pain in hip joint and he wasn’t able to bear any weight on the right lower limb when he was rushed to the emergency. “X-ray showed fracture in the thigh bone near the hip joint of the right leg,” he added. Incidentally, the 100-year-old patient had suffered a similar fracture in his left hip region two years back, for which he was also operated upon at the Max Hospital. “After considering the high activity level of the patient, we decided to do a similar surgery for the right hip too,” Dr Tomar said. The surgery to fix the hip joint was conducted successfully on April 18. After that, with help from the physiotherapy team the centenarian was started on exercises a day after the surgery, doctors said. “He started walking with a walker just two days after surgery, and was discharged in good condition thereafter,” said Dr Tomar. According to him, injuries around the hip joint can be debilitating for older people. Yet, with careful planning and timely medical intervention, these can be managed with the least impact on patients, helping them bounce back to their normal life quickly, the orthopaedic surgeon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/100-yr-old-undergoes-second-hip-surgery/articleshow/76015592.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Most rush for trains to Howrah, Varanasi||Ahmedabad: Railway ticket bookings from Ahmedabad indicate that Howrah and Varanasi along with Patna are the most sought-after destinations currently for passengers from Ahmedabad. There is a similar rush in passengers to the city from Mumbai, which has a large Gujarati population. Not just AC 3-tier and 2-tier but even sleeper class coaches for Howrah are booked till June 25. In the Mumbai sector, the Suryanagari Express, which has a 3-tier AC coach is fully booked and there is a long waiting list for Ahmedabad. Officials said for Karnavati Express leaving for Ahmedabad, there was a waiting list for the AC chair car on June 1 and June 2. The availability in Karnavati or Suryanagari is even less from Mumbai than from Ahmedabad. A senior officer said that majority of those travelling back to Gujarat from Mumbai are headed for Kutch. He pointed out that there were no Shramik Special between Ahmedabad and Mumbai as both the cities are high in containment zones. Another senior officer pointed out that until now, only one Shramik Special had left from Ahmedabad for Howrah, and one for Malda in West Bengal. So, as regular trains resumed operations, people belonging to West Bengal, who were in Gujarat, booked tickets in a rush to get back home. The officer said it was surprising that despite so many Shramik Special trains leaving for various destinations from Ahmedabad, the rush for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar continues and bookings for Varanasi and Patna are in high demand. However, said the officials, even in normal days before the lockdown, trains to north India, especially to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, were always crowded. A similar rush is seen during vacations in normal times and it was expected as soon as Sharamik Special trains were announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/most-rush-for-trains-to-howrah-varanasi/articleshow/76015276.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Small industries seek loans, subsidy to get back on track||Coimbatore: Crippled by a severe fund crunch due to the lockdown, representatives of micro and small industries from the district have sought feasible loans, an extension on moratorium and subsidy support to get back on their feet. The representatives on Tuesday said the Centre’s Rs 3lakh crore relief package for MSMEs would not directly benefit them as there were no delineation of funds for them. The Centre should allot funds exclusively for micro and small industries, apart from providing a subsidy of Rs 1lakh relief fund for each micro and small units, the representatives said. A total of 19 micro and small industries have come together as 'Coimbatore Industrial Associations Forum' to highlight their issues to the state and central governments. At their maiden meeting on Tuesday, representatives said the Centre should allot 90% of the relief package funds for MSMEs to micro and small units. J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), a representative of the federation, said the interest rate for loans promised by the Centre should be brought down from 9.25% to 6%. “Banks should provide micro and small units with interest-free loans from Rs 2lakh to Rs 10lakh without any collateral. Interest for pending loans should be waived off for a year.” Apart from this, the federation has called for slashing GST for micro and small units to 5%, and have requested that the Centre return the penalty amount they had paid for delay in paying GST in the past one year. The federation said PSUs and private firms, which normally take upto 110 days to release payments to micro and small units, should be asked to clear payments in 45 days, apart from clearing pending payments till March 31 immediately. The federation also sought that the Centre put on hold its reclassification of micro and small units based on investment and turnover. To the state government, the federation has requested that power tariff from March to June be waived off. Micro and small industry associatios such as Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association (Cosiema), Coimbatore Tiny and Small Foundry Owners Association (Cosmafan), Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), Railway Suppliers Association and Coimbatore Wetgrinders and Accessories Manufacturers Association (Cowma), among others, are part of the federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-industries-seek-loans-subsidy-to-get-back-on-track/articleshow/76015589.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Video calls with family, e-eidi make up Cov-Eid||LUCKNOW: There were no embraces of ‘Eid Mubarak’ nor rows of men brushing shoulders as not five lakh—like other years—but five people offered Eid namaz at the biggest Eidgah of Lucknow in Aishbagh. As Covid-19 turned Eid into ‘Cov-Eid’, imam of Aishbagh Eidgah led the namaz at the historic grounds with a mere five devotees behind him following social distancing. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also extended his greetings via a letter and phone call to Maulana Khalid Rasheed. Former CM Akhilesh Yadav paid a visit to Eidgah on Monday. Imam-e-Juma of Asafi mosque Maulana Kalbe Jawad also led the namaz at his home with five men behind him. Along with Khutba, his speech was telecast live on social media. Families spent the day on group video calls with loved ones. Because Eidi is an integral part of the festival and the young could not get crisp notes from elders, e-eidi was the way to go. For some, Eid was a day to help migrant workers. Volunteers of All India Payam-e-Insaniyat Forum and SMH Society fed migrants at Charbagh railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/video-calls-with-family-e-eidi-make-up-cov-eid/articleshow/76017153.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||3 Covid-19 deaths in a day in Akola, 44 new cases in Vid||Nagpur: The series of Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha since May 21 continued on Tuesday with three deaths in Akola, taking the death toll to 56. Akola accounts for 28 of these 56. Akola also reported 20 new cases, followed by Amravati (7), Nagpur (5), Bhandara (4), Buldhana (3), Wardha (3), Gadchiroli (1) and Gondia (1), taking total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha to 1,353. Total 45 patients — including 38 from Akola, 4 from Amravati, and 1 each from Nagpur, Buldhana and Chandrapur — recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. With this, 859 patients have recovered out of the 1,353 patients. Recovery rate is 63.48%, which is more than double of Maharashtra’s 30.60%. Of the three deaths in Akola, a 56-yr-old man from Balapur, who was admitted on May 22 and tested positive on May 25, died during treatment late on Monday night. A 66-yr-old man, resident of Old city, who was admitted on May 18 and tested positive on May 22, died on Tuesday afternoon. Third death was of a 71-yr-old man from Akot File area. He was admitted on May 23 and died on May 24. His swab samples tested positive on Tuesday. Apart from these three deaths, Akola also reported 20 new cases and surpassed Nagpur by one case. Now, Akola has 435 cases against Nagpur’s 434. Nagpur recorded five new cases today, including a 23-yr-old pregnant woman from Mominpura. Gondia and Gadchiroli reported one positive patient each. Gondia now has 49 cases and 48 of them are active cases. On Tuesday, the food contractor appointed by Gondia district collector at the GMCH Covid hospital failed to provide food on time. Patients remained without food for almost the full day. District administration lodged FIR against the food contractor in the evening. Bhandara reported three new cases, all travellers from Mumbai and Pune. In Wardha, three people from Mumbai who reached on Monday tested positive on Tuesday. The victims are from Hinganghat and Wardha tehsil. A 28-year-old nurse from Sion area in Mumbai came to Sawangi in Wardha on May 16. The woman was admitted to a general hospital with symptoms like fever, cough, etc and her swab samples rested positive. Now she is undergoing treatment at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi. A couple from Shirud village in Hinganghat taluka came from Chembur on May 18. They were placed under home quarantine. The swab samples of five persons from his family were taken on May 24. Out of these, samples of husband and wife have tested positive for Covid-19. The patients have been admitted to Kasturba Hospital in Sewagram and are undergoing treatment. In Amravati, seven new cases, all from different localities in the city were reported. It took the district’s count to 185, including 15 deaths, 79 active cases, 3 referred to GMCH, Nagpur, and 88 discharged. Shiv Nagar grabbed attention on Tuesday morning with three females, aged 21, 45 and 4, and a male aged 31 contracting the virus. In the evening, shock waves spread in Camp area as a 61-year-old male from Frezerpura tested positive along with a 64-year-old male from Ratanganj and a 20-year-old girl from Masanganj. Ratanganj thus posted its third case while Masanganj its 27th. Shiv Nagar’s count went up to 11 in a week with morning’s four cases. On the brighter side, four patients — three from Lalkhadi and one from Masanganj, were discharged from Covid hospital this evening, taking the count of discharged patients to 88. Three women from Nandura and Chikhli of Buldhana tested positive on Tuesday taking total cases in district to 48, with 27 discharged and three deaths. Buldhana collector Suman Chandra said returnees from hotspot areas are not following home quarantine properly. “Such violators would be put in strict institutional quarantine for violation of 14 days home quarantine. Some people are treating people returning to their legitimate houses or villages as some kind of vile existence. Such discrimination is unnecessary,” she said, adding that safety precautions are necessary. No new positive case was reported in Yavatmal on Tuesday and hence the total positive in the isolation ward is 15 for the third consecutive day. Washim also remained free from coronavirus for the eighth day in a row, with all 14 samples testing negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day-in-akola-44-new-cases-in-vid/articleshow/76017120.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka wants negative certificate, but isn’t prepared to give one||BENGALURU: Covid-19 negative certificates are in huge demand, but there is no supportive protocol laid out for the same by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Karnataka government in its standard operating procedure (SOP) mandates that business travellers on a short visit to the state will have to produce a Covid-19 negative certificate to be exempted from institutional quarantine. However, it has not issued any order to provide for testing of healthy individuals who don’t come under ICMR’s criteria. Private labs in the state, in fact, are flooded with calls from companies seeking tests for their employees before allowing them to return to work. Following this, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) has raised the matter with the health and family welfare department, seeking clarity on whether those without Covid-19 symptoms and not falling under ICMR protocol can be tested for coronavirus. “The Karnataka SOP is vague. Does it mean that hospitals can collect throat swabs for anybody without any symptom and ask for them to be tested, citing that a Covid-19 negative certificate is required for travel or as demanded by employers,” asked Dr R Ravindra, president, PHANA. Curiously, the Karnataka SOP states that Covid-19 negative certificate has to be issued by an ICMR-approved lab.“As of now, there is no provision as per ICMR protocol to test those without symptoms, those who are not contacts of a positive patient, have no exposure to coronavirus and have no travel history,” said Dr Deepak Balani, chief of medical services, Sakra World Hospital. The Sakra lab is an ICMR-approved facility for Covid-19 testing. “We keep getting calls for Covid-19 testing from many people, who don’t fit the ICMR protocol. There is a shortage of RT-PCR kits and also kits used for nucleic acid separation for polymerase chain reaction test. Many companies that want to reopen have consulted us on conducting tests for their employees. We have had to explain to them about the ICMR protocol,” said Dr Balani. Asked why Karnataka isn’t issuing Covid-19 negative certificates, S Suresh Kumar, state’s Covid-19 spokesperson, said, “We should also be able to issue them. We will think in that direction.” However, Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said: “The government is spending over Rs 2,000 for every Covid test. Money shouldn’t be wasted on unnecessary tests. Also, we have capacity limitation. When we have eligible samples to be tested, why should we test ineligible samples? If anyone wants to get tested, s/he can get it done in private labs,” he told TOI. Asked if the government will be issuing any circular allowing private labs to test anyone seeking it, Akhtar said no such circular will be issued. “However, we will examine the matter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-wants-negative-certificate-but-isnt-prepared-to-give-one/articleshow/76015478.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Allow hotels to function fully’||Coimbatore: Hotel workers associations in the district have urged the state to allow hotels to function fully to ensure livelihood for hotel workers. They also sought pay for the lockdown period from hotel owners and assistance fund from the state for catering sector workers, who are part of unorganized workforce. Representatives of Coimbatore District Lodge, Hotel and Bakery Workers’ Union said there were around 30,000 people, who depended on hotels and catering businesses for their livelihood, in the district and that they were affected by lockdown. Of the 30,000 workers, around 10% were guest workers from north. The remaining were from other districts. Around half of the workers have now left for their home states. According to A L Raja, general secretary of the union, there are around 30 big hotels and hotel chains in the city. “Each branch of these hotels employs anywhere between 50 and 100 workers. While some of the hotels have paid their workers for 15 or 21 days during the lockdown, many others haven’t. We want all hotel managements to pay their workers for the lockdown period.” As the state has allowed only parcel services to resume in hotels, Raja said they have employed only half the workforce. “The state should allow hotels to resume operations in full.” Speaking about catering workers, Raja said the state should provide Rs 7,500 a month to them as they have no means of livelihood. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allow-hotels-to-function-fully/articleshow/76015590.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Forest dept mulls sterilizing Chanda tigers to check population||Nagpur: Even as the state forest department’s proposal for conservation translocation of 50 tigers from Chandrapur district has stirred up a debate among greens, another ideas to sterilize 20 male tigers to control their growing numbers has been floated. If approved, this will be the first plan to sterilize tigers in the country. Sterilizing tigresses was not discussed.The proposed measures to quell man-animal conflict in the district were submitted to the state government on March 19. On May 7, TOI reported the proposal on translocation but there are other measures as well including vasectomy.The issue came up for discussion with forest minister Sanjay Rathod at a meeting in city on May 22. The series of steps to contain conflict included considering request of other states for tigers in wild in coordination with NTCA and shifting problem tigers at Gorewada Rescue Centre.Wildlife officials told TOI, “These are suggestions and not decisions. It is up to the government and state wildlife board to take a final call. It is a long-drawn process for which we have to think now.” Since 2014 till date, 116 people have been killed in wild animal attacks in Chandrapur alone. Of these, 81 were killed in tiger attacks. In the last five months, 16 people have died in attacks, 15 of them by big cats.Officials seeking anonymity said, “There are 200 tigers in the district and these do not include cubs. As per Wildlife Institute of India (WII), there are 63 breeding tigresses and next year number of tigers is expected to increase by 60. In 5km radius of Chandrapur city, there are 21 tigers. In such a situation we will have to think about solutions to curb man-animal conflict and hence we have submitted proposal for the same.”Dr Shirish Upadhye, deputy director of research and veterinary surgeon, said, “Males would be easier choice for sterilization.”“The procedure would involve keeping tigers in captivity for about seven days post-surgery. The surgery needs to be done under general anaesthesia and care like post operative dressings, medications would be required,” Dr Upadhye said.“The Gorewada Rescue Centre has good facilities. Wildlife Research & Training Centre (WRTC) of Maharashtra Animal & Fishery Sciences University (MAFSU) has expertise. However, there are no enclosures for any new additions, that may be required during this entire procedure for treatment of injured tigers or surgeries,” Dr Upadhye said.Stopping The Roar* Chandrapur district is 11,443 sqkm big with 1,800 villages* Includes territorial (2,726sqkm), FDCM (755sqkm), TATR (1,320sqkm) & non-forest (6,642sqkm)* In last 6 years, 116 people dead in wild animal attacks in Chandrapur district* 16 in last 5 months* 81 killed were in tiger attacks and 35 by other wild animals* 63 breeding tigresses in district* Chandrapur 5km radius 21 tigers* 200 in district, excludes cubs* Next year, number expected to increase by 60||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-mulls-sterilizing-chanda-tigers-to-check-population/articleshow/76017135.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Patients pay 10-20 per cent more in private hospitals||KOCHI: Patients in private hospitals are shelling out 10-20% more as payment towards personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks, tests and even infection control measures though hospital managements deny any increase in procedure costs post Covid-19. Only about 15% patients in Kerala have health insurance and majority pay out of their pockets. Private hospitals in the state have seen a drop of almost 30-50% in patient inflow since the Covid outbreak. The relaxation in lockdown guidelines has not helped either owing to strict infection control measures. The Association of Healthcare Providers (India) - AHPI, an organisation representing majority of private hospitals in the country, had noted the rise in hospital expenses in a study. It said a 10-bedded ICU with one nurse looking after two patients in three shifts will need 24 PPEs, which the hospital gets at Rs 800 apiece, and the cost is divided among the patients. Similar is the case with N95 or triple layer masks and goggles, as well as the increased use of sanitisers, disinfectants, soap and water. The cost of Covid test is Rs 4,500, and most hospitals are advising the test before procedures that increase the risk of coronavirus infection. The cost of procedure as well as room rent goes up by a minimum of Rs 15,000-20,000 with this. “No hospital is looking at making money. We are only shifting the actual costs to patients as hospitals are in no position to take the burden of additional costs,” AHPI president Dr Alexander Thomas said. Dr Sunny P Orathel, medical superintendent, Rajagiri Hospital, said the expenses were increasing but they had not raised the OP charges. "The use of sanitisers have increased by 5-10 times and water consumption has doubled," he said. All these expenses will be covered if an in-patient has a comprehensive health insurance scheme but less than 15% people in Kerala have health insurance, said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of IMA’s Hospital Board of India. Meanwhile, the state government has failed to pay the full premium amount of Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati as well as its insurance programme for government employees to the private insurance company. Majority of hospitals covered under these insurance schemes are in the government sector but most of these hospitals focus on Covid treatment now. “It’s a tricky situation. The paying capacity of patients has reduced and expenses of private hospitals have increased. Hospitals are passing the increased financial burden to patients,” said Dr Gopikumar P, secretary, Indian Medical Association, Kerala chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/patients-pay-10-20-more-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76015595.cms||Preetu Nair
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJYM leader apologizes for tweet on media||Gandhinagar: A leader of the Gujarat BJP’s youth wing on Tuesday apologized for his tweet which cast aspersions on media and accused it of giving hype to certain news about coronavirus tests for the sake of more TRP. The tweet posted by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha’s (BJYM) Rutvij Patel on Monday, was widely criticized and the Gujarat BJP unit also condemned it. Patel deleted the tweet and tendered an apology, saying his intention was not to target the media. Gujarat BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said chief minister Vijay Rupani has taken the issue seriously, and that the party has high regard for the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjym-leader-apologizes-for-tweet-on-media/articleshow/76015271.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Create skilled local workers, industry players urge govt||Coimbatore: With the outflow of guest workers from north India in large numbers to their home states, micro and small industry representatives said the state should take steps to ensure the vacuum left by these workers is filled by creating skilled workers locally. They said the state should offer skill development courses for unemployed rural youth and pass an order mandating that students of industrial training institutes (ITIs) and polytechnic undergo internships in micro and small units. Speaking to reporters, representatives of micro and small industry associations on Tuesday said according to their estimates, there were around 1.5 lakh north Indian guest workers in the district. “We have skilled and trained these workers, and if they leave, it would be loss of skilled workforce,” they said. While a portion of the guest workers have already left for their home states, those who are remaining are getting restless and have been running around to police stations in a bid to get enlisted to return. They are also seeking their employers to make arrangements to send them back. “They are not in a state of mind to work,” said J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT). As it was uncertain as to when the guest workers would return if they leave for home, micro industry representatives said the state should seek to produce skilled labourers. While earlier, there was a skill development scheme for rural unemployed youth, now it was in a lull, they said. “The state should bring it back.” They also said the state should also make internships and training in micro and small units mandatory for students of polytechnic colleges and ITIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/create-skilled-local-workers-industry-players-urge-govt/articleshow/76015594.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 20 chargesheets in Tablighi Jamaat case, 82 foreigners named||NEW DELHI: Filing the first set of final reports in the Tablighi Jamaat case, the Crime Branch of Delhi Police has filed 20 chargesheets against 82 foreigners from 20 countries who attended the Alami Markaz event in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin. They entered India on tourist visas and participated in the religious event illegally, the cops claimed. According to the 14,000-page chargesheets, the foreigners deliberately, wilfully, negligently and malignantly disobeyed lawful directions. They also created a situation where a highly infectious disease spread and threatened many lives, it added. The chargesheets were filed under Epidemic Act, Foreigners Act, Disaster Management Act and IPC at the Saket court on Tuesday afternoon. Metropolitan magistrate Saema Jamil will consider the chargesheets on June 12. Maulana Mohammed Saad, the head of Tablighi Markaz, and its others members allowed a huge gathering to assemble inside a closed premises over a period of time without any semblance of social distancing or provision of masks and sanitisers despite knowing that the risk from people travelling from foreign countries was higher, police said. According to the chargesheets, 14 of the accused are from Fiji, 10 from Saudi Arabia, eight from Algeria, seven each from Brazil and China, six each from Sudan and the Philippines, five from the US, four from Afghanistan, two each from Australia, Kazakhstan, Morocco and the UK, and one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Jordan, France, Tunisia and Belgium. The punishments range from six months to eight years of imprisonment. These foreigners have been kept at different shelter homes after consulting respective embassies. More than 900 foreigners related to the Markaz event have already joined the investigation, which has revealed that most of them came on tourist or e-visas, the cops said. In their destination address, they had mentioned the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid as their destination. The cops alleged involvement of Maulana Saad and his associates in facilitating this. The cops mentioned that 64 foreigners who had attended the Markaz event were found to be corona-positive in their respective countries and were suspected to be the cause behind the death of at least two fellow Tablighi members in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/20-chargesheets-in-jamaat-case-82-foreigners-named/articleshow/76015596.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Flyers to be quarantined for 14 days, not 7: Mumbai International Airport||MUMBAI: Miscommunication between the government and airport officials saw flyers arriving in Mumbai on Monday and Tuesday get their wrists stamped for home quarantine for only seven days, instead of the mandated 14 days. On Tuesday evening, Mumbai International Airport (MIAL) issued a statement to clarify that passengers would have to be quarantined for 14 days and not seven as stated earlier. MIAL, in a press statement released on Monday, had said the passengers would have to be quarantined for seven days. When contacted, additional municipal commissioner in charge of projects P Velrasu said, “This is wrong. It (the quarantine period) will be 14 days for domestic passengers. ” International passengers would be sent on institutional quarantine for seven days and isolated for seven more days at home. Velrasu also said he had instructed Mumbai airport, which said it would withdraw the incorrect press release. He added their medical team said they were stamping wrists for a 14-day quarantine period only at the domestic airport. When asked how the BMC will now correct the stamping done for seven days, a civic official said the flyers have downloaded the Aarogya Setu mobile application and they would be tracked to find out if they home quarantine themselves for a 14- day period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/flyers-to-be-quarantined-for-14-days-not-7-mial/articleshow/76015387.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: 45 of 511 SARI cases surveyed have Covid-19||PUNE: A sizeable number of people with the Covid-19 infection has been found during tests conducted on those hospitalised with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). The results, experts said, indicate some levels of community transmission of SARS-Cov-2 in the Pune Metropolitan Regio (PMR). From a total of 511 SARI cases, 45 people were found to be positive with Covid-19. But Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said he has left it to the Union government to decide if the results are indicative of community transmission. 45 of 511 SARI patients surveyed have Covid-19Health experts have said that a disease is in community transmission phase when there is no clear source of infection in a person. Early in the outbreak, Covid-19 was mostly seen in those with travel or contact history. But experts have been saying the infection has started to appear in people with no records of travel or contact. “We will submit ICMR-NIV's SARI surveillance report to the Centre. It will decide if there has been community transmission in Pune,” Mhaisekar said. The 511 SARI patients were admitted across 18 private and government hospitals in the PMR between March 22 and May 14. A total of 45 tested positive. State health officials have dismissed chances of community transmission. “The 45 SARI patients were mainly residents of containment zones. Source of infection is identifiable. There are chances they may have come in contact with unknown transmitters,” a state official said. But public health experts said the SARI tests show community spread. “Patients with SARI are independent cases with a similar set of symptoms: fever, cough, breathlessness. Finding Covid-19 in SARI cases, where the source of infection is unknown, strongly suggests community transmission,” said Sanjay Dabhade, a public health activist and medical practitioner . He added: "It is probable those who tested positive for Covid got the infection from within the community. To confirm this, officials can revisit these 45 patients for travel or contact history." Epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee, who has been part of the Army's central epidemiological surveillance centre at the Armed Forced Medical College in Pune, said: "The rather low 8.8% positivity among SARI patients indicates two things: First, there has been some amount of community transmission. Second, most cases of Covid-19 infection in Pune are sub-clinical or asymptomatic and only a few are landing up as SARI cases. Given our predominantly young population, in which the majority of cases are likely to be mild or asymptomatic, this is a strong possibility." The ICMR's chief epidemiologist Raman Gangakhedkar and Priya Abraham, the director of NIV, could not be reached for their comments on the SARI findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/45-of-511-sari-cases-surveyed-have-covid-19/articleshow/76017174.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||No permanent power connection sans building certificates: Tangedco||Coimbatore: Buildings in the state can no longer obtain a permanent electricity connection without submitting building completion certificates to Tangedco. A recent circular from Tangedco said that submission of the completion certificate will not apply to buildings which were being constructed or were completed on or before February 4, 2019.  The circular said on completion of the construction, the temporary electricity connection provided to the building should be disconnected and a permanent connection should be given on receipt of completion certificates. “Exemption is given for residential buildings upto 12m in height not exceeding three dwelling units and other buildings with an area of 750 sq m,” the circular said.The circular comes over a year after the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, came into effect and two years after the high court directed both the electricity board and TN water and drainage board to provide connection only on receipt of building completion certificates. The state government had also issued a government order regarding the same in 2018. “While the combined building rules had specifically mentioned that only industrial buildings and residential buildings with three dwelling units upto 12m height or 750sqm area would be exempted from submitting the certificate, the Tangedco circular has said the exemption would also be given to other buildings with an area of upto 750sqm. The circular is contrary to the rules,” said K Kathirmathiyon of Coimbatore Consumer Cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-permanent-power-connection-sans-building-certificates-tangedco/articleshow/76015599.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Gold-winning international boxer Anant Chopade slogs on farm||NAGPUR: Anant Chopade’s days are spent toiling in sweltering heat at his 2-acre farm in Buldhana’s Sawna village. In normal circumstance the 22-year-old pugilist would have been busy sparring with his national teammates in Patiala. But, like millions of other lives, Anant’s too has been turned upside down by the coronavirus spread and resulting lockdown. “I have been working at the farm for more than two months. I have never stayed away from the boxing ring for this long since I made my debut in junior section… boxing action should start soon," Anant, who was the 52kg gold medalist of the 2019 President Cup at Indonesia, said. It’s not that the youngster has complaints about the hardships of working in the farm. Anant, the younger of the two Chopade brothers, has seen his family being at the receiving end of life for more than a decade. Though the Chopade’s had a farm, the returns from it were not enough to sustain the family. His parents — Pralhad and Kushivarta — worked as farm labourers. His brother drove auto-rickshaw as the family somehow managed to make the ends meet. The family’s fortunes changed after Anant’s rise in the boxing world. Anant, who has remained a constant part of the national camp for last four years, secured a job in Indian Railways in 2018. With boxing taking centre-stage, Anant has mostly been away from his village. “This is the first time in last four years that I have stayed so long at my village,” said Anant, who lost a close battle in the quarterfinal during 2019 Japan tour. Last year was a special one for the product of Akola’s Krida Prabodini boxing academy. Apart from winning gold medal in Indonesia, he received a life-changing mantra from six-time world champion Mary Kom, who was also a part of that tour. Being at the receiving end of referees decision in close bouts is part and parcel of any boxers’ life. But Anant now knows the best way to deal with it, thanks to Mary Kom. “She told me that the only way to take care of results is to fight-back harder and knock your opponent down. The advice coming from Mary Kom has not only changed my outlook in the ring but also in life,” Anant said. The lone international boxer from Buldana had cleared the national camp trials in February. The camp was supposed to begin in March but then Covid-19 happened. The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) is planning to start a camp for 'select' boxers in Patiala. Anant is optimistic about making the cut. “Nothing is guaranteed, but I’m positive about being called for the camp," said Anant, a Shiv Chhatrapati Awardee. Forced away from the ring, Anant has plenty of time to reflect back on his life. “All credit goes to my coach in Akola Satish Chandra Bhat. During my early days he nurtured me like his own son. Maharashtra Boxing Association (MBA) secretary Rakesh Tiwari is the other one who always supported me,” he said. He also remembers how bagging the Railways job changed his life. “The day I got the job, I told my parents to stop working as daily-wage farm labourers. Now, they do work only in our farm. Carrying a basket on his head, my father sells vegetables and other produce in the village," said Anant. "Earlier, ours was family with small piece of land and no other source of income. The struggles did not let us think beyond ‘do waqt ka khana’. But after I got the job and played for India, the entire village is now proud of me. We are recognized. People treat my parents with respect," said Anant. Anant’s parents wanted their sons to get decent jobs. They could not send their elder son to college for want of money. "My father wanted me to get a government job. As I was active in sports, a sports teacher in our town advised my parents to send me to the Akola’s Krida Prabodini boxing academy in Akola in 2008," said Anant, who stayed at the academy for 11 years. His parents agreed, and son justified their decision with his hard work. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/international-boxer-anant-toils-in-2-acre-farm/articleshow/76017170.cms||Pratik Siddharth
May 27, 2020||Goa||From infant to senior citizens, ground zero presents a wide cross-section of patients||Panaji: The Covid hospital at Margao, which had no admissions for 40 days after the first seven cases recovered, is now buzzing with activity. A cross-section of people, including five children, a pregnant lady and three senior citizens who travelled from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and West Bengal are among those who have tested positive since May 14. The majority of cases are from Maharashtra. A driver, watchman who lost his job in Maharashtra, a seafarer, an engineer, a retired teacher, home makers, a student, a four-month-old child whose mother has tested negative, a Gulf returnee who lost her job and got locked down in Mumbai on her way to Goa and a Coast Guard employee are also among those who are admitted in the hospital. Where the first batch were mostly young and didn’t have any comorbidities, now there are cases of patients with hypertension, heart disease, diabetes and bronchitis. However, till date none of the 67 patients who tested positive in the state have had to be admitted in the hospital’s ICU or required oxygen or ventilator support. Then there are some who travelled by train to Goa from Delhi wanting to proceed further by road to Hubballi, Belgaum and other cities in Karnataka to spend time with their families. Testing positive on arrival in Goa, forced them to change their itineraries. In one case a lady who travelled from Agra to reunite with her family in Hubballi got stuck in Goa. Many patients were found to be asymptomatic, but there are a few who were symptomatic with fever and other flu symptoms. The symptomatic and asymptomatic have been accommodated in different wards on separate floors of the hospital. While the first batch of seven who tested positive comprised largely of seafarers who travelled from abroad, the current admissions are only those who travelled by train, road and sea to Goa from other states in India. Asymptomatic patients are tested after seven days with the test repeated after 24 hours. Once both the tests are negative they are discharged. Symptomatic patients are tested seven days after they turn asymptomatic. When the test result is negative it is repeated and if negative again, the patient is discharged Among those admitted, are some who have tested positive after fellow passengers in their trains and bus tested positive and only after health workers contact traced them and got them retested after 72 hours of arriving in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-infant-to-senior-citizens-ground-zero-presents-a-wide-cross-section-of-patients/articleshow/76017186.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Graded debut for Pragati Maidan project||NEW DELHI: Now that construction activity has resumed in right earnest, the two T-junctions and an underpass of the Pragati Maidan redevelopment project will be opened around a month before the 1.2-kilometre-long tunnel under the trade fair complex. Earlier, these had been scheduled to open at the same time, but a labour shortage in the aftermath of the Covid-19 lockdown has led to a change in plans. The two T-junctions on Ring Road and Mathura Road from Bhairon Marg and the underpass on Bhairon Marg, all of them around 95% complete, will be thrown open for public use towards the end of June. Workers deployed elsewhere have been directed to work on these sites to speedily finish the pending work. Officials said that they aim also to have all the five underpasses functioning by the next 12 months. Two of the underpasses on Mathura Road are near Sunder Nagar, the rest between Pragati Maidan and the Supreme Court. According to an India Trade Promotion Organisation official, around 80% of the work has been completed on the underpasses. If this deadline is met, the commute on Mathura Road, Ring Road and Bhairon Marg will become easier. The underpasses will make Mathura Road — from ITO W-point to Delhi Public School — and the Bhairon Marg-Ring Road intersection signal-free. The six-lane tunnel running under the Pragati Maidan complex, of which around 900 metres are almost already, will connect India Gate with Ring Road. The box-pushing method will be employed to construct a part of the remaining portion. In this method, tunnel segments are cast outside and pushed through heavy embankments of the passage so as not to disturb movement of trains or vehicles. Originally budgeted at Rs 932 crore, the costs have spiralled to over Rs 1,000 crore due to construction hold-ups, first because of the pollution-forced ban on construction last winter, and then the riots in northeast Delhi and finally the nationwide lockdown to check spread of coronavirus infection. The main beneficiaries of these changes will be the commuters headed east from south and central Delhi via India Gate and ITO. The vehicles going towards south Delhi from ITO will also have access to the tunnel from Mathura Road, providing a much-needed alternative to Bhairon Marg, especially during peak hours. This will also eventually reduce the traffic volume at the ITO traffic signal. Two elevated clover-leaf roundabouts on Ring Road are also being built for south- and north-bound traffic emerging from the underpasses. Both roundabouts are almost on the verge of completion. The U-turns on Bhairon Marg and Subramaniam Bharti Marg crossings are being replaced with elevated U-turns, affording more space to the vehicles going towards ITO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/graded-debut-for-pragati-maidan-project/articleshow/76015611.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No foreigners held in Markaz probe, only visas seized, say police||NEW DELHI: Police on Tuesday informed Delhi high court that they had not arrested or detained anyone from Tablighi Jamaat, but just seized passports of over 700 foreign members for alleged visa violations by participating in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin. In a report filed before a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar, police said, “Over 900 foreign Tablighi Jamaat attendees, including the petitioners, have joined the investigation and served notices under Section 41A CrPC. The investigation itself is being conducted on a day-to-day-basis and all efforts are being made to submit a final report under Section 173 CrPC before the court in a time-bound manner.” The police’s response came on a petition seeking release of 916 foreigners who had been lodged in institutional quarantine since March 30 despite having tested negative for Covid-19. The court sought the response of Delhi Police and the AAP government on the petition filed by 20 of these foreigners who argued that their continued detention violated their rights. In its status report, police gave details of the probe and said around 1,300 devotees from various parts of the country and abroad were found living at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid without maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-foreigners-held-in-markaz-probe-only-visas-seized-cops/articleshow/76015602.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra gives nod to raze Savitribai Phule Pune University, E-Square flyovers||PUNE: The state government on Tuesday gave the go-ahead for the demolition of two flyovers on Ganeshkhind Road — Savitribai Phule Pune University and E-Square. In their place, a 1.5km-long flyover will be built, amenable to the alignment of the Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi Metro rail corridor and the High-Capacity Mass Transit Route. The Pune Municipal Corporation — via the standing committee and then the general body — would have to approve the demolition. The state urban development department in an order on Tuesday said PMC and Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) will have to share the cost of constructing the new flyover, pegged at around Rs240 crore. The authorities plan to demolish the structure during the ongoing lockdown to prevent disruption to traffic. The junction is a conduit to people going to/from Baner, Pashan and Aundh. “The new flyover will be constructed without cause any hassles to the commuters or pedestrians,” Vivek Kharwadkar, city engineer (PMRDA), said. The decision, however, has irked civic activists and traffic experts, who have raised questions about the utility and need for the new flyover. “Experts from institutes like IIT should be consulted so that the Metro project can be carried out by keeping these flyovers intact,” Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizens group, said. “The decision to build the flyover must be justified by way of a comprehensive study, taking into account the comprehensive mobility plan, the development plan (DP) and the Metro and BRTS networks,” Sujit Patwardhan of Parisar organization said. He said the proposed new flyover does not fit into the overall vision of the city’s long-term traffic plan, which has been laid out in detail in the CMP, which was approved by the PMC in August 2012. Deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar, at a meeting held last month, had given in-principal approval for the demolition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-gives-nod-to-raze-sppu-e-square-flyovers/articleshow/76015600.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||ATM operation may normalize in two-three days in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Leading PSU and private banks are hoping that all ATM operations in the city and adjacent areas would normalize in two-three days. Around 20% of the more than 2,500 ATMs in the Kolkata metropolitan area have remained dysfunctional since Wednesday night, following Amphan’s devastation. Lot of ATMs lost V-sat link with server. Power cut and waterlogging in several areas only worsened the problem. However, over half of those ATMs could start operations in the past few days. CGM of SBI Ranjan K Mishra told TOI that officials were working around the clock to restore ATM and branch services. According to Mishra, over 75-80% of the bank’s ATMs in the city is now working. A PNB official pointed out that several dish antennae of standalone ATM were destroyed on Wednesday due to the cyclone. “The antennae are vital to connect the ATM with server,” he said. An HDFC Bank official said around 10% of its ATMs were dysfunctional in some areas of Kolkata and Howrah. “They will be rectified in two-three days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/atm-ops-may-normalize-in-2-3-days/articleshow/76015243.cms||Udit Mukherjee
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to expedite three varsities’ construction||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to expedite the setting up of three upcoming state universities in Aligarh, Azamgarh and Saharanpur. Presiding over a meeting of officials from higher education, revenue, finance, along with chief secretary RK Tewari, the CM asked them to ensure speedy availability of land for these universities. Yogi said the government has acquired 50 acres to set up Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University in Aligarh. For the state university in Azamgarh, 38 acres have been located. He asked officials to look for remaining12 acres land for this state university and another 50 acres to set up the state university in Saharanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-expedite-three-varsities-construction/articleshow/76017183.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||People cry tiger, leopard emerges||Ahmedabad/Vadodara: Once again, a video purporting to show a tiger in Santrampur, has gone viral. The clip reportedly showed a tiger on the Umber hills in Santrampur taluka in Mahisagar. The clip stirred excitement, galvanizing the officials of the forest department into launching a search. In the end, it was determined that the big cat was a leopard. Forest officials said this is not the first intimation of a tiger in the area. Earlier claims had no photographic or video evidence. But on Monday evening, some locals posted a video of a tiger, apparently seen in the area. In Santrampur, night-vision cameras had been installed after the residents sounded the first tiger alarm. However, the leopard was caught in the camera in this case. “Our team rushed to the area and after a thorough investigation it was established that it was a leopard which the locals had filmed,” said Aradhana Sahu, the chief conservator of forests, wildlife division, Vadodara. In February last year, the forest department had officially confirmed the presence of a tiger in Gujarat, the Asiatic lion’s last abode. On February 12, six days after a school teacher took a picture of a tiger on his mobile phone, the striped big cat was captured in the morning in the advanced night-vision cameras especially mounted by the forest department. The tiger was also spotted in the Santrampur area. However, the animal was found dead on March 1 and reports had indicated that the tiger, entering from Madhya Pradesh, had died of starvation. In the recent case, the excitement had further increased when Rajya Sabha member Parimal Nathwani tweeted the video stating “A video has gone viral in the social media wherein people of Santarampur have claimed seeing a tiger near Umber hills. People believe in the presence of the tiger in the mountains. However, Gujarat forest department has not confirmed the presence of tiger in the area.” R D Jadeja, the assistant conservator of forests, Santrampur, said: “This leopard along with clubs has been staying on the banks of Chibota river and was frequently seen moving in the area, killing small animals.” He went on to say: “After getting the reports, we reached the spot and found a leopard coming out from the hills. Photographs and videos were taken and a report was sent to higher officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/people-cry-tiger-leopard-emerges/articleshow/76015296.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: 11 in family of Covid-19 victim test positive||KOZHIKODE: As many as 11 persons in the family of Asiya who died of Covid-19 at Kozhikode government medical college on Monday have tested positive for the virus. Her husband, two sons, one daughter, two daughters-in-law and one grandchild were infected earlier while four more grandchildren tested positive on Tuesday. The latest cases are all girls, two aged 9 and another two aged 13 and 15. “Asiya’s is a joint family with 24 members,” Dharmadom panchayat president Baby Sarojam said. “Her husband and sons are engaged in wholesale fish sale in Thalassery market. They might have travelled to distant places to procure fish and this could be a possible source of infection,” she said. “Another possibility is from the private hospital in Kozhikode where she underwent treatment. It was at the hospital that she was tested positive,” the panchayat president said. She said a joint meeting of revenue and police officials was convened on Monday to expedite the process of source tracing. “We have noticed that vehicles carrying goods are violating norms after relaxations in lockdown. This raises the risk of disease spread,” she said. Thalassery DSP K V Venugopal said Asiya had a limited number of contacts as she was bedridden. "Only her immediate relatives and women in the neighbourhood had direct contact with her," he said. Asiya's body was buried at Kannamparambu Juma Masjid in Kozhikode on Tuesday by following all protocol. According to the medical bulletin, she was a "hypertensive, seizure disorder patient with history of subarachnoid hemorrhage status post surgery in 2002, presented with decreased food intake and altered sensorium for the last one month." She was admitted to a hospital in Thalassery on April 20 for urinary tract infection and metabolic encephalopathy. Her condition worsened on Monday night and death occurred in the night due to cardiac arrest, the bulletin said. In the meantime, containment zones in Kannur have risen to 32 wards in 20 local bodies. These include some wards in Kannur corporation, Payyannur and Mattannur municipality, Chirakkal, Peralassery and Pinarayi panchayats. The Payyannur judicial first class magistrate court has been closed for 14 days after an accused who surrendered in the court tested postive. The magistrate, assistant public prosecutor, court staff and police personnel have been asked to go on quarantine. In another development, 23 personnel attached to Kannapuram police station have been sent in quarantine after an accused they arrested tested positive. Fire and rescue personnel sanitized the police station and efforts are on to prepare a contact list of the person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/11-in-family-of-covid-victim-test-positive/articleshow/76015606.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Flyer from Chennai tests positive for Covid in city||Coimbatore: A 24-year-old man, who landed at the city airport from Chennai on Monday evening, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.He was shifted to the ESI Hospital for treatment from the institutional quarantine facility. He was the only one to test positive among the passengers who arrived at the city airport on Monday. Officials say the man is asymptomatic.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “All the other passengers in his flight have tested negative for the novel coronavirus. However, we have informed the passengers who sat in front of him and behind him to remain in strict home quarantine. A native of Chennai, he came down to the city to reportedly visit a family friend for two days.”He confirmed that all the remaining 363 passengers, from whom samples were collected at the airport on Monday, tested negative for the virus. They have moved to their houses, where they will remain in quarantine for 14 days, from the institutional quarantine centres.A source said the new patient was employed with a star hotel in Chennai, where he was working as a room service attendant.Meanwhile, Indigo Airlines, which flew the man, issued a statement saying he was seated with all precautionary measures, including face mask, face shield and gloves, and that no one was seated in his vicinity, significantly reducing the possibility of transmission. The airlines said the crew has been kept in isolation for 14 days. The district’s Covid-19 count will, however, remain nil, as the new case has been added to the Covid-19 tally of the state’s capital from where he might have contracted the virus. This is the second patient to get added to Chennai’s count from the district.On Sunday, a pregnant woman travelling to Nilgiris from Chennai via road was tested positive after samples were collected from her at Burliar on Coimbatore-Nilgiris border. She was subsequently admitted to the ESI Hospital. Dr G Ramesh Kumar said, “She is also added to the Covid-19 tally of Chennai from where she must have been infected. She is also asymptomatic.”The district last recorded a Covid-19 case on May 3. “As per the new guidelines, a person who got infected abroad, in another state or district, would bet added to the Covid-19 tally of that place and not to the location where they were tested or treated,” said a health department official.At least 160 people, meanwhile landed at the city airport from New Delhi and Chennai as on Tuesday afternoon. They have been taken to the institutional quarantine facilities after collecting nasal swabs from them for Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flyer-from-chennai-tests-positive-for-covid-in-city/articleshow/76015608.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chennai||MGNREGS takes away farmhands, fields idle||Chennai: As the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme picks up momentum, thanks to the government’s efforts to provide livelihood for rural folk hit hard by the pandemic, the agriculture sector in rural Tamil Nadu is taking a severe beating. Shortage of labour on farms has become so acute that farmers are postponing their operations.The changing social fabric of rural Tamil Nadu has transformed the agricultural sector for the worse. Youngsters in farmers’ families and among farm hands were an integral part of agricultural activity till about two decades ago. They are no longer available for any farm-related work now. Either they have shifted to urban centres in search of jobs or they have turned to lucrative ‘businesses’ like politics, lamented H Krishnan, a farmer from Manapparai. Those above the age of 50 are the only workforce available in villages. As on date, more than 10 lakh people are being engaged daily in MGNREGS works in the state. As a poverty alleviation scheme, it is laudable. They are being paid Rs256 per day per person, but farmers have long been charging that their wages and output don’t match. "About 60%-80% of people engaged under such government schemes do not work. Many carry mattresses with them. They put up a show for the roll call. After that, some play cards, women engage themselves in cooking and the laziest of the lot sleep in the field," said K Sundaram, general secretary of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, summing up as to how the scheme introduced by the erstwhile UPA government is a drain on the economy. This scheme has spoiled the rural workforce. If it continues in the present form, no agricultural activity will happen in the country and there will be shortage of food grain in the near future, he said.In most places, about 10%-20% of the money is siphoned off by political executives and officials at the grassroots level as commission. Amid this crisis, PMK founder Ramadoss’ plea to increase the number of working days from 100 to 200 for the MGNREGA workforce has caused concerns among farmers.Farmers have been demanding a rejig of MGNREGS to permit workers to do agricultural activity in private land as is the practice in Kerala. "MGNREGS workforce is made available for all types of work on agricultural fields free of cost in Kerala. If we provide land, they sow oil seeds or millets. Government provides seeds free of cost and we are allowed to take the yield. If we need their assistance, they come as a group for harvest also," said P K U Pillai, a farmer in Alapuzha, Kerala."Tamil Nadu farmers are ready to pay salary to workers if MGNREGS workers can be diverted for farming activity," said P Ayyakannu, state president of National South Indian River Interlinking Farmers’ Association. "We need about 50 men and 50 women to carry out one crop of paddy cultivation in 1 acre of land. Even if you use a tractor for ploughing, two people have to be engaged to level the field and strengthen the bunds. Farmers are putting operations on hold now because of non-availability of workers," he said.Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mgnregs-takes-away-farmhands-fields-idle/articleshow/76015561.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Mammoth ferrying: UP brings about 25 lakh migrants back home||LUCKNOW: In probably the largest movement of people ever in the country, UP has managed to bring back about 25 lakh people from other states and hopes to be able to discontinue the free bus and train services within the next 3-4 days. From June 1, train services are expected to resume partially as Lockdown 4.0 will come to an end. Before that, said sources, the government would attempt to wind up the special services. By Tuesday, train services from cities like Delhi had already been reduced as enough passengers were not responding to the government’s messages. From the original 11, these have reduced to about six and will be brought down further based on the number of passengers. The largest number of migrant workers now left to return to UP have to come from Maharashtra and Surat in Gujarat. “We have already brought back more than 25 lakh people, out of whom 17 lakh have returned by train. We estimate that another 5 lakh remain to be brought back for which trains, and buses from Haryana and Rajasthan remain in operation. About 100 trains continue to arrive in UP every day, so we expect that it will take another three to four days to wind up the special bus and train services though we will continue to operate them will the last person is back,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. The government has now appealed to workers to report to railway stations at the earliest so that they can carry out all formalities and start their return journey immediately. Currently, about 30,000-40,000 more people are expected to return from Delhi. Almost all those who wanted to return from states like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana have come to UP while train services are in the final lap from states like Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. A major chunk of the 5 lakh or so expected back now are from Maharashtra and Surat, with workers having returned from almost all other districts in Gujarat. Initially, when movement of migrants had started during the lockdown, the government had expected about 10-15 lakh workers to return. The number soon doubled to about 30 lakh. More than 45 stations have been made operational across the state to receive passengers with Gorakhpur getting the highest number of trains at 199 till Tuesday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mammoth-ferrying-up-brings-about-25l-migrants-back-home/articleshow/76017209.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Taunted over cow, Rajasthan woman ends life with kid||JAISALMER: Taunted by in-laws’ over a cow given in dowry which did not give milk, a woman, along with her eight-month-old daughter jumped into a water tank in Singodia village under Gida police station area in Barmer on Sunday night. When police collected information, it was found that her family had given a cow in dowry and everyday her in-laws used to taunt her for taking care of a useless cow. Disturbed with this, the woman at around 1am on Sunday sent a message to her family through WhatsApp to pardon her. She wrote that she could not support her husband and requested all not to give cow to their daughters. The in-laws said that they did not think she would commit suicide on such a small matter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/taunted-over-cow-rajasthan-woman-ends-life-with-kid/articleshow/76017267.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||No fishing between June 1 and July 31 in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: With the annual ban on fishing for two months coming into force from June 1, the state’s fishermen have have lost a major portion of the summer fishing season because of the lockdown. The state fisheries department has issued a notification stating that all fishing with motorized boats will be banned from June 1 to July 31. After the lockdown came into force from March 23, the state government had opened up fishing and allied activities from mid-April. However, with inland transportation and logistics hit, and with inter-state movement of goods hampered, fishing along the Gujarat coastline was being done on a very small scale, say fishermen associations. All India Fishermen Association president Veljibhai Masani said that like most industries, fishing has also suffered losses. “Although fishing was allowed to resume from mid-April by the state government, the lack of a logistics chain meant that fishing was very limited,” he said. He added that even as the central and state have begun opening up various commercial activities in Lockdown 4.0, the annual fishing ban will come into force from June 1. “All trawlers that are out on the sea will return to base in the next two or three days,” he said. “Only non-mechanized boats will be allowed to operate.” About 75,000 fishermen, working on 15,000 trawlers, are employed in Gujarat’s fishing industry. After the lockdown was announced, fishermen associations decided that the fishermen will stay in their trawlers, a few kilometres off the coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-fishing-between-june-1-and-july-31/articleshow/76015264.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||5 major city parks to be opened for public today||Jaipur: Five big parks falling under Jaipur Development Authority (JDA)’s will be opened for public on Wednesday. These parks — Central Park, Ramniwas Bagh, Jawahar circle, Nehru Bal Udhyaan and Woodland Park — will be open in two shifts with restrictions in place. A decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Jaipur Development Commissioner T. Ravikant on Tuesday. Ravikant said, “In the morning, the parks will be open between 7 am and 10 am. Similarly, in the evening joggers and walkers will be allowed between 4 pm and 6.45 pm.” For visitors, the JDA has made it mandatory to wear masks and follow Covid-related health protocol such as social distancing. Open gym equipment, swings and group yoga or exercise sessions are prohibited. A penalty will be imposed by guards who will not adhere to the norms. “We have also requested residents to follow the rules voluntarily for their own safety as the authorities do not have staff in large number to keep strict vigil on everyone,” said an official. The JDA has also issued guidelines that assembling of more than five people is prohibited in parks. Consumption of alcohol and tobacco products and spitting in public will also be punishable offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-major-city-parks-to-be-opened-for-public-today/articleshow/76017217.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In 24 hours, 18 CISF men at IGI Airport test coronavirus positive||NEW DELHI: In the past 24 hours, 18 CISF personnel have tested Covid-19 positive at IGI Airport taking the total to 25, a bulletin issued by CISF on Tuesday said. The news comes a day after resumption of domestic flight operations. All 18 personnel were asymptomatic and had been moved to a quarantine facility last week. Their test results arrived on Monday. They were contacts of the seven personnel who had tested positive earlier, an official said. Hemendra Kumar, PRO and AIG, CISF, said the 18 personnel were in quarantine well before their test results arrived. “They were identified through contact tracing and separated before the airport operations resumed on Monday. All personnel currently deployed are healthy and staying in a different facility,” he added. CISF has begun contactless frisking at the airport, using barcode scanners to check tickets and metal detectors to scan passengers. A glass partition has also been installed outside through which CISF personnel check passenger IDs and tickets, the official said. “We have been actively testing our personnel and ensuring even the asymptomatic cases are detected early. No one else has been placed under quarantine other than these 18 personnel,” said Kumar. Apart from IGI, Delhi Metro is yet another area most prone to Covid-19 infection. Currently, 22 CISF personnel working with DMRC have tested Covid-19 positive, while another official has recovered in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-24-hours-18-cisf-men-at-igi-test-ve/articleshow/76015614.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana doing better than neighbouring states: Khattar||Karnal: Haryana is doing better than neighbouring states in its fight against Covid-19, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar claimed on Tuesday. The number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana was less as compared to neighbouring states, he said, adding that so far there were around 1,200 cases in the state, of which around 400 were active. “The state has sufficient quantity of ventilators and all other safety equipments. People don’t panic, they just need to follow the government guidelines,” Khattar said in Karnal. He held a meeting with district officials at the mini-secretariat to discuss developmental project under the Smart City project. He said wheat procurement was almost over and it was conducted smoothly as the government had increased the purchase centres. The CM said the government had cleared the farmers’ dues of procurement done till May 10. The remaining amount would be paid within 3-4 days, he said. Around 3 lakh migrant labourers had been sent to their native places by the Haryana Roadways buses and special Sharmik trains, he said, adding that around 1.5 to 2 lakh migrant labourers had made their own armaments. From June, there was a possibility of providing more relaxations to the industry, especially to hotels and restaurants, which had been shut for the last two months, he revealed. The CM also interacted with mediapersons via videoconference. Asked about the ban on growing paddy in some areas, Khattar said that the government had launched ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ scheme to save the water for future generations. Under this scheme, eight block had been identified where farmers gad been urged to sow 50% paddy compared to they did earlier as groundwater table continued to decline. He also clarified that the farmers, who have only two acers of land, had been exempted from the scheme. He said farmers who switch to alternative crops like maize or pulses or diversify into horticulture or growing vegetables in place of paddy during the season would be given an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre. Replying to a question on return to normalcy, the CM said that the Centre had announced a special economic package of 20 lakh crore that would focus on empowering the poor and labourers from organised and unorganised sectors. Khattar claimed that many wanted to take their investments out of China and explore other destinations, adding that the state had got into touch with some of them. On movement of the migrant labourer, Khattar said that said about 1 lakh labourers want to return to Haryana as economic activities had restarted. Asked about the school fee concession, Khattar said fee was the only source of income for private schools and they had to pay their teachers too. The state had asked schools to charge only tuition fee and also not to increase the fee, he added.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-doing-better-than-neighbouring-states-khattar/articleshow/76015598.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan heatwave: Churu bakes at 50°C on May 26||JAIPUR: Heatwave conditions aggravated in the state on Tuesday as majority of the places witnessed maximum temperatures of 43°C or above. Churu was the hottest clocking at 50°C. This was the second-highest maximum temperature in Churu in the past 10 years. The city had recorded 50.2°C on May 19, 2016. The meteorological department has issued a red alert for Jaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Jodhpur and Bharatpur till Wednesday. However, from Thursday onwards, there is going to be some respite with the arrival of rainfall and dust storm in many places. Attributing the continued rise in mercury to active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, weathermen said majority of the places would witness rise in temperatures. Read AlsoAt 50°C-plus, it’s tandoori nights and days in ‘world’s hottest place’ ChuruLife in Rajasthan’s Churu now is like living on the edge of a tandoor. The glow of the fire seemingly inches away from scalding the skin. At 50.8 degrees Celsius (last Saturday) and 50.3 (last Monday), it was the hottest place in the world on these two days.Churu that usually sees 50°C in June, witnessed this temperature on Tuesday. Despite some relaxation in the lockdown, markets in Churu remained closed due to intense heat. Fire tenders were deployed to sprinkle water on roads. People had to put ice in their water tanks to use it for bath. People in Jaipur woke up to the hottest day of the season so far as a maximum temperature of 45°C, almost 5 degrees above normal, was recorded. In the morning, a minimum temperature of 33.2°C was recorded. With the rising temperatures, many localities witnessed abrupt power cuts and technicians remained busy fixing technical snags across the city. Weathermen forecast that mercury in Jaipur will rise further on Wednesday. Many places in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh witnessed heatwave conditions. Ongoing spell of heatwave has also aggravated drinking water supply in many districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-heatwave-churu50c-hit-halfway-boiling-point-on-may-26/articleshow/76017235.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Even in isolation at hospital, for some it’s family time||PANAJI: While most patients at the Covid-19 hospital in Margao are isolated from their families and are eager to be reunited with them, some patients — mostly train passengers — have tested positive along with their family members, and are together at the hospital. The hospital, which currently has 39 patients, has four families and two couples, all of whom tested positive for the novel coronavirus over the past fortnight. Three families from Mumbai, who arrived by the Rajdhani Express on Saturday, are the latest to have tested positive. They include three sets of parents with a five-year-old son, two daughters, and one daughter respectively. The hospital is also playing host to two couples, including one with a pregnant wife who also tested positive. An antenatal ultrasound was conducted on the mother on Tuesday, and doctors say both are doing well. “We try to accommodate families together, but it’s not always possible,” one doctor said. The hospital’s paediatric ward got its first patient on May 14, when a one-year-old was among a family of five that posted positive for Covid-19. Although the baby’s mother tested negative, she too was accommodated in the paediatric ward. The family of five, including the baby, have since been cured and discharged, and are currently placed in facility quarantine. Another mother who tested positive along with her three sons — 3, 6 and 11 — are currently at the hospital. “The 11-year-old has taken up the role of the father, and comforts his mother when she’s down. He also takes care of his younger siblings,” a doctor said. The youngest Covid-19 patient in the state so far is a four-month-old baby, whose mother tested negative. They arrived last weekend by the Rajdhani Express. The mother uses a mask when around the baby and while breastfeeding. Meanwhile, relatives of Covid-19 positive patients who tested negative aren’t permitted to meet their family members at the hospital. Instead, they’re encouraged to be in touch with them via videocalling. Interestingly, many passengers who travelled by train to Goa had plans to continue their journeys to their homes in Karnataka. However, when they tested positive on arrival in Goa, they were taken to the Covid-19 hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-in-isolation-at-hospital-for-some-its-family-time/articleshow/76017234.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown prevents people from protesting against water woes||Jaipur: The rising mercury has further aggravated the drinking water problem on the outskirts of the city. People are complaining about low pressure and less supply time. Besides, lockdown has prevented them from holding protest over the issue. Manish Saini, resident of Rana Pratap Nagar, said, “Pressure of water has decreased in the last two months. The problem aggravated further as my house is situated at an elevated place. In other areas of my colony, the pressure is also low. People have to order one water tanker a week.” Due to low pressure, most of the colony people have stopped using more than one cooler and bathing with half bucket of water when possible. They have been trying to save water. Similar is the situation in Chitrakoot Colony, Jhotwara where due to low pressure residents are suffering and have to order government tankers or private when necessary as the supply water is not enough. Santosh Meena, a resident of the area, said that his tank is just one metre filled. “You can go and ask anyone in the colony if they have enough water in their tank. Water is usually supplied for one hour in the morning but since two months, it has been supplied just for 15 minutes. My family of six is sleeping in one room to avoid using three coolers. We have disconnected RO as it wastes some water as well. Sometimes, we have to ask drinking water from neighbours. We have complained against it but nothing has changed,” said Meena. In many colonies of Harmada where Bisalpur water is supplied similar issues have been faced. PHED officials assured that they will look into the matter and will resolve the issues as soon as possible. During lockdown, PHED has increased water intake from Bisalpur dam for Jaipur city expecting rise in water demand. In the main areas of the city including walled city water is supplied properly but areas in outskirts are ignored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-prevents-people-from-protesting-against-water-woes/articleshow/76017232.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Braving heat & virus, BSF helps villagers||Jaisalmer: The temperature in desert villages along Indo-Pakistan border is nearing 50 degrees Celsius. In this severe heat, the BSF has launched a campaign to help people fight corona and compensate for drinking water shortage for both humans and animals. BSF IG Amit Lodha said that reeling under severe heat BSF jawans are bravely guarding the borders while taking all preventive measures against corona. BSF DIG Madan Singh Rathore said that in this severe heat the jawans have been provided goggles, caps etc along with water bottles and during duty in daytime they are provided lemon water 3-4 times. Jawans are provided onions, glucose also to help them beat the heat. Apart from this, at the border outposts duct-cooling system has been installed at their barracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/braving-heat-virus-bsf-helps-villagers/articleshow/76017268.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||JMC plans more permits for veggie vendors||Jaipur: More vendors will be given permit to sell vegetables in the city. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has already given permits to 1,000 vegetable vendors but it is not considered to be sufficient for the city. Nodal officer for the containment of the corona outbreak Ajitabh Sharma on Tuesday took meeting of officials of district administration and JMC officials. He ordered them to conduct a fresh survey and give permits to more vegetable vendors. It was discussed in the meeting that many wards are bigger and 1,000 vegetable vendors for a city like Jaipur with more than 30 lakh population is not enough. However, all the vendors should be tested for Covid-19 before giving the permit. A senior JMC official said, “Many complaints were received that more vegetable vendors are required in the city. We have been given instructions to conduct a fresh survey. It will take some time to test vendors for corona, give them permit while allocating them an area.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-plans-more-permits-for-veggie-vendors/articleshow/76017223.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: After heatwave, signs of pre-monsoon showers||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a spell of pre-monsoon rain and thunder in many areas of Maharashtra from May 30 in line with the approachingrainy season, after a heatwave in several parts of the state. Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Nanded, Latur and Osmanabad are likely to experience thundershowers on May 30, bringing down the soaring mercury. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI that moisture incursion over parts of the state, especially Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra, would gradually start increasing from May 28 evening, with a gradual shift in the wind pattern to west-northwesterly to westerly. “This will marginally reduce day temperatures and will also start bringing in moisture from the Arabian Sea over the state, under the influence of a pressure gradient over central Maharashtra due to high temperature in isolated areas. The rise in moisture availability in the coming period is a contrast to the last few days, when super cyclone Amphan had depleted moisture from Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi. On Tuesday, day temperatures dropped marginally in parts of Madhya Maharashtra, especially Pune (Shivajinagar 37.6ºC and Lohegaon 39.1ºC). But heatwave was witnessed in Malegaon (44.6º C), Solapur (44.6ºC), Parbhani and Nanded (45.5ºC), Akola(46.5ºC), Amravati (45.6ºC), Nagpur (46.8ºC) and Wardha (46ºC), among other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-heatwave-signs-of-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/76015613.cms||Neha Madaan
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Prime suspect in woman murder case hangs self||JAIPUR: The prime suspect in the murder of a woman, who worked in Vaishali Nagar, committed suicide by hanging himself on Tuesday morning. He was the murdered woman’s cousin and according to police officials, the two were also into a relationship. The woman had gone missing on May 23 and her body was found in Dudu police station area on Monday. The suicide victim was identified as 27-year-old Ankush Tripathi who worked as a taxi driver. Panna Lal, SHO, Karni Vihar police station, said, “Ankush was alone at home when he hung himself from the luggage carrier of the vehicle. We call this partial hanging. We received information around 11 am and reached the spot to find that he had died.”Ankush was the main suspect in his cousin Harshika Sharma’s murder and cops had been looking for him since her body was found on Monday. Officials found a suicide note also on Ankush and the SHO elaborated, “The note said that he was killing himself since he could not be with Harshika. In the note, he said that his parents were against the relationship and would not let him marry her so that both will be dead ‘no one can stop them from being together’. We will question the family to see if they can shed some light in the matter.” Meanwhile, Vaishali Nagar police officials are also investigating Harshika’s death and are awaiting her post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death or if she was sexually assaulted before being killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prime-suspect-in-woman-murder-case-hangs-self/articleshow/76017243.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 27, 2020||Pune||Docs sound caution amid weather condition changes||Pune: City doctors have warned about the abrupt changes in weather conditions and the likely increase in respiratory illnesses and infections such as dengue and malaria. General physician and aged care specialist Manisha Lakhani said, “A sudden shift in temperature is not suitable for people, whose bodies cannot accustom to the abrupt change,. Some even tend to develop respiratory issues like runny nose, itchy throat and sinus trouble. In the current period of a pandemic, these symptoms can be confusing.” Avinash Bhondwe , president, Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter, said, “ A few days ago when the city witnessed high temperatures followed by rain, there was a rise in malaria and dengue.I saw around 10 dengue cases in the last 15 days.” — Neha Madaan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-sound-caution-amid-weather-condition-changes/articleshow/76015615.cms||Neha Madaan
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||25-PMAY-district||Jaipur: After the audit of the progress of work under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Grameen (PMAY-G) for its first phase (2016-2019), it was pointed out that the performance of three districts - Karauli, Bundi and Tonk - was below state average of 96 per cent. The department has sought a report from these three districts seeking to know the reason for the poor performance and the officials responsible for it.  The progress in Karauli was 86.94 per cent, in Tonk it was 87.22 per cent and in Bundi it was 93.80 per cent and these below state average of 96 per cent. In the first phase of the scheme, from 2016-17-2019-20, the target was to complete 6.87 lakh houses (in three years).  “The state average in the progress of work in the completion of PMAY houses was 96 per cent. However, after the audit by the accountants general (AG), they pointed out that the progress in these three districts was below state average. They sought to know the reason behind the poor performance and the officials responsible for it,” said an official.  Following this, Additional Chief Secretary (rural develpment and panchayati raj department), Rajeshwar Singh, issued letters to the collectors of these districts seeking a report by May 30. “A review should be done of the progress of work in the district. A report must be sent by May 30 by taking appropriate action against the officials responsible for the negligence. A report must be sent to the department after the completion of the construction of the remaining houses (sanctioned up to 2018-19),” it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/25-pmay-district/articleshow/76017241.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||2 years after suicide, unnamed letter hints at murder||Ludhiana: A letter surfaced in a gurdwara at a village in Ludhiana’s Mullanpur area on Tuesday claiming that police did not arrest the “killers” of a woman who allegedly committed suicide in 2018. The sarpanch of Bhanohar village informed the police about the letter which was found in the holy Gutka Sahib kept at the gurdwara. Dakha police station SHO inspector Prem Singh said the woman had committed suicide by taking poison and police had at the time launched inquest proceeding under Section 174 (unnatural death) of CRPC. He said the letter did not mention any evidence and the 25-year-old woman, who committed suicide in February 2018, was a divorcee and had been living with her maternal uncles in the village before she died. The SHO said CCTVs installed at the gurdwara did not capture the image of the person who left the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-years-after-suicide-unnamed-letter-hints-at-murder/articleshow/76015607.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Every 4th positive case in Rajasthan is a migrant labourer||JAIPUR: Every fourth Covid-19 positive case in Rajasthan is a migrant who crossed over from some other state posing a new set of challenges for Rajasthan authorities already struggling to contain the spread of the virus in the state. Ironically, the concentration of migrant cases has surfaced in districts which had an almost insignificant number of coronavirus cases until their arrival. Figures till Tuesday afternoon say that out of 7,476 cases across the state, 1,949 are migrants. In the last 24 hours from Monday 2pm till Tuesday 2pm, Rajasthan recorded 303 cases including 202 in the migrant category indicating that the share of migrants is fast expanding in the overall figure with each passing day. The Covid-19 trajectory in eight districts has surpassed 50% of cases. Leading the pack are Jalore and Dungarpur which accounted for 92% and 91% cases, respectively, in the migrant category. As per the government report, 12.57 lakh Rajasthanis residing in other states registered for return. Of the total, 7.35 lakh had returned till 5pm on May 26. The remaining will arrive in the coming days, which will also impact the number of cases. A source in the government estimated that by the first week of June, around 50% of cases in the state will comprise migrants. “Since May 11, Nagaur has recorded only migrants as positive cases while locals with travel history have zero cases,” said collector Dinesh Kumar Yadav, Yadav said that Nagaur is following a three-layered screening formula to ensure not a single migrant escapes screening. “Since our district is not the entry point in the state for migrants, we have to re-screen them once they enter Nagaur in order to identify those with influenza-like symptoms. We are also taking help from the network of gram sewaks and gram panchayats in identifying those who have arrived without registration and screening,” said Yadav. Nagaur has recorded 68% cases in the migrants category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/every-4th-positive-case-in-raj-is-a-migrant-labourer/articleshow/76017264.cms||Shoeb Khan
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 25 flights cancelled, but more order on day two||NEW DELHI: A day after domestic air travel resumed, the situation was better at the Delhi airport with just 25 flights getting cancelled against 82 on Monday. Many passengers were worried that similar cancellations might take place on Tuesday too and reached Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) well before time. But with more clarity, the situation was far better. A few flights, however, got delayed, increasing the wait time for passengers at the airport. The first departure took place at 5am for Ahmedabad and the first arrival was at 12.15am from Mumbai. While 137 flights were scheduled to take off, 140 were to arrive at IGIA on Day 2. Rohan Singh, who was to travel to Mumbai, said he had been stuck in Delhi for over two months due to the lockdown after coming here to celebrate Holi with his friends. “I was elated when I got to know that flights are opening finally. I just didn’t want to take any chance and reached the airport six hours in advance,” he said. A co-passenger said he had read all instructions but was still afraid that he was exposing himself to danger. “All of us are using face shields and masks. But after hospitals, we are most exposed to the virus in airports. I hope social distancing is maintained inside the flights,” said Rajiv Pandey. Following a two-month shutdown due to Covid-19, one-third of the domestic flights have been allowed to become operational from Monday. An airport official said all steps had been taken to ensure everybody’s safety and the operations went on smoothly. Four stalls at IGIA selling PPE Kits and all other safety gears saw more takers on Day 2. Among the safety measures are automatic hand sanitisers at over 400 spots, UV sanitising tunnels for baggage, and floor markers and designated entry gates and check-in islands to ensure social distancing and minimum human contacts. Gate numbers 2 and 5 of the departure area also have UV sanitising tunnels to sanitise the baggage of all passengers. Other gates have 100ML sanitiser sprays for the same purpose.  Provisions have been made for thermal scanning of passengers. They are also required to either install Aarogya Setu app on their phone or fill up a self-declaration form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/25-flights-cancelled-but-more-order-on-day-2/articleshow/76015623.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shops open, preferred cigarettes still elusive||Ahmedabad: While paan shops reopened a week ago, users of tobacco products including cigarettes continue to ration their smokes. The relief after the restricted lockdown didn’t last long for tobacco users as the availability of cigarettes and other products, especially preferred brands, remains sketchy at least in Ahmedabad. A week after the lockdown was eased, most shops selling cigarettes and other tobacco products have run out of stock. “As soon as the shops opened, people bought their preferred cigarettes in bulk. Purchases went up by almost five times and stocks were exhausted in barely a couple of days,” said Sanjay Joshi, president, Paan Masala Shop Owners’ Association. Most wholesalers of tobacco products have their stores in the Kalupur area of Ahmedabad, which has been categorized as a containment zone. “Wholesalers are unable to supply shops in non-containment zones. We are mulling over making a representation to the government to allow movement of tobacco products outside containment zones,” Joshi added. The lack of availability tobacco products has led to black-marketing even after shops reopened. “We are forced to sell at a premium because we buy at a premium to be able to meet customer demand,” said the owner of a shop in Vejalpur on condition of anonymity. Industry sources also said that more sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the grey market, it is not just customers but also exchequer that loses in terms of tax revenue. The lack of stock has habitual smokers in a state of frenzy. “I smoked a single brand of cigarettes for most of my life. The lockdown changed this and sadly for the worse. I was forced to change brands and that too at a premium. It has taken a toll on my throat,” said Shantanu Chaturvedi (name changed), a Bodakdev resident. Some took advantage of the lockdown and chose to quit smoking. “I used to smoke 10 cigarettes a day and was trying to quit for quite some time. When the lockdown was imposed, I thought it best to quit and thankfully I managed,” said Nishtha Patel (name changed), a professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shops-open-preferred-cigarettes-still-elusive/articleshow/76015257.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 27, 2020||Goa||Centre reduces fishing ban to 47 days||Panaji: The ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying has brought down the uniform fishing ban period for the west coast from 61 days to 47 days owing to the lockdown. The ministry, in its order March 10, 2020, had imposed a ban of 61 days spanning from June 1 to July 31,2020. However, its latest order superseded the earlier one with the ban period now being fixed for 47 days from June 15 to July 31. However, traditional non-motorized units will be exempted from this ban. The latest order has sent the directorate of fisheries in a frenzy, which last week had made it clear that the annual ban will begin from June 1 and end on July 31. Director of fisheries Shamila Monteiro said the government will take a call on this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-reduces-fishing-ban-to-47-days/articleshow/76017261.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Threat to UP CM Yogi Adityanath: STF arrests another youth in Nashik||LUCKNOW: Joint teams of UP STF and Maharashtra Anti-Terror Squad arrested Sayyed Faisal Wahab, a commerce graduate from Nashik, for calling SHO Gomtinagar to release Kamran Ameen who was arrested for sending a threat message to ‘bomb CM Yogi Adityanath’ on Monday. Wahab (20) was held from his bungalow in Zeenat Manzil, Darul-Islam Colony in Madina Chowk, in Nashik, Maharashtra late on Sunday night. IG STF Amitabh Yash told TOI that Faisal’s father, Abdul Wahab is a lecturer in Ambika Pratap Narayan Law PG College (APN) in Basti, UP. Yash said that Faisal was taking lessons in ‘Wahhabism’ from Madani centre Masjid and Darul-Islam Bajrang Nagar in Ambad, Nashik, where his uncle, Anwar Sheikh was a trustee. Yash said that soon after the arrest of Kamran, Faisal first called up SHO Gomtinagar asking him to release Kamran and had also sent a message for the same to UP 112. He later deleted the message allegedly to conceal evidence. “We have got a two-day-transit remand of Faisal from Nashik court. Both Ameen and Faisal will be brought to Lucknow and interrogated,” IG said. So far the police have not been able to find any criminal record of the duo. TOI also spoke to Abdul Wahab who has been teaching law for the past 20 years at APN PG College. Wahab said that his son didn’t know Kamran. “Shortly before his arrest, Faisal told me that he had seen Kamran’s photo on news channels and had just wanted to help him had hence sent a message to UP 112,” he said. He added that Faisal is a bright student and cannot be involved in spreading hatred in the country,” said Abdul. Sources said a team of Local Intelligence Unit also questioned Abdul Wahab in connection with Faisal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/threat-to-cm-stf-arrests-another-youth-in-nashik/articleshow/76017270.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown turned an opportunity for Gujarati actor||Ahmedabad: Coping with lockdown is a challenge, and each dealt with it in one’s own way. But for some, it truly was an opportunity to transform themselves. Gujarati film actor, Pratik Gandhi, invariably remained fit and refused to give up workout, until he was asked to gain weight for a film. “Throughout my life, my weight never crossed 80kg and for this particular role for an upcoming film, I was made to gain weight. I was 88kgs through the shoot of the film and all the time, I was only worried about getting back in shape,” said Pratik (39), who had to give up his workout and martial arts practice only for the role. Pratik’s film shooting wrapped up on March 4 and he thought gym would be the only option to get back in shape. “When the lockdown was announced, I was genuinely worried on how I will be able to lose weight. However, a friend who is a nutritionist and fitness trainer, guided me with some exercises I could do at home and helped me with a basic diet plan,” he said. After exercising twice a day for a total of three hours, Pratik finally managed to not just reduce weight from 86kg before the lockdown to 76kg but also reduced his waistline by five inches. The journey of being fit back again wasn’t really easy for the actor. “Since I gave up workout completely when I was supposed to gain weight, my metabolism and even my breathing pattern went for a toss. Recovering the normal form was difficult, especially the initial 15 days, when I felt like giving up. I just had my focus on the target and every day I kept on motivating myself to take one more step ahead,” said Pratik, who also suffered aches and minor injuries while attempting to get fit. “It took me 58 days but I finally managed and I am proud of it. Usually if I have a project on hand, it is easier to keep myself encouraged however, this time, I felt I should take the lockdown as an opportunity to keep myself fit so that I am ready for other projects,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-turned-an-opportunity-for-gujarati-actor/articleshow/76015252.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man creates actor’s fake Facebook account, dupes woman||PUNE: A 25-year-old Pimpri resident was arrested for creating a fake account of a popular Marathi actor on a social networking website and duping a woman from Ahmednagar of ornaments worth Rs1.4 lakh. The suspect, Shivtej Chavan, created a Facebook account using the name of actor Akash Thosar of the Marathi movie “Sairat”. He befriended the woman in October last year. In January, the suspect told her he needed money as his father was ill, so she offered her gold ornaments. He told her his “friend” would collect the ornaments. and collected them himself. He promised to return them immediately. But, he deleted the fake social media account and stopped contacting the woman. The matter came to light on May 22 when the woman’s husband found that her “mangalsutra” and ring were missing. They then lodged an FIR. Inspector Arun Pardeshi of the Ahmednagar police’s cybercrime cell said the suspect was taken into custody on Sunday. “We have recovered the mangalsutra and ring. He said he duped the woman to earn easy money,” Pardeshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-creates-actors-fake-fb-account-dupes-woman/articleshow/76015626.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 27, 2020||Pune||Astronomers find new class of transients||Pune: Astronomers from Pune were part of an international team that detected ejected material moving at 40% the speed of light from a rare explosive transient named CSS161010 about 500 million light years away. Transients are short duration astronomical events that appear in the sky and then fade. Scientists classified the explosion as a Fast Blue Optical Transient (FBOT). It was surrounded by a lot of matter, including hydrogen, and the extreme heat made it bluer than the standard supernovae. These observations proved that the most luminous FBOTs have a ‘central engine’ – a source like a neutron star or black hole that powers the transient. It also established a new class of hydrogen-rich transients. The Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope in Pune, the Karl G Jansky Very Large Array and the Chandra X-Ray Telescope observed the transient. GMRT provided the most crucial measurement at low radio frequencies to estimate the speed of the ejected material. The researchers are Poonam Chandra and A J Nayana from NCRA-TIFR, Pune and Deanne Coppejans and R Margutti from Northwestern University, Mari-Ela Chock from WM Keck Observatory and others. Astronomers had detected CSS161010 in late 2016, but thought it to be a normal transient. When astronomers analysed it further, they noticed peculiar properties not seen in normal supernovae. The transient displayed bright emission at X-ray, UV, optical and radio wavelengths which faded rapidly in a few days. “After a follow-up of radio and X-ray observations, CSS161010 revealed itself. We were looking at something new and highly energetic. It highlighted the importance of data in multiple wavebands,” Coppejans said in her statement to the media. Technically, CSS161010 is the first FBOT with hydrogen to be discovered. However, a paper has been published on the 2018 discovery of an FBOT called AT 2018cow, making CSS161010 the second FBOT discovered with a massive central engine. “It’s not yet clear if these bright FBOTs are rare supernovae, stars being shredded by black holes, or other energetic phenomena. Multi-wavelength observations of more FBOTs and their environment will provide answers,” Margutti from Northwestern University said in his statement to the media. The research paper is available at https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2041-8213/ab8cc7 and will be published in the June 1 issue of The Astrophysical Journal Letters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/astronomers-find-new-class-of-transients/articleshow/76015629.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||LWO blames Pak for not clearing locust breeding grounds||JAIPUR: The Locust Warning Organization (LWO), a body under the ministry of agriculture, has blamed Pakistan for not eliminating insects’ biggest breeding grounds in Baluchistan, which is responsible for their movement in far-flung areas like Jaipur. The LWO has warned of similar attacks in urban areas like Jaipur in the coming days by the locusts originated in Baluchistan. The fresh wave of locusts is 10-12 days old by the time they cross international border in search of food. It has entered 18 districts in Rajasthan and four districts, each in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, as recorded by the LWO. Meanwhile, deputy chief whip, Mahendra Chaudhary demanded compensation from chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the damage caused by the locusts in several parts of the state, on Tuesday. In a letter he urged the CM to provide immediate relief to the farmers who have suffered due to the menace. “The recent wave of locusts in the eighteen districts of Rajasthan is the result of Pakistan’s failure in containing them at the place of origin. They are immature locusts which soon after their birth crosses India via Sind border and continues to travel for thousands of kilometre till they find crops to feed on,” said K L Gurjar, director of the LWO, based in Jodhpur. India is holding a virtual meet with its Pakistan counterparts to review the situation on the movement of locusts on May 28. “It has been communicated to the senior officials that the problem can be reduced only if Pakistan can carry out operations in its breeding areas,” said Gurjar. Their movement can be stopped only if it can be contained in a particular area or kill them by using chemicals. Once they move into urban areas, the authorities become helpless as they cannot use chemicals which could be dangerous for the human populace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lwo-blames-pak-for-not-clearing-locust-breeding-grounds/articleshow/76017277.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||When Delhi Metro reopens, spitting may cost you Rs 1,000||NEW DELHI: Before it closed down two months ago due to the novel coronavirus lockdown, spitting inside a Delhi Metro train or at a station was a misdemeanour that attracted a fine of Rs 200. When the metro resumes operations, the same offence may cost you Rs 1,000. “While our system will work in the same way, how we deal with the commuters will see a huge change,” said a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) official. What were minor offences — spitting or pushing other passengers — till two months ago can pose a major risk to public health due to the virus, he pointed out. There is a long list of offences on metro premises for which one can be penalised under the Delhi Metro Railway (Operation & Maintenance) Act, 2002 but there are not many provisions to deal with Covid-19 specifics. “We can deal with cases only as per the Act or if anything is announced or authorised by the government. For instance, there is obviously no clause dealing with wearing masks,” he said. DMRC is waiting for permission or a standard operating procedure (SOP) from the Centre to deal with the violations of Covid-19 norms, the official said. “For instance, you can ensure that a commuter is wearing a face mask while entering the network but what will you do if he or she removes it at platform or inside a train or coughs after removing the mask,” he said. “The DMRC Act doesn’t have any clause to penalise someone violating social distancing norms.” It is likely that the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, which mandates a Rs 1,000 fine for spitting and Rs 200 for not wearing a face mask in public may become applicable on DMRC’s premises too, said a source. “It is also likely that added provisions and SOP will become applicable along with the existing Act and the station manager or controller will be authorised to impose and collect fines on the metro premises, including parking areas,” he said. “We will follow all guidelines and norms as advised by the Centre,” he said. Watch Delhi: DMRC may fine you Rs 1000 for spitting inside metro station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-delhi-metro-reopens-spitting-may-cost-you-rs-1000/articleshow/76015652.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Cong’s online drive on May 28 to highlight people’s distress||Jaipur: Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) will launch an online campaign from 11am-2pm on May 28 with an objective to bring to the notice of the Centre the voice of millions of migrant workers, farmers, organized sector workers, MSMEs, small businessmen and daily wagers going through the crisis due to lockdown.AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal had a meeting with Congress Legislature Party leaders and party presidents of all states on Tuesday in which detailed preparations for the online campaign were discussed. PCC president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot informed that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi, from time to time, gave many valuable suggestions to the Centre to reduce the suffering of migrant workers and labourers. But the central government had rejected such suggestions and left migrant workers, farmers, labourers, MSMEs, small entrepreneurs and workers in the non-organized sectors in the lurch. He said campaign has been launched with the objective of raising the voice of these sections to be heard by the Centre. Pilot said MGNREGA has proved to be helpful in providing economic support to the poor by providing employment in rural areas in the present situation due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congs-online-drive-on-may-28-to-highlight-peoples-distress/articleshow/76017285.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||PMPML resumes bus services in PCMC limits||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) resumed its services in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area on Tuesday after two months with a fairly low passenger load. "Services have resumed on regular routes in the jurisdiction of PCMC at half the capacity. A total of 80 buses are plying in two shifts in the morning and afternoon on 30 routes. The buses will connect the industrial areas, IT hubs and commercial areas," PMPML chairman Nayana Gunde told TOI. A transport body official said that the buses were plying between 7am and 7pm only. A decision would be taken after May 31 on resumption of services in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas, the official said. Ajay Charthankar, joint managing director of the transport body, said that a review meeting was held on Tuesday. "We will monitor the movement of the buses and the passenger flow for a week following which further steps will be initiated. We need to encourage cashless transactions, so people should buy daily passes costing Rs70. We are also planning to decrease the cost of daily passes. We have collaborated with the Central Bank of India and cash transactions can be minimised with the help of QR code applications," he said. Only 21 passengers would be allowed in each bus, with window and aisle seats in alternate rows marked for passengers. Children below 10 years and those above 65 years would not be allowed to travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-resumes-bus-services-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/76015631.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s daughter lodges FIR against Congress' Alka Lamba, Dharna Patel||LUCKNOW: Daughter of expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, at present lodged in Tihar Jail in the Unnao rape case, has accused Congress leaders Alka Lamba and Dharna Patel of posting a defamatory tweet against her family. A named FIR has been lodged against the Congress leaders with Unnao Kotwali police station. Both the leaders have made an objectionable tweet on people in power at the Centre, said Aishwarya Sengar, daughter of Kuldeep Sengar. In her FIR, she accused Lamba and Patel of posting a fake tweet stating that powerful politicians are extending help to her father in the Unnao case. “In their tweet, Congress leaders have even mentioned name of a senior politician at the Centre who has helped my father in the case,” she stated in the FIR ,adding that “all the facts mentioned in the tweet of the Congress leaders are false and aimed at bringing disrepute to my family.” “A named FIR was lodged and a case was registered under charges of defamation and punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in an electronic medium,” said SP Unnao Vikrant Vir. The CBI had registered four cases in Unnao rape case in April 2018 and another case in 2019. On SC’s order all cases were transferred to Tis Hazari court in New Delhi, which awarded life-imprisonment to Sengar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sengars-daughter-lodges-fir-against-congs-lamba-patel/articleshow/76017296.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||37-yr-old immolates self in Jaisalmer dist||Jaisalmer: Following a petty dispute, a man left his home and committed suicide by setting himself on fire on Monday evening. After a report by the family members, police launched a search and recovered the man’s burnt body early on Tuesday. They have started an investigation. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem Although the family has denied any possibility of murder, police are investigating all aspects. “Jagdish Khatri (37), resident of Jainarayan Vyas colony of the city, was annoyed over some issue. He left his home on Monday evening saying that he was going for a haircut. But, when he did not return till late night, a search was started. The family lodged a missing report at the police station. Based on Jagdish’s mobile location, police and family members carried out a search operation throughout the night. Finally, they found Jagdish’s burnt body near Shankar Ki Dhani, 5km away from city, early on Tuesday morning,” SP Kiran Kang said. Prima facie, the man committed suicide by pouring petrol on himself. He may have taken out the petrol from his motorcycle. The entire area was deserted and no one could have rescued him. The motorcycle and mobile phone were found near the spot, the SP added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/37-yr-old-immolates-self-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/76017284.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Conductor hangs self inside bus||Kota: A 60-year-old man, who worked as a conductor for a private bus and was an alcoholic, committed suicide by hanging himself from the iron pipe on the private bus’ ceiling, which was parked near Nayapura petrol pump under Nayapura police station of the city on Monday late night. The deceased was identified as Vishnu alias Brijraj Singh (60), a resident of Sangod town of Kota district, who worked as a conductor for a private bus and was a drunkard, circle in-charge (CI) at Nayapura police station, Muninder Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conductor-hangs-self-inside-bus/articleshow/76017298.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Goa||Migrants left homeless and hopeless after missing train in Goa||PANAJI: The plight of migrant workers stranded in Goa continues to be rife with difficulties, with many unable to make it on time to board the Shramik special trains to return home. On Tuesday, a group of migrant workers from Jharkhand who were trying to reach Karmali railway station got delayed and missed the train, which left at 12.42 pm. Many of these workers, who were living on rent, had already paid their landlords, cooked a day’s meal to last them on the train and packed their belongings to arrive at the station. With the train missed, they were left with no choice but to camp at the athletic stadium at Bambolim. Standing under the sweltering sun near the gates of the Goa Dental College, Bhoju Hasda waited for a bus to Margao to get to the Margao railway station. “These are troubling times,” he said, adding that he would wait at the railway station itself until the next day and attempt boarding a train again. “We are only fearful of the police. If they allow us to sleep on the roads, we can rest. Else we will have to stay awake all night until it is time for our train.” For many of these migrant labourers, who continue to be plagued by an uncertain future here due to joblessness, waiting for their seat on the next possible train to return home ignites some hope for survival. Ram Kiskoo, who was working as a labourer for the past one year in Assagao, was left jobless after the nationwide lockdown was announced. When construction works resumed this month, he was hopeful that things would normalise. But this time, a different challenge arose. “The contractor who had hired me was neither ready to let me leave work, nor was he willing to pay me citing Covid-19 expenses as an excuse. Some of the workers started running away to escape the uncertainty. Realising that they are never going to pay us, I left this morning as well,” he said. Sanjayla Mormu had arrived in Goa just three months ago in search of employment. He had started to make ends meet by working as a daily wage labourer when the lockdown shattered his dreams. “I have not been able to make any money in the few days that I worked in Goa. I am surviving on rations donated by good Samaritans. I cannot go on like this, I have to return home,” he said. Faced with an uncertain future, these labourers are now hoping to at least be close to their kin during the pandemic. For now, the need to be with family supersedes every other need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrants-left-homeless-and-hopeless-after-missing-train/articleshow/76017294.cms||Nida Sayed
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cry for CBI probe into SHO suicide trends on Twitter||JAIPUR: The demand for CBI inquiry into the suicide of Churu’s Rajgarh SHO Vishnudutt Bishnoi has not only gained political momentum but is also nationally trending on Twitter which has 1.62 lakh tweets till Tuesday evening. It was in the top 10 trends of Twitter for most of Tuesday and the social media was filled with posts asking for a fair investigation. The 45-year-old police officer, whom Rajasthan DGP Bhupendra Singh considered one of the best SHOs, killed himself on Saturday morning after coming home from work around 3am. He left behind two suicide notes but he did not blame anyone for his death. Sources, however, claimed that he was under immense stress due to false accusations against him and had mentioned it in his routine reports. A WhatsApp message, apparently sent by the now deceased SHO to his friend that went viral after the suicide mentioned that he was getting trapped in ‘internal politics’. Three days after his death, the Twitterati took to the social platform to ask for justice for the deceased cop using the hashtag which became popular on Tuesday. One Twitter user using the same hashtag wrote about Bishnoi,’justice delayed is justice denied. India has lost a gem. He was real life Singham. He was one of the few honest and brave cops.’ MP Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party also tweeted from their official account saying that a dutiful police officer was mentally harassed due to which he committed suicide and the investigation must be handed over to CBI without any delay. श्री @ashokgehlot51 जी CI विष्णुदत्त जी ने रोजनामचे में खुद पर बीत रही हालातो व मानसिक तनाव का हवाला दिया,आप प्रकरण… https://t.co/T0n9JdoJmE— HANUMAN BENIWAL (@hanumanbeniwal) 1590471604000MP Diya Kumari also took to Twitter using the same hashtag and claimed that this suicide has put the entire working of the police force into question. #चूरू-राजगढ़ के कर्तव्यनिष्ठ पुलिस अधिकारी स्वर्गीय विष्णुदत्त बिश्नोई जी द्वारा आत्महत्या के समाचार से आमजन को गह… https://t.co/H95WsRko0d— Diya Kumari (@KumariDiya) 1590476534000Kumari and Beniwal both have also written to CM Ashok Gehlot asking for a CBI enquiry. Few other Twitter users also tagged the official handle of Gehlot while suggesting a CBI enquiry.  Bishnoi’s death led to many speculations, including the interference of local politicians in police works. A popular cop, his suicide shocked many of his colleagues and even the locals not just in Rajgarh but in the entire district of Churu after he was found hanging at his government quarters. BJP leaders alleged that local Congress MLA Krishna Poonia had a role to play in Bishnoi’s suicide. Poonia denied the charge. The deceased cop’s family lodged an FIR against unidentified accused of abetment to suicide which is being investigated by the state crime branch. Officials have assured the family of a judicial enquiry into the matter. Before using the online medium, local leaders and people had also protested in front of the police station demanding investigation by CBI. Bishnoi’s suicide appeared to have spooked the personnel at Rajgarh police station as well and at soon after his death, at least seven cops asked for a transfer, confirmed senior officials claiming that most were emotionally attached to the SHO and wanted to get posted out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cry-for-cbi-probe-into-sho-suicide-trends-on-twitter/articleshow/76017303.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Man tries to kill self near Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot's house||JAIPUR: A man on Tuesday allegedly attempted suicide by consuming poison near the residence of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot in Civil Lines area. Police posted at CM residence thwarted the attempt and rushed him to SMS Hospital, where he is being treated. Sodala police later filed an FIR against him. Meanwhile, a purported letter written by him addressed to the chief minister has surfaced on social media in which he has alleged that he was under stress because of police inaction and pressure to withdraw a complaint filed against some miscreants under Padu Kalan police station. The letter identifies him as the president of Rajasthan Dukandar Mahasangh president, Riyan Badi. The man, Chena Ram, a resident of Riyan Badi in Nagaur district, said that he had filed a complaint on May 18 against six people who had “thrashed” him and threatened to kill him. But, police did not take any action on his complaint In the letter, he alleged that SHO of Padu Kalan police station in Nagaur, where he had lodged the complaint, was mentally torturing him in connivance with the accused to compel him to withdraw the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-tries-to-kill-self-near-cm-house/articleshow/76017291.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||What’s after lockdown 4.0, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot asks Modi govt||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has demanded the Modi government to disclose the Centre’s course of action after lockdown 4.0. “The nation is waiting to know, Govt’s further course of action as lockdown 4.0 nears its end,” said the chief minister in a series of tweets, quoting Rahul Gandhi’s press conference on Tuesday. The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre will end on May 31. Pointing that the nationwide lockdown has “failed” to control the virus at a virtual press conference, Rahul Gandhi said, “What is the Central government’s plan to go forward as the disease is growing exponentially in the country? The four stages of lockdown have not given the result that the Prime Minister expected”. "What is the strategy regarding opening India? What precautions will they take to now curb the disease? How will they support migrants? How will they support the state governments and MSMEs?" Gandhi said. Joining the issue raised by Gandhi, chief minister Gehlot added, “It’s important to know what relief Govt plans to give to people. As Rahul ji suggested, cash transfer to nation’s population worst affected by lockdown shd be the first step & most urgent one. Poor, migrant workers, small businessmen, farmers are waiting.” On Rahul Gandhi’s call to the Centre to announce cash transfers to the poor, migrants and MSMEs, the chief minister said, “What’s needed is, which #RahulGandhi ji highlighted, to restore the confidence of the poor, migrant workers, farmers as they are the backbone of our economy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/whats-after-lockdown-4-0-cm-gehlot-asks-modi-govt/articleshow/76017300.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||405kg poppy husk seized in Jhalawar||Kota: Jhalawar rural police seized 405 kg of poppy husk in 20 bags hidden under chocolate cartons which were being illegally transported from Ratlam district in Madhya Pradesh in a six-wheeler truck at Muktidham circle on Misroli road in Pachpahad area under Bhawanimandi police station of the district on Monday. Police arrested a father-son duo for the crime and produced them before the court on Tuesday. The court handed them over to police for three days for interrogation. Jhalawar rural police has carried out 5 seizures in the last 15 days in various area under Bhawanimandi police station and has recovered a total 2,433 kg of poppy husk and 400 grams of opium worth Rs 1.51 crore while arresting at least 11 persons. Police team during regular checking of vehicles on Monday noon stopped a at Muktidham circle and seized 405 kg of poppy husk packed in 20 bags hidden under the chocolate cartons, Bhawanimandi SHO Mahendra Meena told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/405kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-jhalawar/articleshow/76018484.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Pune||Vegetable and fruit market at Gultekdi likely to reopen next week||Pune: The wholesale vegetable and fruit market at Gultekdi Market Yard may resume unloading of farm produce from next week. A joint meeting of the traders, porters, transporters and officials from the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) was held on Tuesday, where all stakeholders expressed their willingness to resume trade from June 1. Another meting is scheduled on Thursday to finalize the plan for resumption of business. Vilas Bhujbal, the leader of traders and commission agents’ association, said the traders’ body was ready to go ahead with the purchase and sale of vegetables. “Everyone who was present for Tuesday’s meeting was in favour of reopening the market. We are looking at June 1 to resume.” he said. BJ Deshmukh, the administrator at APMC, said since the government had eased the lockdown restrictions to a certain extent, the traders were inclined to restart the market. “We are coming out with a model to ensure all necessary measures are followed while resuming operations. Initially, the market may function on alternate days or with some restrictions on the incoming vehicles. A plan will be finalized on Thursday, ” Deshmukh added. Grocery market resumes Meanwhile, the wholesale grocery market that is located in the same vicinity of Gultekdi, has resumed functioning. The market was closed last week after a few traders tested positive for Covid-19. The traders said only 100 vehicles were being allowed now instead of the daily arrival of over 200 vehicles on usual days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vegetable-and-fruit-market-at-gultekdi-likely-to-reopen-next-week/articleshow/76015641.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Rift in Congress over talks of bypoll ticket to defector||BHOPAL: Former minister for panchayat in the erstwhile Kamal Nath government, Kamleshwar Patel, on Tuesday supported the return of Rakesh Singh Chaturvedi into the Congress fold. “He was a man who followed Congress ideology though he joined BJP for few years,” Kamleshwar Patel said and added, “Chaturvedi is a good leader but he strayed from our party ideology. But in matters like this, there is nothing very personal.” Patel also claimed that even brothers have differences but issues get resolved and Chaturvedi should not be opposed. Two months after 22 party MLAs including six ministers followed Jyotiraditya Scindia to join BJP, a deep rift has again developed within the state Congress over the man who started the defection from party history in recent years. On July 11, 2013 Congress entered the state assembly to bring a ‘No Confidence’ motion against the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh rose to address the House. But before he could utter a word, the Congress’ deputy leader of opposition Chaturvedi defected and said he did not support the motion. The BJP bodily lifted Chaturvedi and took him straight to the state party headquarters. He was garlanded, honoured and given saffron party membership. Six years later, in April 2019, during the Lok Sabha polls, Chaturvedi returned to Congress. Now, with 24 assembly seats going for bypolls, one section of the Congress wants to give him the ticket as party candidate from Mehgaon in Bhind district while another section is vehemently opposing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rift-in-congress-over-talks-of-bypoll-ticket-to-defector/articleshow/76015394.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Containing Covid: Jaipur’s SMS Hospital's doctors say it’s anti-HCQ ‘propaganda’||JAIPUR: While the World Health Organisation (WHO) halted clinical trials of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) following safety concerns, head of the core group for treatment of Covid-19 at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital has called it a “propaganda.” “Certainly, HCQ is not the most effective drug for Covid-19 treatment and may in fact be ineffective in critical patients. But labelling it as a horrendous cardio toxic drug to scare millions of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and lupus is an irresponsible propaganda,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Medical College and head of the core group constituted by the state government for Covid-19 treatment at SMS Hospital. Amid the pandemic, HCQ has become an integral part of treatment protocol for the ailment and has been used extensively by corona warriors as a prophylactic drug or for preventive treatment. Even civil servants, who are directly involved in the fight against Covid-19, have taken HCQ. SMS Medical College too used it for treatment of Covid-19 patients and it came to light when they successfully treated an Covid-19 infected Italian tourist couple with the use of four drugs, one of which was HCQ in March. The hospital’s treatment advisory advocated use of HCQ as a first preference in low doses (400 mg BD on Day-1 followed by 200mg BD for four days). Linking HCQ with cardio toxicity evoked sharp reaction. “Many publication hungry people find it the most convenient time now to blame it on HCQ. There will be always someone who will buy this theory at this time,” said Dr Bhandari, while adding that they will continue using the drug. Alleging that it is mispropaganda against inexpensive HCQ for making expensive new drugs, Bhandari said, “Of late, cardiac complication of Covid-19 is being blamed on HCQ. Almost every critical and dying Covid-19 patient has cardiac complications. Most people think of Covid-19 as primarily a lung disease. People including doctors often forget that immediate cause of most Covid-19 deaths could be due to cardiac complications. If used in Covid-19 patients with already existing cardiac complications, it can add fuel to the fire, especially because of the relatively high loading dose used in Covid-19.” He, however, claimed that if used in Covid-19 patients with already existing cardiac complications, it can add fuel to the fire, especially because of the relatively high loading dose. Recent observation in Mumbai shows that all 9 policemen who died of Covid-19 were not on HCQ prophylaxis. Health department is keeping an eye on the development related to HCQ. “We have asked our expert advisory group to examine the latest WHO advisory in consultation with ICMR. We will then proceed accordingly,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). So far, SMS Hospital has discharged more than 750 patients after curing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/containing-covid-doctors-say-its-anti-hcq-propaganda/articleshow/76017309.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Tourist guides stare at bleak future, want relief package||Jodhpur: The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted many trades and professions and tourist guides aren’t spared either. These cultural ambassadors of our rich heritage not only got hit during the running tourism season, but are now also facing difficulties in earning their livelihoods. In these testing times, while they have been looking up to government for support, a desperate move has also been consistently raging to keep the interest of global backpackers in the local heritage alive. “We have written to the state tourism minister for an appropriate relief package to make up for this tough time,” said the vice-president of Jodhpur Guide Association, Umed Singh Gehlot. Jodhpur has 330 registered tourist guides including females, and all have been passing through a phase where the future looks bleak. “First, due to lockdown, the ongoing tourist season got abruptly aborted, forcing the tourists to return to their countries and second, there is no hope of the revival of the season at least this year,” said Umed Singh. Their reason for being dismal about the industry reviving is not baseless. Most of the tourists, who visit Jodhpur or Rajasthan per say, are from Europe, largely from France, Germany, Italy and Spain. “These are the countries which have been hit the hardest by the pandemic. Even if the situation improved there any time soon, it would not result in people there instantly packing their bags for travelling to other countries,” Umed Singh said. But in spite of this, they are still trying to keep their morale high. Like always, they have been religiously hitting the internet to promote the culture and heritage by posting images and fascinating stories. A tour operator and tourist guide, Virendra Singh Chouhan, who had started three years back, said that everything done so far for promotion of tourism has been wasted. He, however, foresees another threat to the profession.  “Since these guides are dependent only on guiding, they may consider different professions for livelihood, in the face of a bleak future ahead,” he said stressing on the need for relief to them by the government, considering their contribution to the state’s exchequer, direct or indirect. Recently, the government has included tourist guides in the list of unskilled workers with a view to provide free ration in the wake of the loss of jobs due to lockdown. But this has come as a disappointment to these guides. Acknowledging this concern of the government, however, Rishi Raj Singh, secretary of the association said that they wished to be treated on par with skilled professionals like doctors, advocates, architects and chartered accountants, while considering them for relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourist-guides-stare-at-bleak-future-want-relief-package/articleshow/76018498.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Two commit suicide in Bundi, Kota||Kota: Two persons committed suicide in separate incidents in Gendoli police station area of Bundi district and Etawa police station area of Kota, respectively. Police have launched investigation into the deaths. “A 45-year-old man, identified as Bhanwarlal Meena, resident of Nayagaun in Kapren police station of Bundi, committed suicide early on Tuesday by hanging himself with his turban to the hood of a tractor at an agriculture field in Kalitalai village under Gendoli police station area,” said Vijay Singh, SHO, Gendoli police station. Police have lodged a case under Section 174 of CrPC to ascertain the actual reason of death. In the second incident, a 35-year-old man, identified as Gagendra Khateek, resident of Etawa town of Kota, committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his home on Monday afternoon when no one was at home. The police have lodged a case under Section 174 of CrPC, the SHO added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-commit-suicide-in-bundi-kota/articleshow/76018493.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Parole of 2,257 convicts extended||LUCKNOW: The UP government on Tuesday extended the parole of 2,257 convicts by two months. These convicts were released from the jail soon after the lockdown was announced on the directives of the Supreme Court to decongest Indian prisons. As per the apex court directives, government allowed parole to convicts sentenced to seven years or less and also those awaiting trial entailing less than seven-year imprisonment. UP government had set a target of releasing over 12,000 prisoners to decongest jails. The prisoners were ferried by UPSRTC buses to their home districts and were provided with masks and pamphlets detailing ways to avoid coronavirus infection. Director general, prisons, Anand Kumar said the decision to extend parole was taken after it was observed that the spread of corona has not stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parole-of-2257-convicts-extended/articleshow/76018485.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||WHO stops trials, but ICMR says HCQ can be used as preventive drug||New Delhi: A day after the WHO suspended testing of hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19 patients, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the use of the drug as a prophylaxis has been approved based on observational studies in India, which have indicated anti-viral properties with no major side-effects. Clarifying that the anti-malarial medicine can be continued as preventive treatment against Covid-19 in high-risk people, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said studies show the drug is safe and effective after considering the balance of risks and benefits. ICMR recently expanded its use for frontline workers after cautioning about its application in certain cases. Sources said doses prescribed by India were low and did not compare with those being tested by the WHO. Dr Bhargava said it was two 400mg tablets to start with and then one tablet a week. He said the drug has been used for long, with HCQ seen as safer than chloroquine. Interestingly, WHO officials also said there were no safety issues in the trials but a decision has been made due to abundant precaution. Dr Bhargava said the decisions in India are based on findings of observational and case-controlled trials. In India, HCQ is approved as prophylactic treatment for frontline workers, healthcare workers and family members taking care of Covid-19 patients. Bhargava said the biological plausibility of HCQ made it a likely anti-viral drug. "We did some in-vitro study in labs and found that it has anti-viral properties. This drug became suddenly popular when the American government also started using it. We also thought that it may be a useful drug for the prevention of Covid," he said. The DG said taking the biological plausibility, in-vitro data and safety level of the drug, the ICMR had recommended it for empiric use under strict medical supervision about one and a half months ago. "During these four and a half to six weeks, we got some data — mainly from observational studies and also case-controlled studies — in different cohorts in India. When we looked at that data from these studies, we found that it may be working and without major side-effects except nausea, vomiting and palpitations occasionally," said Bhargava. This was often due to ingestion on an empty stomach. The observational studies were done at AIIMS, ICMR and also in three public hospitals in Delhi. "It should be continued when there is no harm and some benefit may be there. We have clearly advised that it should be taken with food and not on an empty stomach. We also advised that we need to do one ECG during its use as prophylaxis," he added. Dr Bhargava said, "Covid-19 is an evolving field. We don't know which medicines are working and which are not. There are lots of drugs that have been repurposed for use in Covid whether for prophylaxis or as treatment. HCQ is a very old anti-malarial drug that was being widely used and it continues to be widely used. It is safer."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/who-stops-trials-but-icmr-says-hcq-can-be-used-as-preventive-drug/articleshow/76020320.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 27, 2020||Goa||3k workers leave by Shramiks for Ranchi, Odisha||Margao: More than 3,000 migrant workers left by two Shramik Special trains from Margao and Karmali on Tuesday. While 1,322 left by Shramik Special train that departed from Margao for Rourkela in Odisha another train carrying 1,628 passengers departed from Karmali for Ranchi. The district administration appeared to have tweaked its arrangements for providing journey meals to the passengers on Tuesday. Instead of distributing meal packs coach to coach once they had boarded the trains, the passengers were handed over the packets once they stepped onto the platform after completing all necessary formalities. Nevertheless, despite many Shramik Special trains having left from Margao over the last two weeks, the number of migrants housed in the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium Navelim keeps swelling. Those who missed the Orissa-bound train and were left stranded at the Margao railway station were accommodated at the Navelim shelter home. Sources said that several charity organisations and voluntary groups have come forward to supplement government’s efforts in providing meals to the inmates of the shelter home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3k-workers-leave-by-shramiks-for-ranchi-odisha/articleshow/76018502.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds over 2,000 Covid-19 cases, 97 deaths in a day||MUMBAI: The state on Tuesday reported 97 Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a single day so far. With that, Maharashtra’s death toll climbed to 1,792. Mumbai saw 39 of the deaths, taking the city’s fatalities to 1,065. State officials claimed 62 of the deaths took place last week and were being scrutinised by the death review committee. On Tuesday, the city added 2,091 cases, taking the overall count of cases to 54,758. Mumbai added 1,002 new cases, taking the overall incidence for the city to 32,974. Mumbai has been among the four cities across the world with the highest daily count of cases over the past four-five days. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said that since the corporation was adopting a more aggressive approach of “chasing the virus,” the city could see more cases in the days to come. In what can be an indicator of the disease progression, he said the corporation was preparing 1.5 lakh Covid-19 beds till mid-June. The commissioner maintained that over 1.75 lakh people have already been tested in the city that now has a positivity rate of 18%. “We have done 13,400 tests per million, which is way ahead of what entire states have achieved,” he said. He added that of the currently active cases, around 15,800 were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Chahal said the lockdown has given them time to prepare for a surge once restrictions are withdrawn. State chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said the lockdown was helpful in reducing the rate of increase in cases and in adding hospital beds in the state. Mehta said the time taken for cases to double too has gone up to 14 days. There were a total of 72 labs in 15 districts of the state and permission for 22 new labs had been sought. As on Monday, the state had a daily capacity of 13,000 tests. “Nearly 66 lakh people or 6% of the state population has been screened by 16,000- plus squads,” he said. He said the state had not added cases as was feared. “There were projections that we will be adding 1.5 lakh cases till the end of May, we won’t reach anywhere close to that number,” Mehta said. The commissioner also said nearly 3,700 doctors have responded to their call to join the civic Covid services, of which 570 have shown willingness to work in the jumbo hospitals at MMDRA, BKC, Nesco in Goregaon and the NSCI Dome in Worli. Meanwhile, Thane recorded 122 fresh cases, including two doctors who tested positive, taking the tally there to 2,294. The state said that of the 97 Covid deaths, 39 were in Mumbai, 15 in Thane, 10 in Kalyan-Dombivli, 8 in Pune, 7 in Solapur, 5 in Aurangabad, 5 in Mira-Bhayandar, 3 each in Malegaon and Ulhasnagar and one each in Nagpur and Ratnagiri. About 65 of the 97 patients (67%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease,etc. The BEST Workers’ Union, meanwhile, has petitioned the transport undertaking saying 19 of its staffers died recently while on duty, and eight had been declared as Covid deaths. It has demanded that “detailed scrutiny” be conducted of all the deceased persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-adds-over-2000-cases-97-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/76018598.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Baij’s unseen-520 now go virtual||Kolkata: On the occasion of the 115th birth anniversary of Ramkinkar Baij, the National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi organised a virtual tour on Tuesday featuring 520 never-seen-before works of the Bengal master. A student of Kala Bhavana in Santiniketan, Baij trained under Nandalal Bose and later joined as faculty along with Bose and Benodebihari Mukherjee, taking Santniketan to the pinnacle of modern art movement in pre-independence India. Baij is best known for his mammoth sculptures that adorn public spaces, especially because he introduced the use of cement, laterite and mortar while creating them. Mill Call, Santhal Family, Buddha and Sujata are some of his landmark creations. NGMA, which has the largest collection of Baij’s works, put up for display his coveted sketch book with 182 drawings. For art-lovers, there were also 16 portraits, 149 life studies, 25 abstract and structural compositions, 112 nature study and landscape sketches and paintings and 35 sculptures to view. “We have a total of 639 works of the artist, of which we displayed 520 today. Most have been displayed for the first time. We want artists to study the restless experiment that Baij did with forms — figurative and abstractive,” said Adwaita Gadanayak, director general of NGMA. Art historian R Sivakumar, who teaches at Visva-Bharati, said: “People don’t get to see these works otherwise because they are not on display. However, they need to publicise such events better so that more and more people can be part of such virtual tours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/baijs-unseen-520-now-go-virtual/articleshow/76018608.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Pregnant woman among three coronavirus deaths in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The block chief medical officer (Rohat block) of Pali district was found dead at his residence in the Rohat community health Centre in suspicious circumstances on Tuesday morning. His postmortem has been conducted and his samples have been sent for Covid-19 test. Pali district has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases after several migrants tested positive for the virus. Pali occupies the third spot in the list of districts which has reported highest number of infected migrants. Out of 236 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday in the state, 23 were found infected in Pali. The infected count in the state now stand at 7,536. Three deaths were also reported on Tuesday taking the toll to 170. While two persons died in Jaipur, while one death was reported from Rajsamand. A 68-year-old man from Babarda of Rajsamand, who tested positive on May 24, died at his home on May 22. His samples were taken after his death. He had co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and cerebrovascular accident. A 28-year-old woman from Char Darwaza of Gangapole area, who was admitted to Gangauri hospital on Monday, died on Tuesday. She was pregnant with eclampsia. One more person died in Jaipur, taking the city’s toll to 81. Districts which reported cases are Jaipur (32), Sirohi (27), Sikar (25), Udaipur (25), Pali (23),Nagaur (13), Dungarpur (12), Jhalawar (12), Rajsamand (11), Kota (10), Bhilwara (9), Bikaner (7), Jodhpur (7), Jhunjhunu (5), Barmer (4), Chittorgarh (4), Ajmer (2), Dholpur (2), Bharatpur (2), Sriganganagar (1), Pratapgarh (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Dausa (1). In Jaipur, Paota is the new Covid-19 hotspot. Nine more persons were found infected there. In the past two days, 14 persons have tested positive at Paota in Jaipur rural. Other areas in Jaipur which reported new cases are Sambhar (4), Govindgarh (2) and one case each was reported from Jagdishpuri on Dhawas Road, Mahal in Jagatpura, Sitabari in Jhotwara, Panchawala, Police lines, Raj hospital in Sanganer, Malviya Nagar, Teej Hotel, Gangapole, Adarsh Nagar, Jobner, Dehra, Anantpura in Chomu, Mandha, Bhainslana, Phulera and Gujarati Dharamshala. Migrants tested positive for Covid-19 since May 1 have breached 2000 mark as 167 more migrants tested positive for Covid-19 taking tally to 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pregnant-woman-among-3-corona-deaths-in-state/articleshow/76018564.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Madurai||High court asks mills to approach APTEL on power charge fixation||Madurai: Madras high court on Tuesday directed spinning mills to approach the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL), New Delhi, to resolve the issue of fixation of electricity charges for high tension consumers.The court was hearing a batch of petitions stating that Tangedco was not following the suo motu proceedings of Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) dated May 4 to levy minimum demand charges for industrial consumers in view of the lockdown. The petitioners stated that Tangedco was directed to levy up to 20% minimum demand charges to the extent of sanctioned demand or actual recorded demand from March 24 whichever is higher. Despite TNERC’s proceedings, the industries received bill for April 20 with demand charges billed to 90%. All mills have been remaining closed during the period and power consumption was minimal for maintenance and other essential purposes.When the petitions were taken up on Tuesday, the state government informed the court that APTEL had stayed the TNERC order in an appeal preferred by Tangedco. Thereafter, Justice C V Karthikeyan observed that since the appellate authority is examining the TNERC order in an appeal, the petitioners can very well join in the appellate proceedings. The petitioners could submit a representation to Tangedco to extend the period for payment and undertake to pay the charges as stipulated by the appellate authority. The judge directed the concerned superintending engineers to collect data with respect to electricity consumption from individual industries and issue a certificate to them. The petitioners could use this data to impress upon APTEL as a corollary seeking payment of only 20% of the demand, said the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-asks-mills-to-approach-aptel-on-power-charge-fixation/articleshow/76015672.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||On Day-2, city handles 22 flights||Jaipur: Movement of domestic flights and number of passengers improved on Tuesday as the city airport handled 11 arrivals and same number of departures while nine flights remained cancelled. Authorities said everyone at the airport strictly followed the SOPs for Covid-19 be it spraying of disinfectants or using hand gloves and masks. Also, the start of pre-paid and other taxi services also facilitated passengers in comfortably reaching their destinations.According the airport authorities, four flights to Bangalore departed from Jaipur while two flights to Delhi and one flight each were sent to Hyderabad, Pune, Varanasi, Amritsar. “The baggage were also sanitised and at various counters we ensured people follow social distancing,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport. On the other hand, travelers coming to Jaipur were stamped with ‘home quarantine’ on their wrists and were asked to give their details like the local address, purpose of visit and if they had any symptoms. Authorities said the air traffic was better on Tuesday. “People are in fear. It will pick up gradually but number of passengers in each flight increased today. However flights to Mumbai and Kolkata remained cancelled since government of Maharastra and West Bengal have not yet given nod to air traffic movement to their respective states,” said an officer. Many passengers who walked out were also wearing PPE kit. “I was sweating throughout my flight but one has to be careful in these times,” said Aniket Singh, a passenger who came from Amritsar. Passengers were happy to book taxi and cab services which were restored in the city after an order by the state home department on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-day-2-city-handles-22-flights/articleshow/76018507.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government trying to get more Shramik Specials, says deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: With a large number of migrants continuing to hitch a ride on commercial vehicles or walk down the highways to go back to their home states, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday that efforts were being made to arrange Special Shramik trains for everyone willing to go home. He also said Delhi government was bearing their travel cost wherever required so that migrant workers did not have to pay from their pockets. Delhi government has already sent 2,41,169 migrant workers back to their hometowns in 196 trains from May 7 to 25, Sisodia said at digital press conference. “Of these, 93 trains carried 1.25 lakh migrant workers to various districts of Bihar and 84 trains carried 96,000 migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh,” the deputy chief minister added. Another 18 trains with close to 30,000 migrants left Delhi for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states on Tuesday. More than 4.5 lakh people have so far registered with the government to go back to their home states, a source said. Initially, teams in 11 districts surveyed the shelter homes set up for the migrants to assess the number of people who wanted to return home after losing their jobs due to the novel coronavirus lockdown. The government later provided a web link to them to fill up a form. The applicants get a message on their mobile phones with details of the date and time of their train and the address of the screening centre where they have to report in the morning of the day they are to start their journey. The government has set up 30 such centres in 11 districts across the city. Sisodia said people were screened at these centres where their body temperature was measured and a list of asymptomatic applicants was prepared. They are later taken to the railway station in special DTC buses. “Snacks, fruits, dry fruits and packaged water are provided to all passengers,” he said. Sisodia also said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was closely monitoring the situation and coordinating with other states to allow trains ferrying migrants. Expressing concerns over job loss of daily wagers, the deputy chief minister said Delhi government was providing food to the poor to ensure that no one slept hungry. “We have set up about 2,500 camps in schools where close to 10 lakh people are provided lunch and dinner every day. About 72 lakh people covered under the public distribution system and another 38 lakh people with e-coupons have been provided dry ration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-trying-to-get-more-shramik-specials-sisodia/articleshow/76015671.cms||Atul Mathur
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Bengal migrant tests positive after death in accident; Jharkhand toll 4||RANCHI/SINDRI/JAMSHEDPUR: A migrant worker from West Bengal tested positive for the novel coronavirus hours after he died while being operated upon at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi on Tuesday morning. The 22-year-old was among the 77 migrants from Bengal onboard a Mumbai-Kolkata bus that met with an accident on Ranchi-Gola road in Ramgarh district on Monday morning. Although the man did not die because of any complication caused by the virus, the state health department has added him to the tally of Covid-19 casualties in the state. In Jharkhand, four persons have now died with the virus. “About 25 migrants had sustained serious injuries in the accident and their samples were collected as soon as they were brought to this hospital on Monday afternoon. This patient was admitted in the neuro surgery department and was getting treatment at our isolation centre,” said a RIMS official. Rims director Singh said they had taken all precautions and worn PPEs while attending to the injured as they were coming from a red zone. Meanwhile, Jharkhand recorded 31 fresh Covid cases, including the accident victim and two healthcare workers from Dhanbad, on Tuesday. This is the second biggest single-day spike in the state since May 20, when the state recorded 42 cases. Jharkhand now has 436 coronavirus cases, of which 256 are active and 176 have recovered. On Tuesday, West Singhbhum and Gumla recorded six cases each; Dhanbad, Garhwa and Hazaribag registered three each; Palamu, East Singhbhum, Koderma and Khunti recorded two each and Ranchi and Lohardaga districts one each. All six patients in West Singhbhum are migrants, “Two each are from Chaibassa and Ananadpur blocks and one from and Manoharpur and Jagaganathpur blocks. All of them have returned from Maharashtra last week,” West Singhbhum DC Arava Rajkamal said. In Dhanbad, apart from the two health workers posted at the isolation centre at Dhanbad district hospital, a 22-year-old woman who had returned from New Delhi tested positive on Tuesday,” said Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar. In Garhwa all three who tested positive had returned from Mumbai and are residents of Sadar block. In Palamu, the patients returned from Maharshtra and Madhya Pradesh. “Both are 35 years of age and are residents of Pandwa block,” Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said. The two cases detected in East Singhbhum include an elderly man from Purulia and a migrant from Mumbai. In Koderma a brother-sister duo aged 14 and 12 who returned home with their family members from Mumbai tested positive, said DC Ramesh Gholap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bengal-migrant-tests-positive-after-death-in-accident-jharkhand-toll-4/articleshow/76015310.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown relaxed, number of road accident deaths increases in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Road accidents have claimed quite a few lives in Jharkhand in recent times. Since May 1, at least 17 people have died in mishaps in the state. Even though the nationwide lockdown had initially led to a reduction in the number of road accidents and casualties, as fewer vehicles hit the streets, accidents have suddenly spiked after inter- and intra-state movement of stranded people was allowed by the government. On Tuesday, six people, including five of a family, died in two separate road mishaps in Dhanbad and Ramgarh. On Monday, 38 out of 77 persons travelling on a bus sustained injuries after the vehicle turned turtle on Ranchi-Gola Road. On May 21 and 22, six people, including three bikers and a woman, died in road accidents in Giridih and Hazaribag districts, respectively. A fortnight ago, three migrants travelling from Jamshedpur to Uttar Pradesh died after the truck met with an accident in Ramgarh’s Chuttupalu Valley on NH-33. Between last week of April and first week of May, two policemen died in road accidents in Ranchi and Ramgarh. Rishab Anand, a road safety activist, said the recent incidents of road accidents are a result of desperation and callousness. He said, “Congestion-free roads are like a trap. The vehicles are running at extremely high speed these days in comparison to the time before imposition of lockdown.” Overworked drivers, over-crowding on vehicles and driving under the influence of drugs and liquor could be the other reasons. He said, “Moreover, lack of proper knowledge about a particular area, its road and geography may be another reason. Many drivers from other states are ferrying people and they might not be aware of the real nature of roads in this state.” Enforcement of road safety has taken a back seat, even though large number of policemen are on the roads. Anand said, “We don’t even have the infrastructure like highway interceptors, speed guns to control the menace of over-speeding.” Jharkhand police ADG (operations) and spokesperson M L Meena said, “The rise in accidents is due to the increase in movement of vehicles after partial relaxations were allowed during lockdown 4.0. We have taken cognizance of the problem and issued instructions to increase highway patrolling as a preventive measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-relaxed-number-of-road-accident-deaths-increases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76015210.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 27, 2020||Jamshedpur||Bengal migrant tests positive after death in accident; Jharkhand toll 4||RANCHI/SINDRI/JAMSHEDPUR: A migrant worker from West Bengal tested positive for the novel coronavirus hours after he died while being operated upon at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi on Tuesday morning. The 22-year-old was among the 77 migrants from Bengal onboard a Mumbai-Kolkata bus that met with an accident on Ranchi-Gola road in Ramgarh district on Monday morning. Although the man did not die because of any complication caused by the virus, the state health department has added him to the tally of Covid-19 casualties in the state. In Jharkhand, four persons have now died with the virus. “About 25 migrants had sustained serious injuries in the accident and their samples were collected as soon as they were brought to this hospital on Monday afternoon. This patient was admitted in the neuro surgery department and was getting treatment at our isolation centre,” said a RIMS official. Rims director Singh said they had taken all precautions and worn PPEs while attending to the injured as they were coming from a red zone. Meanwhile, Jharkhand recorded 31 fresh Covid cases, including the accident victim and two healthcare workers from Dhanbad, on Tuesday. This is the second biggest single-day spike in the state since May 20, when the state recorded 42 cases. Jharkhand now has 436 coronavirus cases, of which 256 are active and 176 have recovered. On Tuesday, West Singhbhum and Gumla recorded six cases each; Dhanbad, Garhwa and Hazaribag registered three each; Palamu, East Singhbhum, Koderma and Khunti recorded two each and Ranchi and Lohardaga districts one each. All six patients in West Singhbhum are migrants, “Two each are from Chaibassa and Ananadpur blocks and one from and Manoharpur and Jagaganathpur blocks. All of them have returned from Maharashtra last week,” West Singhbhum DC Arava Rajkamal said. In Dhanbad, apart from the two health workers posted at the isolation centre at Dhanbad district hospital, a 22-year-old woman who had returned from New Delhi tested positive on Tuesday,” said Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar. In Garhwa all three who tested positive had returned from Mumbai and are residents of Sadar block. In Palamu, the patients returned from Maharshtra and Madhya Pradesh. “Both are 35 years of age and are residents of Pandwa block,” Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said. The two cases detected in East Singhbhum include an elderly man from Purulia and a migrant from Mumbai. In Koderma a brother-sister duo aged 14 and 12 who returned home with their family members from Mumbai tested positive, said DC Ramesh Gholap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/bengal-migrant-tests-positive-after-death-in-accident-jharkhand-toll-4/articleshow/76032851.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Dumka bypoll set to be deferred||Ranchi: The by-election to the Dumka assembly seat in Santhal Pargana is likely to be deferred due to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The seat fell vacant in January this after its MLA-elect, chief minister Hemant Soren, took oath of office as a legislator from the Barhait assembly constituency on January 6. As per the law, a new legislator must take oath from the seat within six months, so the by-poll results should be declared before July 6. On Tuesday, sources in the office of the state chief electoral officer said the Election Commission is holding discussions on ways to conduct the polls. “The EC is in touch with all the states’ CEOs. There is no word on the polling dates so far,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. “The EC is seeking legal opinion from the Union law ministry as Covid 19 situation has shelved by-elections across many states,” the official added. Earlier, JMM sources has told TOI that the party is likely to field Hemant’s wife Kalpana from the seat whenever the bypoll is announced. “Dumka has always been a JMM bastion and it sent party patriarch Shibu Soren to the Lok Sabha on seven occasions. Hemant also made his debut as a legislator in 2009 from this seat. In all likelihood, Hemant will field Kalpana from here as it will be her debut in politics. On March 24, the elections to two Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand were deferred indefinitely owing to the pandemic. The polls were to be held two days later. The seats, vacated by RJD’s Prem Chand Gupta and independent Parimal Nathwani on April 9, are currently vacant. The EC however said the nominations of the candidates filed for the seats shall remain valid. While BJP named its state president Deepak Prakash, the ruling alliance of JMM, Congress and RJD had named former CM Shibu Soren and Congress’s Ramgarh functionary Shahzada Anwar as candidates. Meanwhile, the strength of Jharkhand assembly fell to 79 MLAs on May 24 after Bermo MLA Rajender Prasad Singh died of prolonged illness at the age of 75. Bermo, being held by Congress, will go to polls within six months. Soren also visited Singh’s home in Bermo and offered his tribute on Tuesday. “He was like my guardian. May his soul rest in peace and the almighty give courage to his family to bear the loss,” the CM tweeted. Besides Soren, senior Congress functionaries, including state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, health minister Banna Gupta and others, attended Singh’s cremation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dumka-bypoll-set-to-be-deferred/articleshow/76015204.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC seeks details of Covid situation in Hindpiri area||Ranchi: A division bench of the Jharkhand high court on Tuesday sought reply from the state government on the number of people tested for coronavirus in Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of Covid-19 in the city, and asked for information on the standard operating procedures (SOP) for migrants returning to the state. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice S N Prasad issued the order while hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) related to prevention of the viral infection in the state. Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan said, “As soon as the hearing began, the court asked about number of testing done in Hindpiri and how many are positive at present. The bench also asked about the number of migrants who have arrived in state and how they are being tested for the virus. The hearing has been adjourned till Friday.” Indrajit Sinha, one of the lawyers appearing in the hearing of the PILs, said according to the state government’s report, the doubling rate in Jharkhand is higher than the national figure. He further said the doubling rate of the state is 8.8 days compared to 13.21 days nationally. He added that the growth rate in the state for the last seven days was 8.20% compared to 5.39% at the national level. It may be stated here that the Centre is also a party in the PILs. Assistant solicitor general of India, Rajiv Sinha, who is representing the Centre, said he had already informed the court in the previous hearing that the Union government has issued SOPs for migrant labourers. On medical kits, Sinha said that the Centre will supply them according to patient load in the states. He said states have also been allocated funds to make their own purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-seeks-details-of-covid-situation-in-hindpiri-area/articleshow/76015224.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Teen gang raped in Sahibganj district, juvenile held||DUMKA: A teenager was allegedly raped by three persons when she had gone to pick mangoes from a nearby farm at Naugachi village in Sahibganj district on Monday. In a police complaint lodged on Tuesday, the survivor said three drunk men, belonging to the minority community, overpowered her and took turns to rape her. One of the accused, who is reportedly a minor, is in police custody. Meanwhile, a large number of people came out on the streets to protest and demanded the immediate arrest of the culprits. Tension gripped Sahibganj district as 200 villagers from Nawabdehri and Naugachi localities under Rajmahal police station blocked NH-80 and resorted to arson and vandalism. DC Varun Ranjan and SP Aruranjan Kispotta reached the spot to prevent any further violence. Kispotta said, “One of the accused, who is a minor, has been detained and raids are on to trace the other two.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/teen-gang-raped-in-sahibganj-dist-juvenile-held/articleshow/76015240.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Served 15k migrants, donated masks: IMA||Nagpur: Doctors attached to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have served more than 15,000 migrant labourers by performing their health check-up and issuing health certificates to them at various entry points to Nagpur, said IMA Nagpur president Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala on Monday. “IMA took the lead in donating sanitizers and N95 masks to front-line warriors at GMCH and IGGMCH. We also donated utility kits to thousands of migrant labourer women. These kits included sanitary napkins along with many other important medicines and goods,” said Dr Jhunjhunwala. He said private doctors associated with IMA are providing health care to non-Covid patients on regular basis during the lockdown. “In Lockdown 4, more than 90% hospitals and clinics are functioning regularly. OPDs are closed in multi-speciality hospitals but emergency services are available 24X7,” he said adding that IMA is now chalking out a plan to re-start offering all health services to non-Covid patients with all necessary protective gear. IMA also raised an important issue of renewal of hospital permissions. The hospitals in city need to get renewal every year in May-June. But due to Covid-19 pandemic situation, entire government machinery is busy and renewal process is pending. Doctors have appealed to allow them auto-renewal at least until the pandemic situation comes under control. IMA Nagpur’s patron and former IMA national president Dr Ashok Adhao said doctors should follow latest guidelines issued by the government. “As the Covid-19 is new virus, guidelines and treatment protocol keeps updating. IMA keeps informing our members about the latest guidelines, but it has been experienced that officials show old guidelines and slap charges on doctors. We appeal state government and district administration to mention that the prior guidelines now stand cancelled while issuing new guidelines,” he said. Meanwhile, district administration and IMA have together formed a task force to fight against Covid-19. Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala and Dr Sanjay Deshpande are members of this task force. This force will work to coordinate between private hospitals, research institutes and government machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/served-15k-migrants-donated-masks-ima/articleshow/76015317.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 27, 2020||Nagpur||Rly staff help woman deliver at Mayo Hosp||Nagpur: Acting quickly, railway staffers on Tuesday helped a woman migrant travelling in a Shramik Special from Odisha safely deliver a baby boy. Officials said the Shramik Special 09253 from Surat to Behrampur had arrived at platform number 3 of the station at 4.50am. The train stopped for over 30 minutes, and as it was about to leave, one of the passengers told train ticket examiner (TTE) Sunil Kumar that a woman relative Bishnu Sahu (38) in his coach was suffering from labour pains. The TTE immediately informed deputy station superintendent Manish Gaur, who stopped the train and informed the medical staff at Central Railway Hospital. In the wee hours, there was not much staff at the station and hence all the men on night duty volunteered to move the woman on a stretcher towards the exit point. They then immediately shifted her to nearby Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH), where she delivered a baby boy soon afterwards. “Due to alert railway staff and quick action we could save both the woman and new born. Not stopping at this, a commercial clerk also supplied food to the woman patient,” said railway officials. Meanwhile, in Tuesday, Central Railway has refunded Rs23.82 lakh towards cancellation of 3,766 tickets from counters at Nagpur main station and Ajni on Tuesday. Braving heat, people were standing in long queues to seek refund. ACM & Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “We opened three additional counters at main station and two counters at Ajni to clear the rush.” “At Itwari, when we went to seek refund at 9am, the clerk concerned turned us back saying there was no money at that time. We asked him to give it in writing on the ticket but he did not,” said Yogendra Saraf and his wife Bharti. The Sarafs had booked tickets for March 22 to Nashik and return journey from Manmad on March 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rly-staff-help-woman-deliver-at-mayo-hosp/articleshow/76015350.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Madurai||This Tamil Nadu man played music for God, now sells it for rice & dal||DINDIGUL: It’s a barter trade like none other. Music that’s meant for Gods is being sold on the streets of Dindigul and the cost is just a few kilos of rice and dal. For Dindigul musician P Saravanan, who had played nadaswaram all his life before Gods at temples and couples at weddings, his ‘vidhwat’ on the street is what is putting the food on the table for his seven-member family. The 43-year-old artist from a family of ‘vidhwans’ has always been struggling to make ends meet with his measly earning of 10,000 per month. The corona lockdown has written the denouement to that, too. “If I take money it would mean begging. I play a song or raga standing in front of a shop and ask them for some rice, dal or food, not money,’’ says the artist from Ketchinipatti village near Vedasandur in Dindigul district, still immensely proud about his art and skill. A fourth-generation nadaswaram player, Saravanan decided to take up his family vocation after completing Class VIII. The sole breadwinner has to support mother Vanadevi, wife Muthulakshmi, three daughters and a five-year-old son with learning disability. “I used to earn about 10,000 a month in four or five programmes at weddings and temple festivals. As my needs are limited, I was able to run my family,’’ says Saravanan. After months without job due to the lockdown, the family has exhausted all its savings and government dole of 1,000 and groceries. “I have to feed my children. Even when I had programmes I used to borrow from shops near my village but repay the money after a performance. Now I am reluctant to ask for groceries because I don’t know when I will start earning and pay them back,’’ he said. Shopkeepers like Pandi in Vedasandur, who lend a helping hand to Saravanan, say it is auspicious to listen to nadaswaram music. “We know that we can hear it only in festivals and marriages and give it the due respect,’’ he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/he-played-music-for-god-now-sells-it-for-rice-dal/articleshow/76020819.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Thousands homeless after fire in shanties||NEW DELHI: Thousands of residents of a transit camp in Tughlaqabad in southeast Delhi were left homeless in the scorching heat after a major fire gutted their shanties in the early hours of Tuesday. The fire department had sent 32 fire tenders to douse the flames that were brought under control within a few hours but the cooling operation took a long time. This was the third time that a fire gutted the camp in the past five years. Though no lives were lost, an eight-year-girl suffered about 30% burns while her mother and aunt were injured while trying to save her. Tughlaqabad fire: Govt announces Rs 25,000 ex gratiaFire officers said that initially the fire had begun as a small blaze at one corner of the camp on the hilly areas behind the Tughalaqabad Fort, but had spread rapidly as small LPG cylinders kept in the shacks started exploding. DFS chief Atul Garg said the fire took place around 12.50am and was doused around 3.30am after evacuating the residents from the area. Fire officers say that it took them nearly half an hour to properly begin the fire-fighting operations since the road leading to the camp was steep and narrow. “It was encroached upon by shops and scrap dealers from nearby slums. We had to physically remove them before entering the area,” said a fire officer. The camp, mostly comprising people from West Bengal who are employed as domestic help in the area. Locals claimed that there were about 1,500 shanties built using plywood and plastic sheds in the past few years that were gutted. They alleged a conspiracy behind regular incidents of fire to dislodge them from the area since the shanties were built on government land on the ridge area. Fire officers, however, said that there were around 250 shanties closely packed due to which the fire had spread quickly. An initial probe suggests that the fire broke out of an electric pole and fell on polythene sheets of a shack due to which it caught fire. A police case has been registered under sections of damage due to fire and an inquiry has been initiated. Government announces reliefDelhi government on Tuesday announced Rs 25,000 ex-gratia for the residents of a transit camp in Tughlaqabad, which was gutted on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-thousands-homeless-after-fire-in-shanties/articleshow/76020822.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||In a bid to stop migrants' exit, Punjab to find jobs for them||CHANDIGARH: Struggling to stop labourers from heading back to their home states due to lack of work opportunities, the Punjab government plans to help them find employment by looking for jobs. Read the entire story on TOI+Now, states want the migrants back||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-a-bid-to-stop-migrants-exit-punjab-to-find-jobs-for-them/articleshow/76020978.cms||Vinod Kumar
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia targets DU VC over college bodies||NEW DELHI: The tussle over the governing bodies of 28 Delhi University colleges between the Delhi government and the university escalated on Tuesday when deputy CM Manish Sisodia held vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi and the executive council responsible for the stand-off. These colleges are funded by the government.  Sisodia wrote to the VC that the highest functionaries of the university "seem to be conspiring to protect the perpetrators of corruption". He wrote: "There can be no other reason why such inordinate delays and obstructions have been caused in the formation of these governing bodies and in forwarding the six names sent on March 20, 2020 immediately to the concerned colleges." Sisodia: Many complaints of corruption in 28 collegesSays Delay In Forming Governing Bodies Appears DeliberateDespite repeated attempts by TOI, Prof Tyagi didn’t respond to calls. However, a source in the university said the delay was due to the lockdown and also because the Delhi government had refused to reconsider the names of the six nominees against whom there are "serious allegations". The source said the university was in the process of forming the governing bodies and the process will be completed by the first week of June. Of the 28 colleges, 16 get only 5% of their funds while 12 get 100% funding from the Delhi government. The 12 colleges have been complaining about how twice this calendar year, their funds for paying salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff were withheld by the government due to absence of any governing body. The colleges complained that the funds released so far were not enough to pay their staff and they were forced to dip into their savings to pay some teachers. As of Tuesday, only six colleges have been able to pay salaries to their staff. Alleging that the inordinate delay in constituting the governing bodies seems a "deliberate attempt to ensure that a proper oversight mechanism is not put in place", Sisodia claimed in his letter that his office has received many complaints regarding corruption and malpractices in these 28 colleges. TOI had reported on March 13 this year how some of the people whose names had been suggested by the Delhi government had claimed they were "social workers". These included a salon owner, guest teacher, property consultant and electrician. The EC, going by its own resolution, wanted "a person of eminence with a demonstrated interest in the area of education or those who have made significant contribution towards the promotion or administration of higher education; person of eminence in sports, culture or arts; or person of eminence in the sphere of development of educational institutions". On March 16, 2020, DU wrote to the government asking it to reconsider the six names "as we had received written complaints against these individuals from the colleges". The government sent the same names back to the university on March 20. Urging DU to take appropriate action at the earliest, Sisodia said that the absence of governing bodies and the complete lack of administrative oversight has led to academic and administrative deterioration in these colleges and the VC’s office and the highest decision-making body, the executive council, will be held responsible for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-targets-du-vc-over-college-bodies/articleshow/76021013.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai a ticking time bomb, more tests must to defuse it||The panel of medical experts advising the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday pushed for ramping up testing to identify Covid-19 infections in the early stages for effective treatment, warning that, otherwise, Chennai especially could see an explosion of cases. Without more testing, the worst-case scenario projections were of up to 2 lakh cases by June-end in Chennai, with fatalities exceeding 1,400. The committee comprising senior infectious diseases experts, intensivists, pulmonologists, public health experts and epidemiologists told chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami that Chennai was reporting the same numbers every day for the past few days and the infection rate was looking “abnormal”, probably because testing has been drastically cut down. Epidemiologists including National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur had pointed out Chennai was reporting around 500 cases for almost a week, and the city’s epidemiology graph was different from any other district in the state. Since May 19, the city has reported around 550 cases a day, barring May 23, when it logged 625 cases. “They wanted to know how the same numbers were reported day after day,” said a senior official who attended the meeting. Public health experts told the government that at least 20 lakh people in Chennai are at high risk as they live in red zones. “Public health experts say at least five per cent of this group is likely to be infected already. If we don’t test and isolate infected people, the virus spread will go up to 10%. And that is the best case scenario if mortality is kept at 0.7%,” said a senior doctor, who was a part of the meeting. Experts told the government that in the absence of a vaccine or drug of choice, aggressive testing, isolation and treatment are tools to flatten the curve. “We told government to ramp up testing, zoom into zones and keep an intense watch on every ward. When we test more people we will find more cases. Else cases lurking during lockdown will erupt when there is a relaxation,” said infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, a member of the committee. The number of people tested has come down from mid-May, doctors pointed out. On Tuesday, 9,677 people in TN were tested for the viral infection, a drop from 11,428 cases on Monday. In sample collection centres such as Bharathi College for Women some people were turned away as the day’s quantity of testing kits were over. Patients, who came with fever and cough, were sent back home. Former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam said the state has done well so far in containing the mortality. “But we have not been able to stop the spread within containment zones. If lockdown hasn’t worked inside containment zones, officials will have to look for alternate ways to ensure people wear masks and maintain social distance,” he said. Although many senior officials did not agree with experts on the need to expand testing, some senior officials said with 68 testing labs, the state has the capacity to double the sample size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-a-ticking-time-bomb-more-tests-must-to-defuse-it/articleshow/76021061.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 27, 2020||India||Covid-19: Did a late-night letter from 20 senior lawyers change SC mind on migrants?||NEW DELHI: Did a late night letter on Monday from 20 renowned advocates of Delhi and Mumbai accusing the Supreme Court of exhibiting symptoms of its Emergency-time mindset help change the court’s reluctance to entertain PILs on the plight of migrant workers to take suo motu cognisance of the crisis and seek response from the Centre and states in 48 hours? The letter signed by 20 advocates, including P Chidambaram, Kapil Sibal, C U Singh, Vikas Singh, Prashant Bhushan, Iqbal Chagla, Aspi Chenoy, Yusuf Muchala and Janak Dwarkadas, said, “As a consequence of the court’s failure to intervene (in March), even though the number of Covid cases were then only a few hundred at the time, the millions of migrant workers were unable to proceed to their hometowns and were compelled to remain in small cramped tenements or rooms or on the pavements, without any employment or livelihood, and even a definite source of food.” The letter, mailed by senior advocate Indira Jaising who is also a signatory, to the CJI at 10.34 pm on Monday said, “In fact, this enforced stay in cramped quarters only exposed such poor workers to a higher risk of Covid infection. Moreover, the government’s statement has been clearly shown to be contrary to the facts. Several reports suggest that more than 90% of migrant workers did not receive government rations in many states and were suffering from dire food shortage.” The lawyers alleged that the SC’s failure to intervene at the initial stages when Covid-19 cases were in the hundreds resulted in massive migration of workers in May. “Migrant labourers who were fed up with being virtually incarcerated for the previous six weeks, without employment or wages, decided that they would be better off trying to go back to their homes. Significantly, by this time, the Covid infections in the country had crossed 50,000 and a significant number of these migrant workers were also infected with Covid. Even at this stage, the government initially sought to obstruct their travel/movement on foot or by trucks. Subsequently, the government agreed to their movement by bus and trains (Shramik Specials),” they said. “When arrangements were made to transport them by road, they were often left at the borders of the receiving states, which at times were unwilling to make any further arrangements for them to let them enter or reach their homes, or provide transport, almost as if this was not one country with a common citizenship. The right to life, liberty and freedom of movement of these hapless poor millions was rendered virtually meaningless in such circumstances,” said the lawyers, who also included Sidharth Luthra, Mohan Katarki, Anand Grover, Santosh Paul, Mahalaxmi Pavani, Mihir Desai, Rajani Iyer, Rajiv Patil, Navroz Seervai, Gayatri Singh and Sanjay Singhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/did-a-late-night-letter-from-20-senior-lawyers-change-sc-mind-on-migrants/articleshow/76020829.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Tamils returning from Dharavi feel unwelcome||Three decades ago, 52-year-old Jeyakumar, a native of Panagudi village in Tirunelveli, made Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum in the heart of Mumbai, his home. But now Covid-19 is driving away hundreds of Tamils like him back to their roots in Tamil Nadu. And in the midst of the pandemic, many of them are not welcomed back home. Dharavi, often touted as a tiny Tamil Nadu, accounts for more than 1,500 cases of Covid-19. The fear of contracting the infection coupled with job loss and poor sanitation is sending people back to their native villages. So far, more than 700 people, who returned from Maharashtra, have tested positive for Covid-19 in TN. The death of his friend shook Jeyakumar, a school clerk, so much that he decided to return home. “My friend died of Covid-19. His wife and children were not able to see him for one last time. I didn’t want this to happen to anyone, including my family,” he said. His family along with 26 others paid Rs 1.60 lakh to return to TN by bus. On arrival, they stayed in a government school near Valliyur for a day, after which they were advised home quarantine. But Jeyakumar said the situation in the village was not conducive to their return. “So we decided to stay in a relative’s poultry farm outside the village,” he told TOI. A few families, who came along with Jeyakumar are facing humiliation and are fighting social stigma since they returned home in Pallikulam, Kavalkinaru and Nanguneri in the district. “We are being treated as unwanted, or labelled as carriers of the virus. It is nothing but discrimination,” said another man on condition of anonymity. Those stranded in Mumbai are battling poor living conditions. Having an individual toilet is considered a privilege in Dharavi where 80% of the population use common toilets, said Mumbai-based advocate Manjula Kathirvel, a native of Ka Puthur in Cuddalore. Physical distancing impossible in the slum. “Health officials are taking away the people who test positive for Covid-19, but their family members and relatives are advised home quarantine. But we run into one another as we have to use common toilets. It is the perfect recipe for the cluster to grow,” said 32-yearold Francis, who works for a courier service in Mumbai. Many employers have told Dharavi residents to stay away from workplaces for another two months. “My brother-in-law is working as a driver on a contract basis at the Mumbai airport for a monthly salary of Rs 25,000. Though flight operations resumed, his employer asked him not to come to work for the next two months,” said T Velumurugan, who lives in a tenement built under the slum rehabilitation project in Dharavi. Sivakumar, a cashier in a hotel, said: “We want to return home. I tried for e-pass to travel to TN with my family but it was rejected twice,” said Sivakumar of Vaigaikulam in Tuticorin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tamils-returning-from-dharavi-feel-unwelcome/articleshow/76021075.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
May 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamils returning from Dharavi feel unwelcome||Three decades ago, 52-year-old Jeyakumar, a native of Panagudi village in Tirunelveli, made Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum in the heart of Mumbai, his home. But now Covid-19 is driving away hundreds of Tamils like him back to their roots in Tamil Nadu. And in the midst of the pandemic, many of them are not welcomed back home. Dharavi, often touted as a tiny Tamil Nadu, accounts for more than 1,500 cases of Covid-19. The fear of contracting the infection coupled with job loss and poor sanitation is sending people back to their native villages. So far, more than 700 people, who returned from Maharashtra, have tested positive for Covid-19 in TN. The death of his friend shook Jeyakumar, a school clerk, so much that he decided to return home. “My friend died of Covid-19. His wife and children were not able to see him for one last time. I didn’t want this to happen to anyone, including my family,” he said. His family along with 26 others paid Rs 1.60 lakh to return to TN by bus. On arrival, they stayed in a government school near Valliyur for a day, after which they were advised home quarantine. But Jeyakumar said the situation in the village was not conducive to their return. “So we decided to stay in a relative’s poultry farm outside the village,” he told TOI. A few families, who came along with Jeyakumar are facing humiliation and are fighting social stigma since they returned home in Pallikulam, Kavalkinaru and Nanguneri in the district. “We are being treated as unwanted, or labelled as carriers of the virus. It is nothing but discrimination,” said another man on condition of anonymity. Those stranded in Mumbai are battling poor living conditions. Having an individual toilet is considered a privilege in Dharavi where 80% of the population use common toilets, said Mumbai-based advocate Manjula Kathirvel, a native of Ka Puthur in Cuddalore. Physical distancing impossible in the slum. “Health officials are taking away the people who test positive for Covid-19, but their family members and relatives are advised home quarantine. But we run into one another as we have to use common toilets. It is the perfect recipe for the cluster to grow,” said 32-yearold Francis, who works for a courier service in Mumbai. Many employers have told Dharavi residents to stay away from workplaces for another two months. “My brother-in-law is working as a driver on a contract basis at the Mumbai airport for a monthly salary of Rs 25,000. Though flight operations resumed, his employer asked him not to come to work for the next two months,” said T Velumurugan, who lives in a tenement built under the slum rehabilitation project in Dharavi. Sivakumar, a cashier in a hotel, said: “We want to return home. I tried for e-pass to travel to TN with my family but it was rejected twice,” said Sivakumar of Vaigaikulam in Tuticorin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamils-returning-from-dharavi-feel-unwelcome/articleshow/76021072.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
May 27, 2020||Chennai||Corona-hit cops get cured amid nature in Tamil Nadu||At his flat in the police quarters, Prasanna Kumar wakes up to sounds of colleagues driving out and water tankers moving in. At the Mahanadi hostel on the IIT-M campus, where he has been quarantined since testing positive for Covid-19, he is stirred by birds chirping at his window and the sight of spotted deer grazing on an expanse of green below. It is invigorating, says the Tamil Nadu special police (TSP) constable of the scene he has until now seen only in movies. “At 5.30am, a layer of fog wraps the area. I can see busy birds and insects, and restless ants rushing forward in queues,” says the Ramanathapuram native. One of the relatively newer hostels on the 650-acre campus, the 650-room building became a corona care centre after the authorities determined the near perfect atmosphere would prove a natural relaxant. It now hosts 207 police personnel and 40 others including doctors and government officials looked after by 32 doctors and 65 nurses from Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital. Every day, a team of corporation workers sanitizes the rooms and periphery of the hostel. The quarantined people are allowed to move around the hostel, but they prefer to remain in their 10x10 rooms, each with a steel cot, bed, a ceiling fan, table and a chair. Police commissioner A K Viswanathan has bought at least 500 books, mostly belonging to fiction and non-fiction genres, for the patients, while Kotturpuram assistant commissioner K N Sundaresan ensures the food provided is as per the diet chart created by state health department officials and medical experts. “It’s like a second home,” says subinspector S Kabilan, a patient. “As soon as I open the window, the cold wind soothes my body and I can watch the movements of deer. It feels nice.” If any of the patients tests negative for the coronavirus infection continuously for the fourth day or fifth day, he/ she is allowed to return home and remain under self-quarantine for a further period of time. Those without adequate space at home will remain at the quarantine centre until the medical examiner discharges them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corona-hit-cops-get-cured-amid-nature-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/76021089.cms||A Selvaraj
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt can’t conclude migrants want to stay based on SMS||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday asked the state government to provide a detailed statement on the number of migrant workers who wish to leave or stay. It said a general submission that those eligible would be allowed to return to their home states was not sufficient. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka also observed that the government cannot make the conclusion that many migrant workers want to stay back by simply seeking responses on SMS. The government had posed that query in texts sent to migrants who registered with the labour department. The bench said uncertainty and delays should not result in a situation where migrants change their decision. They should happily return to their hometowns, so that when things normalise, they can come back to Karnataka again for work. The government has been directed to submit full details about the number of migrant workers who have registered on the Seva Sindhu portal to leave Karnataka, those who will reach their home states by May 27 and those who wish to stay. The court also wants details about the request that the state government made to the railways for running Shramik Special trains up to May 31. The information must be provided on May 28, the next date of hearing. Many migrants do not have internet access. The court wants to know the steps taken to reach out to such people and whether any message about the outlet limit for transportation was sent to them through NGOs and workers’ unions State chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar attended Tuesday’s hearing through videoconferencing. He said Karnataka would cover travel costs of migrants returning home till May-end. Responding to the court’s query on extending this assistance, he said that the government would look into paying the fare beyond May 31. According to the government’s submission, 3 lakh out of around 7 lakh migrant workers registered with it already left, but many others want to stay. The court also took up the issue of supply of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits on Tuesday, terming the state government’s response far from satisfactory. “The least we expect is that the PPE kits purchased by the state are as per the specification of the central government,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-cant-conclude-migrants-want-to-stay-based-on-sms-karnataka-hc/articleshow/76021085.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||PMCH in spot as 2 test positive days after negative report||Bokaro: Three days after Patliputra Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad issued Covid-negative reports for two persons from of Nawadih in Bokaro, both the men in their early 40s tested positive for the virus on Monday night. Health department officials and the Bokaro district administration are in a fix as the two patients, who had returned from Mumbai on May 16, were allowed to go home from the quarantine centre on May 22 after the results of their first test arrived on May 22. The same hospital on Monday issued a report that said both these men were infected with the novel coronavirus them. The developments have created confusion among health officials as they do not know which report is authentic. The incident has also raised doubts on the credibility of the Covid test reports issued by the PMCH lab. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said he was surprised by the report issued on Monday night as the health department had not sent their samples for any retest and, as per government guidelines, one swab sample can only be tested once. For a repeat test, a fresh swab sample must should be collected, Pathak told TOI. “When we contacted the authorities at PMCH, they said the reports that they issued on Monday are authentic and they evaded our queries about the earlier reports sent by them,” he said. Amid the confusion, the two persons have not been admitted to the Covid-19 hospital and again been put under quarantine. Pathak said, “We first need to verify which report is genuine. We are planning to collect fresh samples from them for a retest. If they test positive, they will be admitted to the hospital. It seems to be a case of human error, which is rare, on part of PMCH.” State health department principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni admitted that there is a confusion about the status of the two patients and he has ordered a probe to find out what exactly went wrong. Speaking to TOI over phone, he said, “I am investigating the matter. Bokaro administration and health officials have been directed to coordinate with the PMCH lab and check the authenticity of the report that claims the two are infected.” In April, TOI had reported that the Bokaro administration was upset with PMCH for its sluggish pace in testing samples from the district. The delay had prompted the district authorities to send samples to Jamshedpur’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) instead for a brief period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pmch-in-spot-as-2-test-positive-days-after-negative-report/articleshow/76015202.cms||Divy Khare
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Two migrants die in Hazaribag and Palamu districts||Hazaribag/Daltonganj: Two migrants, one each from Hazaribag and Palamu, died after reaching Jharkhand from Mumbai and Delhi respectively. In the first incident, a 45-year-old migrant who reached Saria station in Giridih from Mumbai on Monday night, fell ill and died in a bus which was ferrying 30 others to the Hazaribag Reception Centre for a medical screening, officials said on Tuesday. The man, identified as Dineshwar Ram, was a resident of Jalandh panchayat under Ichak police station in Hazaribag district. Confirming the death, Hazaribag SDO Meghna Bharadwaj said Ram was one of the 31 migrants who were being taken to the centre in a bus after they deboarded a shramik special train from Mumbai. “When the bus reached, all except Ram alighted from the vehicle. When we went to check on him, he was seated senseless on the backseat. Later, Ram was sent to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital by the on-field doctors where he was declared brought dead,” said Bharadwaj adding Ram probably died on the way before the bus reached Hazaribag. The SDO added, “Ram had fallen ill on the bus and was given some medicine by the driver before reaching Hazaribag. His body has been kept in the morgue and samples have been collected for Covid-19 tests.” Meanwhile, in Palamu, a 65-year-old migrant died of heat stroke at the Chiyanki airstrip on Tuesday where he and other migrants had assembled for their medical check-ups. The man, a resident of Satbarwa block in Palamu, tested negative for Covid-19 on the Truenat machine. Palamu civil surgeon John F Kennedy said, “The 65-year-old man reached Muzaffarpur from Delhi in a shramik special train. From there, he managed to reach Aurangabad and entered Harihurganj in Palamu. After authorities came to know about the movement of a few unscreened migrants, they were taken to the Chiyanki airstrip for medical check-ups.” He added, “Upon reaching the airstrip, the elderly man started feeling uneasy and was rushed to the medical college and hospital in Daltonganj where he later died. He tested negative for Covid-19 on the Truenat machine. Heatstroke leading to heart failure is suspected as the cause of death.” On Monday, two more migrants died in Palamu. While the first one died at the hospital after falling ill at an institutional quarantine centre in Chhaterpur, the other, an elderly who came from Chapra in Bihar, was found dead under a tree near the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-migrants-die-in-hazaribag-and-palamu-districts/articleshow/76015214.cms||Abhijit Sen
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-free Sahibganj wary as migrants return in large numbers||Ranchi: The last of the 24 districts in Jharkhand without a single Covid-19 case so far, Sahibganj is on tenterhooks as a large number of migrants from across the country are reaching their home in the district which has a population of 14 lakh and shares its administrative borders with Bihar and West Bengal. Of the 280 cases Covid cases recorded in Jharkhand between May 5 and May 26, migrants accounts for 250, which is close to 90%. Until last week, Khunti and Pakur were green zones along with Sahibganj. But since May 24, the situation changed for Pakur after it reported four positive cases. Khunti entered Jharkhand’s Covid map on Monday after a migrant returning from Mumbai tested positive for the new virus. As per estimates, close to 27,000 migrants have returned to their homes in Sahibganj since May 1. Most have arrived from Covid-19 hotspots such as Mumbai (Maharashtra), Jalandhar (Punjab), Surat and Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Bengaluru (Karnataka). Thousands more are expected to arrive in the coming days as Shramik special trains keep reaching various parts of Jharkhand. The district’s health machinery has collected a little over 1,200 samples for tests. Besides sending samples to laboratories in Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences and Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad, a recently installed Trunat machine is catering to the district’s testing needs. The district has set up more than 70 government quarantine centres where around 3,500 people are currently lodged. “More than 12,000 people are in home quarantine,” deputy commissioner Varun Ranjan told TOI. After conducting door to door screening of 14 lakh people across nine blocks four times since March 22, the administration claimed it is certain that a positive case, if any, will come from migrants. “To step up our vigil, 1,688 surveillance teams have been deployed on the ground for tracking arriving migrants. Social policing teams have also been mobilized and they have been asked to urge people to stay indoors and venture out only if necessary,” Ranjan added. Most recently, the administration had a scare after a 22-year-old woman from Rajmahal, who tested positive at a private health facility in New Delhi, embarked for Jharkhand in a cab along with her husband and child. Upon being informed by her family members, district officials tracked down her location in Bihar’s Buxar, where the family was put into quarantine. The woman tested positive in a fresh test conducted in Bihar, but her husband and child tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-free-sahibganj-wary-as-migrants-return-in-large-numbers/articleshow/76015188.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Works under MNREGA yet to start in some villages, finds survey||Ranchi: A survey conducted by the Right to Food campaign in Jharkhand between the second and third week of May found out that several villages across the state are yet to initiate MNREGA jobs. The survey also found out that the status of the public distribution system (PDS) during the same time frame improved compared to the situation in the month of April. Notably, on May 4, chief minister Hemant Soren had rolled out three new MNREGA schemes — Birsa Harit Gram Yojana, Neelambar Pitambar JAL Sammridhi Yojana and Poto Ho Khel Vikas — to absorb about five to six lakh migrant workers who returned to the state. The survey, which was based on telephonic reports of observers on the ground in 46 blocks across the 22 districts, focused on the status of essential services like ration shops, MGNREGA, dal-bhaat kendras, community kitchens, banks among others. Unemployment remains a significant problem in rural areas though several people are interested in MGNREGA jobs. Convenor of Right to Food Asarfi Nand Prasad said, “Only 29 out of 46 observers reported that MGNREGA works have started in their villages. Many migrant workers do not have job cards and many others who have them are unable to get work because of the complexity of the application process. For instance, many blocks do not even have programme officers.” Prasad added, “Compared to the survey conducted in the first week of April, it seems that operations at PDS and dal-bhaat kendras have improved. In most blocks (42 out of 46), PDS cardholders received double rations in April. In 40 out of 46 blocks, cardholders have started getting free ration in the month of May. However, 2kg free dal for April-May has not been distributed in 35 out of the 46 blocks.” The mukhyamantri dal-bhaat kendras are now active in more number of blocks. Didi kitchens are also running in gram panchayats in 43 of the 46 blocks, the survey found. “Because of the lockdown, the utilisation of dal-bhaat kendras remains low. Only 16 out of 45 kendras have been publicised by the local administration. Some kendras in Ranchi are delivering food to nearby slums, with good effect, but among the surveyed blocks, only eight out of the 46 have adopted mobile food deliveries,” Prasad said. He said that in order to ensure food and work for all in rural areas, the operations of PDS should be universalised, large labour-intensive public works should be started in all villages and weekly cash payouts should be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/works-under-mnrega-yet-to-start-in-some-villages-finds-survey/articleshow/76015207.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt will pay Ayush doctors on par with allopathic ones||BENGALURU: The state government has agreed to increase the pay of Ayush doctors on the lines of remuneration offered to allopathic doctors serving in government hospitals on contract basis. The decision was taken at a meeting health minister B Sriramulu held with doctors and others staff of the Ayush department on Tuesday. Ayush stands for Ayurveda, yoga, naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and homoeopathy. Ayush doctors working on contract draw a monthly salary of Rs 24,000 as against Rs 40,000 paid to allopathic practitioners. At the meeting, officials also decided to provide scholarship to undergraduate and PG students of Ayush, besides hiring doctors from this field through a direct recruitment process. A similar process is followed in case of allopathic doctors. Sriramulu’s intervention will ease dissatisfaction among Ayush practitioners, who are up in arms against the state government and threatened to launch a bigger protest. The proposed salary hike follows directions from the central government. The state health department will place the proposal before the cabinet. Ayush doctors claim that they have played a vital role in the efforts to prevent Covid-19, and also support conventional care via allopathic system. “We don’t claim that Ayush system has a specific cure for Covid-19, but there are different techniques and immunomodulatory herbs to improve general immunity, which should help in handling the disease better,” said an Ayush practitioner. “The government must support our work and treat us equally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-agrees-to-pay-ayush-practitioners-on-par-with-allopathic-doctors/articleshow/76021064.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Dead man brought for autopsy shows signs of life||RANCHI: A man who had “died” after getting electrocuted reportedly came alive at hospital when his body was brought for autopsy on Tuesday morning. The man’s family said the deceased collapsed again soon after and dies. Jeetendra Oraon, a resident of Kharta village under Kairo police station limits in Lohardaga district, was brought to a community health center (CHC) in Chanho block around 7:30am after he came in contact with a high-tension overhead electrical wire while he dismantling a tent at his village. The doctors at the CHC pronounce him dead on arrival and handed over the body to Chanho police, who then brought the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi, 45 km from his village, for autopsy. The deceased’s younger brother, Sikandar Oraon, who accompanied the police to Rims, said, “We left the CHC at 11am and reached Rims at 1pm. While the technicians carried my brother on a trolley for autopsy, the staff said he was alive and asked for him to be shifted to the hospital's central emergency ward. However, soon after he was shifted, doctors at the emergency said he had died. They also told me that my brother could have been saved if he was brought in a little earlier." Officials at CHC Rims however dismissed the family’s claims. Dr Namita Topno, who was at the CHC when the man was brought, said, "The family said that the man was electrocuted, but there were no mark on his body to suggest that that was the case. He had no pulse and was not breathing when he was brought here," Topno told TOI. Rims director Dr DK Singh said: "We have no information about any such incident."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dead-man-brought-for-autopsy-shows-signs-of-life/articleshow/76015227.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 27, 2020||Hubballi||Bidar man hangs self at quarantine centre||BIDAR: A 25-year-old man hanged himself at a quarantine centre in Bidar district on Tuesday. He and his wife had returned to the district from Mumbai, where he worked as a daily-wage labourer, on May 17, and they were placed in isolation as per the government’s standard operating procedure for people entering Karnataka. This is at least the third suicide by a person in quarantine in the past month. On May 21, a 55-year-old man in institutional quarantine at a school in Kadandale, Dakshina Kannada district, was found dead. Officials believe he ended his life. The man and his seven family members had returned to Dakshina Kannada from Maharashtra on May 20. He worked at a hotel in Mumbai, but lost his job following the coronavirus-linked lockdown. Tuesday’s incident took place at Kittur Rani Channamma residential school, which has been turned into an isolation centre, in Vanamarapalli village, Aurad taluk, Bidar. The 25-year-old man was a native of Narayanapura village. Police are trying to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step. District in-charge minister Prabhu Chauhan and zilla panchayat CEO Jnanedrakumar Gangavara were among the officials who visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bidar-man-hangs-self-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76021080.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Social distancing takes a hit in vehicles ferrying migrants||RANCHI: Social or physical distancing has taken a back seat in majority of the vehicles ferrying migrants in and out of Ranchi district. On Tuesday, about half a dozen buses packed with migrants left for Bihar from the transit isolation camp set up at mega sports complex in Hotwar. Many on those buses said that they were wrongly sent to Ranchi by the authorities in Mumbai. From the Ranchi railway station, over 500 migrants were taken to the Khelgaon transit camp for initial screening. Later, they were allowed to board buses and left for their destinations. Many officials present here said that the sudden turnout of over 500 migrants caused food and logistical problems but they somehow managed. Santosh Kumar Rai, a native of Madhubani district in Bihar and who landed up in Ranchi from Mumbai, said, “We were made to sit in a Shramik Special train on Sunday night by authorities in Mumbai. They said that the train would go to Bihar. But we reached Ranchi this morning. Officials here are now sending us to Bihar in buses.” Subodh Singh from Uttar Pradesh added, “We could have been directly sent to our states. Moreover, the buses that have been arranged here are full. Many will not even get a seat and would be forced to stand during the journey.” A policeman at Khelgaon camp said on the condition of anonymity, “There are a limited number of buses. Our first target is to send the migrants home safely. Social distancing is simply not possible in such a situation.” Another official, also unwilling to be named, added, “There is increased demand for vehicles from all districts.” Meanwhile, Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray also inspected the Khelgaon site later on Tuesday and directed authorities to follow all prescribed norms, both at the quarantine centre and while despatching vehicles for inter- and intra-state journeys.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/social-distancing-takes-a-hit-in-vehicles-ferrying-migrants/articleshow/76015230.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||1,000 BMTC buses go cashless as Covid-19 accelerates switch||BENGALURU: After missing the bus in 2016, when demonetisation prompted mass adoption of e-payments, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is finally embracing the digital option as it looks to make commute safer and quicker in the wake of Covid-19. On Tuesday, 1,000 out of the 3,500 BMTC buses on the road allowed passengers to pay the fare through a QR-code facility. This is a huge jump from just 70 buses that offered the e-payment option last week, when the state government restarted public-transport services after nearly two months of lockdown. Cashless and contactless ticketing is now a crucial public-health measure as coronavirus can survive on surfaces for a number of hours. It also solves an old problem: passengers and conductors won’t argue or fight over change as exact fare will be deducted from e-wallets. In the past few years, there have been a number of ugly scraps over change, and despite repeated complaints, state-run BMTC didn’t introduce the online payment option until now. In another welcome development, flat fares were reintroduced on BMTC buses on Tuesday. The minimum fare is Rs 5 for a trip of up to 2km. The bus operator also rounded off fares in multiples of Rs 5, which had been a long-pending demand, to minimise cash handling and return of small change. Flat ticket prices replaced a much-criticised pass-only system that made bus travel expensive for thousands of daily-wage workers and other commuters from economically weaker sections. TOI spoke to several commuters at Majestic on Tuesday, and most of them gave a thumbs up to the cashless option and flat fares. Aboard buses, conductors were seen carrying a laminated card with a QR code. Passengers scanned it with their mobile phones to pay for the ticket. Passengers can use UPI-based payments apps such as Google Pay, PhonePe and Paytm, among others. Each bus will have different QR code. Once the payment is made, the conductor will issue the ticket. “This (cashless mode) should have been done long ago. We had also demanded that BMTC round off fares. Both measures have been finally implemented because of Covid-19,” said Rajesh Kumar, who regularly travels on BMTC buses. “More people will use BMTC’s services and pay through QR code once AC buses are back.” Conductors also welcomed the cashless system. “Right now, a limited number of passengers are using it to pay the fare, but slowly, more people will switch from cash. This will end the problem of change,” a conductor said. “Some people give us a Rs 200 note for a Rs 22 fare and expect us to return exact change. This leads to arguments and fights. The QR-code method will help us avoid this. It’s also a good way to avoid cash transactions during a pandemic.” BMTC managing director C Shikha, who visited bus terminuses to interact with passengers on Tuesday, said the feedback on cashless ticketing and flat-fare model was encouraging. “We hope the number of cashless transactions goes up after the resumption of AC services,” she said. BMTC has mapped buses and created a virtual payment address (VPA) for each depot to track cash transactions. “We are also monitoring QR-code transactions in real time through a dashboard,” Shikha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/1000-bmtc-buses-go-cashless-as-covid-accelerates-switch/articleshow/76021069.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||KMC administrator draws flak from TMC minister||Kolkata: KMC administrator Firhad Hakim drew flak again on Tuesday, this time from Sadhan Pande, one of his cabinet colleagues and the state consumer affairs minister. Like former mayor and MLA Sovan Chatterjee, Pande complained against KMC’s lack of preparedness and took a step further to add that the KMC administrator didn’t bother to take ministers and MLAs into confidence before starting restoration work. And this came while Hakim was busy putting Southern Avenue back on its feet. Trinamool seniors stepped in before discontent could spread to party ranks. “The party doesn’t endorse Pande’s views. He can’t go public against a party colleague. He can do it from outside,” said Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee. Pande on Tuesday went out on his own with heavy earth movers and cutters to clear uprooted trees in different north Kolkata wards under his constituency after “waiting in vain” for KMC men to do the job. “It is impossible for KMC boroughs having five cutters each to fell tree branches when such is the extent of damage. The KMC administrator should have realised it before and taken suggestions from MLAs, including former mayor Sovan Chatterjee who is also an MLA. The administrator doesn’t even know what is happening. I called the executive engineer of borough III and sought his help. He told me that he is busy,” he said. “MLAs in districts can go to the district magistrate. The DM may direct zilla parishads to do the work. But there is no one to hear to city MLAs. It has happened with distribution of rations as well,” the minister said. Chatterjee said: “The party will seek an explanation from the minister. This isn’t the time for debate, this is time to work unitedly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-administrator-draws-flak-from-tmc-minister/articleshow/76018611.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||In crisis, spirit of humanity triumphs to save 2-year-old in Kolkata||KOLKATA: When the monstrous Amphan tore down power supply in Kolkata on the evening of May 20, it also snapped little Ankit’s lifeline. Well, almost. Ankit survives on high-flow oxygen support from a machine that needs to be plugged in to a power source 24x7. But that fateful night, the spirit of humanity and compassion soared above the buffeting of a raging cyclone as good Samaritans, including complete strangers, cushioned the child and carried him to safety. A marooned landlord connected with friends and acquaintances over a feeble mobile network, an electrician took charge of rescuing the boy and his parents, an app-cab driver willed his sputtering vehicle through rising waters and a family who still had power supply threw open its home to the gasping child. The City of Joy truly lived up to its name. Ankit lived to celebrate his second birthday on Monday. “Around 6pm, power went off in our locality. We immediately switched Ankit to a regular oxygen cylinder. But we started panicking when the power supply wasn’t restored even after two hours. I called up Dr Prabhas Prasun Giri as we had been told that regular oxygen supply will work for my son only for a couple of hours,” said father Ashim Maity, a civic volunteer with Hooghly Police. Even as the doctor was advising Maity on what needed to be done, the mobile network died. Ankit was only eight months old when he suffered an attack of adenovirus. He spent 11 months at the Institute of Child Health’s paediatric ICU and was discharged only three months ago rigged to an HHFNC (heated, humidified, high-flow nasal cannula), a non-invasive respiratory support imported from New Zealand by ICH doctors by raising funds. “The boy suffers from a condition called post adenoviral bronchiectasis. Unfortunately, HHFNC does not have a battery back-up and the boy can survive on normal oxygen cylinder only for a few hours,” said Dr Giri, paediatric ICU in-charge who had treated the boy for 11 months. Maity and wife Rituparna, who hail from Khanakul, rented a room in Panchannagram off EM Bypass after Ankit’s discharge because power supply in their native place is erratic. In anticipation that the cyclone could snap power, the couple had kept an oxygen cylinder at home with the help of landlord Parimal Kumar Roy, who lives in VIP Bazar, around 2km away. Around 8.30pm, Maity managed to send an SOS to his landlord that power had not been restored. Roy had electricity at home but the locality was in waist-deep water. He then checked with a friend, Chandra Shekhar Biswas, who also lives in VIP Bazar. Chandra Shekhar had power at home and the water level around his home was knee-deep. He was ready to provide a room if the parents could bring over the child. “The young couple are very new in Kolkata and they do not know anyone apart from me. So I had to act quickly or the boy wouldn’t have survived,” said Roy, a retired sergeant from Indian Air Force. Roy called up Biplab Talukdar, a local electrician, and sought help. Talukar along with friend Supriyo Biswas, an app-cab driver, reached out to the Maitys. Talukdar tried to get hold of a generator set so that the child would not have to venture out in such inclement weather. But when nothing worked, the duo decided to ferry Ankit to Chandra Shekhar’s home. “There was water all around. Water started entering the cab as we moved. The child was gasping for breath and my friend kept driving through the water,” said Talukdar. At Chandra Shekhar’s home Talukdar arranged a special plug that was required to connect Ankit’s machine from his own pocket. The cab driver refused to charge a penny for the ride. Chandra Shekhar, who has three other members in the house, vacated a room for the boy and his parents. They were given food and shelter for the next two days till power supply was restored at the Maity’s rented accommodation. “When my son was in hospital it was the doctors who raised funds for his treatment and the machine, which were beyond my means. Now, my landlord, who I have known for just three months, and complete strangers jumped in to help my boy. I am absolutely touched,” a tearful Maity said. Ankit had celebrated his first birthday in hospital. His second was celebrated in their rented room. The family needs to stay back in the city for his treatment and his father has often skipped work. But his bosses at Khanakul have been kind enough to give him leave whenever he has needed it. “Life has been tough but the help from such Samaritans have made it a little easier for us. Even now we need funds for Ankit’s medication, some of which are very expensive. We hope help will come from the city that believes in giving,” said Maity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-crisis-spirit-of-humanity-triumphs-to-save-2-year-old/articleshow/76018604.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata picks up pieces, a week after cyclone Amphan||KOLKATA: Tobin Road resident Bishop Ghosh had a bath, dressed for work and then travelled to his electrical equipment firm in Chandni Chowk on Tuesday morning. Around the same time, Behala Parnasree resident Suasha Mukherjee was struggling to lug her heavy invertor battery to a neighbourhood shop to get it charged; she would then have to carry water jars to her power-less apartment. About 30km separated the two but they could have been from different planets. Both were true pictures of life in Kolkata on Tuesday, of a city trying to pick up the pieces after a never-before battering from a once-in-a-century cyclone, a city that was anyway struggling to return to normal after repeated lockdowns necessitated by another once-in-a-century attack from a novel coronavirus. Ghosh’s Monday-morning busy-ness was representative of a large segment of Kolkata’s citizens, up and about and ready for life. Mukherjee represented the plight of nearly 1 lakh families — residing mostly along the city’s southeastern and southwestern corners — who were yet to get power back at home. The contrasting scenes played out all day on Tuesday, a day less than a week after Amphan hit Kolkata with a peak wind speed of 112kmph (133kmph in the northern fringes) on May 20. Kolkata proper witnessed a three-fold jump in traffic volume since last Wednesday, with government-run buses plying on select routes and cars taking office-goers to work after multiple agencies worked in unison to free major thoroughfares of uprooted trees and mangled lamp posts. But, at the same time when heart-of-the-city intersections saw traffic jams, a power-less mob assaulted Trinamool Congress MLA Abdul Khalaque Molla in Metiabruz; the mob used some branches of one of the trees uprooted by Cyclone Amphan. Deputy commissioner of police (Port) Syed Waquar Raza arrived with a force to rescue Molla and take him to hospital. Baghajatin resident and former Geological Survey of India official Sarit Kar belonged to one of the 32 lakh CESC-supplied homes that had power on Tuesday afternoon. Kar’s family of four — all senior citizens — were without power for six days. “I don’t have to queue up at a KMC water tap to fetch water any more,” Kar said. He, however, did not know how he got back power: several women from KMC Ward 99 had forced a CESC repair team out of its Jadavpur office and commandeered it to their locality. Two other groups had gathered at the same office a little earlier, demanding that their areas be reconnected first. Jadavpur and Netaji Nagar police intervened but the all-women group still managed to force the CESC team to its Baghajatin locality. Large parts of southeast and southwest Kolkata finally returned to some normalcy on Tuesday, with the CESC pressing 30 teams and 90 gang members in Behala, Tollygunge, Baisnabghata and Garfa. Gangs reported at police stations in Jadavpur, Garfa and Regent Park by 8am. Behala got two teams, Haridevpur four, Sarsuna one and Thakurpur two; Parnasree was assigned the biggest team, divided into four groups. “But each job is time-consuming, sometimes taking eight hours to get power back,” an CESC official said. Not all were lucky. Private engineering college professor and Parnasree resident Annesh Bilas Thakur, who had already spent 150 hours without power, had heard that four CESC teams were working near his home. Shakuntala Park resident 81-year-old Binoy Kumar Chowdhuri did not even have that comforting news. He has spent Rs 1,000 over the past three days for 10 litres of water. Protests on Tuesday were limited to pockets at Layalka, Baishnabghata, Garia, Parnasree and Sarsuna even as the situation remained “critical” in Ramgarh, Vidyasagar Colony, Baghajatin, Regent Estate, Sakuntala Park, Sarsuna, New Parnasree, Chatterjeepara and Daspara (Thakurpukur).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-picks-up-pieces-a-week-after-amphan/articleshow/76018605.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 27, 2020||Chennai||CMRL is all set for regular operations||CHENNAI: Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) is all set to start regular operations once it gets the green light from the state government after the lockdown is lifted. Several measures have been planned which include use of warning stickers and markings on floors at stations and on seats inside trains, use of smart cards instead of tokens and contactless ticketing using bar codes. Simple instructions like not to touch staircase railings and urging people to maintain physical distance while boarding lift are already put up on front doors of stations, which are at present locked. Resuming operations is not much of a hassle for metro rail as they had already started implementing precautionary measures like use of hand sanitisers and awareness messages for commuters and others before the shutdown started. Since, the trains are not crowded, a minor tweaking of schedules will help ensure that too many people do not crowd a train during peak hours. CMRL had been keeping the stations open during the lockdown period with 25% staff operating critical systems like communication, signals and trains. Trains are being operated twice a day to prevent systems and components from getting jammed. Metro rail officials said operation of empty trains during lockdown is also to ensure they are ready for regular operations at short notice. Floors on the concourse and platform levels have stickers to direct passengers to stand in a queue while maintaining a physical distance. Passengers walking in to stations will also be screened for body temperatures and will be given hand sanitizers. In trains, officials said, they may allow only passengers in big six-seater and one person on the two-seater. Overall, a four-car train which has a capacity to carry 1,270 passengers may ferry only 160 people as they maintain social distancing during the commute. CMRL has so far planned to operate trains on a 10-minute frequency during peak hours and at a 15-minute frequency during non-peak hours. It has also planned to operate 35 trains at a five-minute frequency, if footfall increases. It may have to operate more trains at a lesser frequency if it has to cater to its daily average footfall of 1.16 lakh. About 60% of commuters would take the metro during morning and evening peak hours for which CMRL operated 35 trains at a 5-minute frequency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmrl-is-all-set-for-regular-operations/articleshow/76021122.cms||U Tejonmayam
May 27, 2020||Delhi||After rejecting PILs, Supreme Court suo motu takes up migrant workers’ plight||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday took suo motu cognisance of the plight of migrant workers during the lockdown after criticism by activists, lawyers and retired judges that the court was “insensitive” and had “bowed to the government” by refusing to admit PILs highlighting the condition of workers who are walking home or are being herded into trucks. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah sought responses within 48 hours from the Centre, all states and UTs and said the crisis could be linked to inadequacies of governments and that the need of the hour was to immediately provide them free transport, shelter and food. “Effective, concentrated efforts are required to redeem the situation,” the bench said and asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to put before the court on Thursday all measures taken to provide succour and transport to migrant workers. SC: Migrant labourers need help from governmentsHeart-wrenching stories relating to exodus of lakhs of migrant workers have been hitting the headlines and it finally persuaded the SC, which had steadfastly refused to manage the Covid-19 situation, to intervene. “We take suo motu cognisance of problems and miseries of migrants who had been stranded in different parts of the country. Media reports have been continuously showing the miserable condition of migrant labourers walking on foot and cycling long distances,” the bench said. “They have also been complaining of not being provided food and water by the administration in places where they were stranded or in the way... this section of society needs succour and help from concerned governments, especially steps need to be taken by the Centre, states and UTs in this situation to extend a helping hand to these migrant labourers,” the bench of Justices Bhushan, Kaul and Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-rejecting-pils-supreme-court-suo-motu-takes-up-migrant-workers-plight/articleshow/76021083.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||‘Not key decision maker’: Rahul Gandhi sparks MVA rift talk||MUMBAI: Rahul Gandhi’s statement on Tuesday that the Congress was “only supporting” the Maharashtra government and was not “the key decision maker” and NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s Monday evening meeting with CM Uddhav Thackeray at the latter’s Matoshree residence fuelled the theory that the barely six-monthsold Maha Vikas Aghadi regime may be charting its course through troubled political waters amid the escalating Covid-19 crisis in the state. Raj Bhavan on Tuesday scotched speculation that the state was headed for President’s rule by stating no such recommendation had been made to Rashtrapati Bhavan. Even former CM Devendra Fadnavis said BJP had no interest in toppling the government which “would collapse under its own contradictions”. But Rahul Gandhi’s statement gave fresh ammo for talk about differences and lack of coordination between MVA constituents, CM Thackeray’s alleged unilateral decisions against NCP’s wishes and the government’s disagreements with governor B S Koshyari. Pawar and Uddhav stick to stands on lifting curbsWe are supporting the government in Maharashtra, but we are not the key decision-maker… There is a difference between running a government and supporting a government,” Rahul said at his presser when asked about the Covid-19 situation in the state. He said he was making a “differentiation” in the case of Maharashtra for this reason, and that the Congress was “the key decision-maker” in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry. Pawar’s meeting with Thackeray, which took place in the presence of Aaditya Thackeray and Sena MP Sanjay Raut and went on for 1.5 hours, assumed significance as he and the CM have had clear differences on lifting of lockdown curbs. Pawar has more than once underscored the need to announce relaxations, while Thackeray has been firm on enforcing restrictions. Both Pawar and Raut denied there was any threat to the government. “The government is stable, there is absolutely no threat,” Pawar said. Raut said, “There are no differences of opinion in the MVA government and no threat. The government will complete its five-year term. We (Sena-NCP-Congress) will contest the next assembly polls together.” Asked about Narayan Rane’s demand that President’s rule be imposed in the state, Raut said, “It should first be imposed in Gujarat.” However, if a senior NCP leader is to be believed, it was on Pawar’s prodding that the MVA government on Sunday abruptly reversed its decision not to allow domestic flights from and into Mumbai. Sources said in Monday’s meeting too, Pawar spoke of the need to revive the economy and open shops and establishments, while Thackeray stuck to his line that though he was keen on reopening, it needed to be done in a phased manner. “This is a bone of contention between NCP and Sena,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said, “We are a threeparty government and we consult each other before taking policy decisions. We are of the view that it is high time we relax lockdown norms. We will have to take timely decisions to avoid unrest. Pawar has expressed the same view.” State Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said there were no differences among MVA constituents but views were different. “Pawar has taken a view on relaxing lockdown. We will have to take note of it and an early decision will have to be taken,” Thorat said. -Inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/not-key-decision-maker-rahul-gandhi-sparks-mva-rift-talk/articleshow/76021155.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to face Rs 1.06 lakh crore loss in financial year 2020-21, Punjab Rs 83,035 crore||CHANDIGARH: Haryana is expected to face around Rs 1.06 lakh crore loss this financial year because of the Covid-19 lockdown. Similarly, Punjab’s loss is projected at around Rs 83,035 crore, for Himachal Pradesh around Rs 17,728 crore and almost Rs 9,383 crore for UT Chandigarh. The projections, by the research team of the State Bank of India (SBI), estimate total loss of over Rs 30.33 lakh crore for the country during 2020-21 — or 13.5% of the total Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Haryana’s loss is estimated at 12.6% of its GSDP, Punjab’s at 13.6%, Himachal Pradesh (10%) and UT Chandigarh (18.8%). Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar too had flagged the issue of financial losses and had said the state could face Rs 4,600 crore revenue loss in April. TVSN Prasad, additional chief secretary (finance) of Haryana, told TOI, “We can comment about GSDP losses only after going through the SBI report. But due to the lockdown, there have been revenue losses to the state exchequer and our CM has shared these during his press conferences.”Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal has also voiced concern that the state was losing Rs 1,700 crore GSDP daily due to lockdown. Loss in Q1 GDP could exceed 40%, says reportPunjab FM said the state stares at Rs 20,000 crore revenue loss in the current financial year. Maharashtra, which is worst hit by Covid-19, will be facing the maximum GSDP loss among all the states amounting to over Rs 4.72 lakh crore, or 15.6% of the country’s total GDP loss. Tamil Nadu is at the second number with over Rs 2.86 lakh crore (9.4%) loss followed by Gujarat with over Rs 2.61 lakh crore (8.6%) loss, according to the research team. “One interesting aspect of data is the difference between GDP and GVA (Gross Value Added). Normally the difference between GDP and GVA growth rate is not large, but this time due to huge losses in net indirect taxes, the difference will be quite big. We estimate real GVA growth could be at –3.1% in FY21 and real GDP growth at –6.8% in FY21,” according to the report released on Tuesday. The estimated loss in the form of net indirect taxes has been pegged at around Rs 10.4 lakh crore in the financial year 2020-21. Based on the current sevenday moving average of new cases in the country, the SBI team said, “We believe that new cases are likely to peak somewhere anytime in the last week of June, beginning June 20.” Following this, new cases are expected to witness steep fall till the beginning of August after which the Covid-19 curve is expected to flatten by mid-September. The report points out that loss in the first-quarter GDP of 2020-21will be “humongous and could even exceed 40%.” But the study believes that the second-quarter GDP “could witness a smart recovery and clock 7.1%, if we are able to sustain the demand.” The growth in the third and the fourth quarter of this financial year could be pegged at an average of 6%. “When India had first imposed a lockdown, our GDP estimate was 2.6% and since then it has been progressively reduced to a negative 4.7%, with nominal GDP witnessing a contraction,” the team observed. The report mentions that the automobile sector has been reeling under pressure and because of the current lockdown, domestic automobile sales had been pushed to 123-month low of 10.5 lakh units in the month of March. As Google has been releasing the ‘community mobility reports’, the team has compared the data from March 22 to May 16, which indicates that mobility has improved with ease of lockdown in transit stations and work places, but the movement for ‘retail and creation’ remain at the same level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-face-rs-1-06-lakh-crore-loss-in-financial-year-2020-21-punjab-rs-83035-crore/articleshow/76021222.cms||Sanjeev Verma
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to face Rs 1.06 lakh crore loss in financial year 2020-21, Punjab Rs 83,035 crore||CHANDIGARH: Haryana is expected to face around Rs 1.06 lakh crore loss this financial year because of the Covid-19 lockdown. Similarly, Punjab’s loss is projected at around Rs 83,035 crore, for Himachal Pradesh around Rs 17,728 crore and almost Rs 9,383 crore for UT Chandigarh. The projections, by the research team of the State Bank of India (SBI), estimate total loss of over Rs 30.33 lakh crore for the country during 2020-21 — or 13.5% of the total Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Haryana’s loss is estimated at 12.6% of its GSDP, Punjab’s at 13.6%, Himachal Pradesh (10%) and UT Chandigarh (18.8%). Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar too had flagged the issue of financial losses and had said the state could face Rs 4,600 crore revenue loss in April. TVSN Prasad, additional chief secretary (finance) of Haryana, told TOI, “We can comment about GSDP losses only after going through the SBI report. But due to the lockdown, there have been revenue losses to the state exchequer and our CM has shared these during his press conferences.”Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal has also voiced concern that the state was losing Rs 1,700 crore GSDP daily due to lockdown. Loss in Q1 GDP could exceed 40%, says reportPunjab FM said the state stares at Rs 20,000 crore revenue loss in the current financial year. Maharashtra, which is worst hit by Covid-19, will be facing the maximum GSDP loss among all the states amounting to over Rs 4.72 lakh crore, or 15.6% of the country’s total GDP loss. Tamil Nadu is at the second number with over Rs 2.86 lakh crore (9.4%) loss followed by Gujarat with over Rs 2.61 lakh crore (8.6%) loss, according to the research team. “One interesting aspect of data is the difference between GDP and GVA (Gross Value Added). Normally the difference between GDP and GVA growth rate is not large, but this time due to huge losses in net indirect taxes, the difference will be quite big. We estimate real GVA growth could be at –3.1% in FY21 and real GDP growth at –6.8% in FY21,” according to the report released on Tuesday. The estimated loss in the form of net indirect taxes has been pegged at around Rs 10.4 lakh crore in the financial year 2020-21. Based on the current sevenday moving average of new cases in the country, the SBI team said, “We believe that new cases are likely to peak somewhere anytime in the last week of June, beginning June 20.” Following this, new cases are expected to witness steep fall till the beginning of August after which the Covid-19 curve is expected to flatten by mid-September. The report points out that loss in the first-quarter GDP of 2020-21will be “humongous and could even exceed 40%.” But the study believes that the second-quarter GDP “could witness a smart recovery and clock 7.1%, if we are able to sustain the demand.” The growth in the third and the fourth quarter of this financial year could be pegged at an average of 6%. “When India had first imposed a lockdown, our GDP estimate was 2.6% and since then it has been progressively reduced to a negative 4.7%, with nominal GDP witnessing a contraction,” the team observed. The report mentions that the automobile sector has been reeling under pressure and because of the current lockdown, domestic automobile sales had been pushed to 123-month low of 10.5 lakh units in the month of March. As Google has been releasing the ‘community mobility reports’, the team has compared the data from March 22 to May 16, which indicates that mobility has improved with ease of lockdown in transit stations and work places, but the movement for ‘retail and creation’ remain at the same level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-face-rs-1-06-lakh-crore-loss-in-financial-year-2020-21-punjab-rs-83035-crore/articleshow/76021079.cms||Sanjeev Verma
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Sanitiser dispensers at major bus stations in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: BMTC has installed automatic sanitiser dispenser at major bus terminuses such as Majestic, Shantinagar, Banashankari, Jayanagar and Kengeri. BMTC managing director C Shikha said so far, 10 dispensers had been installed. “This is an initiative of BMTC’s central workshop and they built it at a cost of Rs 6,000 per unit. This is for our staff and passengers. They can sanitise their hands without any physical contact,” she said. Commuters said sanitisers should also be made available aboard buses. In a survey conducted by NGO Bangalore Political Action Committee, or B.PAC, 76 per cent of the respondent sought provision of sanitisers on public transport. In another survey conducted by online booking site redBus, 42 per cent of the participants said sanitisers were a must. “Mandatory hand sanitisation before entry will make commute safer for everyone,” said Shaheen Shasa, a member of Bangalore Bus Prayanikara Vedike. Shikha said BMTC was working on it. “There are some financial constraints. But we have provided sanitisers to all our staff,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sanitiser-dispensers-at-major-bus-stations-in-bengaluru/articleshow/76021219.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Two Haryana murder convicts let off after 16 years in jail||CHANDIGARH: Relying on a seminal textbook on medical jurisprudence for its research about charred bodies, the Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered release of two convicts, who were languishing in jail for around 16 years on charge of murdering a colleague and setting his body on fire in a Karnal village. The case involved the February 2004 murder of a farm worker, Patti allegedly by his colleagues, Raju and Mohan, at a Rattak village farm in Haryana's Karnal district, which was owned by Manjoor Singh. The man had allegedly been strangled and then his body was burnt with paddy straw in the fields. On complaint of Manjoor Singh, the two accused were arrested and a few bones were recovered by the investigating officer from the burning straw. Karnal additional sessions judge on June 15, 2005 sentenced the two men to life imprisonment for murder. Bones too fragmentary to give opinion: FSLThe bench observed that temperature seldom exceeds 1200 degree Celisus in an ordinary house fire. It is, therefore, unlikely that the body of an adult will burn so completely that it will leave no trace. If the body is not completely consumed, fragments of bones left would afford sufficient evidence to indicate whether they were human or not. “The combustion of a body is rarely so complete as to reduce it to ashes. By sifting the ashes through sieves, fragments of bones can be collected and identified by a careful study. Incineration of an adult human body for the purpose of cremation requires 1½ hours at 1600-1800 degree Celsius, and the resultant ashes weigh about 4-6 kg,” the bench said-.Such human ash contains bone pieces which may still be identified. Even on the most badly charred body, fragments of clothing may be found protected in folds of skin or in the flexures of armpits and groins; or traces of jewellery may be found. In the present case, the weight of bones and ashes was found only 250 grams,” observed the high court division bench as it set aside Raju and Mohan’s conviction for the murder. It also appreciated the assistance rendered by advocate V K Sachdeva, who also was the legal aid counsel. Referring to one of the most authoritative textbooks on medical jurisprudence, Modi — A Textbook of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, the division bench observed that in some instances, burnt bones and ashes are forwarded to the medical officer for inspection, if the police suspect some foul play after a body is partially or completely burnt. In the present case, the forensic science laboratory (FSL) suggested that no opinion could be given regarding sex and age as the bones were too fragmentary and insufficient. If the deceased had been wearing clothes, the same could have been intact with the bones. In the present case, police did not recover any clothes. Even the bones of the deceased were not sent for DNA examination, the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/two-haryana-murder-convicts-let-off-after-16-years-in-jail/articleshow/76021257.cms||Ajay Sura
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Dashboard on availability of beds in real time ready: BMC||MUMBAI: BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Tuesday that the dashboard to show the combined availability of Covid beds in public and private facilities in real time is ready and beds will be allocated using it.  He insisted that the city had "enough and more beds", even as a BMC release stated that 96% of the city's Covid ICU beds, 63% of oxygen support beds and 66% of ventilators were occupied. Chahal said the city had 44,000 beds in the Dedicated Covid Health Centre, Dedicated Covid Hospitals and Covid Care Centres (CCC-2). He said the private sector will add 3,600 non-Covid and over 2,500 Covid beds, including 417 that are to be allocated using the dashboard. Also, in what could be a sign of the days to come, Chahal said the BMC has taken the overall bed strength to 75,000 (including quarantine facilities for high-risk patients) and will raise bed capacity to 1 lakh till June 1 and 1.5 lakh till June 15. He also said the helpline 1916 will be given more teeth by adding phone lines. Following a notification, the state and BMC have taken control of 80% of private sector beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dashboard-on-availability-of-beds-in-real-time-ready-bmc/articleshow/76021297.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||10 days, 930 calls: Firemen fight blaze, corona fears||NEW DELHI: This May has been a tough month for firemen. In the past 10 days, they have received 930 calls. Officials said they have been faced with a double dilemma, to douse the blazes and ensure that firefighters don’t get infected with coronavirus. Atul Garg, DFS director, said, “To ensure minimum risk and exposure to the novel coronavirus, we usually form a team of 2-3 officers for the rescue process. A standing operating procedure for sanitisation has been put in place for officers who come in contact with people. Our officers can’t wear PPE kits as they will catch fire.” Recently, a fire broke out at a Covid-designated hospital and the fire department rescued eight Covid-positive patients. Since May 1, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) has received 1,831 calls, the highest (122) being on May 25. The trend was the opposite last year as calls had started dipping towards the end of May. In 2019, even though the total number of calls were 3,316, there was a dip in the number of calls received in the last 10 days of May. The constant rise in temperature this year has resulted in a spike in the number of fires, officers said. Fire officials said the number of calls this April dipped to 1,801 compared with 3,081 last year as most places were shut. DFS officials have advised factory and office owners to get their ACs serviced before reopening their workplaces. “People should also ensure that their firefighting equipment is upgraded so that emergency situations can be dealt with immediately. In summer, 15% of fires are caused because of faulty airconditioners,” Garg said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-days-930-calls-firemen-fight-blaze-corona-fears/articleshow/76021176.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 27, 2020||Chennai||509 new cases in Chennai; nine more deaths take Tamil Nadu toll to 127||CHENNAI: After medical experts did some straight-talking on Tuesday, the Tamil Nadu government is drawing up plans to cocoon people most vulnerable to Covid-19 as 646 fresh cases were reported in the state, 509 of them in Chennai. Nine more deaths were reported, taking the TN toll to 127. At a meeting of the medical experts committee chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, doctors warned that unless testing was increased to identify and treat people in the early stages of the infection, Chennai would end up with two lakh cases and more than 1,400 fatalities by June-end. "Public health experts are saying the cases may continue to grow despite all efforts. When it does, we want to cocoon, to protect those at risk so they don't catch the disease. At least 84% of people who succumbed to the virus had comorbid conditions," said health secretary Beela Rajesh. Prevention, management and treatment plans will be rolled out separately for people below and above the age of 40. In the above 40 group, there will be extensive planning for those with chronic ailments, she said. Similar to the registry of pregnant women, the state is planning them for the elderly, people with diabetes, hypertension, heart, kidney and lung diseases. Total no of samples tested in TN is 4.12LIn the next few days, the state will begin work to set up registries for diabetes and hypertension, the top two comorbidities that has contributed to deaths. “Doctors and healthcare workers in both private and government sector have to log in details of patients. In the government sector, village health nurses (for noncommunicable diseases) will ensure the people follow stringent diet and exercise protocol besides adhering to drug regimen. We have collaborated with several private clinics for this,” the health secretary said. Among the fresh cases on Tuesday, were 35 people from Maharashtra, six from Gujarat, three from Telangana and five from Dubai. Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur together logged 60 cases. The city tally touched 11,640 with the 509 new cases. Six districts – Virudhunagar, Salem, Ramnad, Kallakuruchi, Dindigul and Ariyalur -- that did not have cases from within their borders reported natives returning from other states testing positive. Tamil Nadu tested 9,677 people in the last 24 hours taking the total number of samples to 4.12lakh. At the end of the day, there were 8,256 active cases, while 9,342 had been cured. On Tuesday, 611 people were discharged from various hospitals. Among the nine deaths reported on Tuesday, the youngest was a 45-yearold woman with diabetes, hypertension, and lung disease. There were three people in 50s, all of whom had comorbities. The oldest among the Covid-19 casualties was an 80- year- old man with lung disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/509-new-cases-in-chennai-nine-more-deaths-take-tamil-nadu-toll-to-127/articleshow/76021320.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Not kin, but they walk final mile with Covid-19 victims||MUMBAI: A Muslim family from the western suburbs recently refused to claim the body of a 63-year-old family member who died of Covid-19 due to fear of contracting the virus. That same week, a Gujarati family from Central Mumbai was reluctant to perform the last rites of their family member, a 56-year-old Covid victim. The task force of the Raza Academy not only claimed the bodies on behalf of the families, but also buried and cremated the deceased according to their religious practices. In the past month and a half, task force volunteers have buried/cremated 448 Covid victims, including over 50 Hindus. BMC has granted permission to the task force, an initiative of Raza Academy, Juma Masjeed Trust, and guardian minister Aslam Shaikh, to facilitate the last rites of Covid victims. "In the initial days of the pandemic in March, we noticed people were not ready to claim or cremate/bury the dead due to fear. Hence, we proposed taking over the responsibility. The BMC appointed a task force comprising three members to coordinate the task," said Sabir Nirban, a builder, who is part of the task force along with Suheb Khatib and Irfan Shaikh. Soon after, the BMC asked the task force if they would handle the last rites of Hindu victims, and they agreed. The nearly 70-member team of volunteers comprises businessmen, builder, traders and wholesalers. All the expenses are borne by them too. The task force has put up their numbers in major hospitals. As soon as they get a call, a five-member team responds within an hour. While three members reach the hospital to claim the body, two others reach the cemetery to make arrangements for the burial. Each of them has PPE kits, sanitizers etc. "The entire team was fasting throughout the month of Ramzan, yet they continued to work. Even on Eid, they buried 14 bodies of Muslims and cremated seven Hindu victims," said Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-not-kin-but-they-walk-final-mile-with-covid-19-victims/articleshow/76021337.cms||Ahmed Ali
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fire in chappal factory doused after six-hour fight||NEW DELHI: Around 150 firemen took over six hours to douse a major blaze that erupted in a closed chappal factory in Keshavpuram Industrial Area on Tuesday. Though no casualty was reported since the factory was empty, the biggest worry were the closed rooms and blasts occurring in the thinner tanks that could have led to collapse of the structure. The factory did not have a fire NOC. The fire was doused by afternoon after which cooling operations continued. Delhi Fire Service (DFS) said they received a call about the blaze at 8.34am. Initially, 15 fire tenders were sent, but when the entire building was seen in flames nine more were sent. A senior fire officer said they faced a lot of difficulty while reaching the spot and carrying out the operation as the area was very congested. The flames were quite high and adjacent factories became at risk of getting engulfed in the blaze. Atul Garg, DFS director, said, “We had to approach the fire in a different manner as we were unaware of the kind of materials kept inside the factory. The flames were rising quickly and we didn’t want them to spread. We first surrounded the fire and then started dousing it.” Local residents said that the chappal factory had been shut for the past few months. The 250 square yard building consisted of a basement, ground and three floors. A firefighter said that the rooms were full of plastic and rubber. “When rubber burns, it has dense smoke and high flames, so firefighting becomes tougher. It takes time to douse it. Also, several rooms were locked and each of them had to be broken into to contain the fire amid the rising temperature. We put out the blaze by 3pm and began cooling operations after that,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fire-in-chappal-factory-doused-after-six-hour-fight/articleshow/76021348.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls reopening schools from June 15 after CM’s prod to education department||MUMBAI: The state government is contemplating reopening schools in non-containment zones from June 15—the usual session start date—after taking proper measures to safeguard the health of students. Following CM Uddhav Thackeray’s video conference with the education department brass on Tuesday, senior officials said a final decision on the date is yet to be taken. They are hoping for the situation to improve in the next 10 days. Commenting on the June 15 date, education commissioner Vishal Solanki said: “It’s as per the normal calendar every year. Wherever we can’t start (physical school), we will provide distance digital education.” Rotation of 50% students on cards?On Sunday, Thackeray in his address to the state had said the lockdown, which ends on May 31, cannot be lifted in one go, but has to be relaxed in a staggered manner. On Tuesday, Thackeray directed taking of steps to reopen schools—both aided and non-aided—under the state board after taking precautionary measures. He instructed the education department and school management committees to make arrangements to conduct health check-up of students, teachers and other staff once schools reopen and provide sanitisers. He also suggested that officials look at the possibility of shortening the curriculum, if needed. The department should consider using online and digital education methods more effectively by seeking cooperation from mobile companies, distribution of tablets and memory cards to students, exploring the use of TV channels and so on. Thackeray asked the department to coordinate with the local people’s representatives on this. Discussions have been held to explore whether 50% students of a class should attend on one day, and the other half the next day alternately to maintain social distance, or in different sessions. The department officials said state publishing bureau Balbharati has made books available in PDF format, in which animated videos on each chapter and extra study material are available. To encourage learning from home, the state has appealed to students to use the Diksha app, on which all state board textbooks from Class I to X are available. (With inputs from Vinamrata Borwankar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-mulls-reopening-schools-from-june-15-after-cms-prod-to-edu-dept/articleshow/76021359.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
May 27, 2020||India||Government makes Aarogya Setu open source||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday announced that the Aarogya Setu App will be open source, giving access to the source code to the developers’ community, and top officials said the move signals the government’s commitment to the core design principles of transparency, privacy andsecurity. “Open sourcing Aarogya Setu is a unique feat for India. No other government product anywhere in the world has been open-sourced at this scale,” said Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. “Today, its scale and size is 115 million. Fastest App to reach 15 million in 13 days, 100 million in 41 days,” Kant said, addressing a news conference. The government also said that it seeks the developers community to help identify any vulnerabilities or code improvement in order to make Aarogya Setu more robust and secure. Towards this aim, the government launched a ‘Bug Bounty’ programme with a goal to partner with security researchers and Indian developers’ community to test the security effectiveness of Aarogya Setu and also to improve security. A government statement said the source code of the Android version is available on Github, the global platform for software development, and the application is open for review and collaboration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-makes-aarogya-setu-open-source/articleshow/76021356.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||'Cap on test price may no longer apply'||MUMBAI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday said the upper ceiling of Rs 4,500 for testing may no longer be applicable now with testing supplies streamlined. The research body, which has drawn criticism for lack of transparency in fixing upper price limit for testing, also said individual states can renegotiate prices with private labs. A civic official said BMC is not thinking of price revision for now. While patients pay Rs 4,500, BMC pays Rs 3,500 to process samples. "Those availing of testing under BMC's facility pay a further subsidised rate of Rs 2,000," said a senior official. A state official said they are yet to deliberate on ICMR's communication. "ICMR claims to have set the Rs 4,500 cap given 'cost of imported kits and efforts in doing the test'. When the cap was set, it claimed to have set it on basis of cost of testing in government labs and repeated this on affidavit in the apex court. This explanation was not believable. To this day, no rationale has been provided for setting such a high testing cap," said Malini Aisola of All India Drugs Action Network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cap-on-test-price-may-no-longer-apply/articleshow/76021363.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Lost lakhs, Jawaharpur survived on one meal a day||MOHALI: Single meals to ration kitchen savings helped Jawaharpur in Derabassi survive the 51-day sealing following the spurt in novel coronavirus cases that turned the village of 2,500 people into a villain overnight. Covid-19 had robbed the good fortune of the village, said women, recalling how they were ostracised and called names for becoming a hotspot of the illness — Jawaharpur had reported 46 cases. “Once during the lockdown we did not even have slippers on our feet. Neighbouring villagers held us responsible for spreading the virus,” said Rajinder Kaur, 57. “We lived on single meals per day to save groceries,” she said. It was on April 4 that Jawaharpur reported its first case — the village panch who earned the tag of a super spreader as most of the patients were his extended family members. “We are thankful to the almighty that our village has finally got rid of coronavirus and the lockdown has been lifted. We have gone through tough times. People have suffered both physically and mentally as well as monetarily. Each house has rendered losses of Rs 1 lakh in the past two months. We hope that such a situation does not arrive again,” the 42-year-old panch said. The primary source of income for the villagers is a combination of farming and private jobs. They said they were unable to plough their fields. As the industry was closed, they were not paid salaries. The panch said, “We are primarily farmers and depend upon the yield we get from farming. All residents were not allowed to go out of their homes because of which they were unable to plough their fields.” Sandeep Singh, a resident, said, “Many also work in factories situated in the periphery of the village. The industry was closed due to the lockdown. Some of them lost their jobs, while others were not paid salaries for the lockdown period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-lost-lakhs-jawaharpur-survived-on-one-meal-a-day/articleshow/76021360.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Air India flight from Delhi brings no one to Chandigarh||MOHALI: An empty Air India flight arrived from Delhi and departed with just eight passengers to Dharamshala on the second day of the resumption of operations at the Chandigarh international airport on Tuesday. A total of six flights arrived and departed, with a total footfall of 614 passengers. The flights connected three cities of Delhi, Dharamshala and Bengaluru. An IndiGo flight from Mumbai was cancelled owing to operational reasons. The airline spokesperson said a flight from Delhi arrived with 64 passengers and departed with 98. Another IndiGo flight from Bengaluru arrived with 100 passengers and departed with 30. An Air Asia flight from Bengaluru arrived with 108 passengers but departed with just 22 passengers. The Air India flight from Dharamshala arrived with seven passengers and departed for Delhi with eight passengers. Airline operators said if the scenario remains the same, they might pull off their flights from Chandigarh. On Monday, the resumption of air traffic movement saw a total arrival and departures of eight flights with one cancellation. The total footfall of passengers arriving from three destinations was 490, while a very low number of 300 departed from Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/air-india-flight-from-delhi-brings-no-one-to-chandigarh/articleshow/76021416.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Business||Sanitiser makers eye strict lab scan||Kolkata: Some corporates which have introduced sanitiser products claimed that their hygiene range would be effective against Covid-19. With the relaxation of Covid-19 lockdown and increase in public activities, they feel, the effectiveness of hygiene products will come under the scanner. FMCG-hotel-to-tobacco major ITC, which has made inroads into the growing sanitiser and disinfectant spray market in the last two months, stressed that its range of hygiene products under Savlon umbrella brand, can kill Covid-19 and other similar viruses. RSH Global which is also foraying into hand sanitiser and spray recently said that it has partnered with a pharma company to introduce the ranges and it can kill 99.9% viruses. The company markets products under Joy brand. Sameer Satpathy, chief executive (personal care products), ITC, pointed out that there are two types of viruses — incapsulated and capsulated. “Covid 19 is an incapsulated virus, which is easier to kill rather than capsulated like polio,” he said. ITC has deployed a third-party lab in Europe to check effectiveness of its sanitiser range and the result was positive. According to the company, the international laboratory testing the efficacy of the products is ISO 17025 accredited by UKAS (United Kingdom Accreditation Service), which certifies that the laboratory uses test methods based on stringent international standards. “Today, consumers are looking for effective hygiene solutions to fight this pandemic,” Satpathy added. In order to enhance supply and availability, ITC repurposed its perfume facility in HP to produce an additional 1.25 lakh litres of hand sanitisers. According to industry experts, the sanitiser market in India used to be worth only Rs 114 crore. But in February 2020 itself, there was a sales surge of 50% compared to February 2019 and in March the spike in demand is almost 100%, which has gone up by 250% in April itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sanitiser-makers-eye-strict-lab-scan/articleshow/76015473.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||BMC chief tells private labs to submit reports by day's end||MUMBAI: In what could ease the process of bed allocation for Covid patients, the BMC has asked private laboratories to submit test reports by the end of the day without fail. Civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said the labs will strictly have to follow the 24-hour cycle or face action. Delay in test reports directly impacts contact tracing, quarantining and admission of patients, he said. Over 3,000 tests are carried out in the city every day now. "Reports of samples that have been collected will have to come... by 12am. That would give officials the time to clean the data and send the list of patients to the civic wards by 8am so that we can ensure that bed allocation is done by noon," said Chahal, pointing out that lab reports have been delayed by six to ten days in some instances. "That's unacceptable. If labs can process 100 samples, they should only accept that many. They shouldn't take more than what they can chew." Ward officers have welcomed the decision and said it could majorly streamline things for them. "Previously, reports used to come throughout the day, say at 9.30am, then around 3.30pm and once again 7.30-8pm. It disturbed our cycle as before we could finish tracing the contacts of some patients and quarantine their relatives, we would be sent a new list of names," said a ward officer.  Chahal said it was particularly challenging to quarantine and allot beds for the list that comes at 8.30pm. "Staff, doctors, everyone is exhausted by then," he said. It has also happened that lab reports have reached the mailboxes of people directly rather than going through the ward office, prompting panicky patients to go on a bed hunt on their own. The labs are supposed to email reports to the epidemiology cell, which looks for duplication and misallocation of wards.  But several people TOI spoke to said that wards sometimes don't get in touch for over 24 hours after the arrival of reports. A lab official said labs have even got suicide threats from people desperately wanting to find out their Covid status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-chief-tells-private-labs-to-submit-reports-by-days-end/articleshow/76021488.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Water shortage adds to the stress in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the rise in temperature, the demand for water has started peaking. RWAs in upscale areas like South Extension-II have complained about water supply being curtailed forcing them to rely on tankers. Also, some water-stressed areas in rural and outer Delhi have reported a shortage. Delhi has a demand-supply gap of 250-300 million gallons per day during summer. Located on the Delhi-Haryana border, Mundhela Kalan village and its surrounding bastis have been facing acute water shortage for the past few weeks. Anand Kumar, a villager, said that supply has been severely impacted and whatever little amount they get comes at 2am-3am at low pressure. “Being forced to wake up late at night has been affecting our lives adversely,” he added. Besides Mundhela Kalan, nearby settlements like Harijan Basti, Vaid and Valmiki Panna have also been badly hit. The villagers said they have filed complaints on the DJB app and with the local official, but to no avail. Recently, the villagers also sent a petition to the executive engineer of the area. Paras Tyagi from Centre for Youth Culture Law and Environment, which works on governance reforms in urban and rural villages, said people are facing a water shortage during Covid-19 pandemic when washing hands repeatedly is a must. “There is an underground reservoir, but all 3,000 inhabitants in the villages along this supply line face the problem each summer,” he said. Harish Mehta, South Extension-II BBlock RWA member, complained that DJB had not been supplying water since April 8. “More than 120 flats have become completely reliant on water tankers, which we are calling every alternate day. DJB hasn’t given a solution for the past 45 days. Water is essential during these Covid-19 days. Moreover, it’s not safe to step out,” he added. A DJB official said tail-end areas usually face water problems during summers. “We will look at the operation of the boosting station to solve the issue. A list of vulnerable areas has been drawn up in consultation with MLAs and we’ll supply water to the areas with the help of tankers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-shortage-adds-to-the-stress-in-delhi/articleshow/76021547.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Traffic cops net Rs 1 crore in two months||CHANDIGARH: The police have collected Rs 1.08 crore from traffic violators during the lockdown in two months. From March 23 to May 25, cops seized 11,118 vehicles and released 6,331. As many as 4,787 vehicles - 4,445 two-wheelers, 228 four-wheelers and 114 three-wheelers - are still lying at the traffic lines in Sector 29. Traffic police department data mentioned that 9,287 of the seized vehicles were two-wheelers, 1,687 four-wheelers and 144 auto-rickshaws. The UT administration had lifted the curfew on May 4 and allowed movement of traffic from 7 am to 7pm. However, guidelines had been issued that only three people would be allowed in a car, one in a two-wheeler and one in an auto. After lifting curfew, the traffic police seized 4,282 vehicles and collected a fine of Rs 24 8 lakh. Kewal Krishan, DSP, traffic police, said they are sanitising all the seized vehicles every Sunday to avoid the threat of the virus spreading. Three fatal accidents have been witnessed since the curfew was lifted. However, not a single person was killed in an accident during the curfew from March 23 to May 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-cops-net-rs-1-crore-in-two-months/articleshow/76021601.cms||Pawan Tiwari
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Over 50 per cent of all Covid-19-related deaths are from 5 wards in Mumbai||MUMBAI: With Mumbai crossing 1,000 coronavirus deaths, a look at ward-wise data shows that five of the 24 wards in the city have recorded over a 100 Covid-related deaths each, led by 154 in L ward covering Kurla and Saki Naka (see box). In comparison, some large states have recorded similar or fewer fatalities, like UP (169), Tamil Nadu (119), AP and Telangana (56) each, and Karnataka 44. The civic data mentions the fatalities were among Covid-19 positive patients but a death committee will finally certify whether the deaths were caused by the coronavirus or these were patients who died with it. At first glance, however, the figures indicate that only five wards account for more than 57% of the city’s fatalities (1065 on Tuesday). Interestingly, G North that has reported the maximum cases of over 2,000 has not yet crossed the 100-death mark. The ward including Dharavi has reported 85 deaths so far. In L ward, 66 of its 154 fatalities were among people above 60. The 46-60 age group accounted for 65 deaths, 18 were among 31-45-year-olds, and five among youngsters between 16 and 30. “We are trying to screen as many elderly in the ward as possible so that in case of any symptoms, they can be given help as soon as possible,” said a ward official. The silver lining in L ward is the recovery rate: 52%. As many as 872 of the 1,667 patients have recovered, said the official. Rais Shaikh, corporator of E ward (Byculla and Mumbai Central), said all resources should now be focused towards helping patients with co-morbid conditions, like diabetes and hypertension. “The condition of patients having co-morbidities deteriorates faster, so it is important they are stabilised faster to control the mortality rate,” he said. E ward has reported over 1,700 cases and 129 deaths. In wards like K West (Andheri W) and M East (Govandi and Mankhurd), civic officials said most of the 100-plus deaths were from the slum areas. “In slum pockets, homes are too small and people refuse to stay locked down. Also, community toilets are a large source of infection,” said a civic official, adding they are now trying to quarantine 15 contacts for every positive case in the slums to break the chain of infection. Another ward with high fatality is H East (Bandra E, Santacruz). Congress corporator Tulip Miranda, who represents Kalina, said an average 50-60 new Covid cases are being reported daily from the ward. “The figures are alarming and it does not seem to be coming under control at all. With lockdown not being taken seriously, we find people moving around freely,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-50-per-cent-of-all-covid-19-related-deaths-are-from-5-wards-in-mumbai/articleshow/76021607.cms||Richa Pinto
May 27, 2020||World||Glenmark to test efficacy of 2 antiviral drugs for treating Covid||MUMBAI: Glenmark Pharma announced a new randomised, open-label study to test the combined efficacy of two antiviral drugs, Favipiravir and Umifenovir, as a potential Covid-19 treatment strategy. Glenmark has received approval from regulator, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to initiate the study, called the FAITH trial, under which 158 hospitalized patients with moderate Covid-19 will be enrolled. The company statement also says that antivirals with different mechanisms of action could complement and enhance efficacy against Covid-19. Glenmark is also continuing with the Phase-III clinical trials for Covid-19 patients with antiviral Favipiravir monotherapy. Early treatment with combination therapy will be evaluated for safety and efficacy, as it is emerging as an effective approach in shortening duration of virus shedding and facilitating early discharge of patients, the company says. Monika Tandon, VP & head, clinical development global specialty/branded portfolio, Glenmark said, “Combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life-cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to overall improvement in clinical parameters. We consider Glenmark’s study will be pivotal in leading to identification of highly effective and safe treatments against Covid-19 in India. Beyond its many potential patient treatment benefits, we also hope the combination therapy will reduce infection risk amongst medical professionals and healthcare workers by reducing the duration of virus shedding from treated patients.” Favipiravir is an anti-viral drug approved in Japan for treating influenza, including those that are oseltamivir-resistant, and trials are on globally to study its effectiveness and efficacy in treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/glenmark-to-test-efficacy-of-2-antiviral-drugs-for-treating-covid/articleshow/76021611.cms||---
May 27, 2020||World||Scale-up battle preparedness, Xi tells Chinese military||NEW DLEHI: Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday ordered the military to scale up battle preparedness, visualising the worst-case scenarios and asked them to resolutely defend the country's sovereignty. Xi, 66 who is the head of the two-million-strong military with prospects of a lifelong tenure in office, made the remarks while attending a plenary meeting of the delegation of the People’s Liberation Army and People's Armed Police Force during the parliament session being held in Beijing. His comments came in the backdrop of the continuing standoff between the militaries of India and China at the LAC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/scale-up-battle-preparedness-xi-tells-chinese-military/articleshow/76021616.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||Will bring home all migrant workers from Maharashtra: Bihar||PATNA: State chief secretary Deepak Kumar here on Tuesday said Bihar will bring back all its migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra and elsewhere in the country by Shramik special trains. Kumar said the Maharashtra government can send migrant workers back to Bihar in as many special trains as possible. He added that until now, 1,93,761 people have returned to Bihar from Maharashtra by 130 special trains and more to do so in another 38 trains by May 28. “The Maharashtra government has intimated us about 24 special trains leaving for Bihar on Tuesday,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-bring-home-all-migrant-workers-from-maharashtra-bihar/articleshow/76021620.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Wind may bring swarm of locusts from Jaipur to Delhi||NEW DELHI: A swarm of desert locusts that infested Jaipur on Monday morning could be headed towards the capital, if wind speed is favourable. Delhi has been kept on alert as such swarms are currently active in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which is the most affected state. Normally, desert locusts are seen in western Rajasthan and Gujarat from June to November, but they were first spotted by the Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) in April. What’s more concerning is that usually they are either solitary or in small groups, meaning the current swarming is unusual. Entomologists said despite being an urban setting, the impact on Delhi could be severe as 22% of its area is under green cover, which can provide foraging material for the locusts. LWO deputy director K L Gurjar on Monday said, “The locusts may move towards Delhi in the next few days if wind speed and direction are favourable. As of today, the wind speed moved them north.” IMD has been asked to monitor the meteorological conditions to help the agricultural ministry forecast where the locusts may be headed next. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said, “Wind direction is favourable at the moment, largely remaining northwesterly.” Mohammad Faisal, an entomologist at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said the capital could suffer greatly, even if it had very little agricultural area. “The swarm, after surviving winter in the desert, moved out due to lack of food. Jaipur has plenty of green spaces, including parks, thus providing foraging material for them,” he added. “Delhi’s green areas can be impacted severely. A very small, one square kilometre locust swarm can eat the same amount of food in a day as about 35,000 people,” said Faisal, adding that in the past they have been known to affect water supply and railway lines. After their attack, railway tracks become slippery and need to be cleaned. They have been known to clog wells too. Faisal said, “A single locust can lay up to 500 eggs. We need to tackle not just the swarm, but their breeding grounds too.” Sohail Madan from Bombay Natural History Society said the swarm might not only impact gardens and greenery, but other insects who depended on the same plants for survival. A swarm can be made up of 150 million locusts per square kilometre carried on the wind up to 150km in a day, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wind-may-bring-swarm-of-locusts-from-jaipur-in-delhi/articleshow/76021618.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 27, 2020||Ranchi||Dead man ‘comes alive’ at Ranchi hospital, but dies again||RANCHI: The brother of a man who died of electrocution has claimed that the deceased had “come alive” at hospital when his body was brought for autopsy on Tuesday.The family members of the deceased man said the man collapsed again soon after and died, but “he could have been saved”. Jeetendra Oraon, a resident of Kharta village, was brought to a community health center in Chanho block around 7:30am after he came in contact with a high-tension overhead electrical wire while he was dismantling a tent at his village. The doctors pronounced him ‘dead on arrival’ and handed over the body to Chanho police, who brought it to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi, for autopsy. The deceased’s younger brother Sikandar Oraonwho accompanied the police to Rims, said, “We left the CHC at 11am and reached Rims at 1pm. While the technicians carried my brother on a trolley for autopsy, the staff said he was alive and asked for him to be shifted to the hospital’s central emergency ward. However, soon after he was shifted, doctors at the emergency said he had died. They also told me that my brother could have been saved if he was brought in a little earlier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dead-man-comes-alive-at-ranchi-hospital-but-dies-again/articleshow/76021627.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 27, 2020||India||With quarantine norms revised, Indian returnees must be refunded part of their advance by hotels: Centre||NEW DELHI: Indian returnees from abroad who had paid hotels in advance for their 14-day quarantine stay but can now leave after seven days under revised norms, must be refunded the balance room charges by the hotel, the home ministry has directed the states/UTs. As per health ministry guidelines for international arrivals issued on Sunday, protocol for institutional quarantine stands revised to seven days followed by another seven days of home quarantine after medical assessment. The earlier quarantine norms required 14-day continuous stay in institutional quarantine upon arrival in India. In a letter to the chief secretaries/UT administrators, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said it had been brought to the notice of MHA that Indian nationals quarantined in hotels after their return from abroad were made to pay advance for 14 days. “Since they can now leave for home quarantine after seven days, the amount paid by them for the remaining seven days needs to be refunded to them, which some hotels are refusing to refund,” he underlined. The home secretary has now requested the state/UT governments to issue necessary directions to hotels earmarked/used for institutional quarantine, to ensure that foreign returnees who were quarantined in hotels and paid advance of 14 days, are refunded their balance amount without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-quarantine-norms-revised-indian-returnees-must-be-refunded-part-of-their-advance-by-hotels-centre/articleshow/76021629.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport to restart operation tomorrow with ten flights||KOLKATA: Ten flights will take off from Kolkata and the same number will operate at the Bagdogra airport near Siliguri on Thursday as Bengal gets reconnected to the domestic aviation grid after a two months. Domestic flights in other parts of the country started services on Monday. The decision to restrict the flight count at Kolkata airport to 10 only follows a state government request to keep the number to the barest minimum, citing its immediate task of dealing with the post-Amphan crisis. Before international and domestic flights were suspended in March, Kolkata airport handled around 240 flights daily. Regulator DGCA had initially asked airlines to start with one-third of the pre-Covid-19 capacity on the domestic sector. Around 80 flights were supposed to operate from Kolkata and cash-starved airlines were quick to start bookings. But with Cyclone Amphan wreaking largescale destruction in Kolkata and its suburbs, the state government sought to postpone the resumption of domestic flight operations and also requested for a reduced service count, citing stressed resources in dealing with multiple crises. Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad have also put a cap on the number of flights. While Chennai has limited the number to 20 a day, Mumbai has capped it at 50. The severely truncated schedule is likely to inconvenience passengers majorly as many flights that had previously been opened for booking will have to be cancelled. Confusion reigned till late on Tuesday, with airlines unable to reschedule flights or announce cancellations. Sources said IndiGo was likely to operate five flights, SpiceJet two and Air India, Air Asia and Vistara one each. “We will get to know about who will operate how many flights and to which destination only on Wednesday,” an airline official said, fearing confusion among flyers who may arrive at the airport to discover there was no flight. Jitendra Parekh, a businessman from Mumbai who had been stranded in Kolkata since March while visiting an ailing relative in the city, dialed the airline call centre nearly 20 times but failed to get any assurance of operations on Thursday. “Less than 36 hours to go and even then, there is no clarity on anything,” he said, exasperated. Airport officials, too, aren’t sure whether the restricted schedule in Kolkata will be in force till May 30 or 31. “We expect Kolkata airport to function like all other airports from June 1. There should at least be 80 domestic flights operating from that day,” an official said. Till then though, Bagdogra airport in north Bengal will rival its big brother with 10 flights. “We expect SpiceJet to operate four flights, IndiGo three, AirAsia two and Vistara one flight,” said Bagdogra airport director P Subramani. Before operations were suspended, the airport used to handle 37 flights a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-airport-to-restart-ops-tomorrow-with-10-flights/articleshow/76015577.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Delhi||Gun thermometers backfire as mercury hits the roof in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The infrared (IR) gun thermometers had emerged as the first line of defence in fight against Covid-19 for big market complexes and residential colonies. However, due to the soaring temperature and incessant heat wave, many such devices are malfunctioning. During peak afternoon, when the temperature starts approaching 43-45 degree Celsius, the IR thermometers start giving faulty readings, several resident welfare associations have complained. South Delhi’s Navjivan Vihar has been using IR thermometers since March 25, but from last week they have been facing the summer burnout. Dr Ruby Makhija, secretary in the Navjiwan Vihar RWA, said “It doesn’t work when it’s above 40 degree Celsius. These thermometers are not designed for such harsh summers.” One of the guards, who operates the units, said that there are actually no readings around 2pm. “We have been facing the issue from five-six days. When the reading stops in the noon, we keep it in shade to cool off for 30-40 minutes. Then it can be operated through the evening,” Montu Singh said. Similar concern was raised by Shafali Mittal of Sarvodaya Enclave RWA. She said during day time, the IR thermometers start giving faulty readings and guards have been facing trouble in screening temperatures. Rajiv Kakria from Greater Kailash RWA said that different RWAs have different view but problems have been reported by many. “Temperature screening has a placebo effect and there is no replacement to personal hygiene and protection. Temperatures can vary due to so many reasons and many people have reported the IR guns to be problematic,” he added. Across Delhi’s western part, Raj Kumar Tarani, president of Janakpuri’s C2 block RWA said that it may be a matter of quality also. “Few thermometers are coming in the market which don’t have scanners but just pre-recorded setting on printed circuit boards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gun-thermometers-backfire-as-mercury-hits-the-roof-in-delhi/articleshow/76021614.cms||Paras Singh
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Old terminal turns into 30,000 sq-ft quarantine facility||KOLKATA: The old domestic terminal at Kolkata airport has been converted into an air-conditioned dormitory-style quarantine centre for Indians arriving from overseas by Vande Bharat flghts. The terminal that had been used only for arriving fights during Haj since March 2013, when operations were shifted to the integrated terminal, has been remodelled into a sprawling 30,000 sq-ft ward, with 400 beds arranged in rows and columns with two-metre space between them. Washrooms have also been upgraded with shower cubicles. In all, 30 people can bathe at a time. The state health department requisitioned the terminal from the Airports Authority of India and the job of transforming the facility was given to a private contractor, led by Brig (retd) Balbir Singh. “We were asked to complete the facility by May 22. We met the deadline despite the cylone striking the city on May 20. The entire area has been cleaned up and disinfected. There is a pantry area, where food will be brought in to be served to those staying in the facility. Breakfast, lunch, snacks and dinner will be provided to the quarantined passengers,” said Singh. He added that there was space to add 250-300 more beds in the arrival hall without compromising on social-distancing norms. “If the facility is extended to the old international terminal, 700 more beds can be added,” he said. The ministry of health and family welfare has in a revised guideline made seven-day paid quarantine mandatory for international passengers arriving in India. This will be followed by seven days of home isolation. Only in exceptional cases, like for pregnant women, people with serious illness and parents accompanied by children below 10 years, will be allowed home isolation 14 days. Once operations start in Kolkata airport from Thursday, people arriving by domestic flights will not be quarantined unless they display symptoms. Symptomatic flyers will be transported to the Covid-19 facility in New Town for swab tests and assessment. Those with mild symptoms will be allowed to return home and stay in isolation for 14 days. Those with severe symptoms will be taken to the New Town facility. While departing, only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed into the terminal after thermal scan. But if a person develops symptoms after that and is detected at the boarding gate, he or she will be kept in a quarantined area before the health department staff transports him or her to a Covid-19 facility for swab test and health assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/old-terminal-turns-into-30k-sqft-quarantine-facility/articleshow/76015586.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Now, coronavirus tests in OPDs||KOLKATA: Not all patients taking Covid-19 test will be required to take admission. Private hospitals that have Covid-testing facilities, will now be allowed to test at OPDs. The health department came up with a circular on Tuesday, allowing private hospitals to collect samples and test on walk-in basis. Doctors said this testing strategy was much needed keeping in mind the evolving norms on who to test and also relaxed norms on certain categories of positive patients, who can be at home isolation. “This new norm is a much welcome strategy. This will be beneficial at least in two ways, cutting the cost of the patient’s hospital and also allowing the government to increase the number of tests,” said gynaecologist Basab Mukherjee, vice president FOGSI (Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India). The test should, however, be done only after doctor’s advise. The circular says sample of the intending patient should be taken in the collection unit of the hospital, following protocols, including social-distancing and infection-control measures. “This is a much-needed strategy. It will be of much help for patients undergoing a planned surgery. While it saves bed charges, those beds could be free for other patients,” said Dr Sudipta Mitra, CEO Peerless Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-corona-tests-in-opds/articleshow/76015597.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: JU-KMC operation shielded world’s largest overhead water tank from cyclone Amphan||KOLKATA: Meticulous planning by construction engineers and prompt action on part of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation water supply department officials saved the iconic Tallah water reservoir from Amphan. As per assessment by construction engineers and experts from Jadavpur University, the 110-year-old structure was under potential threat from the cyclone. Considering the vulnerability of the tank, Gokul Mondal and Biswajit Som from construction engineering department of Jadavpur University contacted the KMC water supply department senior officials on May 19 and advised them to take some precautionary steps to safeguard the tank. They suggested that half of the four chambers, which store potable water flowing in from Palta, must be filled with water to maintain the balance against high-velocity winds. The JU experts asked the civic body officials to keep the four chambers half-filled from afternoon till the Amphan effects dies down. With the water filled in, the tank weighed 85,000 metric tonne. However, the task was not easy for KMC water supply department engineers as they had to suspend flow of water from the tank, which would trigger water crisis in city. “But we had to take the challenge. If anything happened to the structure, city’s water supply system would have suffered an irreparable loss,” said a senior KMC water supply department official. Biswajit Som, a consultant in JU,said: “A cyclone with a dynamic character gives in to vibration and lifting of light structure. Century-old Tallah tank being a light structure made of thin plate, rested on timber plank, with no fastening arrangements by bolt or welding, would have been adversely hit by Amphan’s effect. The structure is vulnerable to vibration.” He added that this was why KMC engineers were asked to keep adequate water so the chambers remain stubbornly seated. Som appreciated efforts of the KMC water supply department engineers led by deputy chief engineer Amitava Pal in taking prompt action and saving the tank. (With inputs from Ajanta Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-kmc-op-shielded-worlds-largest-overhead-water-tank-from-amphan/articleshow/76015604.cms||Saikat Ray
May 27, 2020||India||Airline bails out migrants who sold off goats for tickets||MUMBAI: Three migrants who lost over Rs 30,000 in savings and cash from sale of goats as their Mumbai-Kolkata flight was cancelled on Monday will finally get to fly home. TOI reported on their plight in Tuesday’s edition. It garnered over 3,000 retweets and likes, which had IndiGo respond that it “shall be accommodating them on the next available flight or providing them with a full refund’’. The airline later said they have been booked on a June 1 flight . The three, who work at construction sites in Mumbai, have been stranded since the lockdown with no income. They made attempts to book train tickets but failed. Sona Mullah (46), one of the labourers, said he earns Rs 15,000 a month and sends home Rs 10,000. To add to the family income, his wife back home in Murshidabad keeps goats. “Last week, we sold all the three for Rs 9,600 so that I could pay Rs 10,200 for my air ticket,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/airline-bails-out-migrants-who-sold-off-goats-for-tickets/articleshow/76021872.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||440-m tunnel dug under Chamba for Char Dham traffic||NEW DELHI: The Border Road Organisation (BRO) has dug up a tunnel below Chamba town in Uttarakhand under the Char Dham project which would reduce the journey through the town to only 10 minutes as compared to 30 minutes that commuters need to spend now to cross the city. “Our BRO team has made a major breakthrough in Char Dham project; they have successfully dug up 440m-long tunnel below Chamba town on Rishikesh-Dharasu highway (NH-94),” Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted.While chairing the breakthrough event of Chamba tunnel Gadkari said the opening of the tunnel will ease out congestion through the Chamba town. The tunnel will facilitate all-weather connectivity to Chardham Gangotri, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Badrinath, he said. Gadkari said the tunnel was completed amidst current global pandemic. “Ever since the catastrophe that hit Kedarnath, we were committed for an all-weather connectivity to Chardham and this is an important milestone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/440-m-tunnel-dug-under-chamba-for-char-dham-traffic/articleshow/76021881.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Quarantine in this Maharashtra village means living in tents without electricity & toilets||KOLHAPUR: Rajashree Bote, five months' pregnant, sits on the mud ground in a makeshift poles-and-tarpaulin tent that has been her home for the past 11 days in Bamane village of Kolhapur district. Rajashree had come with her family from Mumbai to Bamane, her native village, and was told to undergo institutional quarantine. But she was aghast to find she had to live ina tent, located on the outskirts of the village, with no electricity, toilets or washrooms. The authorities say institutional quarantine is usually arranged in a public school but the village doesn't have one. "We spent Rs 28,000 to reach here in a private vehicle with eight others. We have been spending nights in fear of wild animals and the prospect of rain," she told TOI. Rajashree and her family are among 45 people put up in tents near the temple of the village deity. Located in the hilly terrain of Bhudargad tehsil, the village is about 66km from Kolhapur city and sustains on paddy, sugarcane and groundnut cultivation. Quarantined, in tents without power, toiletsHowever, over 20% of the village’s population of 1,800 works and lives in Mumbai. Now, Mumbai’s Covid-19 spread and lack of work has forced many families like Rajashree’s to return home. Sandip Panhale, his wife Sheetal and their two toddlers returned from Kalyan in Mumbai after he lost his job. “I was living in Mumbai for 18 years. But I was sacked by the housekeeping agency for whom I worked. With the virus fear and no job, I decided to return to Bamane,” he said. Sheetal says, “In the city, 7-day institutional quarantine is sufficient if the swab test is negative. Here, the villagers have asked us to stay in these tents for 14 days. The village is located in a bison habitat and we are scared to sleep at night,” she said. Sachin Patil, a medical shop owner from Worli in Mumbai, returned to the village after shutting his shop in a Covid-19 hotspot. “All my staff had left. I was facing a medicine shortage. We are following social distancing here but our families are scared to meet us,” he said. The authorities say the only school in the village was brought down in 2016 and approval to rebuild one hasn’t come yet. Bamane sarpanch Balaso Jadhav expressed helplessness over the situation, saying lack of funds with the gram panchayat was limiting them from offering other facilities. The village doesn’t even have a primary health care facility. ASHA worker Nanda Bote from the village said, “I have been visiting those in quarantine since the last five days, asking about their health. A sub-primary health care centre in the village could have made it easier for us to provide them with medicines and otherfacilities.” But despite the odds, bus conductor Sunil Patil, who works with Mumbai’s BEST, is happy that he can at least see his family. “Many of my colleagues were infected and three of them died. I sent my family back to the village. I reached here ten days back. My only worry is that by the time I complete my quarantine, I will have to travel back for work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/quarantine-in-this-maharashtra-village-means-living-in-tents-without-electricity-toilets/articleshow/76021885.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
May 27, 2020||India||Law grads charter Mumbai-Ranchi flight for 180 migrants||MUMABI: Alumni of the National Law School, Bangalore, raised enough funds in less than half a day to lease an A320 aircraft and fly 180 migrant labourers from Mumbai to Ranchi. This will be the first time ever in the history of Indian aviation that a group of private individuals has planned to evacuate stranded migrants by a flight. The relief flight, to be flown by Air Asia, is scheduled to depart at 6am on Thursday, “We have a commitment from the Jharkhand government they will take care of the migrants once they reach Ranchi. Tomorrow (Wednesday) we shall be coordinating with the Maharashtra government to get the migrants on board the flight,” said a member of the alumni requesting anonymity. Funds have been put together by former students across batches. Migrant labourers were identified through various NGO networks. Shyel Trehaan from the batch of 2000 at the law school said her batchmates were discussing a way to help migrants. They first thought of chartering a bus, but soon found the per person cost was just marginally lower than that for a flight, as more people can be fitted. “The whole idea and its execution is a joint effort, helped by Tata group, the airline and Priya Sharma, research scholar, social sciences, IIT-Bombay,” said Trehaan. They have raised Rs 11 lakh via crowd-funding so far. The alumni have been doing various relief work in different states during the lockdown. “The cost of a flight ticket is the same as what the labourers are paying to go back by bus. So we decided to send them back by flight,” said the member. Around 45 migrant labourers had been booked on a Wednesday flight from Mumbai to Delhi and then to Ranchi, which got cancelled. “We thought why leave others behind and decided to charter a flight directly to Ranchi. The cost is being borne entirely by us, including the charter charges,” said the member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/law-grads-charter-mumbai-ranchi-flight-for-180-migrants/articleshow/76021887.cms||Clara Lewis
May 27, 2020||India||PPE procured after products pass prescribed test: Govt||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday said procurement of PPEs is taking place only after products qualify the test prescribed by the technical committee (JMG) of the ministry of health and family welfare and the central agency HLL Lifecare Limited is also undertaking random sampling of supplies in accordance to a protocol. “All the states/UTs have been asked to ensure procurement which is being carried out at their level after following the prescribed testing for PPEs from ministry of textiles nominated labs. In addition, manufacturers who have got their products qualified from these labs are also being on-boarded on Government e-Marketplace (GeM),” the advisory states. The government said it was being ensured that manufacturers and not traders are allowed to make the coveralls. “For the private sector also, the dynamic information of manufacturers whose products have qualified the tests is available on MoT website,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ppe-procured-after-products-pass-prescribed-test-govt/articleshow/76021914.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||No community spread yet, sero-surveys on: ICMR||NEW DELHI: India has a well defined containment strategy for areas with higher cases of Covid and a sero-prevalence survey is being carried out to track any wider spread of the disease in the community, the ICMR said on Tuesday. Covid-19: Live updates On community spread in India, ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava said, “We have clearcut containment areas. There are red zones which are being tackled and studied. Where prevalence is being studied, sero-prevalence survey is being done. Before that it is not wise to comment on anything else.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news While the health ministry has maintained that there is no evidence of community transmission, it initiated a population based sero-survey in select districts under ICMR earlier this month. A section of experts has held that insufficient testing has meant that community spread has not been detected. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals to monitor trends in the prevalence of coronavirus or SARS-COV-2. Sources in government said there is confidence the disease can be tracked despite movement of migrants and air travel resumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-community-spread-yet-sero-surveys-on-icmr/articleshow/76021958.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 27, 2020||Noida||Noida: Baby can’t get NICU for seven hours, dies in father’s lap||GREATER NOIDA: The baby boy was born around 9.30pm on Monday. Sometime around 4am, not even seven hours old, he passed away in his father Raj Kumar’s lap. The desperate parent had rushed from one hospital to another all night but hadn’t found a neonatal ICU that could admit his son. He was pleading with a hospital worker to call a doctor, his baby in one hand and an oxygen cylinder in the other, when he realised the infant wasn’t breathing. The family expressed its agony in a video. “We want to highlight what people on the ground have been facing. The non-Covid-19 population needs equal attention of the healthcare system,” said a distraught Prem, the baby’s uncle. Incidentally, Noida’s only state-run superspecialty hospital for children, the Child PGI, has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital and is currently out of bounds for other patients. It was Raj Kumar and his wife Rekha’s first child. A special moment for the Greater Noida-based couple, originally from Mahoba. But anxiety struck almost as soon as they held the child. He didn’t bawl. The weight of the boy was 3.5kg and the fetal ultrasound conducted on Saturday had shown nothing unusual. Shri Krishna Life Line hospital, a private facility in Greater Noida where the boy was born, asked Raj Kumar to admit the baby at a more advanced institute. The hospital, according to the family, said it could not treat the child. Raj Kumar and Prem rushed to Green City hospital nearby. The baby was admitted there around 10pm and kept on ventilator support for two hours, after which the staff there asked Raj Kumar to shift the baby to another hospital that could treat it, according to the findings of a probe panel comprising Noida’s additional chief medical officer Sanjiv Mangalik and surveillance officer Sunil Dohare, which issued notices to both hospitals. The probe was ordered by district magistrate Suhas LY on Tuesday morning. Prem, however, told TOI they called 112 to move the child to another facility because they couldn’t afford the private hospital, which had asked them to deposit Rs 25,000. “My brother (Raj Kumar) was employed with a factory in Greater Noida but has been out of work since it was shut due to the lockdown. I too have been out of a job. Since we didn’t have that kind of money, we tried to take the child to another facility,” said Prem. Calls to 112 brought a PCR vehicle instead of an ambulance. The cops asked Raj Kumar to call 108, the ambulance service. The ambulance that arrived took them to the nearest community health centre (CHC) in Dadri. Though CHCs in UP are equipped to handle maternal care, including complicated deliveries, the staff at CHC Dadri referred the child to the District Hospital in Sector 30 (Noida). Dr Amit Kumar, in-charge of CHC Dadri, said, “In such cases, a child requires an NICU, which is why the doctor would have referred him. Usually, as per norm, children are referred to the SSPHPGTI (Child PGI) but since it has been converted into a Covid hospital now, they are being referred to the District Hospital instead.” Among state-run facilities in Noida, however, only Child PGI has an NICU. According to Raj Kumar, the child was alive at this point. By the time the brothers reached the District Hospital, 30km away, it was around 4am. The family said a paramedic checked the boy after about 25 minutes. “We kept wailing the whole time. We felt helpless. We pleaded with the staff members to call a doctor. After a while, we were handed over a death certificate,” said Prem. In the video, Prem said, “Since 11 pm, we have called the police and ambulance, and they kept shuttling us from one hospital to another… What was the fault of this innocent child? Who killed him?” The DM later told TOI, “Our team will get in touch with child’s father. Explanation will be sought from the concerned doctors at Dadri and the Sector 30 facility. We will also check whether the private hospitals cooperated with the parents or not.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/baby-cant-get-nicu-for-7-hours-dies-in-fathers-lap/articleshow/76015969.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||Lockdown eased, Covid cases have doubled in 5 states: Govt||NEW DELHI: Confirmed cases of Covid-19 have more than doubled in UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh as the lockdown has been eased and inter-state migration allowed, the health ministry said on Tuesday. In UP and MP, the number has gone up from close to 3,000 on May 4 to 6,532 and 6,849, respectively, as of Tuesday morning. In Bihar, the number of cases has increased multi-fold from around 500 to over 2,700 in the same period. On Tuesday, health secretary Preeti Sudan held a meeting with chief secretaries, health secretaries, and National Health Mission directors of these states and emphasised that each containment zone has to be analysed to check the trends and adopt course correction measures. States were asked to assess the existing health infrastructure in terms of quarantine centres, hospitals with intensive care unit, ventilator and oxygen beds, and strengthen them looking at the possible need for the next two months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-eased-covid-cases-have-doubled-in-5-states-govt/articleshow/76022134.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 27, 2020||Noida||One arrested for robbery, three flee||Noida: A Sikandrabad resident was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly robbing a man of his motorcycle and cash and hitting him with a stick. Police said Mohit was part of a four-member gang that was caught following a gunfight between the group and a police team. However, his gang members managed to escape. Police reached the spot after they got a call from one Pankaj who told them that he was robbed of his vehicle and cash near Raghuveer Ghadi village and the men had thrashed him too. They tried to catch the gang, but the members fired at the police team and fled. Mohit was injured and was caught by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/one-arrested-for-robbery-three-flee/articleshow/76016064.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
May 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur halls offer 'Covid special' wedding packages||KOLHAPUR: Several hall operators in Kolhapur have started offering special wedding packages to woo customers during lockdown. These packages are specifically designed keeping in mind the lockdown norms. Not more than 50 people are allowed in wedding functions as per the state government's orders. The new wedding packages ensure social distancing, sanitising, providing masks to the guests and use of thermal guns to check body temperature of every person entering the wedding hall, including the bride and the groom. The wedding hall operators also provide other arrangements such as serving food to the guests, taking care of all decorations as well as arranging a priest for carrying out wedding rituals. These packages cost around Rs 50,000 per wedding ceremony. Rajesh Rajput, a wedding hall operator said, "Since the last few days, we have been getting enquiries for wedding halls. We have sought permissions from local authorities who have asked us to ensure that all the rules are followed. Many engagements have taken place during lockdown, however, most of them were held at home. Since we do not know when things will be back to normal, we have decided to made amends to wedding packages that will be beneficial for us as well as our customers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-halls-offer-covid-special-wedding-packages/articleshow/76022142.cms||Abhijeet Patil
May 27, 2020||Noida||Quarantine units a threat to residents, says RWA||NOIDA: A two-member team from the Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) met Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh in Sector 108 on Tuesday to discuss about guesthouses and community centres in residential sectors being used as quarantine centres. “The use of guesthouses as quarantine facilities can pose threat to the residents. The commissioner has assured that the matter will be looked into and that, for now, the quarantine tenure will be for seven days with remaining seven days of the quarantine period to be observed at home by people placed in these facilities,” said Yogendra Sharma, president, FONRWA. On passes for movement between Delhi and Noida, the police commissioner assured that for those travelling from airports and railway stations, the tickets would act as passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/quarantine-units-a-threat-to-residents-says-rwa/articleshow/76016087.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
May 27, 2020||India||MEA denies snubbing Nepal envoy in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday strongly denied reports that it had kept Nepal ambassador Nilambar Acharya waiting for an appointment in the middle of fresh strife over the boundary issue. Official sources said MEA maintained close working relations with all resident missions in New Delhi and interacted with them on a regular basis. India’s response followed reports in Nepalese media that Acharya had not been able to meet any senior Indian official despite repeated attempts. “Indian officials refusing to meet with him has created a very difficult environment in which to hold talks,” Kathmandu Post quoted a Nepali official as saying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-denies-snubbing-nepal-envoy-in-delhi/articleshow/76022148.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab readies plan to tackle locusts causing havoc in Raj, UP||Bathinda: Going by the locust attacks in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and the probability of them spreading to Punjab, the state agriculture department has prepared an action plan centred around 3Ms — medicine, machine and man. The deartment is arranging sufficient medicine and has asked field officials to prepare a contingency plan on the availability of tractors having facility of mounting pipes which could be used for spraying medicine and keep workforce on standby for dealing with an attack during any time of the day. Officials have been asked to identify persons who have such tractors and owners of shops and godowns with stocks of medicine for repelling locusts for any emergency use.The department has been asked to supply sufficient quantity of medicine to districts which could be affected by such an attack. Swarms of locusts were first spotted at Jaipur in Rajasthan and then Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, from where they headed towards Dausa district. It is after 27 years that such big swarms of locusts have been spotted in India. They can cause immense loss to agriculture. In Punjab, small swarms of locusts had been spotted at least on four occasions in the border districts of Fazilka and Ferozepur with Roopnagar and Bareka villages being hotspots for locusts. As per Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), locusts are expected to attack various places in the country in summer, starting late May. The FAO has said that a one-square-kilometre swam having nearly 4 crore locusts could cause loss of food in a day which is sufficient for 35,000 persons. Insecticides chlorpyrifos and lambda cyhalothrin are sprayed to kill locusts, which are approved by the Indian government and the FAO, with no effect on ecology or crops. BOX: What are locusts? Locust is a large-sized insect, a short-horned grasshopper of migratory habit. Its swarms attack crops and green vegetations and cause extensive damage due to the insect’s feeding behaviour. Locusts form persistent and cohesive groups, swarm, feed and move together as they are very mobile Who monitors them in India? Locust Control and Research (LC&R) is responsible for control of desert locust in India which works through the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), which is a part of the directorate of plant protection quarantine and storage (DPPQS), Union agriculture ministry Where they could attack in Punjab? The state agriculture department has identified Fazilka, Ferozepur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Faridkot and Bathinda as districts where the insect could invade. Plan in place: Agri secy Punjab agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said going by the action plan prepared by state government, control rooms would be set up at district headquarters. “There is close coordination with revenue, agriculture and locust control officers (LCOs) for assessment of ground situation, and exchange of field information. We are preparing teams of local revenue and agriculture officers for field surveys and sharing real-time information, involving panchayat heads in disseminating information. We will provide survey control vehicles as per requirement given by LCOs. District officials will identify places with coordination of BSF and LCO where teams will be deployed and assist in establishing temporary camps in border and remote areas in light of Covid-19. A joint director-level officer has been made the nodal officer for coordinating with agencies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-readies-plan-to-tackle-locusts-causing-havoc-in-raj-up/articleshow/76016101.cms||Neel Kamal
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Closed since March, Bengaluru pre-schools are up for sale||BENGALURU: With the uncertainty over reopening of schools continuing, the worst affected are small, independent pre-schools that cater to children below six years. Shut since March with no new admissions, summer camps and day-care — which are among their major sources of income — many preschools are now up for sale. According to various stakeholders, the number of pre-schools up for sale in the city has gone up significantly. “There has been a surge in owners selling schools. In the last two months, I have received queries about 185 pre-schools up for sale in Bengaluru,” said Prasanna Kumar, CEO of School Ventures, that connects buyers and sellers of schools. “Across India, I have 600 clients who want to sell their pre-primaries. I expect these numbers to go up significantly by July.” With most of these pre-schools being run by women entreprenuers with little backing, there is no financial bandwidth to sustain business for long in these circumstances, he pointed out. An educational consultant who deals with sales agreed: “There has been a depreciation in the market and sales of pre-schools are up as indicated by many digital platforms used for such transactions.” The Karnataka Council of Pre-Schools which has around 2,000 members is meeting primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Thursday to submit a memorandum. “Our case is that we are one of the safest places for children as they come from nearby, have minimum contact with adults and stay in clean surroundings that are sanitised regularly. We are essential for working parents. Online classes are not an option as children already have enough exposure to screen time at home. We have to look at how to generate revenue to pay salaries and rents and keep us alive and not close schools,” said Pruthvi Banwasi, secretary of the council and owner of twopreschools. Owners like Pruthvi are looking at closing a branch or merging branches to cut down on operational costs. The forecast is grim though. Suresh Kumar had earlier told TOI that he is under pressure from parents to skip an academic year for pre-primary classes as they fear for their children’s safety. At the same time, he tweeted that online classes will not be allowed for these sections. The education department has asked Nimhans to prepare a report on whether it’s advisable to do so. Pre-school owners say no money to pay rent, salariesThe situation is terrible. We are yet to receive fees from last year. No new admissions are happening. There has been no school or day care. Yet, we have to pay rent and salaries among other expenditures. There’s also no clarity on when we can reopen. We’re a section whose voice has not been heard,” said Sandhya Prithvi, director of Creative kidz, who quit her corporate career to work with children. While some schools are working on online models, many believe it’s ineffective. “Most pre-schools are establishments run by women entrepreneurs with a small, decent profit. The slump is hurting this section of society,” said Mridula Shridhar of Kido enterprise. “While we help 200-300 women every year to set up their own preschools, we have had less than 100 sign up for our programme this time round. We have asked them to put their plans on hold because of the uncertainty. Never in our 27 years of service have we faced such a slump.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/closed-since-march-bengaluru-pre-schools-are-up-for-sale/articleshow/76022150.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 27, 2020||Noida||Markets in Ghaziabad open to a low footfall||Ghaziabad: Markets in Ghaziabad opened to a lukewarm response on Tuesday. According to the traders, there were a few customers who turned up but hoped that in the coming days business will pick up. Vipin Goel, a trader in Sanjay Nagar, told TOI that as per the alternate-day scheme initiated by the administration, more than 16 marketplaces, including in Chaupla, Ghanta Ghar, Delhi Gate and Turab Nagar, opened. “There were far less customers. This was probably due to the movement restrictions and also the timing under which we are allowed to open the markets. People even during normal days avoided visiting markets due to the heatwave conditions but we do hope that business will gain momentum in days to come,” Goel added. Rajesh Saini, another shopkeeper from Ghanta Ghar, sounded optimistic. “This was the first day and I think the situation will improve and once again we will see more footfalls in some days.” Meanwhile, the administration had deployed its personnel to ensure that social distancing norms were followed. “As you can see cops from the area have been deputed to oversee whether social distancing norms are being followed. We saw less movement of people than what was expected,” said an official from the administration. A few days ago, the administration had identified over 30 marketplaces which were allowed to open on alternate days between 10am to 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/markets-in-ghaziabad-open-to-a-low-footfall/articleshow/76016122.cms||Abhijay Jha
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Vegetable growers not even able to recover their costs||Jalandhar: Even as the Punjab government had ensured that vegetable markets started working within a couple of days of national lockdown and official machinery facilitated their working, yet the wholesale prices are so low that farmers are not even able to recover their expenses. At the same time, the retail prices range between three and six times more than what farmers are being able to fetch. “Three days back we sold capsicum at Rs 3 per kg and could not even recover its plucking cost, which is around Rs 7 per kg,” said Jarnail Singh Garhdiwala, leader of Kandhi Kisaan Sangharash Committee. He sells his produce in vegetable market of Hariana in district Hoshiarpur. The retail price of capsicum has not gone below Rs 20 in all these days. “We could sell gourd for Rs 4 per kg and tomato at Rs 4-5 per kg, while in retail these are being sold at Rs 15 to 20 per kg. Farmers are not able to sell most of the produce above Rs 5 per kg,” he said. Near Sultanpur Lodhi, Gazipur village resident Daljeet Singh ploughed his crop of capsicum on Monday as he could not have recovered the costs on of plucking, packing and transporting. “I had capsicum on two acres. I would transport a small cargo vehicle to Jalandhar market and my expenses on its plucking, packing and transportation would total over Rs 3,500 for around 1,400 kilograms, but I would get just Rs 2,800 to 3,000 in the market. Finally I decided to plough it. I had spent around Rs 1.5 lakh on so far,” he said. “Three more growers have also ploughed their produce,” he said. Phagwara-based farmer Avtar Singh, who has been focussing on diversification, shared similar experience. “Capsicum was never sold at single digit prices in the wholesale market. This time its price is at rock bottom,” he said. “Pumpkin was sold at Rs 1 per kg and gourd at Rs 2-3 per kg,” he said. “The government must evolve a system, including tech-based solutions, to ensure that farmers are not doomed. How can idea of diversification be promoted if those who try face such a situation at the hands of traders in the vegetable markets. We are facing huge losses but consumers are still not getting these cheap. Middlemen walk away with profits,” said Garhdiwala and Avtar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vegetable-growers-not-even-able-to-recover-their-costs/articleshow/76016129.cms||IP Singh
May 27, 2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Retired cop with Covid-19 dies from kidney ailment||GHAZIABAD: Two Ghaziabad residents with comorbid conditions who had also tested positive for Covid-19, died on Tuesday at hospitals in Delhi. Chief medical officer, Dr NK Gupta, however, said the health department is yet to receive information about the deaths and have not added them to the district tally. One of the deceased was a retired policeman in his sixties who lived in Pratap Vihar, Vijay Nagar. He was undergoing treatment for kidney-related ailment at LNJP Hospital in Delhi. On May 3, he tested positive for coronavirus infection and was being treated for the same. He died on Monday night and his last rites were performed at a crematorium in Delhi following safety procedures. The other patient who passed away in a hospital in Delhi was a woman from Nehru Nagar. Besides these two deaths, a 45-year-old cancer patient from Delhi’s Patparganj, who had also contracted Covid, was brought to District Combined Hospital on Monday. But given her serious condition, she was not admitted and was referred to LLRM Medical College in Meerut where she later died. Confusion over her residency prevailed throughout Tuesday since the address mentioned during admission to the Meerut hospital was that of her relatives’ who live in Indirapuram, while a statement issued by the hospital referred to her as a Ghaziabad resident. According to Dr TVS Arya, who is the in-charge of the Covid-19 ward at the medical college, the woman was brought to the hospital on Monday afternoon. “She was admitted to the isolation ward in a very serious condition. Later, her condition worsened and she was shifted to Covid-19 ICU. She died at around 12.30am on Tuesday, despite the constant efforts of doctors,” said a press statement issued by Arya. Four persons, including an elderly couple, tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday. As per the health department, a 61-year-old man and his 58-year-old wife from Vaishali have contracted the disease and undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital. Also, an employee of a shelter home in Muradnagar and a GTB Hospital staffer who lives in Loni have tested positive. Officially, the district tally is at 235 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/retired-cop-with-covid-dies-from-kidney-ailment/articleshow/76016133.cms||Aditya Dev
May 27, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD to submit memos for probe into ‘seed scam’||Chandigarh: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Tuesday that the party would submit memorandums to deputy commissioners across Punjab on May 28 for probe into the alleged ‘seed scam’ under which spurious breeder seed varieties of paddy were sold to farmers at three times the cost of genuine seeds. The SAD president said that senior party leaders including MPs, ex-MPs, MLAs, constituency representatives and district presidents would submit the memorandums to deputy commissioners. “No action has been taken in the matter. The police have not conducted any seizures on godowns as well as the unit of Karnal Agri Seeds, Gurdaspur, which supplied the spurious seeds. No arrests have been made in the case,” said Sukhbir. He added that the state government seemed to be ready to let lakhs of farmers suffer only because the owner of Karnal Agri Seeds is a close associate of one of the cabinet ministers. The alleged seed scam, involving hundreds of crores, was the handiwork of Congress leaders along with unscrupulous seed producers and sellers, the SAD leader said. He demanded that the chief minister form a SIT to probe into the case and also appealed to all affected farmers to come forward and register their complaints. The affected farmers should be compensated and given alternative quality seeds for free, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-to-submit-memos-for-probe-into-seed-scam/articleshow/76016141.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||India’s LAC infra upgrade unnerves China||NEW DELHI: With the tiger no longer crouching, and in fact getting more capable of leaping out of the trenches now, the dragon obviously is breathing fire. China has been unnerved by India’s slow but steady improvement in border infrastructure for faster mobility of its troops and weapon systems in forward areas over the last few years. India may still have a long way to go in matching China’s border infrastructure, leave alone the stark asymmetry in terms of military forces and capabilities, but is now increasingly challenging the dragon’s dominance in road and air connectivity in disputed high-altitude stretches along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh. This has certainly irked China. One of the triggers for the ongoing troop confrontations in eastern Ladakh, for instance, is India’s completion of the 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) road last year and its fresh move to build some additional feeder link roads and bridges. Read also: India firm, won’t step back from areas where Chinese troops have intrudedThe DSDBO road, which has 37 bridges, runs almost parallel to the LAC to provide easier access to the Depsang and Galwan Valley areas while ending near the strategically-important Karako ram Pass. It is linked at several places to troop and logistics bases in depth areas. “The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is upset that some of our roads now provide swifter induction of troops in border regions of Ladakh. With better infrastructure on both sides, there will of course be more incidents of rival troops coming face-to-face,” said a senior officer. But the overall situation along the LAC is still far from adequate. Only 35 of the 73 “strategic’’ all-weather roads, with more east-west lateral links as well as better access routes to strategic peaks and valleys, identified for construction almost two decades ago, have been fully completed till now. Read AlsoChina's Xi urges preparedness for military combat amid coronavirus epidemicPresident Xi Jinping said on Tuesday China would step up its preparedness for armed combat and improve its ability to carry out military tasks as the coronavirus pandemic is having a profound impact on national security, state television reported. China's performance in fighting the new coronavirus“In eastern Arunachal, for instance, most road heads are around 20 to 70 km away from the LAC. Our patrols have to trudge for miles to physically dominate our claim lines. The PLA has no such problems,” he added. But India has certainly sent an unmistakable strategic signal to China by re-activating and upgrading old advance landing grounds (ALGs) in both eastern Ladakh (Nyoma, DBO and Fukche) and Arunachal (Pasighat, Mechuka, Walong, Tuting, Along and Ziro ) over the last decade. The landings of C-17 Globemaster-III and C-130J “Super Hercules” aircraft at these makeshift airstrips allows India to move troops and equipment to “threatened areas” along the LAC much more quickly now. The ALG at DBO, the highest such airstrip in the world at an altitude of 16,614-feet, for instance, overlooks the strategic Karakoram Pass and is just a few kilometres away from the LAC and the Chinaoccupied Aksai Chin region beyond. China has assiduously built an extensive military infrastructure in the Tibet Autonomous Region, which includes 14 airbases, an extensive rail network and over 58,000-km of roads. China is now also constructing underground hangers and parking bays for its fighters by digging tunnels into mountains at some of the airbases, as was reported by TOI earlier. Watch India-China standoff: Top Army commanders meet to review security situation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-lac-infra-upgrade-unnerves-china/articleshow/76022159.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 27, 2020||Noida||Noida saw 90 cases in a week, most are from rural clusters||NOIDA: The number of weekly Covid cases in Noida has nearly doubled from 51 to 90 in a span of 14 days. Data sourced from the health department has suggested that rural areas and offices that have resumed operations account for a major part of these recent cases. Between last Monday and this, Noida has seen 104 Covid cases and a majority of them have been reported from the Sector 16 office of a media house. With 50 employees testing positive so far, including 31 from Noida, the media house is slowly emerging as a major cluster in the city. At least five workers of other media groups — spanning across editorial, production and distribution departments — have been found to have Covid. According to the health department, about 60% of the recent cases have come from rural clusters — JJ Colony, Harola, Mamura, Nangla Charandas and Nithari. “There is no definite source of infection for these patients. They live in congested localities, which makes contact tracing very difficult. We are trying to make containment stricter in such areas,” a health department official said, adding that stricter containment of hotspots was the only strategy available if the city has to live with Corona. The official said that the administration’s increased focus on JJ Colony and a rise in the number of sample collection has “dug up fresh cases in the area”. Meanwhile, only five cases have been linked to hospitals in the past week. Officials expressed concern over the recent spike in cases, saying it could cast a cloud of uncertainty on easing lockdown norms in the near future. Covid cases started in Noida as early as March 5 and remained in single digits for the next three weeks. However, with 24 cases, the last week of March saw a sudden spike in numbers. Cases reduced by the second week of April and increased again the following week. Between April 27 and May 3, when the second phase of the lockdown had ended, 52 cases were reported in Noida, followed by another 51 the following week. After another week of fewer cases, the graph shot again with 90 cases last week. On May 18, Noida had reported 31 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike so far. On Tuesday, three persons who tested positive in Noida, taking the Covid count to 362 in the district. Among those who were found to have Covid was a 20-year-old man who worked as a support staffer at GIMS and was already in quarantine. Another patient was a 39-year-old woman from Salarpur and the third, a 38-year-old man from Gijhore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-saw-90-cases-in-a-week-most-are-from-rural-clusters/articleshow/76016174.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Temples in Karnataka set to open from June 1||BENGALURU: Shut for over two months due to the Covid-19 lockdown, thousands of temples in Karnataka will reopen on June 1. “We have decided to open all temples from June 1 after ensuring social-distancing norms and hygiene factor are adhered to,” Karnataka muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary told reporters here on Tuesday. Religious fairs and ceremonies will, however, continue to be prohibited. Mosques and churches, too,may open on June 1. The cabinet is expected to meet on Thursday and take a decision over reopening of churches and mosques as they do not fall under the jurisdiction of the muzrai department. The minorities department will consult religious heads on Wednesday and make recommendations before the cabinet convenes on Thursday to discuss the issue. However, all these decisions will be subject to the Centre’s guidelines on reopening of places of worship expected by the end of this month, an official said. Government set to issue standard operating procedure for templesPlaces of worship have been closed ever since Karnataka enforced a state-wide lockdown in the third week of March to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Over 36,000 temples come under the muzrai department. Thousands of temples owned by trusts too have been shut down. Minister Poojary said necessary arrangements will be made at temples by May 31 and a standard operating procedure will be issued before they open their doors again. The minister said online puja bookings in over 50 temples will start on Wednesday. He said the plan is to allow all sevas (rituals) at the temples once they open. However, depending on the situation, they may limit the rituals to a few. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa recently launched app-based online booking of sevas. These include sevas in Mookambika temple in Kollur; Kukke Subramanya temple; Renuka Yellamma temple in Saundatti; Banashankari temple and Gavi Gangadhareshwara temple in Bengaluru. The government’s plan also included allowing e-darshan and sending prasadam by post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/temples-in-karnataka-set-to-open-from-june-1/articleshow/76022177.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Noida||Hospital staff among three found coronavirus positive in Noida||NOIDA: A hospital worker was among three people who tested positive in Noida on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 count to 362 in the district. While 244 patients have recovered, active cases remain at 113. Among those who were found to have Covid-19 was a 20-year-old man who worked as a support staffer at GIMS and was already in quarantine. Another patient was a 39-year-old woman from Salarpur and the third, a 38-year-old man from Gijhore. The Noida administration on Tuesday also made its fourth isolation centre operational — a 100-bed facility at Kailash Hospital took in two patients. “We had acquired Kailash Hospital’s isolation facility about a month back when some medical workers were found positive. We are now focusing on rigorous contact tracing and containment drives at highly infected clusters,” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer in charge of handling Covid-19 response. Noida now has isolation wards with 500 beds in total, of which 113 are occupied. Health camps were organised in 13 places across Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola and JJ Colony, which have accounted for a majority of recent cases. Health officials screened 662 patients, of whom 12 were referred to the district hospital as they had fever. Meanwhile, nine patients were discharged on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/hospital-staff-among-3-found-positive-in-noida/articleshow/76016238.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
May 27, 2020||World||In a first, Twitter adds fact-check warnings to Trump tweets||WASHINGTON: For the first time, Twitter has flagged some of President Donald Trump's tweets with a fact-check warning. On Tuesday, Twitter added a warning phrase to two Trump tweets that called mail-in ballots "fraudulent" and predicted that "mail boxes will be robbed," among other things. Under the tweets, there is now a link reading "Get the facts about mail-in ballots" that guides users to a Twitter "moments" page with fact checks and news stories about Trump's unsubstantiated claims. There is NO WAY (ZERO!) that Mail-In Ballots will be anything less than substantially fraudulent. Mail boxes will b… https://t.co/les5rPlDLQ— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1590495473000Until now, the president has simply blown past Twitter's half-hearted attempts to enforce rules intended to promote civility and "healthy" conversation on its most prominent user. Trump frequently amplifies misinformation, spreads abuse and uses his pulpit to personally attack private citizens and public figures alike — all forbidden under Twitter's official rules. In a statement, Twitter said Trump's vote-by-mail tweets "contain potentially misleading information about voting processes and have been labelled to provide additional context around mail-in ballots." Trump has never previously faced Twitter sanctions on his account. The husband of a woman who died by accident two decades ago in an office of then-GOP Rep. Joe Scarborough recently demanded that Twitter remove the president's baseless tweets suggesting that Scarborough, now a fierce Trump critic, killed her. Twitter issued a statement expressing its regret to the husband but so far has taken no action on those tweets. Over the weekend, the president issued several tweets calling into question the legality of mail-in-ballots. The storm of tweets followed Facebook and Twitter posts from Trump last week that wrongly claimed Michigan's secretary of state mailed ballots to 7.7 million registered voters. Trump later deleted the tweet and posted an edited version that still threatened to hold up federal funds. Twitter policy forbids sharing "false or misleading information intended to intimidate or dissuade people from participating in an election or other civic process." While it has previously flagged tweets conveying misinformation about the COVID-19 pandemic, it has never before put warnings on tweets for any other reason. Trump replied on Twitter, accusing the platform of "interfering in the 2020 Presidential Election" and insisting that "as president, I will not allow this to happen." .@Twitter is now interfering in the 2020 Presidential Election. They are saying my statement on Mail-In Ballots, wh… https://t.co/cdSr6B9kWi— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1590536410000His 2020 campaign manager Brad Parscale said Twitter's "clear political bias" had led the campaign to pull "all our advertising from Twitter months ago." Twitter has banned all political advertising since last November. Trump's Scarborough tweets offer another example of the president using Twitter to spread misinformation — in this case, about an accidental death that Trump persists in linking to the co-host of MSNBC's "Morning Joe" show. "My request is simple: Please delete these tweets," Timothy J. Klausutis wrote to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey last week. The body of Lori Kaye Klausutis, 28, was found in Scarborough's Fort Walton Beach, Florida, congressional office on July 20, 2001. Trump has repeatedly tried to implicate Scarborough in the death even though Scarborough was in Washington, not Florida, at the time. There is no mystery to the death of Lori Klausutis. Medical officials ruled that the aide, who had a heart condition and told friends hours earlier that she wasn't feeling well, had fainted and hit her head. Foul play was not suspected. Klausutis wrote in his letter that he has struggled to move on with his life due to the ongoing "bile and misinformation" spread about his wife on the platform, most recently by Trump. His wife continues to be the subject of conspiracy theories 20 years after her death. Klausutis called his wife's death "the single most painful thing that I have ever had to deal with" and said he feels a marital obligation to protect her memory amid "a constant barrage of falsehoods, half-truths, innuendo and conspiracy theories since the day she died." Trump's tweets violate Twitter's community rules and terms of service, he said. "An ordinary user like me would be banished," he wrote. At Tuesday's White House briefing, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany repeatedly refused to say why Trump was pressing the unfounded allegations or whether he would stop tweeting about them. Instead, she focused on remarks that Scarborough made about the case that she said were inappropriate and flippant. Dorsey did not reply directly to Klausutis' letter and has not taken any action on the president's tweets. In a statement, Twitter said it was "deeply sorry about the pain these statements, and the attention they are drawing, are causing the family." Scarborough has urged the president to stop his baseless attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-a-first-twitter-adds-fact-check-warnings-to-trump-tweets/articleshow/76022173.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Noida||Registration on portal? Flyers coming to Noida unaware of it||NOIDA: Many domestic flyers returning to Gautam Budh Nagar are still clueless about the mandatory registration on the government’s Covid-19 portal before boarding a flight. RWAs have meanwhile demanded that, along with the authorities, they too should be kept in the loop about the details of such flyers so that it can be ensured the returnees follow quarantine norms. Some 15 such flyers have already returned to Gautam Budh Nagar over the past two days. And those who returned on Tuesday too said that neither anyone from the administration had contacted them nor were they informed about the formality of Covid-19 registration by the airport authorities. Prarambh Saxena, who works at a software company in Bengaluru, was one of those who returned to Noida via Delhi after two months. “But I did not receive any information about the registration on government portal,” the Sector 27 resident said. Mansi Gupta, a BTech student, also returned from Bengaluru to Delhi, and subsequently, her Gaur City home. “We are aware that home isolation is required but no such information (about mandatory registration on Covid-19 portal) was provided at the airport,” her father Pankaj said. RWAs, on the other hand, have asked the district administration to provide them information about any such persons on their return so as to keep a tab on them. “We have seen this in previous cases of international fliers, where people hid their travel history and did not inform us at the time of returning. Moreover, it has been found that in some cases, their domestic staff have been found to be visiting other houses and roaming around the societies, which can lead to possible infection,” said Yogendra Sharma, president of FONRWA. However, district authorities say they are themselves yet to receive data from Lucknow. “The data is being uploaded on the district's portal by authorities in Lucknow,” said district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohare. On the issue of self isolation, district magistrate Suhas LY said since, the government guidelines are meant for “domestic flyers”, the possibility is that people coming to Noida from places in UP via connecting flights would need home quarantine. ‘The administration will also share the details of the domestic flyers with the RWAs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/registration-on-portal-flyers-coming-to-noida-unaware-of-it/articleshow/76016354.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka planning to start UG, PG, engineering courses from August 1||BENGALURU: Karnataka is planning to reopen classes for undergraduate courses, including engineering streams, on August 1 after conducting examinations as per the schedule prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC). However, the government will announce its decision in the first week of June after the Centre reviews the lockdown by May 31. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Tuesday said, “For now, we will stick to the UGC schedule.” According to the UGC schedule, the ongoing online classes will end on May 31. Final-year exams will be held from July 1 to 15, and those of the first and second years from July 16 to 31. First-year degree and engineering classes should begin on September 1 and others by August 1. Sources said students may not get a summer break. The higher education department has been conducting online classes for undergraduate and postgraduate courses, and the lecturers have completed 79% of the syllabus. Till date, 30,000 classes have been conducted, benefiting 85% of students through WhatsApp and YouTube channel of the department. A section of the engineering students have demanded that exams be cancelled as classes were not conducted because of the pandemic. Maharashtra has sought UGC’s permission to cancel final-year degree exams because of the current environment. Govt okay with continuing online teaching methodDeputy CM Ashwath Narayan said they will hold a meeting with vice-chancellors of universities in the first week of June before deciding on the next step. “The problem is not unique to our university since it’s faced by all universities across India. There are many factors involved in it. As the issue is sensitive, we need to tread carefully,” said Dr Karisiddappa, vice-chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University. The government is in favour of continuing with online method of teaching for higher education with chief minister BS Yediyurappa appreciating the initiative. He directed department officials to look at the possibility of introducing online education at the pre-university level too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-planning-to-start-ug-pg-engineering-courses-from-august-1/articleshow/76022288.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram has three Covid-19 hospitals, but none handling patients due for delivery||GURUGRAM: The death of a two-day-old girl from Gurugram at ESIC Hospital in Faridabad, the youngest Covid-19 patient in Haryana to succumb to the infection, has raised serious concerns about the lack of healthcare facilities in the city for Covid-19 positive pregnant women. The state of affairs is such that the health department is referring such patients to nearby cities for delivery. There are three designated Covid-19 hospitals in the city – the government-run 126-bed ESIC Hospital in Sector 9, the 150-bed Medeor hospital in Manesar, which is a non-profit venture by CEOs, and the 100-bed SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera. None of the three facilities is taking cases of pregnant women who have tested positive for Covid. “Our neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and operation theatre for deliveries of babies are not functional at present as we are dealing with Covid-19 patients. We are referring pregnant women to other hospitals,” said a doctor at ESIC hospital. While the health department is aware that the city lacks any facility for pregnant Covid patients, it has not yet referred any them to the Medeor hospital. When contacted by TOI, Gurugram chief medical officer JS Punia did not give any reason for this. Instead, he said the city already has a dedicated maternity care unit to deal with Covid-19 positive pregnant women. “We are sending all pregnant Covid-19 patients to our Sector 31 polyclinic,” said Punia. The polyclinic, however, lacks a labour room and an ultrasound facility. The ESIC hospital, which has 55 Covid-19 patients, has sent only one pregnant Covid-19 patient to the polyclinic. Four other pregnant women in the city who had contracted the infection were referred to Faridabad’s ESIC hospital. Medeor Hospital told TOI that so far it has not received any cases of pregnant Covid-19 patients from the other hospitals. If it does, it added, a gynaecology ward is in place along with a team of doctors for treating Covid-19 cases. At present, the hospital has 50 Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, for expectant mothers, the lack of facilities for such cases has been worrying. A resident of Sushant Lok-1, who is due to deliver sometime around the end of this month, said her usually easy-going nature had been overtaken by anxiety as she tries to figure out the hospital best suited for her. “There are no clear guidelines for pregnant Covid-19 patients. What are they supposed to do? Why are private hospitals denying them medical help? A private hospital has said that all pregnant women must go for Covid-19 testing before delivery,” the woman claimed. She added that she was told by the private hospital that if she tested positive, she would have to be admitted to the Sector 31 polyclinic. But she is wary of what could be in store there. “I don’t know what kind of facilities they have at the polyclinic,” she said. Another woman, who lives in South City-1, expressed concern. She, too, claimed that private hospitals had denied admission to such cases. “A pregnant woman was referred to Faridabad after she was tested positive for Covid. We are living in a city like Gurugram, and it does not have any centre to deal with pregnant women who have the virus? Why can’t the government provide proper facilities for the residents?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-has-3-covid-hospitals-but-none-handling-patients-due-for-delivery/articleshow/76016553.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 27, 2020||Faridabad||Gurugram has three Covid-19 hospitals, but none handling patients due for delivery||GURUGRAM: The death of a two-day-old girl from Gurugram at ESIC Hospital in Faridabad, the youngest Covid-19 patient in Haryana to succumb to the infection, has raised serious concerns about the lack of healthcare facilities in the city for Covid-19 positive pregnant women. The state of affairs is such that the health department is referring such patients to nearby cities for delivery. There are three designated Covid-19 hospitals in the city – the government-run 126-bed ESIC Hospital in Sector 9, the 150-bed Medeor hospital in Manesar, which is a non-profit venture by CEOs, and the 100-bed SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera. None of the three facilities is taking cases of pregnant women who have tested positive for Covid. “Our neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and operation theatre for deliveries of babies are not functional at present as we are dealing with Covid-19 patients. We are referring pregnant women to other hospitals,” said a doctor at ESIC hospital. While the health department is aware that the city lacks any facility for pregnant Covid patients, it has not yet referred any them to the Medeor hospital. When contacted by TOI, Gurugram chief medical officer JS Punia did not give any reason for this. Instead, he said the city already has a dedicated maternity care unit to deal with Covid-19 positive pregnant women. “We are sending all pregnant Covid-19 patients to our Sector 31 polyclinic,” said Punia. The polyclinic, however, lacks a labour room and an ultrasound facility. The ESIC hospital, which has 55 Covid-19 patients, has sent only one pregnant Covid-19 patient to the polyclinic. Four other pregnant women in the city who had contracted the infection were referred to Faridabad’s ESIC hospital. Medeor Hospital told TOI that so far it has not received any cases of pregnant Covid-19 patients from the other hospitals. If it does, it added, a gynaecology ward is in place along with a team of doctors for treating Covid-19 cases. At present, the hospital has 50 Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, for expectant mothers, the lack of facilities for such cases has been worrying. A resident of Sushant Lok-1, who is due to deliver sometime around the end of this month, said her usually easy-going nature had been overtaken by anxiety as she tries to figure out the hospital best suited for her. “There are no clear guidelines for pregnant Covid-19 patients. What are they supposed to do? Why are private hospitals denying them medical help? A private hospital has said that all pregnant women must go for Covid-19 testing before delivery,” the woman claimed. She added that she was told by the private hospital that if she tested positive, she would have to be admitted to the Sector 31 polyclinic. But she is wary of what could be in store there. “I don’t know what kind of facilities they have at the polyclinic,” she said. Another woman, who lives in South City-1, expressed concern. She, too, claimed that private hospitals had denied admission to such cases. “A pregnant woman was referred to Faridabad after she was tested positive for Covid. We are living in a city like Gurugram, and it does not have any centre to deal with pregnant women who have the virus? Why can’t the government provide proper facilities for the residents?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/gurgaon-has-3-covid-hospitals-but-none-handling-patients-due-for-delivery/articleshow/76025816.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Strong winds rain bricks, kill IT employee in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 22-year-old woman employee of IT major TCS standing in front of her house was killed after hollow bricks, cement bags and steel rods fell on her from an adjacent building under construction in Nandini Layout, northwest Bengaluru, on Tuesday evening. According to police, the incident took place at Ramanna Block when R Shilpa was standing in front of her house and gusty winds sent a hail of construction material raining on her. Terming it a rain-related tragedy, police said Shilpa was shifted to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. The is the first rain-related death of the year. Vani K, a neighbour and eyewitness, said Shilpa had come out of her house to remove clothes from the clothesline as it had begun raining. In the second incident, a 45-year-old woman riding a scooter died when a tree fell on her in Yejaman Layout, near Begur, off Hosur Road. Bricks, cement bags fell on her from building, says neighbourShe was speaking to a friend on the road. Suddenly we heard a loud noise only to find hollow bricks, cement bags and other construction material raining on her from the adjacent building. We rushed to her to hospital but she died,” said Vani K, a neighbour. A science graduate, Shilpa worked with a TCS office in Whitefield. She is survived by her autorickshaw driverfather Rajanna, mother and a younger brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/strong-winds-rain-bricks-kill-it-employee-in-benglauru/articleshow/76022452.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal markets to reopen today, in phased manner||BHOPAL: After more than two months under lockdown, Bhopal markets are abuzz with activity as the district administration has allowed phased opening of the markets from Wednesday. Bhopal district collector, Tarun Pithode, on Tuesday amended his earlier order issued under section 144 of the CrPC, thereby allowing opening of shops in New Bhopal, Old Bhopal and Bairagarh township in a staggered manner. According to the amended order, retail clothes/footwear/stationery shops in New Bhopal will open from 11.00 am to 5.00 pm on Monday and Thursday. Electronic, electrical,hardware, mobile shops will open on Tuesday and Friday while jewellery/cosmetics/sarafa market will open on Wednesday and Saturday. Govt, private offices to open with 50% attendanceGrocery, vehicle repair/ spare parts shops will remain open on all days of the week from 7.00 am to 7.00 pm while medical shops can remain open all the time. In the old city, retail readymade/hosiery/electronic/ clothes shops will remain open from 11.00 am to 5.00 pm on Monday and Thursday, sarafa/ wholesale readymade/ hosiery/cosmetics, footwear on Tuesday and Friday and saree/ suiting shirting, wholesale cosmetics, stationery and electronic on Wednesday and Saturday from 11.00 am to 5.00 pm. In Bairagarh, markets will remain open on all days of the week except Tuesday and Saturday. Sunday markets will remain closed in new and old city. Government and private offices will open with 50% staff strength, optical shops can open and chicken/fish/meat shops can also open for home delivery. The lockdown will continue in the city and borders of the district will remain sealed and 7.00 pm to 7.00 am curfew will remain in force, clarified the order. Earlier, district collector, Tarun Pithode, held a meeting with representatives of traders on Tuesday morning to elicit their views on how the markets in the city should be opened up. Santosh Agarwal of Bhopal Traders' Association, who participated in the meeting, told TOI that traders were in favour of opening up of market in one go rather than opening shops "sector-wise" (two days a week) as proposed by the district crisis management group. “We have already suffered huge losses. Unless all the shops in market open, people will not start coming into the market,” said Agrawal. He said that the collector told them to ensure social distancing and other norms because if the cases of Coronavirus increase following opening of markets, they will have to be closed again. However, the district administration stuck to its decision not to let the entire market operate on all days of the week except for Sunday and allow a specific cluster of shops to operate two days a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-markets-to-reopen-today-in-phased-manner/articleshow/76022411.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: At polyclinic for pregnant Covid-19 patients, no labour room, blood bank or ultrasound||GURUGRAM: The lone facility in the city to cater to pregnant women who have tested positive for Covid-19 is yet to become fully operational. The polyclinic in Sector 31 was designated to handle such pregnancy cases last week. Worryingly, it lacks basic healthcare facilities, such as a labour room, neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), blood bank, ultrasound facility and an isolated negative pressure room. The polyclinic was a quarantine centre till last week with only 20 beds. Doctors at the facility said they are yet to decide how many more beds are now required. During a spot check, TOI found that at present, there are two pregnant Covid-19 patients at the polyclinic, and the staff is struggling to provide them medical facilities. While one of the women is seven months pregnant, the other, a 30-year-old resident of Khandsa village, is already past her due date. She had approached the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 for delivery on May 14. But after she tested positive for Covid-19 the next day, she was transferred to the Sector 31 polyclinic, as the Civil Hospital is not equipped to help Covid-19 positive women with deliveries. “After a few nurses tested positive for Covid-19 at Civil Hospital, it is no longer handling Covid-19 patients. So the woman was transferred to our centre,” said a doctor at the polyclinic, not wishing to be named. While there is a gynaecology ward in place, another doctor pointed out that the centre had never conducted any delivery till date and was not ready to manage cases of pregnant Covid-19 patients. The woman’s samples were sent for retest on May 23. The results are awaited. “If the test is negative, we can deliver the baby in the Sector 10 hospital. However, if it’s positive again, we will have to look at other options. The polyclinic was an orthopaedic OT. With the current infrastructure, we cannot deal with cases of pregnant Covid-19 patients. We are trying to contact hospitals in Delhi if they would be willing to take our patient,” said Dr Neena Grewal, in-charge of the polyclinic, said.  Gurugram chief medical officer JS Punia told TOI that the health department team was working towards making the Sector 31 polyclinic functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/at-polyclinic-for-pregnant-covid-patients-no-labour-room-blood-bank-or-ultrasound/articleshow/76016583.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: As weddings go minimalist, banquet halls take big blow with 4,500 bookings cancelled||GURUGRAM: Between March and May, banquets halls and party lawns in the city have seen cancellation of bookings for at least 4,500 weddings due to the pandemic and ensuing lockdown. Though the government has allowed banquet halls to operate with a maximum of 50 guests, business has failed to pick up as their services are not required for such small events. As a ripple effect, hundreds of other businesses, including caterers, decorators, flower vendors and bands, are also feeling a pinch in their pockets. According to the Gurugram Party Lawn Welfare Association, the city has at least 150 banquet halls and party lawns, and each of them had bookings for around 30 weddings this summer. “If we put together the number of bookings for May-July, each banquet had around 30 bookings. All of them have been cancelled. A rough estimate suggests that we have seen cancellations for around 4,500 weddings,” association president Anil Rao said. With almost no business and few hopes of things improving over the next few months, the association approached the deputy commissioner on Tuesday and requested that more guests be allowed in weddings. Association members also submitted a list of standard operating procedures that they can follow. “When the government can allow flights and trains, we should be allowed as well. We are ready to take all the required measures,” said Rao. While lockdown restrictions have been eased over the past month, their business will take a few more months to resume as the Union ministry of home affairs has set a cap of 50 guests for a wedding. With such a small gathering, couples getting married are opting for smaller events at their homes or farmhouses instead of shelling out more for banquet halls. “Renting a banquet hall does not make any sense when only 50 people will be present, hence almost all the weddings to be held in such places till July have been cancelled. We don’t have any weddings planned in the next three months, so any business will now only happen in or after November 25, as that is the first muhurta of the season,” said Vinod Saini, who owns three banquet halls in the city. Apart from banquet halls, several other businesses involved in the wedding business, including valet services, choreographers, event managers, caterers and bands, have also lost all their business for the season. “Around 30 of my clients have cancelled bookings in the months of March-May, as almost all weddings have been cancelled. There is very less hope for the future too as weddings are now taking place with few guests and people are not spending that much,” said Gyan Saini, who runs Saini Flora, a city-based floral business. Cancellation and delays in weddings have also impacted the business of cloth merchants, garment owners and beauty parlours. “This used to be a busy time for us, with several weddings lined up. If weddings resume, the sale of clothes and jewellery will also see a rise,” said the owner of a fabric store in Sadar Bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/as-weddings-go-minimalist-banquet-halls-take-big-blow-with-4500-bookings-cancelled/articleshow/76016607.cms||Shubhra Pant
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||4 major infrastructure projects get nod, work to start in June||Gurgaon: Four projects of MCG that were stuck due to the ongoing lockdown or awaiting approval from authorities have finally received the green signal to start work from June. The projects include a cultural centre in Sector 56, a stadium in Wazirabad and two parking lots in Sadar Bazar and Kaman Sarai. The civic body received the permission through auto-approval mode. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “The idea to start these projects is also to give a push to the economy, which has been hit badly by the pandemic. These are decent sized projects and many labourers will get employment.” Around 12.29 acres has been leased out to MCG in Sector 52-53A (Wazirabad village) to build a multi-discipline sports stadium, fulfiling a long pending demand of residents. The stadium will be the third stadium in the city after Nehru Stadium in Old Gurugram and Tau Devi Lal Stadium near Rajiv Chowk. Officials said that these projects are in the last stages of tendering. “We are going to float tenders for the cultural centre and Wazirabad stadium. Once the tender is awarded to a firm, the deadline will be fixed for both the projects,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG. The project cost of the parking facility at Kaman Sarai is Rs 101.26 crore and the project cost of the multi-level parking at Sadar Bazar is Rs 44.56 crore. Both facilities will have 10 floors each, multiple electric vehicle (EV) charging system. “We had started work on the Sadar Bazar parking lot but had to stop due to the lockdown,” said Gopal Kalawat, executive engineer, MCG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/4-major-infrastructure-projects-get-nod-work-to-start-in-june/articleshow/76016657.cms||Vishakha Chaman
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Vehicle registry forgery blows lid off scam at RTO||GURUGRAM: The CM flying squad has unearthed a scam in the registration of commercial vehicles in Gurugram. The owners of commercial vehicles, with the help of middlemen and employees of the Gurugram regional transport office (RTO) allegedly forged the bill of purchase of several vehicles for tax evasion, causing huge losses to state exchequer. The government charges 6% of the vehicle cost as registration fees. By forging the bill, the accused lowered the cost of vehicle to pay less tax. The scam came to light during an investigation in Faridabad related to irregularities in registration of commercial vehicles. Investigators from the CM flying squad found irregularities in around a dozen documents of commercial vehicles, which were registered at Gurugram RTO in 2017. They suspect hundreds of commercial vehicles have been registered with forged documents in the past few years in the city. On the complaint of DSP Devender Yadav from the squad, an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under sections 420 (cheating), 407 (criminal breach of trust by carrier) and 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk) at Shivaji Nagar police station on Tuesday. Initial investigation has revealed that middlemen, with the help of computer operators and officers at the RTO office, executed the scam. “We have sought details of persons posted in Gurugram RTO since 2017. A team will soon visit Gurugram for the investigation,” DSP Yadav said, adding that they are probing the registration of vehicles in the past few years as well. Elaborating on the modus operandi of the fraudsters, the DSP said they began probing the matter after they found discrepancies in the registration papers of an earthmover. The vehicle was registered at Gurugram RTO in 2017. While the original price of the vehicle was Rs 22.8 lakh, the bill of purchase was forged to show that it was bought at 10.3 lakh, he said. The vehicle owner would have had to pay registration fees of around Rs 1.5 lakh, but by presenting the forged bill, he paid just Rs 60,931 and got it registered with the help of middlemen and RTO officials, causing losses to the state exchequer. DSP said they checked the bill submitted at the RTO and found it to be fake. “We took the bill to the dealer who sold the earthmover for verification. It was revealed that the bill had been forged,” Yadav said, adding that till now they have found irregularities in the registration documents of around a dozen vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/vehicle-registry-forgery-blows-lid-off-scam-at-rto/articleshow/76015663.cms||Bagish Jha
May 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Stamp duty cut from 5 per cent to 3 per cent for properties up to Rs 35 lakh||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Tuesday reduced the registration stamp duty from 5% to 3% for properties costing between Rs 21 lakh and Rs 35 lakh in a bid to give a leg-up to the ailing realty sector. The budget presented by the BJP government had brought down the stamp duty from 5% to 2% for properties costing up to Rs 20 lakh. During a meeting with revenue department officials, chief minister BS Yediyurappa reportedly directed the department to reduce the stamp duty to boost the volume of registrations and help lower- and middleclass homebuyers. Thanks to Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown, Karnataka is staring at a loss of Rs 3,542 crore in the ongoing financial year with revenueearning streams like property registration and vehicle registration suffering a big dent in collection drive. Revenue minister R Ashoka said biggest beneficiaries will be homebuyers from cities like Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and semi-rural areas. Stamp duty cut will cost state govt Rs 300cr annuallyThe move will cost the government about Rs 300 crore annually. With property prices stagnant and multiple projects unsold, the reduction in stamp duty is expected to spur demand in affordable and mid-income housing segments, where green shoots are visible. “Also, a property in the premium housing segment in smaller cities could cost about Rs 35 lakh and a homebuyer can save up to Rs 3 lakh in stamp duty after the reduction,” a department official said. A homebuyer pays stamp duty to the government at the time of registration of her property. The fee is levied to validate the homebuyer’s registration agreement by the state government. The stamp duty varies from state to state and is in the 2-7% region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-stamp-duty-cut-from-5-per-cent-to-3-per-cent-for-properties-up-to-rs-35-lakh/articleshow/76026676.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Stamp duty cut from 5 per cent to 3 per cent for properties up to Rs 35 lakh||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Tuesday reduced the registration stamp duty from 5% to 3% for properties costing between Rs 21 lakh and Rs 35 lakh in a bid to give a leg-up to the ailing realty sector. The budget presented by the BJP government had brought down the stamp duty from 5% to 2% for properties costing up to Rs 20 lakh. During a meeting with revenue department officials, chief minister BS Yediyurappa reportedly directed the department to reduce the stamp duty to boost the volume of registrations and help lower- and middleclass homebuyers. Thanks to Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown, Karnataka is staring at a loss of Rs 3,542 crore in the ongoing financial year with revenueearning streams like property registration and vehicle registration suffering a big dent in collection drive. Revenue minister R Ashoka said biggest beneficiaries will be homebuyers from cities like Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and semi-rural areas. Stamp duty cut will cost state govt Rs 300cr annuallyThe move will cost the government about Rs 300 crore annually. With property prices stagnant and multiple projects unsold, the reduction in stamp duty is expected to spur demand in affordable and mid-income housing segments, where green shoots are visible. “Also, a property in the premium housing segment in smaller cities could cost about Rs 35 lakh and a homebuyer can save up to Rs 3 lakh in stamp duty after the reduction,” a department official said. A homebuyer pays stamp duty to the government at the time of registration of her property. The fee is levied to validate the homebuyer’s registration agreement by the state government. The stamp duty varies from state to state and is in the 2-7% region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-stamp-duty-cut-from-5-per-cent-to-3-per-cent-for-properties-up-to-rs-35-lakh/articleshow/76026673.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Stamp duty cut from 5 per cent to 3 per cent for properties up to Rs 35 lakh||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Tuesday reduced the registration stamp duty from 5% to 3% for properties costing between Rs 21 lakh and Rs 35 lakh in a bid to give a leg-up to the ailing realty sector. The budget presented by the BJP government had brought down the stamp duty from 5% to 2% for properties costing up to Rs 20 lakh. During a meeting with revenue department officials, chief minister BS Yediyurappa reportedly directed the department to reduce the stamp duty to boost the volume of registrations and help lower- and middleclass homebuyers. Thanks to Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown, Karnataka is staring at a loss of Rs 3,542 crore in the ongoing financial year with revenueearning streams like property registration and vehicle registration suffering a big dent in collection drive. Revenue minister R Ashoka said biggest beneficiaries will be homebuyers from cities like Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and semi-rural areas. Stamp duty cut will cost state govt Rs 300cr annuallyThe move will cost the government about Rs 300 crore annually. With property prices stagnant and multiple projects unsold, the reduction in stamp duty is expected to spur demand in affordable and mid-income housing segments, where green shoots are visible. “Also, a property in the premium housing segment in smaller cities could cost about Rs 35 lakh and a homebuyer can save up to Rs 3 lakh in stamp duty after the reduction,” a department official said. A homebuyer pays stamp duty to the government at the time of registration of her property. The fee is levied to validate the homebuyer’s registration agreement by the state government. The stamp duty varies from state to state and is in the 2-7% region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-stamp-duty-cut-from-5-per-cent-to-3-per-cent-for-properties-up-to-rs-35-lakh/articleshow/76022491.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Ola resumes services to and from IGI airport||GURUGRAM: A day after the domestic air travel resumed, Gurugram-based cab aggregator (Ola) started its operations from the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport. Anyone travelling to and from the airport can now take a cab . However, with Gurugram administrations announcing that people travelling by air will be able to cross the borders, cab aggregators are now resuming their services. In a statement on Tuesday, Ola said that elevating safety protocols, it will place specially trained staff at IGI to perform car fumigation, temperature checks for driver-partners, and a car audit before every pick-up. “With the resumption of domestic flight operations, we look forward to serving citizens, who need a safe and reliable option for airport trips. The safety of both passengers and driver-partners continues to be a top priority for us and we are committed to following the highest standards of safety and hygiene,” said Anand Subramanian, Ola spokesperson. The cab aggregator has also issued a list of do’s and don’ts for its passengers and drivers to ensure safety. Ola had begun its services in Gurugram in the third phase of the lockdown with restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ola-resumes-services-to-and-from-igi-airport/articleshow/76015809.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Gurgaon||In Gurugram’s biggest day surge, 33 test positive for Covid, 12 cops among them||GURUGRAM: In its sharpest single-day spike, 33 people, including 12 policemen, tested positive for Covid-19 in Gurugram on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 316. Of these, 134 are active cases while 182 patients have been discharged after recovery. Gurugram has the highest number of cases in Haryana, followed by Faridabad with 233. All the policemen who tested positive are from the Udyog Vihar police station. They were on duty at the Kapashera border, where several workers had been assembling every morning over the past few days in order to gain an entry into the city. While the cops are being treated at the ESIC Hospital in Sector 9, the police department said it has started an extensive contact tracing exercise. Samples of 35 policemen have been taken and they have been shifted to the quarantine centre at Manesar. The Udyog Vihar police station and the houses of the cops have also been sanitised. The personnel at both the Kapashera border and the Udyog Vihar police station have been replaced and provided with personal protective equipment (PPE). “Some of our policemen have tested positive for Covid-19. They were on duty at the Kapashera border,” said police commissioner Mohammad Akil. So far, 14 policemen have tested positive for Covid-19. Two cops – one from Udyog Vihar police station and another from Bajghera police – had earlier tested positive on May 19. Among the other patients, seven are from Sirhaul, three from Shankar Chowk, two from a Golf Course Road highrise, two from Hari Nagar and one each from Sector 10, Shakti Nagar, Sector 15, Sector 45, Dundahera, Kanhai and a DLF-4 highrise. While five patients are being treated at ESIC, the rest are in Medeor. A health department official said contacts of each patient are being traced to curb the spread of the virus. “We are planning to increase the containment zones as the numbers are increasing every day,” the official said. The health department did not declare any Covid-19 death on Tuesday. However, the Suncity township RWA said that a 55-year-old man had died of Covid-19. “We have sanitised the entire area,” said Rakesh Malik, RWA president, Suncity. The health department said it was waiting for the final test result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-citys-biggest-day-surge-33-test-ve-for-covid-12-cops-among-them/articleshow/76015951.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 27, 2020||World||WHO warns that first wave of Covid pandemic not over||NEW DELHI: As Brazil and India struggle with surging coronavirus cases, a top health expert is warning that the world is still in the very middle of the outbreak, dampening hopes for a speedy global economic rebound and renewed international travel. “Right now, we’re not in the second wave. We’re right in the middle of the first wave globally,” said Mike Ryan, the WHO’s executive director. “We’re still very much in a phase where the disease is actually on the way up,” Ryan said, pointing to South America, South Asia and other parts of the world. He also warned that countries where infections are declining could still face an “immediate second peak” if they let up too soon on lockdown measures. In Brazil, where President Jair Bosonaro has raged against state and local leaders enforcing stay-at-home measures, WHO warned that before reopening the economy, authorities must have enough testing in place to control the spread of the virus. Brazil has 3,75,000 coronavirus infections and has counted over 23,000 deaths, but many fear Brazil’s true toll is much higher. “You must continue to do everything you can,” Ryan said. Meanwhile, President Putin announced that the postponed military parade marking the 75th anniversary of the allied victory in the World War II will take place on June 24. Putin said the country has passed the peak of the outbreak. Meanwhile, seven public media outlets from the US, Europe, Canada, Japan and Australia said they will work to beat back “the proliferation, particularly on social networks, of fake news” about Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/who-warns-that-first-wave-of-covid-pandemic-not-over/articleshow/76022229.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Woman sells 5-day-old baby boy for Rs 5,000 in Davanagere||DAVANAGERE: A woman allegedly sold her five-day-old baby boy to two siblings from Davanagere for Rs 5,000 on Tuesday in connivance with a hospital employee, according to police. Acting on a complaint by Honnali child development project officer Mahantesh Poojar, police booked a case against six persons in connection with the incident and arrested four of them by Tuesday night. Police said the woman allegedly sold the baby, born on May 20 at Honnali taluk hospital, to Annesh Naik, 36, and his sister Lavanya, 39, in the early hours of Tuesday in front of the Honnali KSRTC bus stand. The six accused have been identified as Kumar, 44, a staff nurse at Honnali hospital; Mahesh, a group ‘D’ employee at the hospital who facilitated the deal; Basavaraj, 36, a lab technician at Hirekerur hospital; Annesh; Lavanya; and the mother of the infant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-woman-sells-5-day-old-baby-boy-for-rs-5000-in-davanagere/articleshow/76022518.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bhopal||Heatwave alert for Bhopal, most of Madhya Pradesh baking at 45 degree Celsius||BHOPAL: The second-day of Nautapa was a scorcher for the entire state, and the third day is going to be worse. There’s a heat wave warning in large parts of MP, including Bhopal division, and Jabalpur, Khandwa and Khargone districts. The temperature in most of MP hovered around the 45-degree mark and hot winds swept through Bhopal and other areas. There’s a red alert in Chambal region and Gwalior and Chhatarpur districts, and loo warning in 17 districts. Day temperature in Bhopal was 44 degrees Celsius – three degrees above normal – and there was no respite at night either, when the mercury hovered at 27 degrees. By 8am on Tuesday, it was already unbearably hot. Hot winds aggravate summer scorcherWednesday may be even hotter in Bhopal as the temperature is expected to rise to 45 degrees Celsius. Hot winds will sweep through the city at 24kmph. And no relief is foreseen in the coming days. Nautapa is living up to its name. Met officials of Bhopal circle said hot dry winds are blowing into the state, raising the temperature. Khajuraho, Khargone, Rewa, Gwalior and Naogaon were the hottest places in the state, baking in 46-degree scorcher. There was a heat wave in Chhatarpur, Gwalior, Rewa, Sidhi, Khargone, Satna, Damoh and Tikamgarh districts. The same areas will face a second day of heat wave, along with Bhopal, Panna, Sagar, Umaria, Jabalpur, Chhindwara, Narsinghpur, Shajapur, Khandwa, Guna, Datia, Shivpuri and Ashok Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/heatwave-alert-for-bhopal-most-of-madhya-pradesh-baking-at-45-degree-celsius/articleshow/76022497.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Stabbed five times, vendor holds on to last savings, fights off robber||BHOPAL: A vegetable vendor, going to the wholesale market with the last Rs 3,000 of his savings to resume business, fell victim to a mugging attempt in Bhopal's Gautam Nagar early Tuesday morning. Despite being stabbed five times, he held on to his money, wrestled the knife from the robber and forced him to flee. Rajkumar Chourasia, 52, is in a critical condition. Police are trying to identify the robber from CCTV footage. A resident of Sharda Nagar, Chourasia has told police that he didn’t earn a paisa all through the lockdown as the new sabzi mandi in Itkheri was closed. With restrictions being eased, he decided to resume his small business. With Rs 3,000 in his pocket and a bundle of sacks, he was walking towards Itkheri on Tuesday when a stranger caught up with him and struck up a conversation, said Gautam Nagar SHO Mahendra Mishra. He asked Chourasia where he was going and the duo shared the troubles each had faced in the lockdown. At Shrinagar Colony, around 4.40am, the stranger suddenly pulled out a knife and pointed it at Chaurasia, threatening to kill him if he didn’t hand over the money, said police. Vegetable vendor critical after stabbingThe robber tried to take the money from Chourasia’s pocket but he resisted. The robber stabbed him five times in the chest, abdomen, wrist, face and leg, but Chaurasia fought back, overpowered him and snatched the knife from him. Unnerved, the robber fled,” said SHO Mishra. Bleeding badly, Chourasia walked towards the main road and sat down at a closed tea stall. A few minutes later, his friend Ram Kishore Patel happened to cycle by and spotted him. He called Dial 100 and a police team immediately took Chaurasia to Hamidia Hospital. He underwent surgery and is in a critical condition. His 18-year-old son and wife are at the hospital, praying for his recovery. Gautam Nagar police have registered a case and are looking for the robber. Police have recovered CCTV footage from the area which show him running away but in the darkness, his face isn’t clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stabbed-five-times-vendor-fights-off-robber-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/76022531.cms||Sudeept Mishra
May 27, 2020||India||India firm, won’t step back from areas where Chinese troops have intruded||NEW DELHI: India will remain firm on the ground in the ongoing troop confrontations in eastern Ladakh where it said China has violated the unresolved boundary and obstructed Indian patrols even as New Delhi remains committed to a peaceful and diplomatic resolution. Top government sources said India will continue to “defend its interests resolutely”, deploy “appropriate resources” and work for a peaceful resolution of the dispute, indicating that troops in a forward position will resist the Chinese intrusions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India will soon resume border infrastructure construction activities derailed by the coronavirus pandemic, but will remain “open and flexible” in diplomatic talks with China in a bid to resolve the military stalemate in the Himalayas, another set of sources said. Read also: India's LAC infra upgrade unnerves ChinaIn an articulation that stood out for forthrightly naming China as the intruder, sources said while India has always remained conscious of where the LAC lies, China has from time to time violated the unresolved boundary, and the government “doesn’t know what their motives are”. All activities and border patrols by India were being undertaken well within its own side of the LAC in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. “But despite that, the Chinese obstructed the Indian patrols. The two sides are engaged diplomatically both here and in Beijing to address the issue, but there won’t be any compromise when it comes to the defence of our territory,” a source said. This came after a flurry of meetings in South Block, defence minister Rajnath Singh and national security advisor Ajit Doval monitoring the developing situation closely as India sought a non-escalatory posture even while making it clear that it will not allow the LAC to be unilaterally altered. India is now actively looking at politico-diplomatic intervention to resolve the crisis after several rounds of major general and brigadier-level negotiations at the Chushul-Moldo and Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO)-Tien Wien Dien (TWD) border personnel meeting (BPM) points have failed to break the deadlock, as was reported by TOI a day ago. India is keeping a close eye on troop reinforcements and fortifications by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at the four-five confrontations sites on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, Demchok and the Galwan Valley region through satellite pictures and a variety of “surveillance platforms” like aircraft and drones. “The situation is serious but not alarming. The Indian Army position is clear that it will not allow the status quo to be changed unilaterally by PLA soldiers, who have intruded 1-3 km into what India considers to be its territory,” said another source. “Indian troops will not budge an inch from their forward positions but will take care not to unnecessarily provoke the PLA troops as per the laid down protocols between the two sides. BPM and hotline talks are being held at the colonel, brigadier and major-general levels but without any breakthrough as yet,” he added. The Indian Army has moved its battalions under the Leh-based 3 Infantry Division (a division has 10,000-12,000 soldiers) forward to their ‘operational alert areas’, with units from other areas replacing them in the ‘traditional depth areas’, as was first reported by TOI. China has deployed an estimated 1,200-1,500 soldiers in the almost eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at the different sites in eastern Ladakh spread across a broad frontage of the LAC. The PLA has also diverted at least 5,000 soldiers towards the border from an exercise it was holding in the region as a show of strength. Watch India, China face-off continues in Eastern Ladakh area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-firm-wont-step-back-from-areas-where-chinese-troops-have-intruded/articleshow/76016584.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 27, 2020||World||US company begins vaccine trial on humans in Australia||CANBERRA: A US biotechnology company began injecting a coronavirus vaccine candidate into people in Australia on Tuesday with hopes of releasing a proven vaccine this year. Novavax will inject 131 volunteers in the first phase of the trial testing the safety of the vaccine and looking for signs of its effectiveness, the company's research chief Dr Gregory Glenn said. About a dozen experimental vaccines against the coronavirus are in early stages of testing or poised to start, mostly in China, the US and Europe. It's not clear that any will prove safe and effective. But many work in different ways, and are made with different technologies, increasing the odds that at least one approach might succeed. "We are in parallel making doses, making vaccine in anticipation that we'll be able to show it's working and be able to start deploying it by the end of this year," Glenn told a virtual news conference in Melbourne from Novavax' headquarters in Maryland. Covid-19: Live updates Animal testing suggested the vaccine is effective in low doses. Novavax could manufacture at least 100 million doses this year and 1.5 billion in 2021, he said. Manufacture of the vaccine, named NVX-CoV2373, was being scaled up with $388 million invested by Norway-based Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations since March, Glenn said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The results of the first phase of clinical trials in Melbourne and Brisbane are expected to be known in July, Novavax said. Thousands of candidates in several countries would then become involved in a second phase. The trial began with six volunteers being injected with the potential vaccine in Melbourne on Tuesday, said Paul Griffin, infectious disease expert with Australian collaborator Nucleus Network. Most of the experimental vaccines in progress aim to train the immune system to recognize the "spike" protein that studs the coronavirus' outer surface, priming the body to react if it was exposed to the real virus. Some candidates are made using just the genetic code for that protein, and others use a harmless virus to deliver the protein-producing information. Still other vaccine candidates are more old-fashioned, made with dead, whole virus. Novavax adds another new kind to that list, what's called a recombinant vaccine. Novavax used genetic engineering to grow harmless copies of the coronavirus spike protein in giant vats of insect cells in a laboratory. Scientists extracted and purified the protein, and packaged it into virus-sized nanoparticles. "The way we make a vaccine is we never touch the virus," Novavax told The Associated Press last month. But ultimately, "it looks just like a virus to the immune system." It's the same process that Novavax used to create a nanoparticle flu vaccine that recently passed late-stage testing. Watch Covid-19: US biotechnology company's vaccine trial on humans in Australia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us-co-begins-vaccine-trial-on-humans-in-oz/articleshow/76022534.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||India’s Covid count set to cross 1.5 lakh, fresh cases dip to 5.5k||NEW DELHI: India’s count of Covid-19 cases was set to cross the 1.5 lakh mark, even as the number of fresh infections reported on Tuesday dropped slightly to its lowest number in the past six days at 5,502 while the deaths related to the virus rose by 172, the second highest single-day toll so far. By late Tuesday night, India had recorded 1,47,758 coronavirus cases while the death toll from the pandemic was 4,345, as per reports from state governments. The number of people who had recovered from the virus had risen to 64,239. With a surge in cases, Mumbai was among the world’s four cities recording the highest number of cases in the past four-five days, data reveals. The other cities were Moscow, Sao Paulo and New York. While Mumbai, by far the worst-hit Indian city, recorded a drop in cases on Tuesday, the death toll climbed by 39 on Tuesday to 1,065. Maharashtra reported 97 Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a single day so far. With that, Maharashtra’s death toll rose to 1,792. State officials claimed 62 of the deaths took place last week and were being scrutinised by the death review committee. On Tuesday, the city added 2,091 cases, taking the overall count of cases to 54,758. Mumbai added 1,002 new cases — both the city and the state registering a drop in cases as compared to the past few days. In fact, the six states worst-hit by the Covid-19 epidemic — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh — all recorded a drop in cases as compared to the previous day. However, the count rose in other states. Bihar recorded 231 new cases, Assam 95 and Kerala 67, the latter being the highest single-day number for the state. The surge in cases was high in the hill states as well, with J&K reporting 91, Uttarakhand 44 and Himachal 24 fresh infections. New cases were recorded in a number of northeastern states, including Nagaland (1), Manipur (3) and Tripura (11). In Tamil Nadu, after medical experts did some straight-talking on Tuesday, the state said it was drawing up plans to cocoon people most vulnerable to Covid-19 as 646 fresh cases were reported in the state, 509 of them in Chennai. Nine more deaths were reported, taking the TN toll to 127. At a meeting of the medical experts committee chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, doctors warned that unless testing was increased to identify and treat people in the early stages of the infection, Chennai would end up with two lakh cases and more than 1,400 fatalities by June-end. Gujarat recorded 27 more Covid-related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the state's death toll to 915. The state has second highest deaths in the country after Maharashtra which has recorded 1,792 mortalities. National hotspot Ahmedabad continued to report the highest deaths in state as 23 more people succumbed to the coronavirus. Gujarat recorded 361 new cases out of which 251 were from Ahmedabad, 36 from Surat and 31 from Vadodara. With the new cases, there are now eight districts with 100 or more Covid-19 positive cases in the state. Watch Low Covid-19 fatality rate in India due to timely lockdown, says govt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-count-set-to-cross-1-5-lakh-fresh-cases-dip-to-5-5k/articleshow/76019225.cms||---
May 27, 2020||India||Paid media distorts truth to serve their masters: Rahul Gandhi hits back on his Maharashtra comments||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked a section of media for allegedly distorting his remarks on the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra and put out a video clip in which he is talking about the conditions prevailing in the state. "Watch this video to see how paid media distorts the truth to serve their masters and distract attention from REAL issues," Gandhi said on Twitter, sharing the video clip of his remarks made in the afternoon. Watch this video to see how paid media distorts the truth to serve their masters and distract attention from REAL… https://t.co/umB7G8WkW0— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1590513774000Earlier in the day, when he was asked about the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, where the Congress is a ruling partner, Gandhi had said that there is a difference between running a government and supporting a government. "We are supporting the Maharashtra government, but we are not in the key decision-making role," he had said, adding that Maharashtra requires full support of the central government as it is fighting a very difficult battle. The BJP attacked Gandhi for "dumping" the Shiv Sena-led government of which the Congress is a partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/paid-media-distorts-truth-to-serve-their-masters-rahul-gandhi-hits-back-on-his-maharashtra-comments/articleshow/76022561.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka tightens borders after hundreds of returnees go ‘missing’||BENGALURU: With hundreds of migrants entering Karnataka between May 7 and 12 — some with passes and others without — still untraceble and thus becoming a cause of concern, the government has decided to strengthen security at all border posts and document each entry and exit at state checkposts. The measure assumes importance since number of patients with domestic travel history are seen propelling the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state. As on May 25, more than 50% of all cases in the state involved people with domestic travel history. The share of such patients in the past fortnight has breached the 80% mark. Inter-state movement of people was allowed on May 2 and the Karnataka government began issuing passes on Seva Sindhu from May 7. Until May 12, there was no policy on institutional quarantine for people coming into the state. A good number of migrants who came into Karnataka in the May 7-12 period remains untraced. “Although there was no rule on quarantining, officials at the borders should have documented vehicles and persons entering the state for tracing purpose if need arose. This was not done. Now, we do not know how many people entered the state even with valid passes in those six days,” a senior official told TOI. 7,028 put under quarantine in B’luru till May 23Institutional quarantine started on May 12, and people entering the state and placed under quarantine have been recorded since. Despite stringent checks, some people are still entering the state through porous borders away from the key posts where documentation is mandatory. As per government data available till May 23, more than 1.1 lakh people, including 7,028 in Bengaluru, have been put under institutional quarantine. As on that date, the number of families approved to enter Karnataka stood at more than 1.2 lakh, including 27,307 in Bengaluru. In some cases, a pass issued for one family is used only by an individual. About the gap between the number of people in quarantine and those whose passes have been approved, Tushar Girinath, in charge of returnees to Bengaluru Urban district, told TOI: “From the time quarantine became mandatory (May 12), the number of people coming in has seen a dip. Not all persons/families who were issued passes have returned.” He echoed the concerns about untraceable returnees and said the Bengaluru-Tamil Nadu border alone has 12 entry points. “Attibele is the regular checkpoint. However, we found people using 12 routes to enter the city. Now, all these entry points are being manned. Similarly, the border (Maharashtra) at Nipani (Belagavi district) has been strengthened,” Girinath added. With deputy commissioners of border districts expressing the need for additional manpower, Girinath said a request has been placed before the DG&IGP. Another officer said further efforts are on to tighten the borders to prevent people from gaining entry without the knowledge of state authorities. “Now, we have a system that records each vehicle entering the state and the same is passed on to intermediate checkposts and intrastate authorities including superintendents of police in various districts, deputy commissioners and other enforcement officials,” Girinath pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-tightens-borders-after-hundreds-of-returnees-go-missing/articleshow/76022605.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: 7-day-old baby dies; Telangana cases near 2,000||HYDERABAD: A seven-day-old infant became Telangana’s youngest Covid-19 victim as the baby died three days after developing symptoms, authorities said on Tuesday, even as the state reported 71 new positive cases. The overall caseload was nine short of the 2,000 mark on Tuesday with 1,991 cases. While the baby passed away on Monday night, tests done after her death revealed she was coronavirus positive. The baby girl was born at the state-run Niloufer Hospital, but was brought back from Quthbullapur after parents felt she was unwell. While her mother tested negative for the virus before delivery, none of the family members had any symptoms. Surge in positive cases blamed on movement of peopleThe baby is suspected to have contacted the virus in the hospital, sources said. The locality where the family stays has now been declared a containment zone. The sudden surge in positive cases has been blamed on more movement of people. “It is being observed that there is a lot of mobility and movement of people. There is a surge of positive cases since the past few days,” the state health department said in a statement. Authorities reiterated several measures to be taken to contain the spread of the virus. The new cases were reported from the GHMC and Rangareddy district, in addition to cases being reported in Medchal, Narayanpet, Nalgonda and Vikarabad. Four foreign returnees and 12 migrants have tested positive, apart from 38 patients from GHMC limits. About 120 patients recovered or were discharged on Tuesday. The total number of patients who have recovered in the state is now 1,164, leaving 700 active Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-7-day-old-baby-dies-telangana-cases-near-2000/articleshow/76022654.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 27, 2020||World||Mink workers 1st humans infected by animals?||GENEVA: The WHO said on Tuesday that Dutch workers apparently infected with the coronavirus by minks could be the first known cases of animal-tohuman transmission. The WHO told AFP that it was in close contact with Dutch researchers investigating three cases where the virus appears to have been passed to humans from minks. “This would be the first known cases of animal-to-human transmission,” the UN health agency said. “But we are still collecting and reviewing more data to understand if animals and pets can spread the disease,” it said. Dutch agriculture minister Carola Schouten said on Monday that a second worker had likely contracted Covid-19 on a mink farm, while stressing that the risk of further contagion is low. An initial infection was reported last week on one of two farms near Eindhoven.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/mink-workers-1st-humans-infected-by-animals/articleshow/76022704.cms||---
May 27, 2020||World||Britain trials remdesivir as row over PM aide rages on||LONDON: The UK approved using antiviral drug remdesivir for some patients hospitalised with Covid-19 after early data from clinical trials around the world showed it can speed their recovery. “This is probably the biggest step forward in the treatment of coronavirus since the crisis began,” health minister Matt Hancock told a news conference on Tuesday. However, the media questions centred around PM Boris Johnson’s top aide and his nearly 420-km drive which has been seen as a breach of the coronavirus lockdown. Nearly 40 of Johnson’s own Conservative Party MPs are now demanding Dominic Cummings either quit or be sacked after junior minister for Scotland Douglas Ross resigned over the issue. It’s incredibly important that as a country we focus on what we need to do now,” said Hancock, in a bid to move on from the controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/britain-trials-remdesivir-as-row-over-pm-aide-rages-on/articleshow/76022780.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Indore||Indore: 60 attended birthday bash; now one dead, 19 Covid positive in Sanwer||INDORE: Nineteen people from the same family, who had attended a birthday party in Sanwer, near Indore, have turned out Covid-positive, sparking panic in their locality, where they had come in contact with many people in the days since. What's amped up the panic is that a 70-year-old woman of the family died on May 23, seven days after attending the party. Her death sent officials scrambling to trace her contacts, and the discovery of the birthday party. The youngest of those infected is an 18-month-old baby, and the oldest a 60-year-old man. "Around 50-60 people had attended the party," said Sanwer block medical officer Dr Hemant Raghuvanshi. The woman's son had brought her to Sanwer Hospital on May 21 to have her checked for cough, cold and fever, said the BMO. "She was a resident of Dhar Road in Indore and had visited her relative's house in Badodiyakhan village for the party on May 16," said Raghuvanshi. Doctors immediately identified Covid-19 symptoms and sent her to MY Hospital in Indore, where she died on May 23. Her Covid test came positive the same day. The administration rushed a health team to Badodiyakhan village, about 40km from Indore. "Nineteen of her relatives, who had attended the party, gave their samples at MY Hospital on May 23 and their report came positive today," said Raghuvanshi. Most of them are asymptomatic. Seventeen of them have been shifted to MRTB Hospital and two to a Covid care facility at Sewakunj Hospital. "We roped in half a dozen health department teams and surveyed 500 houses in the area. Thirteen Covid-19 suspects were detected and we took their samples," " said SDM Ravish Shrivastava. Before this, Sanwer tehsil, just beyond the outskirts of Indore, had reported nine Covid-19 cases, including two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/60-attended-birthday-bash-now-one-dead-19-covid-positive-in-sanwer/articleshow/76022785.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Noida||Noida: Society of 3,000 families sealed after three cases; residents fear for jobs||GREATER NOIDA: The Noida administration sealed a housing society where nearly 9,000 people reside after three members of one family tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. The move triggered a protest on Twitter by residents, who questioned the government’s logic behind the decision at a time when people were looking to restart their livelihoods, and expressed fear that some of them could lose their jobs Residents of Supertech Ecovillage 1 pointed out that since the entire society — spread across 45 acres and home to 3,000 families — had been declared a containment zone, none of them could venture out for 21 days. The Noida Extension Flat Owners’ Welfare Association echoed the residents’ concern about not being able to go to work, and suggested that the administration seal only the tower where the three Covid-19 patients live. In a containment zone, only those associated with essential services are allowed to move out. Like all containment zones, a police picket has been set up outside the housing society and barricades placed to prevent to and fro movement for 21 days. On Tuesday morning, residents put out a series of tweets addressed to the Noida administration and local politicians. Most said they were employed with private companies and expressed anxiety about their jobs. Sumit Saxena, a resident, was one of those who questioned the government’s decision to seal all 40 towers in the complex. “Tell me, is there any logic behind sealing the entire society when guidelines under the fourth phase of the lockdown clearly specify a smaller radius of containment? Instead, the district administration has gone on to seal the entire society, without giving a thought to how so many people will manage under such restrictions,” he said. According to the UP government’s guidelines for containment zones in urban colonies, a 250m radius will have to be sealed around an area that has reported just one case. In areas that have reported multiple cases, a 500m radius will be sealed along with a 250m buffer zone. The curbs will continue for 21 days. In case of Supertech Ecovillage 1, officials said the administration was well within its rights to seal the entire society and measurements had been “carefully” taken before imposing the restrictions. “There were protests, but the entire area had been carefully measured keeping people’s concerns in mind. The area from the (affected) tower till the boundary wall of the society is less than 500 metres and its buffer. The residents had been informed,” said Rajeev Rai, SDM (Dadri). The society was sealed after an employee of a Noida-based news channel, whose infection chain has become the third-largest cluster in the city, and two of his family members tested positive. The restlessness about the restrictions was such among residents that a group of them staged a sit-in protest at night itself and refused to allow a team of policemen and health officials that had come to seal the society. It was only after the police threatened legal action that the protesters relented. Sameer Bharadwaj, a resident of C4 who works as a textile designer, said he needed to be in office as the factory had resumed operations. “I can’t afford to stay at home, especially when business needs a push. I have a family to feed and my private job does not give me this luxury to get paid just by sitting at home,” he said. SP Pathak, who lives in B14 and works as an accounts manager in a tool factory at Okhla, was apprehensive about his job. “I am in my forties. If I lose this job, nobody will hire me. That is the kind of crisis we are facing right now. What the government cannot see is that our employers do not care if we live in containment zones or elsewhere. When production has resumed, we have to be at work. That’s it,” said Pathak, whose family comprises two teenaged boys and a wife. Pathak said half of Noida’s residents work in Delhi and restrictions at the borders are anyway posing a challenge for people to reach office. “We are literally hiding from police on our way to office, just like a criminal. How long can anybody continue like this?” he asked. Containment zones redefined in Noida, become smallerThe district administration on Tuesday redefined containment zones in Noida relaxing the radius in areas that have just one case. Now, in highrise societies and buildings, as per provision 4.3.1 of the state government order, only a particular tower will be sealed, instead of the 250 m radius that was the rule earlier. The administration has also clarified that for containment zones with more than one case, if there are towers of a society that are outside the 500 metre radius, they would not be sealed. This means that some towers in the buffer zone of the additional 250 m in societies will be exempted from sealing. Officials said that the revised list of containment zones will be updated soon. “The state government order for containment zones with one case mentioned sealing of 250 m or a “mohalla”, whichever is less. We have discussed the matter with the state and defined mohalla as a tower in our case, since Noida has several large societies. This will help facilitate movement for thousands of people who now need to re-join work or move out of homes,” said Suhas LY, the district magistrate. Most highrise societies in Noida are in containment zone 1 now (where just one case has been reported). Redefining of areas also ensures that a larger area in the rural clusters, where strict containment is required, will remain sealed. Read this story in Bengali(Additional reporting by Snehil Sinha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/society-of-3000-families-sealed-after-3-cases-in-1-flat-residents-protest-say-will-lose-our-jobs/articleshow/76017280.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
May 27, 2020||World||Covid-19: Trump thinks in-person G7 summit would be great example of reopening, says WH||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump believes that there is "no greater example" of reopening amid the Covid-19 pandemic than holding an in-person G7 summit in America near the end of June, the White House has said. G7 is the group of top seven developed economies. These include the US, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada. The US currently holds the annual presidency of G7 countries. In view of coronavirus pandemic there were talks of the summit being held virtually. However, Trump for the past one week, has been suggesting that it be held in person at Camp David. "The President wants to see this (G7) take place," White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters on Tuesday during a news conference here. "As America reopens, as we try to approach a place of normalcy where people go back to work, where people do recreational activities but socially distant while they do it, the President thinks no greater example of reopening in this transition to greatness would be the G7, and G7 happening here and happening probably more towards the end of June," McEnany said. She said National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien has been getting a great reception from world leaders who are asked about attending the summit. "We will protect world leaders who come here, just like we protect people in the White House. So, we want to see it happen. We think it will happen. So far, foreign leaders are very much on board with the idea," said the White House Press Secretary in response to a question. But, there has been no fixed date for it as yet. "I don't know if it will be the last week of June, but towards the end of June. And the goal for it is for it to be here at the White House," McEnany said. Originally, Trump wanted to hold the G7 at his club in the Miami area, as announced by then-acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney in a press conference last fall, but it was subsequently moved to Camp David in June amid public pressure. The coronavirus pandemic then resulted in another change of venue — to a virtual summit. But the president announced on Twitter on Wednesday that he had changed his mind. "Now that our Country is 'Transitioning back to Greatness', I am considering rescheduling the G-7, on the same or similar date, in Washington, D.C., at the legendary Camp David. The other members are also beginning their COMEBACK. It would be a great sign to all - normalization!" Trump tweeted. Most G7 members were noncommittal about the prospect of an in-person summit, according to a media report. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau agreed world leaders need to meet, but did not commit to attending in person, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/covid-19-trump-thinks-in-person-g7-summit-would-be-great-example-of-reopening-says-wh/articleshow/76022806.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil Hospital biggest in Asia, now make it best, HC tells Gujarat government||AHMEDABAD: As the state government rushed to the Gujarat high court on Monday, a public holiday, insisting the court withdraw its adverse remarks on the Civil hospital and emphasizing health minister Nitin Patel is actively involved in Covid-19 pandemic management, the court said that it is too early for it to give a clean chit. The HC had termed Civil Hospital a ‘dungeon’ recently and urged authorities to treat poor patients like humans and not animals. The judges said that it was too early to arrive at any conclusion and it would continue to discuss the issue of the Civil hospital in future. It said, “The state government boasts that the Civil hospital at Ahmedabad is the biggest hospital in Asia, but it should now strive very very hard to make the same as one of the best hospitals in Asia.” The state government filed a clarification application urging the HC to make “suitable observations” so that patients’ confidence in the Civil hospital is restored. It claimed that the HC observations have proved demoralizing for Covid-19 task force and people have panicked. The state government said that the anonymous letter by a resident doctor, on basis of which the observations were made, was incorrect. It was contrary to the good opinion expressed about the hospital by the panel of senior doctors from Delhi. On government’s insistence for improving image, the court said, “The state of Gujarat should not hesitate to take stern action against any erring official found to be negligent or careless in discharge of his duties. This is the only way the state government will be able to repose confidence in the mind of a common man.” On repeated contradictions on part of the government to the HC observations, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said that they would visit the hospital campus and end all controversies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-hospital-biggest-in-asia-now-make-it-best-hc-tells-gujarat-government/articleshow/76022817.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cops' sniff test for booze notional in Covid age||AHMEDABAD: Cops are nosy when it comes to hunting down drunk people - the long sniff of the law has been traditionally used to detect those who break the prohibition rule. But police, on the frontline of the war on Covid, realize by now that coronavirus spreads through respiratory droplets. So the sniff test, which always features in FIRs against people caught drunk, has been reduced to only a notional observance, dictated by the format. Top police officials said that social distancing is necessary in the times of corona. They said that when cops write that they smelt the mouth of a person to ascertain sobriety, only a template is being followed and the cops are well away from the jaws of viral danger. The old-fashioned inhalation for the determination of intoxication reflects the paucity of modern devices with police, such as breath analyzers. On Monday, a 29-year-old man was caught drunk by Satellite police personnel from his house in Rajivnagar. The FIR states, "We got a message from the control room at around 2pm on Monday that a person in an inebriated condition was fighting with his wife ." The FIR goes on to say: "We found a man creating a ruckus. We called two punch witnesses and later we and the punch witnesses smelt the man's mouth and ascertained that he was drunk." Similarly, Vastrapur police on Sunday evening booked a 44-year-old man from Ranip in a drunk-driving case. Cops and two punch witnesses again apparently smelt the mouth of the accused, according to the FIR. The FIR says, "The staff members (cops) and punch witnesses smelt the mouth and found that the man was heavily drunk." An official of Satellite police said, "We have to follow a specific template to write the details in the FIR of a prohibition case." He went on to say: "Earlier, we used to go close to a person to determine whether he was drunk but after the corona outbreak, we maintain social distancing while booking a prohibition-case accused. We generally ask each other whether the person appears drunk and if a majority of us believe that he or she is drunk, we proceed with the booking." "If we suspect that someone is drunk, we check his eyes and his gait," a police official said. "We stand about a metre away from the suspect, taking proper care to ensure he does not run away. We also ask his name and address and if a person is drunk, his speech will be slurred. When he speaks, a waft of alcohol breath might issue out. This is the exercise we follow these days." Another police official said, "It is much better that the practice of smelling the mouth remains only on paper. It is risky for the cops." City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia said that the template could be changed. "I will check whether such a mention is made in the FIRs. No cop smells mouths these days," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-cops-sniff-test-for-booze-notional-in-covid-age/articleshow/76022836.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 27, 2020||Kozhikode||New record as Covid-19 positive cases jump to 67 in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan warned that Kerala is on the verge of a Covid-19 community spread and asked those in quarantine to obey rules and others to ensure social distancing in public places. Vijayan expressed his concern after several people misused lockdown relaxations. On Tuesday, 67 news cases were reported in state, the highest number of cases in a day. With this, 963 cases have been reported in Kerala till date, of which 415 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Kannur (85) has maximum active cases followed by Palakkad (81) and Malappuram (51). The number of people under observation once again crossed the one lakh mark to reach 1,04,336. Now, 1,03,528 are in home/institutional quarantine and 808 are admitted in designated isolation facilities. Of the 67 new cases, 29 are from Palakkad, eight from Kannur, six from Kottayam, five each from Ernakulam and Malappuram, four each from Kollam and Thrissur and three each from Alappuzha and Kasaragod. Till date, 56,704 samples (including augmented samples) were sent for testing, of which 54,836 turned negative. Also, 8,599 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers as part of sentinel surveillance and 8,174 samples tested negative. The results of 10 patients were declared negative; two each from Ernakulam (one Palakkad native), Malappuram and Kasaragod and one each from Alappuzha, Kottayam, Palakkad and Kozhikode (one Malappuram native). Vijayan said there was no evidence of community spread. "We are on the verge of community spread. More number of cases, reported in certain areas, is a matter of concern. Hence, we have to be more cautious. People should strictly follow the quarantine rules and not misuse lockdown relaxations," he said. The government is strictly enforcing restrictions to prevent virus spread in the community. "We cannot stop people coming to their native place. Hence, those who are coming should have to go by the rules fixed by the government. If each and every NRK decide to come home, then the state will not be able to accommodate them. Hence only people who belong to priority groups should come now," he said. After May 7, 1,01,780 persons crossed the border and came home while 11,189 landed from abroad. Before May 7, there were only 16 active cases. Now, we have 415. The number of cases will increase in the coming days since several people have come from red zones, the CM said. Among those who came from other states, 72 from Maharashtra tested positive apart from 71 who came from TN and 35 others who came from Karnataka. Also, 133 people who came from abroad tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/new-record-as-covid-19-positive-cases-jump-to-67-in-kerala/articleshow/76022888.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kochi||New record as Covid-19 positive cases jump to 67 in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan warned that Kerala is on the verge of a Covid-19 community spread and asked those in quarantine to obey rules and others to ensure social distancing in public places. Vijayan expressed his concern after several people misused lockdown relaxations. On Tuesday, 67 news cases were reported in state, the highest number of cases in a day. With this, 963 cases have been reported in Kerala till date, of which 415 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Kannur (85) has maximum active cases followed by Palakkad (81) and Malappuram (51). The number of people under observation once again crossed the one lakh mark to reach 1,04,336. Now, 1,03,528 are in home/institutional quarantine and 808 are admitted in designated isolation facilities. Of the 67 new cases, 29 are from Palakkad, eight from Kannur, six from Kottayam, five each from Ernakulam and Malappuram, four each from Kollam and Thrissur and three each from Alappuzha and Kasaragod. Till date, 56,704 samples (including augmented samples) were sent for testing, of which 54,836 turned negative. Also, 8,599 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers as part of sentinel surveillance and 8,174 samples tested negative. The results of 10 patients were declared negative; two each from Ernakulam (one Palakkad native), Malappuram and Kasaragod and one each from Alappuzha, Kottayam, Palakkad and Kozhikode (one Malappuram native). Vijayan said there was no evidence of community spread. "We are on the verge of community spread. More number of cases, reported in certain areas, is a matter of concern. Hence, we have to be more cautious. People should strictly follow the quarantine rules and not misuse lockdown relaxations," he said. The government is strictly enforcing restrictions to prevent virus spread in the community. "We cannot stop people coming to their native place. Hence, those who are coming should have to go by the rules fixed by the government. If each and every NRK decide to come home, then the state will not be able to accommodate them. Hence only people who belong to priority groups should come now," he said. After May 7, 1,01,780 persons crossed the border and came home while 11,189 landed from abroad. Before May 7, there were only 16 active cases. Now, we have 415. The number of cases will increase in the coming days since several people have come from red zones, the CM said. Among those who came from other states, 72 from Maharashtra tested positive apart from 71 who came from TN and 35 others who came from Karnataka. Also, 133 people who came from abroad tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/new-record-as-covid-19-positive-cases-jump-to-67-in-kerala/articleshow/76022889.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Names of cabinet ministers finalised, Delhi nod awaited||BHOPAL: With final discussions over on the probable list of names to be included during the proposed cabinet expansion, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is all set to rejig his team in coming week. Sources said that Chouhan after discussions with BJP state leaders, has forwarded names of candidates to be accommodated in his cabinet to the central leadership, seeking a go-ahead.  The decision was taken at a closed-door meeting held at the BJP state headquarters on Tuesday where state chief V D Sharma and organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat were present. Chouhan is learnt to have discussed a second list, which was prepared with a few changes in the names to be accommodated in the state cabinet. After consensus, the list has been forwarded to the central leadership in New Delhi through state in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, for the high command's final approval.  "We had a meeting in the morning and chief minister Chouhan is ready with his cabinet. He will take a decision very soon on the formation of the cabinet after thorough consideration," Sharma told the media after the meeting. Sharma maintained that such meetings are part of BJP's routine discussions and said the party follows rules to involve all its workers and leaders in the collective decision-making process. "BJP is known for its meetings in the party office and it is a routine affair. We believe in collective decision-making after thorough discussions on every subject," Sharma added.  On the possibility of an early expansion so that the newly inducted cabinet members can participate in the first anniversary celebration programmes of the Narendra Modi 2.0 government at the Centre, Sharma said that it could be possible.  "If the cabinet expansion is effected before May 30, then all the cabinet ministers will participate in the anniversary programmes", Sharma said.  Sources, however, disclosed that there is a strong possibility of chief minister Chouhan going to New Delhi for discussions with former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and the national leadership so that the cabinet expansion takes place by June 1. Speculations are also rife that Scindia is likely to reach Bhopal on June 1 to participate in the oath-taking ceremony if BJP high command gives a go- ahead, added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-names-of-cabinet-ministers-finalised-delhi-nod-awaited/articleshow/76022865.cms||Rajendra Sharma
May 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Medical fee row: Telangana high court modifies order, only 50% hike to be paid for now||HYDERABAD: In a slight relief to PG medical students, the Telangana high court in its interim order on Tuesday made it clear that private medical colleges in the state can collect only 50% of enhanced fees fixed by the Telangana Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee (TAFRC) and the government in respect of convenor quota seats. The court, however, said the final order would be passed only after looking at the counters of TAFRC and the government For those who come under ‘B’ category, they will have to pay 60% of the enhanced fee. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice Shameem Akthar heard the grievance of the PG medical students, who wanted clarity on the court’s previous order. Agreeing with the contention of students’ counsel Sandeep Reddy Sama, the bench said that the modified order was applicable to all the PG medical aspirants and not just to those who approached the court. The bench was hearing a plea filed by more than 130 students who were aggrieved with the abnormal hike in the fee of PG medical courses effected by the government following a recommendation of TAFRC. The students contended that the fee was hiked up to 550% over and above the existing fee, which was beyond their reach. The bench last week halved the hike as an interim measure and posted the case for a final hearing in June. But that interim order had an additional provision that the students must pay half of the increased fee along with the fee fixed in 2016. The students complained that this clause was a huge burden on them. It was then the bench assured them that it would examine the material considered by TAFRC before passing its recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medical-fee-row-telangana-high-court-modifies-order-only-50-hike-to-be-paid-for-now/articleshow/76022807.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 27, 2020||Noida||As cops insist on IDs, Ghaziabad border sees Noida-like jam||GHAZIABAD: The city’s border with Delhi at UP Gate witnessed long traffic snarls on Tuesday as queue of vehicles stretched several kilometres. Commuters said the Ghaziabad administration’s decision a day ago to seal the borders led to jams as policemen spent at least 3 minutes on an average to check IDs or passes of people willing to enter the UP city. What added to the plight of commuters was the heat wave. “Like it or not, we will have to accept a life surrounding the virus. We have to devise ways on how to live under such circumstances. Sealing borders arbitrarily is surely not the best of decisions,” said Ashish Kumar, a lawyer who lives in Indirapuram’s Amrapali village. “Even though lawyers are exempted from the restrictions, it took me half an hour just to cross over from Delhi,” he added. On Monday, Ghaziabad decided to seal its borders with Delhi, citing a rise in the number of Covid cases with links to the national capital. Although entering Delhi is relatively easier, returning to Ghaziabad is possible only if the traveller has a valid ID or a pass issued by the administration. Kumar Anupam, a Gyan Khand resident, was one of those caught in the snarls. “All this while, I was waiting for the restrictions to be relaxed. I never expected they would seal the borders again, at a time offices have resumed operations and require people to be present. I showed my ID card to the cops, and it took me 10 minutes just to persuade them that it was important for me to attend office,” said Anupam, who works with an IT company in Nehru Place. There were others who had to return from the border even after minutes of argument with the cops. “I had an appointment with a client in Delhi but had no proof that could placate the cops at the border. I tried for an hour to persuade the cops, but to no avail. In the end, I had to return. Is this how we are planning to restore normalcy?” asked Ashwani Singh, a resident of Vasundhara. The situation was worse mostly during the office hours. Under the new set of restrictions, Ghaziabad has said that the government employees working in Delhi need to cross the border before 9am and return only after 6pm. So, the snarls eased somewhat in the afternoon. As expected, traffic was again in a mess in the evening. Despite a posse of cops stationed at the check-points to manage the situation, the line of vehicles stretched several kilometres. “Apart from constables, there were traffic inspectors and a team of civil defence personnel. The problem is that it is taking at least 2-3 minutes to check each vehicle for their documents. During rush hours, it becomes extremely difficult to manage,” said HN Singh, SP (traffic). Off the record, traffic police said that the Ghaziabad administration should rethink its decision on imposing such restrictions at the border as it is likely to see more traffic snarls in the coming days with offices and industries gradually opening up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-cops-insist-on-ids-gzb-border-sees-noida-like-jam/articleshow/76018597.cms||Abhijay Jha
May 27, 2020||Business||Government may get RBI to monetise deficit||NEW DELHI: The Centre is likely to look at the option of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) monetising the deficit in the second half of the financial year, a senior government official has said, asserting that the Centre is seriously examining the issue. “It is an option which we have not closed. It is very much there,” the official, who did not wish to be identified, further said. The assessment within the government is that expenditure in the first half of the financial year would be met through market borrowing and spending re-prioritisation for various ministries. There is an uncertainty about how long the pandemic will last and the government is not keen on rushing into any decisions so early in the financial year. The RBI’s monetisation of the fiscal deficit broadly means the central bank printing currency for the government to take care of any emergency spending and to bridge its fiscal deficit — this action is resorted to under emergency situations. This practice was followed in 1980s and late 1990s, where the central bank helped in funding the deficit. But since then, several reforms have been ushered in, including the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM), to keep a hawk eye on the fiscal deficit and prompt governments to follow a fiscally prudent path. The Covid-19 pandemic has had a devastating impact on revenues, both direct and indirect, due to the three-month national lockdown unveiled to stop spread of the coronavirus. This has pushed the government to raise its full-year borrowing plan by nearly 50% to help meet its spending commitments due to the pandemic. Experts have said the move could push the fiscal deficit to 5.5% of the GDP from the earlier target of 3.5%. “It will all depend on how much borrowing the government may need to do through the RBI,” said N R Bhanumurthy, professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, while responding to a question whether it would stoke inflation. He said the RBI could either print money or buy government bonds from primary dealers to fund the deficit. “The government, if it resorts to monetisation, must clearly specify that it is a temporary measure and spell out its fiscal road map clearly,” said Bhanumurthy. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has been quoted as saying that the RBI has not taken any view on monetisation of the deficit. Former FM P Chidambaram and other economists have backed the idea of monetisation of the deficit and have said the government should not shy away from this option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-may-get-rbi-to-monetise-deficit/articleshow/76022892.cms||Sidhartha
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Won’t seek President’s rule in Maharashtra, clarifies Devendra Fadnavis||MUMBAI: The BJP will not seek President’s rule in the state, said leader of the opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday. His statement came a day after BJP MP Narayan Rane met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and suggested President’s rule as the “situation is completely out of control ”. While the BJP high command is learnt to be of the of the view that Congress politician Rahul Gandhi’s statement on Tuesday about his party not having a role in decision-making in the state would spark a crisis in the ruling coalition, Fadnavis said Gandhi was aware of the worsening situation and was trying to slide out of it by shifting the blame on to the Sena. “His party has not offered support from outside. It is in the government. He cannot shirk responsibility for the rapidly deteriorating situation in the state,” he said. He said meetings were being held between the Shiv Sena and the NCP without the Congress and no one knew what decisions were taken. “We are not interested in playing politics and are in no rush to form the government. We are focused on fighting Covid-19 and will keep putting pressure. This government will fall because of its internal contradictions,” Fadnavis said in an online press conference on Tuesday. He said the Shiv Sena was weak on political leadership. He said the grave situation in the state and the city showed lack of coordination among the ruling allies. Fadnavis said the Centre had provided Rs 2.7 lakh crore in relief to the state in various forms. “The state now has the fiscal space to take a loan of Rs 1.65 lakh crore. Other states have started doing it, but Maharashtra refuses to take any loans,” he said. Saying he would not evaluate CM Uddhav Thackeray’s performance, Fadnavis said “bold decisions need to be taken to kickstart the economy even if it means making a few mistakes”. “The opposition is treated as a bigger enemy than coronovirus. They even launched a paid social media campaign against us,” he said. Later, BJP politician Vinod Tawde said Thackeray had not even convened a meeting of city MLAs on Covid-19. “The CM should not take advise only from the chief secretary. The BJP is keen on helping Thackeray, but he doesn’t take even his ministers into confidence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wont-seek-presidents-rule-in-maharashtra-clarifies-devendra-fadnavis/articleshow/76022925.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: SSLC, Plus Two exams resume without hiccups||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The pending examinations of SSLC and higher secondary courses in state started on Tuesday amid strict vigil and security by various departments and agencies combined. The original schedule of examinations had to be hurriedly scrapped following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in March. The first day of the pending examinations, said authorities, went off as per expectations and no major security-related issues were reported from anywhere in the state. "Of the 56, 345 students registered for VHSE examination held in the forenoon, 55,794 took the examination. Among the 4, 22, 450 candidates registered for the examination, 4, 22, 077 sat for the examination held in the afternoon. While the attendance in vocational higher secondary was 99. 02% the same for SSLC was 99.91%," director of general education Jeevan Babu K said. With the help and cooperation of health department, district collectors, members of local bodies, police, KSRTC and PTAs, the first day of the examinations as per revised schedule could be conducted without any complaints, he added. The examinations, according to the new schedule, would be over by May 30. More than 13.5 lakh students would be attending the examinations for SSCL, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary classes. Wearing mask and using sanitizer were made compulsory for both students and teachers. They were let into the schools after checking their body temperature using thermal scanners. Number of students in each class was limited to 20. Only one parent was allowed to accompany their wards to the schools, and the parents were not permitted to enter the school campus. Special arrangements were made for students with mild fever or cough. The government has made special arrangements for the travel of students too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-sslc-plus-two-exams-resume-without-hiccups/articleshow/76023059.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: SSLC, Plus Two exams resume without hiccups||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The pending examinations of SSLC and higher secondary courses in state started on Tuesday amid strict vigil and security by various departments and agencies combined. The original schedule of examinations had to be hurriedly scrapped following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in March. The first day of the pending examinations, said authorities, went off as per expectations and no major security-related issues were reported from anywhere in the state. "Of the 56, 345 students registered for VHSE examination held in the forenoon, 55,794 took the examination. Among the 4, 22, 450 candidates registered for the examination, 4, 22, 077 sat for the examination held in the afternoon. While the attendance in vocational higher secondary was 99. 02% the same for SSLC was 99.91%," director of general education Jeevan Babu K said. With the help and cooperation of health department, district collectors, members of local bodies, police, KSRTC and PTAs, the first day of the examinations as per revised schedule could be conducted without any complaints, he added. The examinations, according to the new schedule, would be over by May 30. More than 13.5 lakh students would be attending the examinations for SSCL, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary classes. Wearing mask and using sanitizer were made compulsory for both students and teachers. They were let into the schools after checking their body temperature using thermal scanners. Number of students in each class was limited to 20. Only one parent was allowed to accompany their wards to the schools, and the parents were not permitted to enter the school campus. Special arrangements were made for students with mild fever or cough. The government has made special arrangements for the travel of students too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-sslc-plus-two-exams-resume-without-hiccups/articleshow/76023062.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: SSLC, Plus Two exams resume without hiccups||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The pending examinations of SSLC and higher secondary courses in state started on Tuesday amid strict vigil and security by various departments and agencies combined. The original schedule of examinations had to be hurriedly scrapped following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in March. The first day of the pending examinations, said authorities, went off as per expectations and no major security-related issues were reported from anywhere in the state. "Of the 56, 345 students registered for VHSE examination held in the forenoon, 55,794 took the examination. Among the 4, 22, 450 candidates registered for the examination, 4, 22, 077 sat for the examination held in the afternoon. While the attendance in vocational higher secondary was 99. 02% the same for SSLC was 99.91%," director of general education Jeevan Babu K said. With the help and cooperation of health department, district collectors, members of local bodies, police, KSRTC and PTAs, the first day of the examinations as per revised schedule could be conducted without any complaints, he added. The examinations, according to the new schedule, would be over by May 30. More than 13.5 lakh students would be attending the examinations for SSCL, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary classes. Wearing mask and using sanitizer were made compulsory for both students and teachers. They were let into the schools after checking their body temperature using thermal scanners. Number of students in each class was limited to 20. Only one parent was allowed to accompany their wards to the schools, and the parents were not permitted to enter the school campus. Special arrangements were made for students with mild fever or cough. The government has made special arrangements for the travel of students too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-sslc-plus-two-exams-resume-without-hiccups/articleshow/76022929.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Business||Boeing’s India operations to be largest outside US||NEW DELHI: American aerospace major Boeing expects to have the largest presence out of its home country in India — in terms of manpower deployment and component sourcing — over the next two years. The corona epidemic has shown how a major event can disrupt supply chains and that big companies need to spread the same across geographical locations to minimise the impact in the future. Boeing’s current sourcing from India is about $1 billion annually from 200 suppliers, and it sees “the next billion” as the logical step. “Over the next couple of years, we expect Boeing’s India presence to be the largest outside of the US. Boeing has been a proud partner with India for more than 75 years, and we’re just getting started. We want to contribute to the growth of India’s aerospace industry. That’s why we’re investing in commercial and defence across the development of aerospace technology, innovation, production capacity, supply chain, aerospace skilling centres, manufacturing and the modernisation of airport infrastructure and airspace,” Boeing India president Salil Gupte told TOI. For instance, Boeing — in a JV with Tata Group — produces AH-64 Apache helicopter fuselages in Hyderabad for global customers, including the US Army. Composite floor beam for all Dreamliner variants are also made in India. After the current supply chain disruption caused globally by the coronavirus, Boeing has decided to add to its presence here. While it did not comment on whether the shift will be from China to India, it confirmed a larger role for India in next couple of years. “We have been working towards skilling and upskilling Indian MSMEs as we’ve quadrupled our sourcing here from $250 million to $1 billion over the past few years. With thousands of MSMEs now getting into the aerospace sector, there is opportunity to do more,” Gupte added. Boeing currently employs 3,500 people in India, and over 7,000 people work with its supply chain partners. The Boeing India Engineering and Technology Centre in Bengaluru and Chennai undertakes advanced aerospace work and supports its global engineering growth. “Our wholly owned engineering and technology campus with future avionics manufacturing and assembly capability is coming up in Bengaluru with an initial investment of over $200 million. This will be the largest facility of its kind for Boeing outside of the US (43 acres),” Gupte added. Boeing expects the grounded-since-last-March 737 Max to take to the skies again later this year, depending on regulatory clearances in the US and then in different countries where airlines have ordered this aircraft. It is aiming to get the clearances in the US in the third quarter and then in different countries by end of the year. In India, SpiceJet has 13 B737 Max parked at airports here and several more on order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/boeings-india-ops-to-be-largest-outside-us/articleshow/76022932.cms||Saurabh Sinha
May 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tigress ST-12 gives birth to triplets once again at Sariska||JAIPUR: Six-year-old tigress ST-12 has given birth to triplets one more time in Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR), making her the mother of six cubs born in different litters in the last two years. This is a record for any tigress to have six surviving cubs in STR. In 2018, the tigress for the first time set a record of giving birth to triplets in the history of STR. A senior forest official said, “Born in 2014, this is the second time ST-12 has given birth to triplets. The tigress mated with ST-13. The total number of tigers in the Sariska reserve now stands at 20 (sic).” Amid Corona concern, tigress ST-12 gives good news. Three new cubs have been camera trapped in Sariska Tiger Reserv… https://t.co/0eczyLVzA7— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1590477185000Now, more than a quarter of STR’s tiger population comprises the offspring of ST-12. The mother along with the newborns was captured in a trap camera recently installed near the water body in Taalvraksh range of STR. CM tweeted image of tigress and cubsTaking to Twitter, chief minister Ashok Gehlot shared the image of the tigress and her cubs, and wished that wildlife thrives in the state. He tweeted, “Amid Corona concern, tigress ST-12 gives good news. Three new cubs have been camera trapped in Sariska Tiger Reserve. Now there are 20 tigers in Year 2020 in #Sariska. My wish is to see the wildlife thrive in the state.” Amid #CoronaOutbreak, Delighted to hear that Tigress ST-12 has given birth to 3 cubs at Sariska Tiger Reserve.May… https://t.co/RcCaahahrL— Diya Kumari (@KumariDiya) 1590487217000National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) member and BJP MP Diya Kumari also tweeted: “Amid #CoronaOutbreak, Delighted to hear that Tigress ST-12 has given birth to 3 cubs at Sariska Tiger Reserve. May the wildlife thrive in the state (sic).” STR, infamous for poaching, has finally scripted a remarkable success story in tiger conservation, as four cubs have been born inside the park this year during the lockdown. On March 30, ST-10 was spotted with its newborn for the first time in Taalvraksh range. Dinesh Verma Durani, founder and general secretary of Sariska Tiger Foundation, said the news has come as a respite for the STR after the death of a few tigers in the park in the past two years. “Birth of four cubs within a year will give a fresh lease of life to the reserve. Sariska has tremendous potential and I congratulate the forest administration for their efforts,” he said. The 20 tigers of STR are eight females, three males, five sub-adults and four cubs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-tigress-st-12-gives-birth-to-triplets-once-again-at-sariska/articleshow/76022853.cms||Ajay Singh
May 27, 2020||Noida||Hindon-Hubli flight suspended||GHAZIABAD: A day after the Hindon-Hubli Star Air flight service resumed, the operation was suspended on Tuesday. The airline claimed that the Union aviation ministry had revoked the permission and allowed only UDAN flights covering a distance of 500km or less. “On Tuesday, we had to cancel tickets of 19 passengers, who had booked with us on the Hubli-Hindon route, after it was conveyed to us that the Union aviation ministry had not given the permission to operate the flights under UDAN scheme beyond 500km. The Hindon-Hubli route is about 1500km,” said Vikram Chauhan, an official from Star Air. “In fact, we had been conveyed about the ministry’s order on Sunday but were allowed to carry out flight operations on Monday. Anyway, we have sent a request to the ministry seeking permission to operate because on the first day of flight on Monday, we had ferried passengers from the entire Delhi-NCR. Moreover, in times like this, it would give the much-needed connectivity to southern states,” he added. Though Chauhan said he hoped flight operations would resume in a day or two, Shobha Bhardwaj, the director of Hindon civil terminal, said that “there is no clarity on when the flight operation will begin again”. “This is something which will be decided by the aviation ministry and as of now, there is no word from the government,” she said. The Hindon civil terminal’s lone long-haul flight service had resumed on Monday after two months, with a Star Air flight from Hubli in Karnataka landing with 30 passengers on board at 4.30pm. The 50-seater aircraft departed for Hubli with 17 passengers some 40 minutes later. Among the passengers who took the first flight to Ghaziabad were an IAF personnel and a school teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/hindon-hubli-flight-suspended/articleshow/76018540.cms||Abhijay Jha
May 27, 2020||Kochi||No free IQ for NRKs coming from abroad||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said NRKs coming from abroad will have to pay for the institutional quarantine hereafter. He said the institutional quarantine facility arranged by the state government will not be free for those who are coming from different countries. "The state government will not be able to bear the expenses. Anyway, they are travelling from abroad and they will be able to pay for it also," said the CM. At present two types of IQ is offered in Kerala - one where government-run institutions offer free quarantine and the other where inmates pay for their stay in hotels which are converted as IQ centres. With the new decision, a minimum amount to meet expenses will be collected from those who opt for government-run IQ. Vijayan said at present only people who are coming from abroad are being sent to the institutional quarantine. The people who are coming from other states are asked to be in home quarantine. Of the 1,02,279 people who have come to the state after May 7, 13,638 people are currently under institutional quarantine in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-free-iq-for-nrks-coming-from-abroad/articleshow/76032279.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh on alert, braces for second locust onslaught||LUCKNOW: The entire Bundelkhand was on high alert on Tuesday night as the Uttar Pradesh government was preparing for a second attack by the large swathes of locusts, likely to enter the state from Jhansi border. Another swarm was witnessed moving towards Agra late on Tuesday night. The swarm, which arrived into India via Pakistan, managed to gain entry into the state from Jhansi on Sunday, but was diverted into Madhya Pradesh using loud music and noise. The remaining were killed by central and state teams using pesticides. For the state government, which is already grappling with the stray cattle problem, this air strike from the winged enemy is proving a bolt from the blue. Principal secretary (agriculture), Devesh Chaturvedi said that UP had so far been saved due to the direction of the wind, which currently was southeast. Anticipating locusts’ entry from Agra, Mathura & JhansiWe were anticipating the entry of locusts into UP from either Agra and Mathura from the north or from Jhansi and Lalitpur in the south. Due to the direction of the wind which was southeast, they have so far bypassed Agra and have gone towards MP,” he said. What has the officials worried is that the large swarm which entered the country via Rajasthan has now broken up into smaller swarms due to measures being taken by various states to counter their attack. It is, therefore, difficult to predict how and when the locusts may try and enter UP again. “On Sunday, the locusts entered the Cantt area in Jhansi and settled around the Sukma Lake area. Between Sunday night and Monday morning, central and state teams sprayed pesticide in the affected areas, killing a large number and driving others into MP. However, in anticipation of another attack, we are carrying out an awareness programme among farmers,” Chaturvedi said. While the Rabi crop has largely been harvested, the locusts are posing a major risk to vegetable crops and maize. Farmers are being told that if they settle on their crops, they should create loud noise like clapping and beating of drums and plates. The result, said an official, is that since Sunday, large parts of Jhansi have been reverberating with DJ music as many who were out of job due to a ban on social events during the Covid-19 lockdown, are making the best use of the locust infestation. “If the locusts have settled on the ground then we are using hand sprays but if they are in trees, we have called in the fire brigade to help spray pesticide on them. Since the locusts are a rich source of protein, they just disintegrate into the soil,” said Chaturvedi, adding "“a task force has also been formed comprising members of central and state agriculture departments to patrol fields.” The state government has received information from the task force that locusts had settled in some parts of Babina and Barua Sagar in Jhansi and Lalitpur, but continuous sprinkling of pesticides forced them to retreat. Watch UP braces for second wave of locust incursion||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-on-alert-braces-for-second-locust-onslaught/articleshow/76023177.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 27, 2020||Business||From Wall Street to Bethlehem, iconic sites reopen from virus||NEW YORK: Iconic world sites from the New York Stock Exchange to the Church of the Nativity reopened their doors on Tuesday from the coronavirus pandemic, but new alarm bells rang in Latin America over a spike of infections. In a symbolic return of a high altar of capitalism, the New York Stock Exchange -- which had gone exclusively virtual for two months -- allowed a limited number of traders to return to the trading floor, wearing masks to reduce the risk of infection. The reopening boosted the mood as the benchmark Dow Jones index surged more than 2.2 percent, casting aside grim predictions that the world could be entering a new Great Depression after millions of job losses. Visiting Wall Street, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo called for swift work on long-mulled mega-infrastructure projects such as subway extensions in the hard-hit metropolis. "Let's do something creative, let's do it fast. Let's put Americans back to work," Cuomo told reporters. There were also signs of hope at some of the world's best-known destinations, including the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, built on the spot where Christians believe their savior Jesus was born. The church's opening "gives hope to the world that this pandemic will end," said Rula Maaya, the Palestinian tourism minister. The illness has killed more than 346,000 people worldwide and forced most countries to mothball their tourism industries, a crucial source of revenue. The US toll Tuesday night stood at 98,875, and for the third day in a row, the number of new deaths came in at under 700, the Johns Hopkins University tracker said. The US is the country hardest-hit in both deaths and cases of infection and is approaching the horrific milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the virus. In Italy, the global epicenter of infections after the virus spread to Europe from China, the site of a previous natural disaster also reopened to visitors -- the ruins of the Roman city of Pompeii, destroyed by a volcanic eruption in 79 AD. But the site, which attracted four million visitors last year, was largely deserted as foreign visitors are still banned from travel to Italy until next month. "It's only us guides, and journalists," sighed 48-year-old Valentina Raffone, noting a "sense of emptiness, of sadness," as if after a disaster on the scale of the city's end. Italian Foreign Minister Luigi di Maio said he was working with EU colleagues to agree on June 15 as a coordinated day for member states to reopen their borders. "We should save what we can save of the summer, to aid our entrepreneurs," he said. The Vatican too has relaxed its lockdown, announcing that Pope Francis will address the faithful once more from his window overlooking Saint Peter's Square on Sunday. And Russia said it had passed its peak of infections, promising to hold postponed World War II victory celebrations next month. "The risks for all participants should be minimized, or even better, eliminated," President Vladimir Putin said. His announcement came as Russia recorded its highest daily coronavirus death toll of 174, with a caseload of 362,342, the third-highest number of infections in the world after the United States and Brazil. There was no mistaking that the coronavirus was taking a growing toll in South America. With about 730,000 cases -- out of 5.5 million globally -- Latin America has outpaced Europe and the United States in the number of daily infections. "In South America, we are particularly concerned that the number of new cases reported last week in Brazil was the highest for a seven-day period, since the outbreak began," said Carissa Etienne, director of the Washington-based Pan American Health Organization. "Both Peru and Chile are also reporting a high incidence, a sign that transmission is still accelerating in these countries," she said during a weekly briefing. Latin America's largest airline LATAM, which has more than 42,000 employees, became the latest carrier to file for bankruptcy as COVID-19 devastates aviation. Virus countermeasures have been especially politicized in Brazil, whose right-wing president, Jair Bolsonaro, has downplayed the illness and lashed out at state governors who have asked people to stay at home. Police on Tuesday raided the official residence of one of Bolsonaro's leading critics over the coronavirus response, Rio de Janeiro Governor Wilson Witzel, alleging that he embezzled public funds for the virus. Witzel called the raid "political persecution" and warned: "What happened to me is going to happen to other governors who are considered enemies." Controversies surrounding the coronavirus have intensified around the world. In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson is in crisis mode after his top aide, Dominic Cummings, flouted the government's lockdown measures by taking a cross-country trip. Douglas Ross, a minister for Scotland, resigned in protest, saying of families who could not mourn loved ones during the lockdown: "I cannot in good faith tell them they were all wrong and one senior advisor to the government was right." US President Donald Trump, an ally of both Johnson and Bolsonaro, has weathered a torrent of criticism for playing golf as the death toll in his country neared 100,000 on the weekend, and for not wearing a mask in public. Trump responded by retweeting criticism of his presumptive election rival, Joe Biden, for following health guidelines by wearing a mask during Memorial Day commemorations. With barely five months before elections, Trump is eager to show a return to normal in the United States and tweeted Tuesday that the surge on Wall Street indicates "the Transition to Greatness has started." European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is set on Wednesday to unveil her own trillion-euro proposal to revive the economy of the bloc, whose leaders are likely to argue over its details. With the search for a vaccine potentially still in its infancy, the World Health Organization was left to ponder a very different development on Tuesday. Two Dutch workers seem to have caught the disease from minks, which "would be the first known cases of animal-to-human transmission," the UN health agency said. The agency said pet owners should take precautions but there was "no reason or justification to take measures against companion animals."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/from-wall-street-to-bethlehem-iconic-sites-reopen-from-virus/articleshow/76023121.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Business||Cognizant will ask 400 more executives to leave||BENGALURU: The churn at Cognizant will continue. Around 400 executives holding the title of directors, senior directors, associate vice-presidents (AVPs), VPs and SVPs, would be asked to leave the firm, sources said. This, they said, would be done in a staggered manner. Two years ago, Cognizant laid off about 200 senior employees at the director level and above. The year before that, it offered a voluntary separation scheme to 400 senior employees. But CEO Brian Humphries clearly thinks there are still too many people in the middle and top. This time around, the severance package has shrunk from 20 weeks' pay to three months’ pay plus one-week pay for every year of service completed. When TOI contacted Cognizant on the matter, its spokesperson said, “In a people-intensive business like ours, effectively managing our workforce is a key element of aligning our cost structure with revenue. We have 290,000 employees serving clients worldwide. Like all services firms, we routinely manage supply and demand with a bench of unutilised employees. What distinguishes us is that we are enhancing our bench policy by offering additional cash and extended health benefits to those who are or will become unutilised and for whom we unfortunately do not foresee future opportunities.” The latest exercise is part of its realignment programme to improve cost structure and delivery effectiveness. Under this programme, in 2019, it incurred $22 million of executive transition costs (paid to leaders who leave the firm), $64 million in employee separation costs, $45 million in employee retention costs and $38 million in third-party realignment costs. “We anticipate that the employee separations completed as part of our realignment programme will reduce our compensation expense by approximately $140 million on an annualised basis,” the company said in its 2019 annual report. Rod Bourgeois, managing partner in US-based DeepDive Equity Research, said that prior to Humphries taking the helm, the company had become overly complacent – somewhat resting on its past laurels. And the culture, he said, had drifted away from being a meritocracy. He said Humphries’ is laying a foundation that can enable Cognizant to become a share-gaining growth company again, fuelled by a culture of performance accountability and client centricity. “We think these changes are causing a mix of wanted and unwanted attrition at senior levels of Cognizant’s organization. Wanted attrition has occurred in cases where staff were not sufficiently performing or serving as ideal role models for the rest of the organization. Essentially, we think some senior-level attrition has been needed to push Cognizant toward a performance-oriented culture, pivot Cognizant’s skills toward digital, and better optimize its cost structure,” he said There is some concern in India that some of top roles that were previously based here are no longer so. Leaders of two of its four practice areas -- digital systems and technology is headed by Greg Hyttenrauch, who is based in London, and digital operations is headed by Ganesh Ayyar, who is based in Singapore. Phil Fersht, CEO of HfS Research said, Humphries has been working hard to instill a renewed culture on Cognizant, and moving key leadership centres away from India and closer to the firms' clients in US and UK is part of his strategy. “The reality is that Cognizant had stagnated since Gordon Coburn's departure in 2016 and Elliott Management's acrimonious exit in 2018, and Humphries has been "drinking from a firehose" since he joined to right the ship,” he said. However, Cognizant said the base location of business heads is entirely incidental and has never been a consideration in decision-making. “We are proud to have been a truly global company throughout our more than 25 years of existence. Now that we are more actively building out our business outside the US, a more global team makes even more sense,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-will-ask-400-more-executives-to-leave/articleshow/76023186.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 27, 2020||Noida||Noida: Drive-in OPD, fever tent as hospitals think out of the building||NOIDA: Necessity has birthed many an innovation in the field of healthcare since it became swamped by the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, hospitals are thinking out of the box – or, as some in Noida may say, out of the building – to reassure non-Covid-19 patients who need treatment but are scared of contracting an infection. One private hospital, Fortis in Sector 62, has started a drive-in-OPD clinic that allows patients to see a doctor without entering the main hospital building. The clinic has been fabricated outside the main reception area. A doctor sits behind a glass frame in full PPE gear and patients can visit on the basis of appointments. The outdoor OPD is functional from 10am-4pm. The clinic is also equipped to collect samples and provide medication. “While approaching the drive-in-clinic, patients are required to wait in their vehicles while maintaining a 10-metre distance. An acrylic partition between the patient and the consultant is provided with good ventilation and air circulation in the clinic. At the designated time of the OPD, only the patient is at the clinic for evaluation by the doctor,” said Hardeep Singh, zonal director, Fortis Hospital. On Tuesday, six patients had turned up for routine consultation. “The idea behind setting up this clinic is to contain any potential exposure, especially to the vulnerable citizens such as older adults, young infants and pregnant women as well as anyone with a compromised immunity,” said Singh, adding a separate flu clinic is also operational at the hospital. Prakash Hospital in Sector 33 has set up a separate fever clinic in a tent. Executive director Dr Ayush Chauhan said the facility was being used to screen patients with ILI (influenza-like illnesses) within the hospital premises but outside its main building. Others like Metro hospital are spacing out appointments. “Since the appointment is done prior to the patient’s visit online, the patient simply walks in at the designated time without causing any crowd situation and is required to follow necessary social distancing if in the midst of other healthcare staff or patients,” said a spokesperson for the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/drive-in-opd-fever-tent-as-hospitals-think-out-of-the-building/articleshow/76018472.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
May 27, 2020||Business||Health biz grows as Indians look to develop immunity||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: As the coronavirus pandemic rages, health has become an important element even in food and grocery items. Indians are warming up to the idea of building immunity and maintaining healthy diets to prevent a Covid-19 infection. Products such as olive oil, soya oil, mustard oil, fortified breads & biscuits, and powdered chocolate drinks are in huge demand. During normal times, such products would grow at just 5-10% annually, but now, they are registering annualised growth of 20-40%, industry executives say. “Health has taken more share of the mind thanks to app-led information and lots of WhatsApp forwards on health/immunity and even Instagram/TikTtok posts leaning towards health. People are trying to increase immunity, leading to higher consumption of branded healthy eggs, health oils, health mixes, energy/health bars, chyawanprash and even branded health salt,” said Devendra Chawla, CEO of Spencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket. Dabur, whose chyawanprash sales hit the roof after the outbreak of the coronavirus, has strengthened its immunity-boosting portfolio with the launch of new products. “We have been working on two fronts. On the one hand, we have enhanced production of our existing immunity building products, and on the other, we are introducing ready-to-use immunity booster products such as tulsi drops, amla juice, giloy-neem, and Ashwaganda, to name a few,” said CEO Mohit Malhotra. Biscuit brands Unibic and Parle are seeing 50% growth in their healthy segment such as oats-based and digestive biscuits. Srini Vudyagiri, CEO, Unibic, said that May would see the highest ever growth in the healthy segment since they began operations. “People are even paying 20-30% extra to eat healthy,” he said. Bengaluru-based food startup Sproutlife Foods, which sells under the Yoga Bar brand, has seen 100% growth in muesli and breakfast protein bars, as people try to include more protein and fibre in their food, chief operating officer Suhasini Sampath said Marico’s health segment too has got a boost. “We have continued to witness strong growth in the healthy foods portfolio, led by Saffola Plain and masala oats,” said Sanjay Mishra, chief operating officer - India sales and Bangladesh business. Hemant Malik, divisional CEO of ITC Foods, said such portfolio shifts are happening as people consume more at home. “People are looking at little more connotations on health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/health-biz-grows-as-indians-look-to-develop-immunity/articleshow/76023220.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Is AP bankrupt? HC on govt land auction||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday heard a public interest litigation (PIL) petition challenging the auction of government land under the ‘Build AP’ programme. After hearing the petition, the high court asked if the AP government has gone bankrupt and was left with no other option but to sell government land to take up development work. “It seems the people of the state are rich, but the government is poor,” the court observed. Moving the petition in high court, the petitioner, Suresh Babu, challenged the government orders (GOs) to sell government land. The petitioner argued that the land parcels notified by the government were donated by people and the state government did not have the right to sell them. The high court said how is it that a state that has thousands of kilometres of coastal area does not have enough funds for development work. The court also asked the government whether it intends to take up development work only by selling land. The court further questioned the government on the e-auction process being taken up during the lockdown. The HC said the government should proceed further on the matter subject to the judgement. The counsel representing the government sought more time to file a detailed counter. The HC posted the matter for further hearing on May 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/is-ap-bankrupt-hc-on-govt-land-auction/articleshow/76023201.cms||Srikanth Aluri
May 27, 2020||Patna||Rohtas, Samastipur boys rank first, second in Matric exams||PATNA: Rohtas boy Himanshu Raj topped the Matriculation exams, the results of which were announced by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) on Tuesday, by scoring 481 of 500 marks (96.2%). The overall pass percentage stood at 80.59 against 80.73 recorded last year. Of 14,94,071 candidates, 12,04,030 have been declared successful. Altogether 4,03,392 students have passed the examination in first division, 5,24,217 in second division and 2,75,402 in third division. While results of four students are pending, 218 candidates were expelled for using unfair means. Unlike previous years, boys have outnumbered girls in Matriculation exams this year. Altogether 6,13,485 of 7,29,213 boys and 5,90,545 of 7,64,858 girls have cleared the exams. Education minister Krisna Nandan Prasad Verma declared the results at his office in presence of additional chief secretary (education) R K Mahajan and BSEB chairman Anand Kishor. This year's topper Himanshu is a student of Janata High School, Tenuaj, in Rohtas district. Durgesh Kumar of S K High School, Samastipur secured the second rank by scoring 480 marks (96%). Shubham Kumar of Sri Harkhen Kumar Jain Gyansthali, Bhojpur, Rajveer of Patel High School, Aurangabad and Juli Kumari of Balika High School, Arwal jointly bagged the third position by scoring 478 marks (95.6%) each. BSEB chairman Kishor attributed the delay in declaration of Matriculation results to Covid-19 pandemic. "However, BSEB is still ahead of other boards in the country in conducting the exams and declaring their results. We had announced the results of Intermediate exams on March 24," he said. Kishor said the BSEB had adopted several measures, such as use of pre-printed barcode and lithocode answer copies, to ensure conduct of free and fair examinations. "Six computer operators each were deputed at evaluation centres for tabulation work. All the computers were attached to the BSEB headquarters in Patna, which automatically received all information, including marks, related to a student," Kishor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rohtas-samastipur-boys-rank-first-second-in-matric-exams/articleshow/76023242.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 27, 2020||Business||Boeing set to announce significant US job cuts this week: Union||WASHINGTON: Boeing Co is expected to announce US job cuts this week after disclosing last month it planned to shed 10% of its worldwide workforce of 160,000 employees, people briefed on the plans and a union said. A spokesman for the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA) union that represents 17,600 Boeing employees told Reuters Tuesday the company informed the union it should expect layoff notices on Friday. Boeing declined to comment. In April, Boeing chief executive Dave Calhoun said the company had "begun taking action to lower our number of employees by roughly 10% through a combination of voluntary layoffs, natural turnover and involuntary layoffs as necessary." Calhoun said in April Boeing will need to make "even deeper reductions in areas that are most exposed to the condition of our commercial customers — more than 15% across our commercial airplanes and services businesses, as well as our corporate functions." SPEEA said about 1,300 of its members applied to take voluntary layoffs. The Puget Sound Business Journal reported earlier that Boeing planned to layoff thousands of workers. A union official confirmed the newspaper's report that Boeing had told union leaders to expect cuts of between 15 to 20% of its membership, which represents engineers and technical workers in Washington State and southern California. Boeing is struggling as the worldwide airline sector has been rocked by the travel demand falloff from the coronavirus pandemic. In April, Boeing recorded zero orders for the second time this year and customers canceled another 108 orders for its grounded 737 MAX plane compounding its worst start to a year since 1962. The outbreak worsened a crisis following the second of two fatal crashes that led to the grounding of the 737 MAX in March 2019. Calhoun said on May 8 he expected to resume production of grounded 737 MAX jet this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/boeing-set-to-announce-significant-us-job-cuts-this-week-union/articleshow/76023237.cms||---
May 27, 2020||World||Joe Biden calls Trump a 'fool' for mocking masks during coronavirus pandemic||WASHINGTON: Joe Biden has said that wearing a mask in public to combat the spread of the coronavirus is a sign of leadership and called President Donald Trump a "fool" who was "stoking deaths" for suggesting otherwise. The presumptive Democratic presidential nominee's comments on Tuesday came a day after he wore a black face mask while making his first public appearance in more than two months. Biden has remained at his Delaware home amid a pandemic that has frozen the presidential campaign, but he marked Memorial Day by laying a wreath at a nearby veterans' memorial with his wife, Jill. Trump later retweeted a post that appeared to make fun of a photo of Biden in his mask, though he later said he didn't mean to be critical. In an interview with CNN, Biden responded, "He's a fool, an absolute fool, to talk that way." "He's supposed to lead by example," Biden said. The former vice president also noted that nearly 100,000 Americans have been killed by the virus and suggested that as many as half of those deaths were avoidable but for Trump's "lack of attention and ego." More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Federal officials have recommended that people cover their nose and mouth in public when other measures, such as practicing social distancing of at least 6 feet (1.8 meters), aren't possible. But the issue has become increasingly politically charged, with Trump refusing to wear a mask and polls finding that conservative Americans are more likely to forgo them as well. Biden didn't wear a mask during the CNN interview, which was conducted outside his house, but he sat 12 feet (3.6 meters) from the reporter. "It's just absolutely this macho stuff," Biden said of Trump bristling at wearing a mask in public, a practice the former vice president called being "falsely masculine." "It's cost people's lives." Biden added that the president is politicising the issue and "it's stoking deaths. That's not going to increase the likelihood that people are going to be better off." After Biden wore the mask on Memorial Day, Trump retweeted a post by a political commentator that featured an image of a masked Biden over the comment, "This might help explain why Trump doesn't like to wear a mask in public." Asked about that during a subsequent event in the White House Rose Garden, the president responded, "Biden can wear a mask." "But he was standing outside with his wife, perfect conditions, perfect weather," Trump said. "They're inside, they don't wear masks and so I thought it was very unusual that he had one on. But I thought that was fine. I wasn't criticising him at all. Why would I ever do a thing like that?" Trump then asked the reporter who was following up with a second question to remove the mask he was wearing, complaining he couldn't hear him. When the reporter instead said he would speak louder, the president replied: "Oh, OK, 'cause you want to be politically correct." Federal guidance does not recommend that people wear masks when at home. Still, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany used the same line of argument on Tuesday. She noted that Biden has foregone a mask while appearing for frequent online events from his home, something he did during a virtual fundraiser held Tuesday night. "It is a bit peculiar," McEnany said. "That in his basement, right next to his wife, he's not wearing a mask. But he's wearing one outdoors when he's socially distant. So I think that there was a discrepancy there." Biden, meanwhile, has continued to face fallout from a remark he made Friday on "The Breakfast Club," a radio program influential and popular in the black community. He had commented, "If you've got a problem figuring out whether you're for me or for Trump, then you ain't black." That sparked criticism from some African American activists, and Biden made a previously unscheduled appearance on a US Black Chamber of Commerce conference call hours later to say that he "should not have been so cavalier." He went further Tuesday, telling CNN, "I shouldn't have done that. It was a mistake." "When I say something that is understandably, in retrospect, offensive to someone, and legitimately offensive — making it look like taking them for granted — I should apologise," Biden said. "I don't apologise for every mistake I make because a lot of them don't have any consequences."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-calls-trump-a-fool-for-mocking-masks-during-coronavirus-pandemic/articleshow/76023245.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||Panic after bats found dead in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: A large number of bats found dead near trees triggered panic among people in Gorakhpur’s Belghat area on Tuesday morning. Since the outbreak of global pandemic due to novel coronavirus, studies have suggested that bats are natural reservoir of a range of coronaviruses. Panic set in among villagers who turned apprehensive about deaths of over 50 bats and novel coronavirus spread and they quickly informed police and forest officials. Pankaj Shahi, a resident of Belghat area, said, “Today in the morning, I noticed numerous bats lying dead under one of the mango trees in my orchard and was intrigued. I informed my elders and others.” Residents: Bats could have died due to excessive heatThere is another orchard of one Dhruv Narayan Shahi adjacent to mine. There is a very old Baheda (medicinal) tree in his orchard and bats use to live on it since a very long time. However, few months ago the leaves of that tree started falling, so many bats shifted to mango tree,” he added. “We informed forest department and they took a number of dead bats to be sent for tests and told us to keep water in the garden saying the bats could have died due to excessive heat. A brick kiln is also near the garden,” said Pankaj. Khajni forest ranger Devendra Kumar reached the spot on getting the information and said, “The bodies of bats are being sent for tests. Prima facie, it appears that the bats died due to excessive heat and lack of water as ponds and lakes in the area have dried up.” DFO Avinash Kumar said the reason for the death of bats would be known only after the test report comes. “We got information about bats lying dead near Swami Satsang Bhawan in Belghat area.” He further added, “The Khajini forest ranger inspected the spot immediately with animal husbandry officer and found 52 bats dead. The bodies are being sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly for tests.” “The reason for death of bats in large numbers together behind the death would be clear only when the report comes. Prima facie, it seems the bats died either due to excessive heat or disproportionate use of pesticides on fruit trees.” Watch Panic grips after many bats found dead in UP’s Gorakhpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/panic-after-bats-found-dead-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/76023274.cms||Arjumand Bano
May 27, 2020||Amritsar||Lahore high court to hear Nankana Sahib Sikh girl's plea on June 4||AMRITSAR: In a fresh twist in the case of alleged forcible conversion and marriage of the daughter of a Sikh preacher in Pakistan's Nankana Sahib last year, the girl has filed a fresh petition in the court seeking permission to move to her Muslim husband's house. Her brother-in-law Imran Chishti is still in jail for leading an attack on Gurdwara Nankana Sahib and spewing venom against Sikhs. Muhammad Sultan, the counsel of the girl, who is now known as Ayesha Bibi, told TOI over phone from Lahore on Tuesday that his client had filed another petition urging the court to send her to her husband's house from Dar-ul-Alam where she had been staying since her marriage. Girl’s bro-in-law in jail over Nankana Sahib attackThe last hearing was held on May 21, but now a double bench of high court will consider her plea on June 4," the counsel said. Sultan said Ayesha’s husband Mohammad Hassan had also filed a separate petition seeking his wife’s release from Dar-ul-Alam and protection from her family members. He said Hassan’s elder brother Imran Chishti was also lodged in jail since the court had not given him bail in the Gurdwara Nankana Sahib attacl case. His bail application would be heard on June 4. The conversion and marriage had caused an uproar in the holy city of Nankana Sahib, forcing the Pakistan Punjab governor Mohammad Sarwar to intervene, but the girl refused to go back to her parents’ house. The husbands’s family had claimed that she had embraced Islam and got married of her own will.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/lahore-high-court-to-hear-nankana-sahib-sikh-girls-plea-on-june-4/articleshow/76023277.cms||Yudhvir Rana
May 27, 2020||Business||Germany stamps authority on Lufthansa with $9.8bn aid||FRANKFURT/BERLIN: Germany threw Lufthansa a 9-billion-euro ($9.8-billion) lifeline on Monday, agreeing to a bailout which gives Berlin a veto in the event of a hostile bid for the airline. The largest German corporate rescue since the coronavirus crisis struck will see the government get a 20% stake, which could rise to 25% plus one share in the event of a takeover attempt, as it seeks to protect thousands of jobs. Lufthansa has been locked in talks with Berlin for weeks over aid it needs to survive an expected protracted travel slump, with the airline wrangling over how much control to yield in return for financial support. Germany’s central government has spent decades offloading stakes in companies, but remains a large shareholder in former state monopolies such as Deutsche Post and Deutsche Telekom. Berlin also still has a 15% holding in Commerzbank, which it took on during the global financial crisis. Other airlines including Franco-Dutch Air France-KLM and US carriers American Airlines, United Airlines and Delta Air Lines have also sought state aid after the coronavirus hit global travel. Germany’s finance and economy ministries said on Monday that Lufthansa had been operationally healthy and profitable with good prospects, but had run into trouble because of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/germany-stamps-authority-on-lufthansa-with-9-8bn-aid/articleshow/76023255.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Amaravati||Polavaram project would be completed by 2021: YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday said the proposed irrigation projects (IPs) in Rayalaseema will be completed without doing injustice to any region as they were designed to draw only AP’s share of water from Srisailam project. He said the government was determined to complete Polavaram project by 2021 despite the lockdown hampering the progress of the work. Addressing a seminar on agriculture sector during ‘Mana Palana-Mee Suchana’ held at the chief minister’s camp office on Tuesday, he said they have eliminated the role of middlemen and high-level corruption in initiating the irrigation projects as they have already saved nearly 1,095 crore through reverse tendering. “We will complete all the planned irrigation projects in next four years and revolutionise the agriculture sector,” said the chief minister’s. He said YSR Janata Bazaars would be set up in next one year through which the farmers would get minimum support price for their produce in their villages. Storage, packing, grading facilities would all be provided at the Janata Bazaars. Seed and soil testing labs will also be set up in all constituencies, he said. “The state will progress only when its farmers are prosperous. The government has so far spent 10,209 crore for the YSR Rythu Bharosa scheme,” Jaganmohan Reddy said. He said for the first time, the government has purchased nearly 80,000 quintals of onion to provide MSP to farmers and it has already spent 2,200 crore for price stabilisation and 12,000 crore on paddy. procurement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/polavaram-project-would-be-completed-by-2021-ys-jaganmohan-reddy/articleshow/76023294.cms||Samdani MN
May 27, 2020||Goa||Croc found dead in Colvale||The village of Colvale woke up to the news of a crocodile which was found dead by locals in the area on Tuesday. The 2- years-old, male croc was approximately around 1.9 meters long was found tied to the mangroves, informs an animal rescuer. “We have registered a panchanama and the vets did a post-mortem. It was difficult to find out through the internal organs as the animal was in a decomposed state. There was a fracture in the skull which led to the death of the croc,” informs a forest department official. Talking to Agnelo Nobbay, the animal rescuer tells us that the fracture on the skull, possibly led to the death of the croc. “It looks like it was done with a sharp object and the animal was found tied to the mangrove. There are many locals who come to this place to fish, it could be one of them. So far there are no reports of the croc attacking animals or people. We got to know of the incident two days ago, but the local were aware for the past four days and didn't file a complaint. We will be filing a case too too. The investigation is still on.” In April a mutilated carcass of whale shark was washed up on Baga beach. It was recognised as the largest of the fish species. Its dorsal and tail fins had been cut off and the male juvenile measured 1.5m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/croc-found-dead-in-colvale/articleshow/76084962.cms||Kimberly Colaco
May 27, 2020||Patna||After triple murder, MLA’s kin shot dead in Gopalganj||PATNA: Tension has gripped Gopalganj following the murder of one Shashikant Tiwari alias Munna Tiwari (50), a close relative of JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikote, Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, around 12.30pm on Tuesday. No one was arrested in the case till late evening. Pandey is himself an accused in the triple murder case lodged by RJD leader JP Yadav, whose parents and brother were shot dead at Rupanchak under Hathua police station in Gopalganj district on Monday night. Yadav, who also suffered bullet injuries, and is undergoing treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). The MLA’s elder brother, Satish Pandey and his son Mukesh Pandey of village Nayagaon Tulasiya were arrested in the case. Mukesh is Gopalganj district board chairman. The MLA is evading arrest. Tiwari, an affluent farmer, was shot dead by unidentified criminals when he was talking to a relative near his house at Repura under Hathua police station. He died on the spot while the assailants escaped on their motorbikes towards neighbouring Siwan district. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari said the assailants had been identified and raids were on to nab them. “Additional armed forces have been deployed at Repura as a precautionary measure,” he added. Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz said he was personally monitoring the situation in the wake of spate of murders in the last couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/after-triple-murder-mlas-kin-shot-dead-in-gopalgan/articleshow/76023315.cms||Ramashankar
May 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Banda baked at 48°C; heat wave unabated||LUCKNOW: Banda was second most hottest place in the country after Churu in Rajasthan as intense heat wave conditions continued unabated in the state, particularly east UP and Bundelkhand region. Several UP cities were among top most hottest places in India. While mercury touched 50 degrees Celsius in Churu, Banda smouldered at 48 degrees, followed by Prayagraj at 47.6 degrees, equal to highest mercury level recorded at Delhi’s Palam. Jhansi was at 47 degrees Celsius, Agra sweltered at 46.7 and Orai at 46.5 degrees respectively. These temperatures were also highest of respective districts of this summer so far. In Lucknow, Monday was the hottest day of this summer when mercury during the day touched 44.1 degrees Celsius. It came down to 43.8 degrees (3.6 degrees above normal) on Tuesday, a drop of mere 0.3 degrees. The slight decline was due to partly cloudy sky between 12-4pm when sun is at its peak coupled with strong winds. Experts warned people against exposure of the dry hot wind, popularly known as ‘loo’, lashing the city for past few days. Expert have advised not to venture out during peak hours during the day as similar conditions would prevail on Wednesday and Thursday. But by and large weather will remain hot and dry. Thunderstorms may bring some relief on Friday and Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-banda-baked-at-48c-heat-wave-unabated/articleshow/76023343.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Patna||Vegetable vendor's son emerges Bihar topper||PATNA: Rohtas boy Himanshu, son of vegetable vendor Subhash Singh, beat all odds to emerge state topper in Class X, the results of which were announced by the Bihar School Examination Board on Tuesday. He wants to become a software engineer after completing his studies. Himanshu, a student of Janata High School, Tenauj, who scored 96.2% to top the exam, said he could not check his marks due to poor internet connection. "I only know that my overall score is 481 out of 500. I'm really excited and so are my parents," Himanshu said. Born to Subhash and homemaker Manju Devi, Himanshu wants to crack the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to get admission in any reputed engineering college. "I want to improve the economic condition of my family through dedication and hard work," said the boy, who studied more than 12 hours a day for Class X board exams. Himanshu's father Subhash, also a farm worker, helped his son in preparations for the board exams. "My daughter Shreyanjali was the district topper in BSEB's Class X exams last year. She had scored above 80%. Now, my son has made me proud by emerging state topper," he said. Like Himanshu, Durgesh Kumar of S K High School, Samastipur, who has scored 96% to emerge second topper, also wants to crack JEE to secure admission in the IIT. "I studied 10 hours a day for the exams, but never expected to become second-rank holder in the state. My focus was on science and mathematics as these are my favourite subjects. Now, I want to study hard to get admission in IIT," Durgesh said. Durgesh's father Jay Kishore Singh is a farmer and mother Phool Kumari Devi a homemaker. They are also elated with the success of their son. "I am ready to spend all my savings to give better education to my son," Singh said. Shubham Kumar of Sri Harkhen Kumar Jain Gyansthali, Bhojpur, Rajveer of Patel High School, Aurangabad and Juli Kumari of Balika High School, Arwal shared the third position by scoring 478 marks each. Shubham wants to secure admission in Industrial Training Institute (ITI) if he gets financial assistance from the state government. "My ultimate goal is to crack UPSC exams and serve the nation," he said. Subham's father Krishna Kumar works in a vehicle spare parts shop and his mother Parvati Devi is a homemaker. "My parents always encouraged me to study hard. They gave me all facilities despite financial constraints," Subham added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vegetable-vendors-son-emerges-bihar-topper/articleshow/76023346.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Corona Yuga: Board game captures lockdown experience||VISAKHAPATNAM: Defining moments of human experience find expression in a myriad of ways. The near-entirety of humanity is battling an unprecedented crisis owing to spread of the novel coronavirus. This period of human history has already started making its mark on all creative pursuits. The pandemic has led to apprehension, and more pronouncedly, the governments’ stay-at-home orders, have led to boredom. It is this boredom that has led a 10-year-old boy from Visakhapatnam, Veer Kashyap, to create a board game that articulates the narrative of human experience of our times. Titled ‘Corona Yuga’— the era of Corona, this board game takes players through the experience of remaining locked down at homes and guarding against the novel coronavirus. The game requires a printed physical board, dice and pegs. Any number of players can play the game that has a run-time of nearly 45 minutes. In order to enter the game, a player has to roll the number two on the dice to land on the ‘buy mask’ block as wearing a mask is compulsory. The game then goes on to blocks of washing hands over and over again, sanitising surroundings, buying grocery, maintaining social distance, paying penalties for violating lockdown norms and hospitalisation if tested positive for Covid-19. There are also other blocks such as ‘do yoga’, wherein players have to perform a yoga posture. There’s also a clapping area, where all players clap together to appreciate frontline Covid warriors for their services. Veer, the 10-year-old who designed the game is the son of an Indian Navy commander. When the lockdown was announced, Veer got stuck at his grandparents’ place. Bored with playgrounds closed and friends locked at home, this class five student decided to make a board game. Talking about how he came upon the idea, Veer told TOI, “I was bored and wanted something new to play. So I designed a board game and decided to call it Corona Yuga.” His parents, Vinayak and Sangeeta, who are impressed by their son’s creativity, said that Veer drew out the game using cardboard and instruments available at home. With the game, having gained a bit of traction, Veer is now trying to gauge concepts of copyright, trademark, patent and manufacturing. He wants to sell the game and contribute the profits from it to the PM Cares fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/corona-yuga-board-game-captures-lockdown-experience/articleshow/76023353.cms||Siva G
May 27, 2020||Vijayawada||PIL against Chandrababu Naidu for violating lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Tuesday heard a PIL petition filed by Vanga Venkata Rami Reddy, a practicing advocate, against former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s visit to Amaravati. The petitioner contended that Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh went to Amaravati from Hyderabad in a convoy. “They made several halts at NH-65 where hundreds of party workers gathered without wearing masks or maintaining social distance. Instead of stopping party workers, Naidu encouraged them by coming out of his car and showing them victory sign. Gathering of people at this point of time violates lockdown norms and is a crime under the Epidemic Act,” Rami Reddy said, and urged the high court to direct the police to book cases against Naidu and his son for risking the lives of so many people. The central government’s guidelines on Covid-19 pandemic mandates maintaining social distancing and bans public congregations, Rami Reddy said. He also accused the police of inaction because they allegedly did not do anything to disperse the crowd. State home secretary, health secretary, DGPs of both Telugu states, Union home ministry, Chandrababu Naidu and Nara Lokesh have been made respondents in the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-against-chandrababu-naidu-for-violating-lockdown/articleshow/76023591.cms||Srikanth Aluri
May 27, 2020||Patna||Girl burned alive by four youths in Patna||PATNA: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly burned alive by four youths of her village for protesting sexual harassment at Mahendrapuri village under Hathidah police station in rural Patna late Monday night. The incident took place when the victim was sleeping in her house. Four youths barged into the room, drenched her in kerosene and set the girl on fire. On hearing her cry for help, the girl's mother, who was sleeping in another room, came to her rescue and suffered minor burn injuries. Police said the girl succumbed to injuries during treatment at a private hospital. Her mother was released from the hospital after first aid, police said. She has accused Pradip Mahto, Deepak Mahto, Vijay Kumar and Amit Kumar of killing her daughter. The mother told the interrogators that Pradip, a next door neighbour, used to harass her daughter on way to school. She was a student of Class IX at a local government school. The accused got agitated when she refused to talk to the youths, an investigating officer quoted the victim's mother as saying. SP (rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra, however, said the motive of the accused is y et to be ascertained. "The victim's mother, an eyewitness in the case, has not mentioned the cause of the incident in the FIR," he said. The SP said froth was seen oozing out from the girl's mouth when the police reached the hospital. "We are waiting for the postmortem report. The viscera have been preserved. A forensic team also visited the site and collected evidence. It will not be prudent to make any comment at this stage," he said, adding that the accused were absconding. Police said the everything in the girl's room were found intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-burned-alive-by-four-youths-in-patna/articleshow/76023598.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Patna||Gaya people advised to stay indoors at noon||GAYA: With the prevailing heat wave condition in the district, the Gaya district administration has notified changes in shop opening times and as per the revised schedule, all shops permitted to open as per conditions laid down in the Covid-19 protocol including physical distancing, mandatory use of masks both by the buyers and the sellers, will now open at 7am and close at 12 noon. No shop, except medicine, will be allowed to open after 12 noon. District magistrate Abhishek Kumar Singh notified the new timing that came into effect on Tuesday. Earlier, shops were permitted to open between 10 am to 1pm and 3 to 5 pm with a two-hour-long recess between 1.00-3.00 pm. As per the revised schedule, shops will remain open for five hours in continuity and there will be no recess. Gaya hit the 45 degree Celsius mark on Monday. The notification came into effect on Tuesday morning. The district administration, according to a press statement, has also issued an advisory to the residents on do's and dont's during the heat wave conditions. The advisory asks people to remain indoors between 12noon -4.00 pm. All construction activity in the district has been banned between 12 to 4 pm in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-people-advised-to-stay-indoors-at-noon/articleshow/76023616.cms||---
May 27, 2020||World||Chinese in Canada a target of increased hate during pandemic||VANCOUVER: Vancouver resident Trixie Ling recalls her disgust and anger after a passing stranger taunted her with racial and sexual slurs in early May. Then he spat on her face. "I was feeling a mixture of shock, disgust and sadness that it happened to me," Ling said in an interview with AFP near the scene. "But I knew I'm not the only one this has happened to." Ling is indeed not alone. From spitting and violent attacks, to verbal assaults and vandalism of Chinese cultural sites, Chinese residents of Canada's third largest city -- who make up 26 percent of its population, according to the last census in 2016 -- say they feel increasingly unsafe and unwelcome. A new survey obtained by AFP suggests the problem is deeply rooted: one in four British Columbians of Asian descent (70 percent of whom are Chinese) said someone in their household had been targeted with "racial slurs or insults" since March, according to the ResearchCo poll of 1,600 adults. Vancouver police are also investigating 29 anti-Asian incidents over the past two months, seven times more than the same period last year, the police chief revealed. Another Vancouverite who experienced racism during the pandemic helped launch an online reporting form for others to share their experiences anonymously. Ellen, who asked to be identified by first name only, said the database will guide advocacy to combat racism. "Very lewd, inappropriate and derogatory remarks and gestures, I've experienced quite a bit of that, mostly referencing characteristics of being Asian," she said. "The anticipation of what might happen to me is quite stressful, scary and disturbing." A stone lion statue on the historic gate of Vancouver's 125-year-old Chinatown was vandalized last week with "China" and "Covid" graffiti. A nearby Chinese cultural center's windows were also recently vandalized. A mobile police surveillance camera trailer now monitors the area. Canadian singer Bryan Adams, who recorded his biggest hits in Vancouver, inflamed tensions with a tweet blaming COVID-19 on "bat eating, wet animal market selling, virus making greedy bastards." Wet markets sell fresh food and produce, including farmed animals and wildlife. One such market in Wuhan, China has been identified by the World Health Organization as a possible source or "amplifying setting" of the outbreak. The "Cuts Like a Knife" singer later apologized for the "racist" post. Vancouver church pastor Daniel Louie, who co-organized an online anti-racism town hall in mid-May, said criticism of China's government must be distinguished from stereotypes about Chinese people. The hate-mongering has also spilled out against people who were mistaken for Chinese or through association, including of Japanese, Korean or Vietnamese descent. The ResearchCo poll also found that 24 percent of South Asians reported racist insults. Even Indigenous people reported being targeted. "It's so shockingly high, I had to go back to the calculations to make sure there was nothing wrong with the numbers," said pollster Mario Canseco. The survey is considered accurate within 2.5 percent. "There's this element that comes out blaming an entire ethnicity for what is going on. It should be cause for great concern," he said. Vancouver resident Dakota Holmes, who is Indigenous, said a man told her to "go back to China" before punching her in the head, leaving Holmes on the ground with bruises after she sneezed from seasonal allergies. "He said all these racial slurs," Holmes recalled. "I'm Indigenous, not from Asia; he didn't care." British Columbia Premier John Horgan condemned the rising acts of hate as "unacceptable," saying that "racism is a virus" and "hate has no place in our province." But while political leaders, police and community advocates alike condemned the incidents, others want to see more aggressive preventive action by authorities, such as financial support for organizations serving the Chinese-Canadian community, offering victims mental health services, and backing initiatives to educate witnesses on how best to respond. "I would focus the attention, if someone is being verbally abused, on the victim -- not the person harassing them," Louie advised. Some advocates suggested that the racist incidents are not simply a short-term fad, but that the pandemic is bringing long-standing societal prejudices to the surface. Recalling her assault, Ling said it "lit a fire" in her to speak out. "People are afraid of going outside not because of COVID but because of their skin color," she said. "It's important for all of us to do something when you see it happening -- to not be ashamed or silent, because if many people speak out, that's how we fight against racism."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/chinese-in-canada-a-target-of-increased-hate-during-pandemic/articleshow/76023618.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: For firemen, a Covid-19 care hub with 30 beds||MUMBAI: With more than 28 fire brigade staff testing positive for Covid-19 and one fireman, a suspected case, having died, the BMC on Tuesday set up a Covid care centre in one of the buildings within the Byculla headquaters and command centre premises where it plans to treat patients with mild symptomatic or those who are asymptomatic. Chief fire officer PS Rahangdale said, “These 30 beds will cater only to our staff who get infected while on duty. If required, we will also set up another 20-bed facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-for-firemen-a-covid-19-care-hub-with-30-beds/articleshow/76023624.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Son refuses, NGO conducts last rites||VIJAYAWADA: Abandoned by her son, a 70-year-old woman’s last rites were performed by local Muslim activists at Mangalagiri town in Guntur district on Tuesday. Dhanalakshmis’s son Nallamaleswara Rao refused to conduct her last rites owing to a property dispute between his mother and him. The incident took place on May 25 when Dhanalakshmi, who was residing with her daughter in Mangalagiri slipped and fell in the bathroom and eventually succumbed to her injuries at Guntur GGH. When the ambulance brought her body to her son’s residence for the last rites, he refused to receive it. According to Mangalagiri cops, Rao had previously refused to conduct the last rites of his father Yuddham Satyanarayana in January as well over the same issue but later was pursuaded to do it. This time, he remained adamant. Given that her daughter did not have enough money, Dhanalakshmi’s body was left outside her son’s house in the hope that he would change his mind. Eventually, her daughter put up a post on a social media platform seeking help. Finally, Helping Hands, a local NGO run by Muslim youths, came forward and conducted the rituals and buried her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-son-refuses-ngo-conducts-last-rites/articleshow/76023630.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: KEM staff go on flash strike as worker dies||MUMBAI: Staffers at Parel’s KEM Hospital went on a flash strike on Tuesday morning to protest the death of a co-worker whose body was not handed over to the family for two days. They alleged the 45-year-old man was initially denied leave though he was unwell. The man, who worked as a guard, was on a daily wage scheme with the BMC. Pradeep Narkar of Municipal Mazdoor Union said the man had developed fever and bodyache about a week ago but was initially denied leave. “When he could no longer work, he went on leave. After his condition deteriorated, he hired an ambulance for KEM on May 24 but died on the way,” said Narkar. He alleged the hospital refused a Covid test. BMC chief IS Chahal said, “He was granted leave between May 12 and 18. He had developed fever there and before he could reach KEM, he passed away. As he was a frontline worker, he will be eligible for compensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-kem-staff-go-on-flash-strike-as-worker-dies/articleshow/76023639.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Amaravati||Chandrababu Naidu’s oppn leader status at risk as party MLAs plan to jump ship||AMARAVATI: Political circles are agog with speculation that in the next few days several TDP legislators are likely to meet chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and offer their support to YSRC. Sources said that the YSRC top leadership is willing to take them on board to corner TDP president Chandrababu Naidu. Sources said efforts are on to bring in at least five legislators from the TDP camp which might result in Naidu losing the status of opposition in the assembly. Sources said that YSRC political strategists have held several rounds of discussions with Purchuru legislator Eluri Sambasiva Rao, Addanki legislator Gottipati Ravikumar and Repalle legislator Anagani Satyaprasad. All the three legislators are industrialists and it is said that they have been struggling to manage their business since TDP lost power in the state. Sources said Sambasiva Rao and Ravikumar met Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Prakasam district minister, a couple of days ago and held discussions to take the process ahead. Subsequently, they also discussed their grievances with Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, political advisor to the chief minister, and Vijaysai Reddy, Rajya Sabha member. Sources, however, said that they were waiting for the final clearance from the chief minister. The vigilance wing of mines and geology department had carried out in-depth inquiry on seigniorage evasion in granite quarries owned by Gottipati Ravikumar and levied penalties to the tune of over 100 crore after YSRC came to power. Although Ravi Kumar got stay from the High Court, the quarry operations have been facing frequent raids and scrutiny. Similarly, the seeds firm owned by Eluri Sambasiva Rao have been kept under scanner resulting in financial troubles to the legislator. Already, three legislators, Vallabhaneni Vamsimohan (Gannavaram), Maddali Giridhar (Guntur West), Karanam Balaram (Chirala) are sailing in the YSRC boat without formally joining the party. Parting ways by another five legislators would reduce TDP’s strength in the assembly to 15. The splinter group might seek to continue as independents in the assembly before formally merging the unit with YSRC. TDP has only 23 MLAs in the assembly and support of at least 18 members is required for Naidu to remain as principal opposition leader with cabinet rank. In an indirect reference to those attempting to leave the party, TDP senior leader Ayyanna Patrudu has recently termed them as ‘thankless dogs.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/chandrababu-naidus-oppn-leader-status-at-risk-as-party-mlas-plan-to-jump-ship/articleshow/76023690.cms||Samdani MN
May 27, 2020||World||Montenegro woos tourists to Europe's 'corona-free' corner||KOTOR, Montenegro: Less than two months after detecting its first infection, Montenegro is the first country in Europe to declare itself coronavirus-free, a success story the tiny country hopes will lure tourists to its dazzling Adriatic coast this summer. For weeks hotel staff have been raking empty beaches as the pandemic kept away visitors who would normally be arriving by plane, cruise ship and car this time of year. But finally, there is a sliver of hope after Montenegro announced it no longer has any active cases of Covid-19. Tourism operators have already seized the opportunity to brand Montenegro as "Europe's First Covid-19 Free Country" in videos promoting its stunning natural beauty, with beaches snaking along the south and rugged mountains in the north. In picturesque Kotor, a medieval walled city nestled in a mountain-ringed bay, locals have been spared the virus entirely, with no known cases reported. While tour agencies are still expecting a tough season, there is hope this sterling health record will soften the blow on an industry that accounts for more than a fifth of GDP and 19 percent of the workforce. "Safety is something people are looking at the most," said Ana Nives Radovic, director of the local tourism organisation in Kotor. "They now are looking for a destination where people feel safe, respect some rules and where they can be assured that (the host) will not allow anything bad to happen to them," she added. Montenegro's size has certainly been of aid in its fight against the virus: the country is one of the smallest in the world with only about 630,000 people. Over the past 10 weeks it has recorded around 300 infections and nine deaths from Covid-19. Since May 5, there have been no new domestic cases. "Let me take off my mask," Prime Minister Dusko Markovic said triumphantly on Monday after health authorities announced that all active cases had been cleared. Borders will now open in early June, officially kicking off the holiday season. But arrivals will nevertheless fall far below the 2.6 million recorded last year, with forecasts of up to a 70 percent drop in tourism turnover as well. To prevent any backsliding on the health front, Montenegro will only allow visitors from countries that have kept coronavirus cases low at under 25 patients per 100,000 people. That means travellers from top markets such as the hard-hit UK and Russia are unlikely to make it this summer, a blow to luxury destinations like Porto Montenegro. While tourists from the region made up a third of visitors last year, this summer they are expected to be the core clientele. "It will look very different this summer than it would have looked last year," said Kai Dieckmann, general manager of Regent Porto Montenegro hotel, whose pristine pools, lawns and beach front have stood eerily empty for weeks. He noted new hygiene measures would also be in place, such as "QR menus" at restaurants that allow patrons to read the menu on smartphones instead of touching a physical copy. We will "have to provide additional services to meet the 'new normal', whatever that is going to be," he said. Up the coast, tourism powerhouse Croatia is also hoping to capitalise on its relatively low virus numbers to salvage the 2020 season. The Adriatic nation of 4.2 million has capped deaths at around 100 and infections at slightly over 2,000. With southern European competitors like Spain and Italy struck off many travel lists because of their battles with the virus, Croatia is in a position to pick up some of the share. "The number of people who will travel will be reduced, but so will be the number of destinations where Europeans visit compared to a 'normal' year," said Krunoslav Kapetanovic, a hotelier from Opatija, a northern coastal resort. Others hope socially-distanced options like boating holidays, camping, private accommodation and road travel will be a draw to travellers from nearby central European markets. Some 150,000 foreigners, mainly neighbouring Slovenians who own apartments on the coast, have already descended on Croatia since it relaxed restrictions in early May. Any visitors at all will be welcome in a country where officials predict a 70 percent drop in tourism revenues. The walled city of Dubrovnik, a coastal jewel made even more famous by its use as a location for the television series "Game of Thrones", is expected to suffer especially hard with curbs on plane and cruise travel. Locals say the town's cobbled streets have not been so empty since the 1990s war when its buildings were badly damaged. All but one reservation for Nikolina Lovric's two-bedroom apartment have been cancelled. "We have no expectations. If anything happens it will be a gift," the 34-year-old told AFP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/montenegro-woos-tourists-to-europes-corona-free-corner/articleshow/76023722.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP high court issues notice to govt over capital Bills||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Tuesday issued notices to the state government, and the secretary and additional secretary of AP legislative council for not notifying the select committee on the Bills that are intended to trifurcate the state capital and repeal AP Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) Act. Hearing a petition moved by TDP MLC Gunapati Deepak Reddy, the high court directed the respondents to file counter affidavits by June 22. Deepak Reddy said in his petition that as both the Bills were illegal and unconstitutional as his party had opposed them in the legislative council and left a notice under Rule 71 of Council Rules in the office of the secretary on January 21. The council chairman then referred both the Bills to a select committee and directed the secretary to notify the same. However, the council secretary has not notified anything to the eight-member select committee till date, which is in violation of the rules, the petitioner said. Senior counsel Unnam Muralidhar Rao, arguing on behalf of Deepak Reddy, said the secretary has no authority or power to defy the directions of the council chairman. He said as a quid pro quo for his extension of service tenure as council secretary, P Balakrishnama Charyulu deliberately defied the decision of the House and the chairman. The high court issued notices to the respondents to file counter affidavits and posted further hearing of the case to June 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-high-court-issues-notice-to-govt-over-capital-bills/articleshow/76023734.cms||Srikanth Aluri
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC preparing 1.5 lakh beds, state chief secretary says cases not as many as feared||MUMBAI: In what could be an indicator of the progression of Covid-19, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said the corporation was preparing 1.5 lakh Covid-19 beds till mid-June. Chahal said that since the corporation was adopting a more aggressive approach of “chasing the virus,” the city could see more cases in the days to come. The commissioner maintained that over 1.75 lakh people have already been tested in the city that now has a positivity rate of 18%. “We have done 13,400 tests per million, which is way ahead of what entire states have achieved,” he said. He added that of the currently active cases, around 15,800 were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Chahal said the lockdown has given them time to prepare for a surge once restrictions are withdrawn. State chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said the lockdown was helpful in reducing the rate of increase in cases and in adding hospital beds in the state. Mehta said time taken for cases to double too has gone up to 14 days. There were a total of 72 labs in 15 districts of the state and permission for 22 new labs had been sought. As on Monday, the state had a daily capacity of 13,000 tests. “Nearly 66 lakh people or 6% of the state population has been screened by 16,000- plus squads,” he said. He said the state had not added cases as was feared. “There were projections that we will be adding 1.5 lakh cases till the end of May, we won’t reach anywhere close to that number,” Mehta said. The commissioner also said nearly 3,700 doctors have responded to their call to join the civic Covid services, of which 570 have shown willingness to work in the jumbo hospitals at MMDRA, BKC, Nesco in Goregaon and the NSCI Dome in Worli. Thane recorded 122 fresh cases, including two doctors who tested positive, taking the tally there to 2,294. The state said of the 97 deaths, 39 were in Mumbai, 15 in Thane, 10 in Kalyan-Dombivli, 8 in Pune, 7 in Solapur, 5 in Aurangabad, 5 in Mira-Bhayandar, 3 each in Malegaon and Ulhasnagar and one each in Nagpur and Ratnagiri. 65 of the 97 patients (67%) had high-risk co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-preparing-1-5-lakh-beds-state-chief-secretary-says-cases-not-as-many-as-feared/articleshow/76023740.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 27, 2020||Noida||34 open gyms to come up in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Authority has decided to expedite work on many pending infra projects, including the proposed 34 open gyms in residential sectors across the city. The decision was taken at a meeting held on Tuesday. Officials said the bidding process for setting up the 34 open gyms sectors had to be called off due to the Covid-19 crisis. "But we are now reviving the projects. Because of lockdown, contractors and vendors were unable to gather details of the project and responding to bids and tenders was difficult for all stakeholders," said additional CEO Deep Chandra. He said tendering and bidding process shall get over by the first week of June. "We would be able to share execution timeline once the process is over," he added. Residents have been demanding more amenities at parks. "If I get to exercise in an open gym, I will not go to a gym," said Nitin Srivastava from Zeta 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/34-open-gyms-to-come-up-in-greater-noida/articleshow/76023749.cms||Shalabh
May 27, 2020||Mumbai||Bandra, Santacruz to curb market timings||MUMBAI: In a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 in parts of Bandra, Khar and Santacruz, the BMC's H-West Ward office has passed orders to allow fruit and vegetable markets to stay open only till 12pm daily. Residents like Madhu Poplai, irked over what they perceive as short hours, say this will lead to crowding. Ward officer Vinayak Vispute justified it saying markets are a probable infection source. Corporator Asif Zakeria said the decision was taken suddenly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-santacruz-to-curb-market-timings/articleshow/76023829.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Vijayawada||BJP functionary files PIL in HC against TTD’s assets sale move||VIJAYAWADA: A PIL was moved in the AP high court on Tuesday challenging the decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board to sell some of the temple properties by terming them as ‘unviable’. Janganti Amaranath, a BJP functionary from Anantapur district, filed the public interest litigation. Amaranath said the decision of the trust board to sell immovable properties of TTD is in violation of Sections 80 and 97 of Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987, and also in violation of Article 300 (a) of the Constitution. “The trust board should only act as a protector of the properties of Lord Venkateswara. It has no authority to dispose of properties donated by devotees. If such properties belonging to Hindu temples are sold in open auction, they can be utilised by the purchasers for other activities which may result in hurting the sentiments of devotees,” the petitioner said, and requested the high court to restrain TTD from going ahead with the auctioning of its properties. He also requested the high court to form a judicial committee to audit all assets of the TTD including cash, jewellery, and other movable and immovable properties. In the interest of the sentiments of devotees, a register of TTD properties should be published on the temple body’s official website after the detailed audit, Amaranath pleaded. The high court is yet to hear the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bjp-functionary-files-pil-in-hc-against-ttds-assets-sale-move/articleshow/76023848.cms||Srikanth Aluri
May 27, 2020||World||Covid-19: Hong Kong high school students go back to class||HONG KONG: Hong Kong public high school students began attending classes on Wednesday, part of a phased reopening after the financial hub successfully tackled its coronavirus outbreak. Hundreds of secondary schools opened their doors on Wednesday for senior students, the first classes in the state sector since late January. Younger students will return in stages over the coming weeks, while fee-paying international schools have already restarted classes. Hong Kong was one of the first places to be hit with the coronavirus when it spread from central China. But health authorities have managed to keep a mass outbreak at bay with just over 1,000 infections and four deaths. The semi-autonomous city went into a partial lockdown in March but businesses have mostly reopened in recent weeks. Local transmissions of the COVID-19 disease have all but ended -- the city has recorded 11 days straight of zero local infections. The few cases that are documented are found within people returning from overseas who are swiftly tested on arrival at the airport, and quarantined if necessary. The resumption of classes on Wednesday coincided with a debate in the legislature over a proposed law banning insults to China's national anthem. The South China Morning Post reported some students held banners calling for democracy as they walked to school on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/covid-19-hong-kong-high-school-students-go-back-to-class/articleshow/76023884.cms||---
May 27, 2020||World||Bushfire-hit Australians still in tents as coronavirus slows recovery||COBARGO, Australia: Victims of Australia's catastrophic bushfires are still living in tents, garages and makeshift shelters months after the blazes ended, with efforts to rebuild their lives hampered by the coronavirus pandemic. Inside a small tin shed on Australia's southeast coast, a family of six takes refuge from the cold as the southern hemisphere winter begins to bite. The structure -- chock-full of toys and beds -- has been home to 51-year-old Anita Lawrence and five of her children since February. She had been in Tasmania when fires ripped through the area, torching materials ready to build a new home and new life for her family. "Every single little thing disappeared," she told AFP near trees still blackened from the blazes. Australia's unprecedented bushfire crisis that scorched an area larger than most nations and displaced thousands put a rare spotlight on climate change in a rich, developed country. The disaster sparked charity telethons, government promises of a quick recovery and donations from across the world. But six months on and just six hours drive from hyper-affluent Sydney, scores of people like Lawrence are still living in limbo. "When you come back, and there's so much destruction, everything is difficult," she said. Before the crisis Lawrence had got by working a few days a week at the local school, teaching the kids gardening. During the months-long lockdown she survived on pension savings and struggled to homeschool her own children using a single computer connected to a mobile-phone hotspot. Now schools are going back and some help has arrived, in the form of local man David Crooke and his crew who have put together an extension for their dwelling. It is temporary, but Lawrence now has a bathroom, heating and a bedroom until she can find a way to build a permanent home. "Just to see a young boy see running water even, and a shower for the first time, that's a big thing," said Crooke. His small team -- hired by private donors -- has been building shelters for those who would otherwise be destitute for months. "There's places that are completely wiped out -- our next job we go to, the ladies have a little tent in a shipping container right now," Crooke said. He himself lost his home to the fires last year and spent the summer battling blazes. Armed with four homemade water pumps, his team saved several homes as fires repeatedly hit the southern coast of New South Wales. Since then he has been camping out in increasingly harsh conditions -- moving from property to property, and helping build shelters. But with ageing equipment and a struggle to find materials, the physical and emotional toll was "flogging" the team, he said. "None of my crew have got really anything, you know, we're week-to-week sort of guys, you rely on that paycheque big time." Throughout the area, signs of life are springing from the charred-out landscape, but 66-year-old Wayne Keft said the recovery has been "slow and difficult" for many. His home near Cobargo was destroyed when "a fireball went through the front of the house". He now lives in a garage, and is plagued by dust that blows in off a road nearby. A surveyor's stake for work on his new home sits in a barrel nearby, useless until the ruins of the old structure are cleared by crews who have been operating for months on similar jobs in the area. Help has slowed since global attention shifted from bushfires to the pandemic. Mathew Hatcher said his warehouse in nearby Batemans Bay was once full of donated goods. "We were churning along, a very well-oiled machine, then COVID hit, and it kind of stopped the donations," said Hatcher, coordinator of South Coast Donations Logistics Team. The virus had also meant many larger organisations had to pull out volunteers, leaving locals struggling through trauma without appropriate mental health support, he said. With tourism effectively banned in the state until at least June 1, the area's primary source of income and path to recovery has also been cut off. Without a wage, it is almost impossible for local businesses to get a loan that would finance rebuilding. "This area is going to struggle financially for the long term," Hatcher said. After the fires, Lorena Granados and her husband set up an ad-hoc market stall in front of the ashes of their shop, "Roman Leather Goods and Repairs". They have since moved to a temporary building, hoping the business can help them get back on their feet. "We really weren't prepared to lose our home and business in one day," she said. The virus has slowed their trade to a trickle, but they are determined to fight on. "It encourages us to keep going every day when we sell just one little item," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/bushfire-hit-australians-still-in-tents-as-coronavirus-slows-recovery/articleshow/76024045.cms||---
May 27, 2020||Noida||Office rush chokes DND, RAF deployed by Noida||NOIDA: Long snarls were witnessed during morning and evening peak hours on the Noida-Delhi border at DND Flyway on Tuesday, with hundreds of office-goers returning to the roads after the Eid holiday and cops resorting to strict checking of e-passes and letting vehicles pass only through few lanes. As videos of bumper-to-bumper traffic at the flyway went viral on social media, the Rapid Action Force was deployed to help streamline traffic. Local police also opened three more lanes on the Delhi-Noida side to decongest the flyway. Similar scenes were witnessed at the Delhi-Noida border on the Kalindi Kunj bridge that connects the two cities, in the evening when commuters from Delhi returned towards Noida. In fact, snarls began at the DND Flyway from as early as 10am on Tuesday when people, including essential service providers, were trying to enter Noida from Delhi. And with just 10 cops deployed for the checking of e-passes, vehicles started moving at snail's pace for a couple of hours. "Even if we open three more lanes, we need at least three persons each to look after each lane. Despite the GB Nagar police having adequate strength, only 10 cops have been deployed at the DND," a police officer told TOI. The congestion was cleared only after RAF personnel were sent to the spot to help streamline traffic and authorities opened three more lanes. Aggrieved commuters took to social media to slam the authorities. "What's the exit plan for unsealing the Delhi-Noida-Gurgaon route? Are we waiting for a 'Corona Free' Delhi or Noida to open the traffic? Delhi-NCR has always been a single unit. Are we soon going to see fencing and BSF on the 'Borders' of NCR?," wrote Kaustuva Mishra, a Delhi resident. Siddhartha Mazumder, a corporate banker from Noida requested the district administration to open borders, else the restrictions could soon lead to more jobloss. "To my apprehension, this restriction will eventually result in mass unemployment among people working in Delhi and Noida. I request DM sir to open the borders so that we can resume our work. Already many have suffered due to paycuts and layoffs," he said. Others asked the district administration to speedily get clarification from the UP government regarding opening of borders. Deepak Gupta, a nationalised bank executive, demanded that the district administration expedites the process to obtain clarification from the UP government regarding the commute situation of Delhi-Noida border. However, when contacted, DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma said ample force has been given to the Sector 20 police station from the Noida zone. "There is no staff crunch. On Tuesday, we started running four lanes at the DND in my presence. However, in case, they still feel that the staff is less, we will increase the staff and the number of lanes too," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/office-rush-chokes-dnd-raf-deployed-by-noida/articleshow/76024061.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai lockdown news: Today's updates||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. * Update at 8.39pm: The Supreme Court has allowed the Tamil Nadu government to use top four floors of a Chennai-based private hospital for treating Covid-19 patients. * Update at 7.23pm: Six new Covid-19 cases reported in Puducherry, tally reaches 39 * Update at 6.32pm: Tamil Nadu reports 817 new Covid-19 cases, taking state's tally to 18,545 patients; toll climbs to 133 with more fatalities * Update at 5.32pm: DMK president MK Stalin asks state government to present a fresh budget for Tamil Nadu. The estimates and assumptions, on state's own revenue, in the budget presented on February 14, 2020 have gone haywire due to Covid-19 and lockdown impact. * PTI update at 5pm: 1,600 migrant workers leave Mumbai for Tamil Nadu in special train * Update at 4pm: Five prisoners in Madurai Central Prison, who returned from Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai recently, were tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday. According to an official from the prison department, the tests were conducted as a precautionary measure. * Update at 2.36pm: Tamil Nadu is the only state in the country to have extended free ration to cardholders for the third month. *Tamil Nadu: A slew of changes will be witnessed in classrooms and schools when they reopen after the lockdown, and it looks like teachers will have some say on it. * Update at 1.12pm: Another Tamil Nadu Covid-19 patient commits suicide in Omandurar Government Hospital *Employees’ union at Chennai Port have complained that the port trust hospital, which was prepared to handle Covid-19 cases, was not accepting patients. *The Tamil Nadu government is likely to consider allowing more people on the shooting floors of television serials. The government had earlier capped the number of staff to 20. * Update at 11.38am: MOHFW states services related to pregnancy care management, newborn care & childhood illness management, immunisation services, management of severe acute malnutrition in children, family planning services, comprehensive abortion care services & adolescent health services as essential. *Weeks after extending the completion period of registered projects by five months, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has added one more month to the deadline. *As the state moves into exit mode with the more than two months long lockdown set to end on May 31, Southern Railway is preparing to start express trains at short notice. * Update at 9.48am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 4,337; cases climb to 1,51,767 in India, says Union health ministry * Update at 9.25am: Thermal scanning is being taken up at OCPM Girls Higher Secondary School in Madurai * Update at 9.24am: Evaluation of plus two answer papers, which got delayed due to lockdown, begins from today at 6 centres in Madurai district * Update at 9.03am: Tamil Nadu CM announces free ration for family cardholders for June *Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) is all set to start regular operations once it gets the green light from the state government after the lockdown is lifted. *Corona-hit cops get cured amid nature in Tamil Nadu *Tamils returning from Dharavi feel unwelcome *Chennai a ticking time bomb, more tests must to defuse it The panel of medical experts advising the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday pushed for ramping up testing to identify Covid-19 infections in the early stages for effective treatment, warning that, otherwise, Chennai especially could see an explosion of cases. Without more testing, the worst-case scenario projections were of up to 2 lakh cases by June-end in Chennai, with fatalities exceeding 1,400. *509 new cases in Chennai on Tuesday; nine more deaths take Tamil Nadu toll to 127||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronavirus-in-chennai-latest-news-updates-on-chennai-corona-cases-deaths-27-may-2020/articleshow/76023897.cms||---
