May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Use of firearm by Moose Wala in police range: 4 cops among five get bail||SANGRUR: A local court on Wednesday granted bail to five persons, including four cops, including an assistant sub-inspector, two head constables and a constable who had been booked at the Dhuri Police station for allowing Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala to fire shots from his personal 9MM pistol at the Ladda Kothi police centre firing range. The case against the five cops had been registered at the Dhuri police station on May 5, a day after the Baranla police had booked them at the Danaula police station for allowing the singer to fire from an AK47 automatic weapon at the Badbar police firing range in the Barnala district. The matter had come to light after videos showing the singer using firearms had emerged on social media. On Wednesday, a local court granted bail to ASI Balkar Singh, Head constable Gurjinder Singh and constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh along with a shooting player Jung Sher Singh, who had been booked by the police along with constable Ganagdeep Singh, Inderveer Singh Grewal and Karam Singh Lehal. It as learnt that the defence counsel raised the issue of the authenticity of the video, which he claimed had not yet been established. The defence also tried to weaken the prosecution case by adding that as per police records, the firing incident took place on May 1 while the FIR was registered on May 5 under sections 118 of IPC and Section 51 of the Diasaster Management Act, while the Sections of the Arms Act were added on May 17. The defence counsel also argued that firearms had only been used by Inderveer Singh Grewal, Subhdeep Singh (Sidhu Moosewala) and Karam Singh Lehal, while the cops had been accused of helping them use the firearms in the police firing range. While the cops have been granted bail, singer Sidhu Moose Wala and other continues to be on the run and are evading arrests. The Sangrur and Barnala police have both constituted special teams to conduct raids to arrest the accused in both the cases. As per the chronology of the events, Sidhu Moose Wala along with Grewal, Lehal and Jung Sher first reached the Ladda Kothi police centre where they used a personal 9 MM pistol to fire a few shots in the firing range. After this, the singer expressed his desire to fire from an AK 47. As the Ladda Kothi firing range was shot and an AK 47 could not have been used there, the cops took him and his associates to the Badbar firing range the same day where he fired from the automatic weapon, which is associated with notoriety during the days of terrorism in Punjab. The role of a DSP rank officer is also under the scanner in the said case. The first case was registered at Danaula police station on May 4 after the video showing the singer firing for the AK47 rifle emerged on the social media. The very next day another video showing him using his personal pistol at Ladda Kothi also went viral and Sangrur police registered another case against them. While the bail has only been granted in the case registered at Sangrur, the accused are now expected to move a court in Barnala seeking anticipatory bail in the case registered at Danaula Police station. Meanwhile, the Sangrur court has directed the accused to join the investigations and fixed June 9 as the next date of hearing. It is to be mentioned that Punjab DGP had himself directed the police chiefs of Barnala and Sangrur to register the cases against the singer and the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/use-of-firearm-by-moose-wala-in-police-range-4-cops-among-five-get-bail/articleshow/76048862.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 28, 2020||Goa||ISL debut won’t be easy, but am ready for the grind: Ponif||Panaji: Churchill Brothers FC defender Ponif Vaz has joined the growing list of Goan footballers in the Indian Super League (ISL) and his immediate aim is to cement his place at NorthEast United FC. The coronavirus pandemic brought footballing activities to a halt in March. Even as the ISL final was played behind closed doors at the Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, it left many plying their trade in the I-League vulnerable with four rounds still to be played. Ponif was anxious too about his future with Churchill having five games n hand, but the defender had done enough in his 13 appearances for the club to gain attention from three ISL clubs. “I am very happy to get a chance in the ISL. I always wanted to play in the league since its inception. It is every player’s dream now and the only thing I have to do now is fight for my place,” Ponif told TOI. Three-time champions ATK were interested in signing the right-back from Fatorda. While Odisha FC also showed willingness to sign the 27-year-old, they later dropped their plans. However, the convincing power of NorthEast was enough for Ponif. “I did a lot of thinking where to go. For me playing chance was more important than money. I didn’t want to go to any club and remain on the bench since it will be my debut season,” said Ponif. The Sesa Football Academy (SFA) graduate was a bright prospect when he moved out and was soon roped in by Sporting Clube. Although he was registered by the Panaji-based club in the I-League, his chance to make a debut never arrived after the club decided to withdraw in the summer of 2016. He was then loaned for two years to Fateh Hyderabad FC where he played in the Second Division I-League and later signed a one-year deal with them after his contract with Sporting Clube expired. Ponif returned to his hometown as he joined Churchill at the beginning of this season. “When I joined Churchill, I didn’t get a chance immediately. But they gave me opportunity in the Goa Pro League to prove myself. Churchill gave me confidence in every match I played and playing with the foreign players helped me improve. Once I got my place, I didn’t leave it, worked hard for that,” said Ponif. Ponif’s teammate Glan Martins recently moved to ATK while Sporting Clube de Goa’s George D’Souza signed for Odisha. He knows he can take nothing for granted. “I have to keep working hard now in the ISL. Have to improve my crossing, fitness and defensive abilities because I believe ISL will be at a much different level,” said Ponif.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-debut-wont-be-easy-but-am-ready-for-the-grind-ponif/articleshow/76048893.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to announce decision on lockdown on May 30||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government will decide on whether lockdown will be extended or lifted in the state on May 30. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will chair a review meeting with the concerned departments on the overall Covid situation in the state on May 30, and announce the government’s decision on lifting or further extension of lockdown thereafter. An official spokesperson said the Cabinet decided that the decision should be taken after on-ground assessment of the situation a couple of days before the current lockdown is due to end. Any decision on extension, with our without relaxations, will be taken after the review meeting. Meanwhile, the Cabinet complimented the food and civil supplies department for ensuring seamless procurement of wheat during Rabi Marketing Season 2020-21 especially amid the lockdown. Amarinder too lauded the smooth procurement operations in this difficult phase. To avoid crowding and congestion in the mandis, the Punjab Mandi Board had issued 17.34 lakh passes to the farmers through Aarthiyas. As of May 26, a total of 126.80 LMT wheat had been procured by various agencies, of which 123.64 LMT had been lifted and payment to the tune of Rs.21004.68 crore made so far to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-announce-decision-on-lockdown-on-may-30/articleshow/76048897.cms||Vibhor Mohan
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Meet the lockdown warriors who are aiding Chennai and its police in this #coronacrisis||While health professionals, corporation workers and the police are leading the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, countless communities and volunteers have also stepped in to ease their burden. Friends of Police (FOP) is one such entity that has been on its feet ever since the lockdown was announced. While their normal operations would include helping the police with bandobast duties, vehicle checks and crime prevention, post lockdown, the organisation’s focus has steered to COVID-19 relief work. Feeding and tending to strays, distributing hot meals and grocery packets to migrant labourers and the city’s poor are a few initiatives on their plate. “Since March 26, we have been issuing 1,000 food packets daily in all zones for police officials,” says Raghunaathen, a civil service-aspirant who has been associated with FOP for the past 11 years. “We also distribute grocery bags containing around 10 essentials for the poor and needy. We have distributed over 5,000 such packets to slum areas and containment zones like Koyambedu and North Chennai.” The organisation is the brain child of Prateep Philip, the DGP of CBCID in Tamil Nadu. The intent is to not just help the police, but to also help the people of the city, the DGP says, adding that volunteer applications have been quite a handful in the past few months. “The police can get overburdened and exhausted. The FOP helps the police in ensuring things like social distancing, especially during lockdown,” he says. As for their future plans, the goal is to keep their relief work going until things become better. “We are going to reach out and help to the extent we can. When people call us and ask for help, we have not said no to anybody,” the DGP adds. Origin story of FOP In 1991, Prateep was a young ASP, just three feet ahead of Rajiv Gandhi, when the former Prime Minister was assassinated in Sriperumbudur. Prateep was badly injured and extremely thirsty as he had lost a lot of blood. “A poor boy with a torn shirt volunteered to get into the jeep and gave me drops of water,” he says, adding that the moment became a turning point in his life, prompting him to start FOP. “He was a citizen who showed concern for others in a time of need. I decided to start a model on that,” he adds. Structured approachFOP’s COVID-19 relief work follows an all-inclusive and structured approach, explains Raghunaathen. For instance, shortly after the demise of Dr Simon Hercules, and the chaos that ensued, the organisation began an initiative to combat misinformation about burials. “Through our Friends of Perished initiative, we have been issuing informative pamphlets to residents staying around Chennai’s graveyards and make them aware about how the burial of infected people does not harm the locals,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdownwarriors-meet-the-lockdown-warriors-who-are-aiding-chennai-and-its-police-in-this-coronacrisis/articleshow/76049272.cms||Sruthi Raman
May 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknowites not so kicked about online food delivery yet||Restaurants in the city breathed a sigh of relief when the district administration allowed delivery of cooked food when the lockdown was partially lifted last week. However, this joy seemed to be short lived because while the restaurants made preparations to get their outlets open for food delivery, the orders aen’t coming in as they expected. Difficult to manage operational costOwners of eateries and restaurants say that while they are running their joint on a full time basis, they are not getting many orders. Jatin Ahuja, owner of a chain of restaurants in the city says, “Opening a restaurant for a food delivery for just a few orders is making us incur heavy losses. Despite all protective measures that we are taking, people are still quite reluctant to order food online. We are going to upload a few live videos from our kitchen along with specially made videos of the hygiene at our restaurant and will upload it on our social media handle too. We just hope that people watch them and are convinced that we are maintaining hight standards of safety and hygiene,” he says. (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Agreeing with Jatin is Ashutosh Tiwari, account manager, UP East, of an online food delivery app. “Lucknowites are still very reluctant to order food online. If we compare it to the usual orders every year, we are only getting 20 per cent orders of what we used to get when there was no lockdown.” However, Ashutosh further adds that they are doing their best to lure customers to order food online. “We have created a section on our app, where restaurants will share live videos from their kitchen along with several hygiene drives being conducted. Plus, the daily temperature check of the staff too will be shared on the app,” he informs. It’s just a matter of timeManoj Bachchani, owner of another restaurant in Lucknow however says that closing of restaurants by 7PM is hampering business. “The trend of ordering food online is generally in the night, and not in the evening or afternoon. But since there is a complete lockdown in the city from 7 PM onwards, people are not able to order food online in the night. If we are allowed to open till late in the night, things might improve,” he opines. A fact that gets a nod from Ashutosh too. “We have always seen maximum calls for orders in the night,” he shares. (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)A raw deal for non-veg loversThe unavailability of meat products have hampered the delivery of non-veg food items as well. “There isn’t any relief to restaurants serving non-vegetarians. Being a local food delivery app, people used to order non-veg dishes a lot from us. But our business of food delivery is affected the most as most non-veg restaurants are closed. People are craving for Tunday kebabs and Wahid ki biryani, which is unavilable,” shares Ahad Arshad, co-founder of an app-based food delivery service. Mohammad Usman, owner of Tunday kababs. He says, “We aren’t able to make use of the food delivery option at all. Firstly, we don’t have the staff to cook for us as most of them have gone back to their homes. Secondly, since there is no meat available in the market so we aren’t able to cook anything.” — With input from Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknowites-not-so-kicked-about-online-food-delivery-yet/articleshow/76046490.cms||Akash Wadhwa
May 28, 2020||Amritsar||Bathinda beats 20-yr record as heatwave sweeps region||BATHINDA: Severe heatwave conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Wednesday, with Bathinda recording the hottest day in 20 years and maximum temperature touching 47.5 degree Celsius. In Haryana Narnaul was the hottest place, at 47.2 degrees Celsius, which was six degrees above normal, the meteorological department here said. Earlier, 47.2 degree Celsius was the highest temperature recorded at Bathinda on June 8, 2014. The minimum temperature of the day was 25.2 degrees, while the maximum was more than 6.3 degrees above the normal of 41.2 degree. The day's temperature was recorded at 2.30pm at agro metrological observatory at the sub station of Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) on Dabwali Road. According to the weather office, the intense heat wave is likely to continue for the next 24-36 hours in south-western parts of Punjab. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) is likely at isolated places on May 28 and 31, and with lightning and squally winds (speed 40-50 kmph) on May 29 and 30 in the two states. Raj Kumar Pal, an official at the observatory, said the day's maximum temperature was the highest in the last 20 years. "As the observatory is situated near agriculture fields, the temperature is likely to be slightly more in the city. The entire city was like an oven under the scorching sun, especially in the afternoon. The heat made people stay indoors," said NGO Sahara Jansewa president Vijay Goyal. He said the NGO had put up water stalls at some places in the town so that people could at least get water during the heat wave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bathinda-beats-20-yr-record-as-heatwave-sweeps-region/articleshow/76049994.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||MoD nod for ex gratia to 1965, 1971 war veterans||CHANDIGARH: In a major respite for the Emergency Commissioned Officers (ECOs) and Short Service Commissioned Officers (SSCOs), who fought 1965 and 1971 wars, the Union ministry of defence (MoD) has considered them for an ex gratia amount. As of now, all such officers were not receiving any monetary help after they were relieved from the Army. They had been demanding for some kind of assistance from the MoD for the past several years for the services given by them to the nation. They were inducted because of shortage of officers at that time. While the exact amount of ex gratia has not been defined, sources said the government had agreed to give an ex gratia amount of Rs 30,000 per month to these veterans. Some of such officers, who were relieved from the force on completion of their engagement and could not be placed at some other field, were in dire need of financial assistance. They were not given any kind of benefits except medical facilities that too were provided to them through ex-servicemen contributory health scheme (ECHS) in 2019 after a long legal battle. According to sources, there are around 2,000 such officers at present. As per the letter recently released by the adjutant general branch of the Army, all ECOs/SSCOs, who actively participated in 1965 and 1971 wars and are in receipt of either of Samar Seva Star 1965 and Poorvi/Pashimi Stars 1971, would be considered for ex gratia award. Such officers have been told to submit their details along with supporting documents and mail these to offr.record@gov.in. The record of service along with dossiers has been weeded out on expiry of the prescribed tenure of 15 years in terms of Para 619 (C), Regulation for the Army, 1987. They have also been told to contact the adjutant general branch. Welcoming the move, Panchkula-based veteran Captain Rajnish Talwar, a 1965 war veteran and recipient of Samar Seva Star, said this was much needed for those who gave the prime of their life to the country when it was needed the most. "Although it was delayed, but it would be really great if the government release the amount immediately to the beneficiaries," Captain Talwar added. In January this year, Army Chief General M M Narawane had also announced to start some pension for such officers. He had announced that ECOs/SSCOs, who took part in 1965 and 1971 wars should be given pension like ‘Swatantarata Senani Samman Pension' scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mod-nod-for-ex-gratia-to-1965-1971-war-veterans/articleshow/76050001.cms||Ajay Sura
May 28, 2020||India||After 41 yrs, Centre set to redefine ‘migrant workers’||NEW DELHI: Learning from the ongoing migrant crisis, the government is set to redefine “migrant workers” after 41 years and plans to register them to enable access to social security and health benefits under the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation. The new measures, which follow large-scale migration of lakhs of workers- both in the informal and formal economy during the lockdown, are proposed under an updated Code on Social Security which the labour ministry will shortly take to the Union Cabinet. The Centre is planning to enact a law on this by the end of the year.Labour minister Santosh Gangwar confirmed that the legal framework was being strengthened and some of the provisions in the proposed Code, cleared by the standing committee of Parliament headed by BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab, may undergo further changes. The steps are seen to be crucial as the current legal framework is inadequate, something that was exposed by the exodus of migrants, with absence of any kind of record of employment which prompted a serious rethink in the government. The Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979 applies to establishments with five or more inter-state migrant workers and to contractors involved in their hiring. “This will mean that most migrant workers today will be outside the law's ambit,” said an official. The proposed legal framework will apply to individual migrant workers who earn up to a specified amount with even domestic helps included in its framework. While the ceiling wage will be defined through an executive order, the law will provide for it. These workers will enjoy benefit of portability of benefits across the country and be entitled to be given the fare to go home once every year, sources told TOI. A key element of the plan is to allot unorganised sector workers an Unorganised Worker Identification Number (U-WIN), which was prescribed through a law in 2008 but has not made much headway. The Centre is now looking to make it attractive for workers to register by throwing in social security benefits, such as pension and healthcare, while also asking them to specify if they are migrant. Through this exercise, an Aadhaar-linked national database is proposed to be created, which can be accessed by the Centre and states, the latter playing a crucial role in the creation of the record. While a pension scheme for unorganised sector workers is already in place, officials said a key element will be to allow them to enrol for ESIC on payment of a nominal fee, a benefit which may also be extended to those working in hazardous units and plantations. In any case, the scope of the ESIC is being expanded so that healthcare facilities are available to beneficiaries across districts. Watch After 41 yrs, Centre set to redefine ‘migrant workers’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-41-yrs-centre-set-to-redefine-migrant-workers/articleshow/76050073.cms||Sidhartha
May 28, 2020||India||Oli’s proposal to validate new map delayed in face of shaky numbers in Parliament||NEW DLEHI: The Nepal government's proposal for a constitutional amendment to revise the nation's map in the national emblem has run into rough weather despite PM K P Oli claiming widespread support for his controversial move to include parts of India's Pithoragarh districts in the face of uncertainty over whether the measure will garner a majority in Parliament, reports Sachin Prashar. With support not forthcoming from Madhesi parties, the Oli government seemed to have put the proposal on hold. Oli has also been facing trouble within the Left coalition with senior members like Prachanda and Madhav Nepal at odds with him on a range of issues. After his stepped up anti-India statements over the new road India has built at Lipulekh, it was important for Oli to get the new map, which shows the area as belonging to Nepal, validated by revising the image in the national emblem. Official sources said India was carefully following developments in Nepal and that sensitive border issues required trust and confidence so as to allow these to be resolved to mutual satisfaction. According to Nepal government sources, though, there was still "unanimous support" for the new map and it was likely to be approved by all political parties in Parliament "in days". However, the delay may provide India some time to work on key players in Nepal to drive home the point that the controversy will damage ties and not necessarily provide gains for the Himalayan nation. Watch Nepal puts controversial map on hold, to seek national consensus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/olis-proposal-to-validate-new-map-delayed-in-face-of-shaky-numbers-in-parliament/articleshow/76051355.cms||---
May 28, 2020||World||Oli’s proposal to validate new map delayed in face of shaky numbers in Parliament||NEW DLEHI: The Nepal government's proposal for a constitutional amendment to revise the nation's map in the national emblem has run into rough weather despite PM K P Oli claiming widespread support for his controversial move to include parts of India's Pithoragarh districts in the face of uncertainty over whether the measure will garner a majority in Parliament, reports Sachin Prashar. With support not forthcoming from Madhesi parties, the Oli government seemed to have put the proposal on hold. Oli has also been facing trouble within the Left coalition with senior members like Prachanda and Madhav Nepal at odds with him on a range of issues. After his stepped up anti-India statements over the new road India has built at Lipulekh, it was important for Oli to get the new map, which shows the area as belonging to Nepal, validated by revising the image in the national emblem. Official sources said India was carefully following developments in Nepal and that sensitive border issues required trust and confidence so as to allow these to be resolved to mutual satisfaction. According to Nepal government sources, though, there was still "unanimous support" for the new map and it was likely to be approved by all political parties in Parliament "in days". However, the delay may provide India some time to work on key players in Nepal to drive home the point that the controversy will damage ties and not necessarily provide gains for the Himalayan nation. Watch Nepal puts controversial map on hold, to seek national consensus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/olis-proposal-to-validate-new-map-delayed-in-face-of-shaky-numbers-in-parliament/articleshow/76051354.cms||---
May 28, 2020||World||Amid China face-off, Trump offers to play the mediator||WASHINGTON: United States President Donald Trump on Wednesday offered to mediate between India and China over their “raging border dispute”, in another wild swing at diplomatic intervention in the region. “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. Trump’s offer, dismissed or ignored in both China and India, surprised most observers given its timing — coming when Washington’s own ties with Beijing are fraught. The fact that Trump tweeted about it first thing in the morning — around 7.30am — suggested that the issue must have featured in the Presidential Daily Briefing, an intelligence assessment that is given to the President each morning. We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate the… https://t.co/t5cenR7qkp— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1590578488000In another sense, the Trump mediation offer was unsurprising given his penchant for random, off-the-cuff diplomatic swishes with barely any background or forethought on issues — such as with his repeated offer to mediate between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir issue, despite New Delhi’s known antipathy to third-party mediation of bilateral issues. “Some Indians believe slowed Chinese economic growth and some Western countries’ blame game on China provide them a great opportunity where the border issue will fall to their advantage amid the Covid-19 pandemic. However, this is based on incorrect judgment... and detrimental to India,” Global Times, a Chinese government mouthpiece, said in an oped, warning that “if India failed to stop such provocations as soon as possible, it will impact on Beijing-New Delhi ties — and may even exceed the sort of intensity of the Doklam standoff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/amid-china-face-off-trump-offers-to-play-the-mediator/articleshow/76051564.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
May 28, 2020||India||Amid China face-off, Trump offers to play the mediator||WASHINGTON: United States President Donald Trump on Wednesday offered to mediate between India and China over their “raging border dispute”, in another wild swing at diplomatic intervention in the region. “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. Trump’s offer, dismissed or ignored in both China and India, surprised most observers given its timing — coming when Washington’s own ties with Beijing are fraught. The fact that Trump tweeted about it first thing in the morning — around 7.30am — suggested that the issue must have featured in the Presidential Daily Briefing, an intelligence assessment that is given to the President each morning. We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate the… https://t.co/t5cenR7qkp— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1590578488000In another sense, the Trump mediation offer was unsurprising given his penchant for random, off-the-cuff diplomatic swishes with barely any background or forethought on issues — such as with his repeated offer to mediate between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir issue, despite New Delhi’s known antipathy to third-party mediation of bilateral issues. “Some Indians believe slowed Chinese economic growth and some Western countries’ blame game on China provide them a great opportunity where the border issue will fall to their advantage amid the Covid-19 pandemic. However, this is based on incorrect judgment... and detrimental to India,” Global Times, a Chinese government mouthpiece, said in an oped, warning that “if India failed to stop such provocations as soon as possible, it will impact on Beijing-New Delhi ties — and may even exceed the sort of intensity of the Doklam standoff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-china-face-off-trump-offers-to-play-the-mediator/articleshow/76051567.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
May 28, 2020||World||Amid China face-off, Trump offers to play the mediator||WASHINGTON: United States President Donald Trump on Wednesday offered to mediate between India and China over their “raging border dispute”, in another wild swing at diplomatic intervention in the region. “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. Trump’s offer, dismissed or ignored in both China and India, surprised most observers given its timing — coming when Washington’s own ties with Beijing are fraught. The fact that Trump tweeted about it first thing in the morning — around 7.30am — suggested that the issue must have featured in the Presidential Daily Briefing, an intelligence assessment that is given to the President each morning. We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate the… https://t.co/t5cenR7qkp— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1590578488000In another sense, the Trump mediation offer was unsurprising given his penchant for random, off-the-cuff diplomatic swishes with barely any background or forethought on issues — such as with his repeated offer to mediate between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir issue, despite New Delhi’s known antipathy to third-party mediation of bilateral issues. “Some Indians believe slowed Chinese economic growth and some Western countries’ blame game on China provide them a great opportunity where the border issue will fall to their advantage amid the Covid-19 pandemic. However, this is based on incorrect judgment... and detrimental to India,” Global Times, a Chinese government mouthpiece, said in an oped, warning that “if India failed to stop such provocations as soon as possible, it will impact on Beijing-New Delhi ties — and may even exceed the sort of intensity of the Doklam standoff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/amid-china-face-off-trump-offers-to-play-the-mediator/articleshow/76051581.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
May 28, 2020||World||Pompeo says Hong Kong is no longer autonomous from China||WASHINGTON: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has notified Congress that the Trump administration no longer regards Hong Kong as autonomous from mainland China, setting the stage for U.S. to withdraw the former British colony's preferential trade and financial status it has enjoyed since it reverted to Chinese rule 23 years ago. The move does not carry any immediate penalties, which would have to be decided by President Donald Trump in consultation with Congress. But the administration sees it as putting China on notice that Hong Kong's perks are in jeopardy. ``Hong Kong does not continue to warrant treatment under United States laws in the same manner as U.S. laws were applied to Hong Kong before July 1997,'' Pompeo said in a statement Wednesday. The notice brings the future of Hong Kong squarely into the administration's numerous battles with China that have put the world's two largest economies at odds. Relations have worsened over U.S. allegations that Chinese authorities sought to cover up the coronavirus pandemic and pressured the World Health Organization from taking early action to combat it. That has added to long-standing tensions over trade, human rights, religious freedom and the status of Taiwan. Pompeo's certification comes amid calls in Congress and elsewhere for the U.S. and others to react against Beijing's move to impose Chinese national security laws over the territory. ``Beijing's disastrous decision is only the latest in a series of actions that fundamentally undermine Hong Kong's autonomy and freedoms and China's own promises to the Hong Kong people,'' Pompeo said. He said ``no reasonable person can assert today that Hong Kong maintains a high degree of autonomy from China, given facts on the ground.'' After sending the notification to Capitol Hill, Pompeo spoke by phone with British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab. The two men agreed China ``must honor its commitments and obligations under the Sino-British Joint Declaration.'' ``Both agreed the international community must support the people of Hong Kong and respond to Beijing's continued erosions of Hong Kong's autonomy,`` the State Department said in a statement about the call. Shortly after the announcement, Trump ally Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., called for the Senate to enact penalties. ``It is imperative the Senate act on bipartisan legislation sanctioning China for the destruction of Hong Kong's democracy and freedom,'' he said. ``We must move quickly and decisively.'' Senior administration officials, including Pompeo, national security adviser Robert O'Brien and White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett have in recent days warned that China risks losing Hong Kong as an Asian financial hub if it went ahead with such moves. The top U.S. diplomat for Asia, David Stilwell, told reporters Wednesday that the administration had not yet determined how best to proceed. But he said whatever course it adopted would be targeted at Chinese authorities with an eye toward changing their behavior while protecting the people of Hong Kong from the impact of possible sanctions. China has reacted angrily to any suggestion that it be punished for what it considers to be a strictly domestic matter. Asked about possible U.S. retaliation over the security legislation, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in Beijing on Wednesday that China would take necessary steps to fight back against what he called ``erroneous foreign interference in Hong Kong's affairs.'' Pompeo's certification to Congress was required by the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act, which passed overwhelmingly with bipartisan support last year. The law requires the U.S. to impose sanctions against officials held responsible human rights abuses in Hong Kong as well as determine whether the city continues to warrant special status. Under the terms of a China-Britain agreement, Hong Kong was to have enjoyed significant autonomy from the communist government in Beijing for 50 years starting in 1997. That autonomy was to have included protections for free speech and self-rule under what China has termed a ``one country, two systems'' policy. Last week, however, after years of mounting protests against encroachments into Hong Kong's autonomy, China's ceremonial parliament moved to enact a national security law for Hong Kong aimed at forbidding secessionist and subversive activity, as well as foreign interference and terrorism. Mass protests in 2014 followed the Chinese government's decision to allow direct election of the city leader only after it screened candidates. In the end, the plan for direct elections was dropped. Legislation proposed in Hong Kong last year that would have allowed Hong Kong residents to be sent to mainland China for trials set off months of demonstrations that at times involved clashes between protesters and police. The legislation was withdrawn. Earlier Wednesday, thousands of protesters shouted pro-democracy slogans and insults at police in Hong Kong as lawmakers debated a bill criminalizing abuse of the Chinese national anthem in the city. The bill would make it illegal to insult or abuse the Chinese national anthem, ``March of the Volunteers'' in semi-autonomous Hong Kong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pompeo-says-hong-kong-is-no-longer-autonomous-from-china/articleshow/76051827.cms||---
May 28, 2020||India||Day after controversy, Rahul Gandhi lauds Maharashtra work on Covid-19||MUMBAI: A day after his statement that the Congress was “only supporting” and “not running” the Maharashtra government sparked talk of a rift in the Maha Vikas Aghadi, Rahul Gandhi spoke to state environment minister and son of CM Uddhav Thackeray, Aaditya, saying “Maharashtra is doing good work on tackling Covid-19” and called for a further increase in testing. Some reports said Rahul also spoke to the CM on the political situation but there was no confirmation of that. Sources said Rahul sought information from Aaditya on the enforcement of Lockdown 4.0 and measures to be taken for battling Covid-19. Gandhi reportedly suggested to Aaditya that in view of the huge population in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, there was a need to scale up testing. “Certainly, the increased number of cases is a cause for concern, but we should increase screening and testing. Maharashtra is doing good work,” he told Aaditya. Rahul had said late on Tuesday that his statement in the morning had been twisted for political reasons. State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said there was no threat to the MVA government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/day-after-controversy-rahul-gandhi-lauds-maharashtra-work/articleshow/76051948.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 28, 2020||India||Curbs eased, govt eyes aggressive Covid-19 testing||NEW DELHI: At a time when the country is gradually exiting the national lock down and there is still no treatment or vaccination for Covid-19, the government has decided to go for aggressive testing to check for any wider spread of the disease and gather more information on locality specific characteristics, official sources said. Officials indicated multiple strategies for detection and implementation of physical distancing measures will be key components going forward with the health ministry, empowered committees, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the national task force on the disease working on how the testing net should be cast wider. An important part of the thinking in government centres around ensuring testing facilities are available and accessible across the country, even in remote areas which are of late witnessing increased influx of migrant workers and may see more Covid-19 cases. At present, India has a testing capacity of over 1.4 lakh samples per day but the Council is working to ramp it up to two lakh daily. Till Wednesday, India had tested over 32.42 lakh samples with 1,16,041 samples tested in last 24 hours. “We have told states to ramp up testing as much as possible. Testing is a key tool to ensure cases are detected early and referred for clinical management. This will not only help reduce deaths but also enable early contact tracing and check a wider spread,” a senior official in the health ministry said. The government has already begun a serological survey of low and high risk individuals and is keeping a close tab on incidence of patients with respiratory problems in hospitals. The government has also asked private labs to step up testing and the ICMR has removed the Rs 4,500 price cap allowing states to negotiate prices with private labs to lower them further. “The idea is to make tests more accessible and affordable through private labs. So far, testing in the private sector has not picked up much,” another official said. According to officials, increased testing in last few weeks have shown detection of more cases even as fatality rate has remained under control and recovery rate is growing and is now 42.4%. The fatality rate is 2.86% whereas the world average is 6.36%. “Testing also provides insights into the spread of the disease and its evolving and locality specific characteristics. As countries phase-out lock downs and restart their respective economies, testing seems to be the most powerful measure to ensure safety of the citizens in a post-lockdown world,” says Kriti Kapur, a health fellow at ORF. Kapur said given the large population base, India’s test per million population remains very low, even as with increased testing, India has also witnessed an increase in the percentage of positive infections pointing to a larger asymptomatic spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/curbs-eased-govt-eyes-aggressive-covid-19-testing/articleshow/76052185.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 28, 2020||India||Karnataka ready to reopen malls, hotels & theatres after May 31||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government is in favour of opening up malls, hotels, restaurants and cinema halls after May 31, when Lockdown 4.0 ends, provided the Centre agrees. Giving an indication to this effect on Wednesday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa told reporters here: “I’ve written to the Centre seeking permission to open hotels, restaurants and malls. I’m awaiting their reply. I am hopeful that we will get permission.” He said that with the movement of people from one place to another having started in a big way, there is a need to open hotels and lodges to enable them to have food and accommodation. “I have explained the same in the letter. Ultimately, the Centre will take a call,” he added. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news While malls await government permission, big standalone stores, such as Lifestyle and Shoppers Stop, have already reopened in Bengaluru, marking the resumption of local commerce and business. On Bengaluru’s high street, Brigade Road, nearly 60% of outlets, including Levi’s and OnePlus, have restarted operations. “About 45 of the 125 stores on Brigade Road are inside two malls, so they are ruled out. Of the remaining 80 stores, nearly 90% have reopened,” said Suhail Yusuf, secretary of Brigades Shops and Establishments Association. The other businesses on the stretch, he added, are restaurants and pubs which don’t have permission from the government. Hotels and restaurants have started preparations to resume business from Monday in anticipation of getting permission. “The state government has assured us we will get permission to open from Monday. We hope the Centre will also give the green signal as opening hotels and restaurants has become inevitable after the movement of people has been allowed,” said B Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Pradesh Hotels & Restaurants Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-ready-to-reopen-malls-hotels-theatres-after-may-31/articleshow/76052429.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Surat||SDA, GJEPC urge traders not to assemble in diamond markets||SURAT: The Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) have appealed the diamond merchants not to assemble at market in Varachha’s Mini Bazaar to contain the spread of coronavirus. The industry leaders have asked merchants to make maximum use of the social media platform to connect with each other, thereby avoiding visit to diamond markets for their own safety. Hundreds of merchants had gathered at the Varachha diamond market on Tuesday. Following the intervention of the police and the civic body, the merchants vacated the market. President of SDA, Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “From last two days, diamond merchants are gathering at the Varachha diamond market and the social distancing norms have gone for a toss. Part of Varachha is still under containment and we don’t want the virus to spread further.” Kathiriya added, “We have appealed the merchants not to gather in the markets. Only the diamond offices must operate with less than 50% workforce. For trading purpose, diamond merchants should make optimum use of social media to connect with the traders and manufacturers.” There are about 5,000 diamond merchants operating in the diamond markets of Varachha and Mahidhapura. Majority of them are operating from the open places in the market. Industry sources said that the trading of diamonds to the tune of Rs 500 crore is carried out every day from both the diamond markets in Varachha and Mahidhapura. The diamonds traded in the markets are shipped to Mumbai for the export to various countries. Manhar Sutaria, member of the Surat Diamond Merchants’ Association said, “Following social distancing is a big problem in the diamond markets. We can’t sell diamonds without physical touch. We are awaiting revised guidelines from the administration to restart our business, till then we have appealed merchants not to gather in the markets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sda-gjepc-urge-traders-not-to-assemble-in-diamond-markets/articleshow/76046328.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||CID to help in Gopalganj killings probe: ADG (HQ)||PATNA: The state police headquarters has roped in Criminal Investigation Department (CID) for assistance in collecting evidences of murder of RJD leader’s parents and elder brother in Gopalganj district on Sunday. JD(U) Kuchaikote MLA Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey is named accused in the FIR. The MLA’s close relative was gunned down in his village on Tuesday. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said on Wednesday that a CID team had been sent to Gopalganj for assisting district police in collecting evidences against the accused persons. The MLA is absconding in the case. Kumar said special task force (STF) commandos had been deployed in Hathua to maintain law and order and arrest the other accused in both the cases. “Saran range DIG is monitoring the investigation in both cases. A special investigation team (SIT) has also been formed under additional SP of Hathua subdivision. STF DIG had also visited Hathua to take stock of the situation,” he added. “None would be spared in the murder cases. Stern action would be taken as per evidence surfacing before police,” ADG said adding MLA had been booked on charges of hatching conspiracy of killing. He said the murder of MLA’s relative at Repura was an act of revenge against the triple murder at Rupanchak village, both under Hathua police station in Gopalganj. “Old enmity is the reason behind all four murders,” he said. Mahesh Chaudhary and his wife Sanketia Devi were shot dead while their sons Shantanu Yadav and Jaiprakash Yadav sustained bullet injuries on Sunday night. Shantanu later succumbed to injuries while Jaiprakash, an RJD leader, is undergoing treatment at PMCH. The ADG said on Jaiprakash’s statement, an FIR was lodged against Satish Pandey, district board chairman Mukesh Pandey, Bateshwar Pandey and the MLA. “Satish, Mukesh, Bateshwar and an unknown person had opened fire. Satish and Mukesh were arrested on Monday. Raids were on to arrest Bateshwar,” he said. On Tuesday, MLA’s close relative Shashikant Tiwary alias Munna Tiwary was shot dead near his residence. His brother lodged an FIR against Mannu Tiwary, Parmendra Yadav, Munna Yadav and injured Jaiprakash. Munna was later arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cid-to-help-in-gopalganj-killings-probe-adg-hq/articleshow/76046177.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 28, 2020||Patna||RJD submits memo to governor on ‘deteriorating’ law and order||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav along with senior RJD leaders submitted a memorandum to governor Phagu Chauhan on Wednesday on the ‘deteriorating law and order situation in the state’ and urged him to take appropriate steps. The memorandum was submitted in the backdrop of triple murder of RJD leader JP Yadav’s parents and brother at Rupanchak village under Hathua village which took place on Sunday. An FIR has been lodged against JD (U) Kuchaikot MLA Amrendra Pandey along with his don-turned-politician brother Satish Pandey and nephew Gopalganj district board chairman Mukesh Pandey. Yadav himself was also injured in the firing incident. Two days after this murder, Pandey’s cousin Sashikant Tiwari (50), was also killed at his native village Repura under the Hathua police station area. Sashikant was talking to his relatives in an orchard when bike-borne criminals shot him from close range killing him on the spot. Tejashwi in his memorandum have stated that said several murders have taken place in Gopalganj in the last one fortnight also submitted the National Crime Record Bureau data, comparing the number of crimes which took place in 2005 and 2019. He also demanded a CBI probe into the killings. He also alleged that such incidents are happening in lockdown and that too in a district which falls in red zone. Tejashwi was accompanied by RJD leaders Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, Jagdanand Singh, Abdul Bari Siddiqui, Alok Mehta, Shiv Chandra Ram, Binod Shrivastava and Suday Yadav. Earlier in the day, interacting with mediapersons, Tejashwi gave an ultimatum to the government to arrest Pandey by Thursday evening or else he would go to Gopalganj with his party legislators. “Maintaining social distancing, we will go to the people to seek justice. The lockdown has been imposed to protect people, but a ruling party MLA is involved in the crime which is unfortunate,” he said. “How can a person against whom a named FIR has been lodged is evading arrest and holding Press meet,” the opposition leader alleged. On Tuesday, Pandey, while interacting with newsmen had said that he and his relatives were falsely implicated in murder charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-submits-memo-to-governor-on-deteriorating-law-and-order/articleshow/76046159.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 28, 2020||Business||Brookfield invests Rs 1.2k cr in IndoStar||Bengaluru: Canadian alternative asset manager Brookfield is picking up a 31% stake in non-banking financial company (NBFC) IndoStar Capital Finance by infusing Rs 1,225 crore. There are plans to pick up an additional stake through a mandatory open offer for 26% holding, besides 2-3% purchase from the promoters. The deal will see Brookfield, one of the largest private investors in the country with over $8 billion deployed across real estate and infrastructure, become a co-promoter of the NBFC along with private equity firm Everstone Capital. The capital infusion in IndoStar was made at Rs 290 per share, as compared to the company’s closing share price of Rs 279 on the BSE on Wednesday. The development also comes as IndoStar has been able to significantly increase its retail loan portfolio. Of its consolidated assets under management (AUM) of Rs 10,222 crore, retail loans were Rs 7,057 crore, making over 69% of the book, while wholesale portfolio shrunk by a third to Rs 3,165 crore, as of December 2019. It also acquired the commercial vehicle finance book of IIFL Finance. “While the company has been primarily a wholesale financier, it has steadily expanded its presence in retail segments over the last few years, and retail loans are now seen as the key growth driver,” said a note by Crisil in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/brookfield-invests-rs-1-2k-cr-in-indostar/articleshow/76048640.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Vadodara||MSU to conduct exams for final year students only||VADODARA: In a major relief to thousands of students, M S University on Wednesday decided that the university will conduct only final year exams. The decision was taken during syndicate meeting that was held after a gap of three months at the university head office. Based on recommendations of deans, it was decided that exams will be conducted for final year students of undergraduate programmes and students of both years of postgraduate programmes. The exam session will start from July 20 for which a detailed time-table and syllabus will be declared by June 5. If ATKT (allowed to keep term) exams of such students are pending, the exams will also be conducted by the university. Students have also received another relief as the university has decided that only those topics which were taught till March 14 will be considered in the syllabus for the exams. The topics which were taught to students through online classes during the lockdown will not be included in the exam syllabus. Unlike the past, exams will be conducted in three shifts in a day. Before each shift, classrooms where students will appear for their exam, will be sanitized. Those outstation students who cannot reach Vadodara or appear for the exams can appear for special exams that will be held in the month of October. Exams of first, second year and third year students of Faculty of Technology and Engineering and Faculty of Pharmacy will not be held. Average of 50% marks of their internal exams and 50% marks of their previous semester will be declared as result. In case, a candidate wants to enhance his/her academic performance, he or she can appear for the exam in October. Those students who have failed in their internal exams or their previous semester end exams, will be promoted with the condition that they will have to clear exams in October. University officials clarified that this does not mean mass promotion of students but it is no detention policy so that career of students do not get affected and they also get a chance to improve upon their score.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-to-conduct-exams-for-final-year-students-only/articleshow/76044549.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Business||Ola arm enters e-scooter mkt, buys Dutch co||BENGALURU: Ola Electric Mobility said that it has acquired Amsterdam-based electric scooter manufacturer Etergo for an undisclosed amount. The move is part of Ola’s plans to launch a global electric two-wheeler in India in 2021, where it will end up competing with auto giants like Hero and Bajaj, startups like Ather Energy besides several Chinese players. Etergo has developed AppScooter, which “uses swappable high energy density batteries to deliver a range up to 240km”, according to Ola Electric, which is a unit of the ride-hailing major. The company has already been working on setting up a network of charging stations and swapping networks across the country for two-wheelers and three-wheelers. Ola Electric pegged the size of the global two-wheeler market at over 100 million units and the India market at 20 million units. Ola Electric saw its valuation touching $1 billion last year following a $250-million (Rs 1,801-crore) financing from SoftBank. Tiger Global and Matrix Partners are also existing investors. It has also added industry veterans — former president of Hyundai Motor India B V R Subbu and former General Motors South America head Jaime Ardila — to its board of directors. “Every year, almost twice the number of two-wheelers are sold across the world compared to cars. With electric, digitally connected capabilities, two-wheelers will further emerge as the most preferred urban mobility paradigm around the world and empower every consumer,” said Ola co-founder Bhavish Aggarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ola-arm-enters-e-scooter-mkt-buys-dutch-co/articleshow/76048519.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone-Covid pincer attack: Schools in West Bengal to remain closed till June 30||KOLKATA: The Bengal government has decided to extend the closure of schools up to June 30 after several school buildings suffered damage due to cyclone Amphan. Some others have had to be utilized as isolation centres for the returning migrant labourers. This is in addition to the ongoing threat due to the Covid-19, which is still a major concern for the administration. On Wednesday, education minister Partha Chatterjee said 462 among 1,058 schools spread across eight districts — which were earmarked as higher secondary exam centres — have been ravaged due to the cyclone. “I have held a meeting with the president of the West Bengal Higher Secondary Council, Mohua Das. We have decided to utilize colleges, if necessary, which shall be converted into HS examination centres,” said Chatterjee. The minister added that at every step, health guidelines will have to be maintained and social-distancing norms will be adhered to. “Thus, the HS Council has taken up the task to expand the number of venues available for the remaining board examinations,” he said. In several schools, rooms have collapsed and toilets have broken down. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been seeking reports of damage from the schools, colleges and universities. The majority of the affected schools are from Kolkata, Hooghly, Howrah, Nadia, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, East Midnapore and East Burdwan. “As the CM has already appealed, we request the corporate organizations to repair the school buildings, as well as other education institutes, through the CSR projects as they had earlier proposed,” said Chatterjee. The minister on Wednesday also said that the HS Council will accommodate most of the students in the examination centres near their homes while those who have to travel will be able to avail of transport facilities. As decided earlier, universities shall hold their terminal examinations according to schedule. “They have decided amongst themselves and will be allowed to continue according to their individual plans,” Chatterjee added. The education department has made a preliminary estimate of the loss incurred by the department — around Rs 700 crore. “But it is likely to exceed Rs 1,000 crore,” the minister said. Before the schools reopen, sanitization drives will be conducted and as students return to schools, social-distancing norms will have to be maintained. The government had earlier announced that schools will remain closed till June 10. The rescheduled dates for Class XI state board exams — June 29, July 2 and July 6 — will be unchanged, Chatterjee said. “To make up for the prolonged disruption in classes, we will ask teachers to ensure taking classes at home if they live in the same locality,” Chatterjee said. The department is also conside-ring a proposal to provide free text books to the cyclone-affected students, particularly those in the higher secondary level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-covid-pincer-attack-schools-in-state-to-remain-closed-till-june-30/articleshow/76049193.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||Patna: Aryabhatta Knowledge University to start three study centres soon||PATNA: With the appointment of full-time directors, at least three new centres of studies established under Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) are likely to start functioning soon. With a view to widening the AKU’s academic horizon, the state government facilitated opening of four new centres — Centre for Geographical Studies (CGS), Centre for Journalism and Mass Communications (CJMC), Centre for River Studies (CRS) and Patliputra School of Economics (PSE). Patliputra University geography teacher Purnima Shekhar has been appointed director of CGS, while Central University of South Bihar economics teacher Shankar Kumar Bhaumik has been made PSE director. Former faculty of Jamia Millia Islamia and Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), Pune, Iftekhar Ahmad has been made director of CJMC. The director of CRS could not be appointed as reportedly none turned up for interview before the search committee, sources said. The appointment of coordinators for these centres had already been made and now the process of appointment of faculty and other technical and ministerial staff would be made just after the lockdown ends. AKU has recommended creation of seven posts of teachers, including one professor, two associate professors and four assistant professors besides some assistants in each centre, said pro-VC S M Karim. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has taken keen interest in establishment of these centres under AKU. CRS has vast potential in a flood-prone state like Bihar and, according to sources, the courses of studies have already been finalized with the help of teachers from IIT Kanpur, IIT Patna, NIT Patna and some foreign universities. The Himalayan University Consortium, a collaboration among the universities of India, Nepal, China, Bhutan and other Asian countries is also helping AKU in framing the river studies syllabus. CGS director Purnima Shekhar said on Sunday the process of framing the syllabus and recruitment of teachers and staff would be initiated in June. It may be mentioned here that all the four study centres would be autonomous in character. AKU will only conduct their examinations and publish the results. The university has already shifted to its new building at Mithapur and each centre has been allotted one floor in this academic complex. Established in 2010 and built across an area of 7.6 acres, AKU has got nearly 114 affiliated medical, engineering and other professional institutions of the state under its jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aku-to-start-three-study-centres-soon/articleshow/76046792.cms||B K Mishra
May 28, 2020||Patna||Hubby held for dowry murder in Patna||PATNA: A man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing his wife for not fulfilling his dowry demands. The accused, identified as Krishna Kumar (34) is from Badi Nagla under Malsalami police station in Patna City. Malsalami police station SHO Sudama Kumar Singh said that the deceased was identified as Rina Devi (28). “Her body was found lying in her bedroom in the wee hours on Wednesday. Her husband alleged that she committed suicide by hanging herself, but nothing supported his claim,” he said. Singh said Rina’s father Jitendra Matho lodged an FIR against two persons, including her husband, alleging that her daughter was strangled for not fulfilling his demand of a bike and money. Patna City SDPO Manish Kumar said there was ligature mark around the woman’s neck, which suggested that she might have been strangled with a wire or rope. He said Rina’s father is from Sabbalpur under River police station and she had got married six years back. “Her body was sent to NMCH for postmortem. Things would be clear after the report,” he said, adding a case of dowry murder has been registered. It was the fourth murder for dowry in the city this month. On May 23, one Sagar Mahto (25) of at Dhanki under Agamkuan police station had allegedly killed his pregnant wife Anju Devi (21) for not bringing Rs2.5 lakh as dowry. On May 10, one Amarjeet Bind (35) was arrested after his wife Shrikanti Devi (32) committed suicide at Macchli Gali under Shastri Nagar police station area. Shrikanti’s family had lodged an FIR against Amarjeet for thrashing and torturing her. On May 7, one Manish Kumar (30) was arrested for allegedly strangling his wife Anita Devi (25) at Shivpuri under Shastri Nagar police station. Her father Mangleshwar Kumar Rai had lodged an FIR alleging that Anita was killed for Rs5 lakh and a sports bike in dowry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hubby-held-for-dowry-murder/articleshow/76046543.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 28, 2020||Business||ICAI aims for transparency in Covid-era accounting||MUMBAI: Will the company be able to continue its operations? Or to paraphrase in accounting terminology — will it be a going concern? In the pre-pandemic era, this was relatively simple to answer. Today, historical financials can no longer be relied upon to predict future trends such as cash flows. Companies are having to factor in the Covid-19 impact, and the resultant possibility of higher defaults from customers. Valuations are challenging too. This is because of significant reduction in the fair value of investments and other assets. The biggest issue relates to the going concern concept. Section 134(5) of the Companies Act requires directors to state that the annual accounts were prepared on a going concern basis. As auditors are responsible for evaluation of the management’s assessment, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has issued a series of advisories, FAQs and guidance reports for its members. Covid-19 does not automatically translate into material uncertainty on the company’s ability to continue, states ICAI’s report, titled ‘Going concern, key consideration for auditors amid Covid-19’. But, it calls for regular updating of the assumptions used in the management’s going concern assessment. The management should factor in the conditions in the markets & industry in which it operates, their customers’ ability to continue in business & pay bills, support provided by local governments, the effects of social distancing and lockdown laws. Availability of funding sources, regulatory restrictions or relaxations in this regard should also be factored in, states ICAI’s report. The auditor should maintain an appropriate level of professional scepticism, according to ICAI, which also calls for timely and effective communication between the management and auditor. In the backdrop of a cash flow forecast prepared by the management, the auditor could discuss the company’s plans to liquidate assets, borrow, restructure debts, reduce expenditure, increase ownership equity, etc, and the timelines for such action. “Companies would provide a valuable service if they can comment on the liquid resources at their command and their ability to meet all their financial commitments in the next quarter or the next few quarters,” says CimplyFive Corporate Secretarial Services CEO Shankar Jaganathan. If there is material uncertainty of the company’s ability to continue its business, the auditor should report this in a separate section, states ICAI. Commenting on ICAI’s guidance, SR Batliboi and Co partner Sanjeev Singhal says, “Listing down additional factors that an auditor should consider while testing the going concern criteria will make auditors more comfortable in deciding whether the accounts should have been prepared on the basis of a going concern or not. Examples of situations where auditors should qualify their report will bring in consistency.” CimplyFive has released a model disclosure format that, if adopted by companies, would bring in better transparency for stakeholders. The model covers the three broad areas of context, impact and disclosure. Each of these is detailed. For example, ‘impact’ would be assessed under the heads of liquidity and profitability, which can be assessed with some certainty. The other two elements would be solvency and sustainability, on which only an opinion can be expressed at a given point of time. The model disclosure, signed by key officials and endorsed by the board, should be a single document of the company’s own assessment, which should be shared with the stock exchanges and also made available to investors on its website. “Considering that the impact is likely to be felt in both the short and medium term, the document should be updated when any material change occurs,” says Jaganathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icai-aims-for-transparency-in-covid-era-accounting/articleshow/76048460.cms||Lubna Kably
May 28, 2020||Varanasi||Two persons found dead on Shramik special train||VARANASI: Two persons including a physically challenged youth travelling in Shramik Special train (01770) from Mumbai were found dead on the arrival of the train at Manduadih railway station on Wednesday morning. The to reports, the train started from Lokmanya Terminus in Mumbai at 11pm on Monday and reached Manduadih railway station with 1,124 passengers at around 8am on Wednesday. The railway authorities were informed that two persons were found dead in different compartments. One of them was identified as Dashrath Prajapati (30) travelling in S-15 sleeper coach with his family members, while the identity of another deceased, around 50 years old, is yet to be ascertained. “We were informed about the death of two passengers in the train. The GRP and railway staff took the bodies out of the compartment,” said station manager Arun Kumar adding that the identity of another person travelling alone in SLR, could not be ascertained so far. Dashrath’s brother Panalal Prajapati, who was travelling with him, said that Dashrath was paralytic and ill. He said that Dashrath’s condition deteriorated when the train reached Allahabad station. “There was no sign of life in him when the train reached Manduadih,” he said. Spokesperson NER Varanasi division Ashok Kumar said, Dashrath was travelling with his family members to go to their native place in Badlapur area of Jaunpur district. Further course of action is underway, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-persons-found-dead-on-shramik-special-train/articleshow/76047047.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Commuting distress eases as autos, buses and app cabs return on road||KOLKATA: Near-normal transport services were restored on Wednesday in the run-up to the formal staggered exit from the lockdown on June 1. Apart from state transport undertaking (STU) buses, autos plied on most of the routes, complying with social-distancing norms and also striking a balance in fixing fares. App cabs and bike taxis restarted normal services too. Autos started plying amid a little confusion. On many routes in south Kolkata, an hour after autos began ferrying passengers on Wednesday, police asked them to stop. However, in another hour, the cops rectified their stand and allowed the services. Cops said there was a minor delay in handing out the copy of the order to the route operators in the morning. “It was between 10am and 11am that we provided the necessary orders to the auto unions. They said that not all of them were in a position to ply from Wednesday. There are six routes here and the Topsia route is unlikely to reopen before Thursday. The Park Circus Lohapool-Dharmatala and Park Circus-Gariahat routes have started with a skeletal service. All unions said the day would be spent in deciding the fares,” said an officer. However, as the day progressed, autos started plying the streets in good numbers. Many drivers also put up a transparent plastic sheet between them and the passengers in the back. The autos also struck a delicate balance between fare hike and affordability — they raised the fares by Rs 2-Rs 5 per stage. The Jorabagan and Howrah traffic guards said auto services improved in the second half after clarity on instructions. Wednesday also saw near-normal bus services by West Bengal Transport Corporation. WBTC tracked the real-time demand and accordingly deployed buses. Despite social-distancing norms, waiting time for a passenger reduced significantly. “WBTC ran the services efficiently and I am quite impressed on the first day of commuting to office after lockdown,” said Gourango Samaddar, an insurance company employee. App cabs, like Uber and Ola, which were running emergency services so far, resumed normal operations. The aggregators, including Rapido, also started bike taxi services too. “Significantly, bike taxies, if both the driver and the rider wear masks, run the least risk of infection,” said virologist Amitava Dasgupta. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar told TOI that checks in some prime auto hubs, like Park Circus, Rashbehari crossing and Gariahat, have already begun. “We are checking that there are not more than two passengers in each auto. In addition, everyone must be wearing masks. The auto operator should also sanitize hands after collecting fares. We are also not allowing autos to ply after 7 pm,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/commuting-distress-eases-as-autos-buses-and-app-cabs-return-on-road/articleshow/76049189.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 28, 2020||Patna||No lowering of guard on AES front: Gaya DM||GAYA: Notwithstanding the presumption that heat wave conditions and high temperatures slow down the spread of encephalitis, the district administration will not lower its guard on the AES front, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said. For the last few days, the city is in the grip of heat wave conditions and the difference between maximum and minimum temperature is as high as 17-18 degree Celsius. Encephalitis, according to Gaya-based child specialist Dr Vijai Jain, is essentially a kind of brain infection. High temperature may cause convulsions among children of 06-60 months age group and repeated bouts of convulsions in many cases lead to encephalitis. “Children need more precaution during heat wave conditions and the younger ones are more prone to heatwave-related medical issues,” said Dr Jain. Besides Muzaffarpur, Gaya is regarded as an AES/JE hotspot and several bouts of epidemic spread of the disease have been recorded in the district in the last several years. Pig rearing is common in rural areas of the district and pigs are regarded as carriers of the encephalitis virus. Earlier, civil surgeon Dr BK Singh said that mass immunisation has been undertaken in the district to prevent the likely outbreak of AES/JE. Awareness programmes have also been launched. According to Dr Shakeb Zaman, a practising paediatrician, “Most of the AES-related deaths are caused by delayed hospitalisation. Timely hospitalisation saves many lives. Awareness camps should concentrate more on the need to shun quacks and faith healers.” A 60-bed special AES ward has been established in Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospitals (ANMMCH) with about one third beds in the ICU category. A separate entrance and exit point has been ear marked for AES patients and attendants as right now, ANMMCH is functioning as a dedicated Covid hospital for patients from seven south Bihar districts including Rohtas and Kaimur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-lowering-of-guard-on-aes-front-gaya-dm/articleshow/76046565.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Upendra Kushwaha stages dharna on road||PATNA: Defying the lockdown on Wednesday, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha sat on one-day dharna on Beerchand Patel Marg here to protest the alleged shoddy conditions prevailing at the quarantine centres where migrant workers have been kept after their return from other states. “I had written a letter to CM Nitish Kumar, giving suggestions as to how the things could be improved at the quarantine centres. But the CM has not taken any note of it,” Kushwaha said. “It is for this reason that I decided to defy the lockdown and sit on a dharna on the road, along with our party leaders, to bring it to the knowledge of the CM that he and his party would continue to make open protests if the situation did not improve,” he added. RLSP’s state president Bhudeo Choudhary, treasurer Rajesh Yadav and spokesman Abhishek, among other functionaries, accompanied Kushwaha, maintaining social distancing, party’s state spokesman Bhola Sharma said, adding that RLSP functionaries also sat on dharna at the party’s district headquarters. “The migrant workers returning from other states have been facing problems, like insecurity and lack of work opportunities. Their health conditions are also poor,” Kushwaha said. “They have been virtually left to fend for themselves by the state government. The situation as it is, people of the state themselves will have to take care for protection from coronavirus,” Kushwaha said and threatened to intensify the agitation if the conditions of the migrant workers and the poor did not improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-stages-dharna-on-road/articleshow/76046398.cms||Abhay Singh
May 28, 2020||Patna||Pupils of rural schools shine in Class X exams||PATNA: If this year’s Matriculation results are any indication, the performance of government school students in rural areas is far better than their urban counterparts. The results point out that most students, occupying a place among the top 10 scorers, come from schools in rural areas or mofussil towns and are kids of small farmers and workers. Besides, not a single student studying in any Patna-based school has made it to the merit list. Hailing the performance of rural students in the Matric exams, Patna University geology teacher Ranbir Nandan said the outstanding results were possible only due to the strengthening of schools’ infrastructure and large scale appointment of teachers in rural areas by the Nitish government. “The efforts being made by the government for the implementation of various welfare schemes meant for students have started yielding positive results. There is no difference in the quality of education being imparted in rural and urban schools now. The entire system of education has been brought back on the right track, creating an environment for conducive growth of students,” Nandan told this newspaper on Wednesday. He added, “The chief minister deserves all the credit for ensuring timely publication of examination results. Leaders of all political parties should congratulate him for his outstanding performance in improving the academic scenario of the state.” The Bihar School Examination Board had published the Matric results on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pupils-of-rural-schools-shine-in-class-x-exams/articleshow/76046485.cms||B K Mishra
May 28, 2020||Business||Kalpana Morparia to retire from JPM||MUMBAI: JP Morgan South and Southeast Asia chairman Kalpana Morparia, the only woman to head a large bank for over a decade, will step down at the end of the current fiscal. Her position will be split into two with Leo Puri taking charge as chairman of South and Southeast Asia, and Madhav Kalyan being elevated to senior country officer position. JP Morgan said in a note that Morparia (71) has informed JP Morgan of her desire to retire. “She has agreed to stay with the firm until Q12021, and help lead the firm’s efforts in South and Southeast Asia as we and our clients adapt to the new economic and work environment. Kalpana will also oversee the smooth transition of her India, and South and Southeast Asia responsibilities”. Morparia, who took charge amid the global financial crisis in September 2008, was in her earlier stint one of the veteran leaders at ICICI Bank who helped transition the organisation from a development financial institution into a new generation private bank. During her stint in JP Morgan India, she enjoyed the confidence of Jamie Dimon, who himself is among the longest-serving chiefs of a major American bank. JP Morgan also announced the appointment of Murli Maiya as the CEO for South and Southeast Asia in Q12021. He will report to Filippo Gori, CEO, Asia-Pacific. Murli will lead the strategic development of JP Morgan’s South and Southeast Asia franchise. Puri, who headed UTI AMC until March 2019, has been on the board of several companies. Before his stint at UTI, he was MD at Warburg Pincus and before that a senior partner at McKinsey & Co. Kalyan, who is currently CEO and country head for JP Morgan Chase Bank, will become a senior country officer for JP Morgan in India in Q12021, subject to necessary regulatory approvals, reporting to Maiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kalpana-morparia-to-retire-from-jpm/articleshow/76048499.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||Migrants made to travel in circles from Sasaram||SASARAM: Strange are the ways of officials overseeing the arrangements for migrant workers’ journey back home amid lockdown. Surendra Kumar, a 37-year-old man without legs, had to go to his native village in Sultanpur, UP. He was sent from Delhi to Patna, which took three days, and from Patna to Buxar and then to Sasaram by bus. At Sasaram, Kumar pleaded with the authorities that he had to go to Sultanpur, but to no avail. Finally, a group of social workers made arrangements to send him to his destination. Even other migrant workers are being made to travel in circles, literally, before they reach their destinations. Take, for instance, the case of migrant workers from Delhi, Maharashtra, Haryana and other states coming to Sasaram by trains. Though the migrants belong to neighbouring districts like Aurangabad, Bhojpur and Buxar, they are not being sent directly to their destinations. Instead, they are sent first to Karamnasa at the Bihar-UP border, 70km away from Sasaram, from where they have to start their journey afresh in buses to reach their destinations in opposite direction while crossing Sasaram again. That way they have to cover 140km — 70km up and 70km down — unnecessarily. If sent directly to Aurangabad from Sasaram, they would reach their places in an hour only. When contacted, Rohtas district transport officer (DTO) G Haque admitted it. “We are authorized to make arrangements for intra-district transportation of migrants from Sasaram. As per the protocol, those who have to go to neighbouring districts have to be sent to Karamnasa from where arrangements have been made for them to travel to their destinations,” he explained. In another instance, a family belonging to Ramgarh in neighbouring Kaimur district had to cover several hundred kilometres unnecessarily to reach their village from Hyderabad where family patriarch Om Prakash Yadav worked as a cook in a hotel. He along with wife and two children were first sent by train to Banka. A bus then brought them to Araria from where another bus brought them to Sasaram. Again, the social workers had to arrange a private vehicle to take them to their home. Senior deputy collector holding charge of the district disaster management authority, Mr Rizwan Qureshi, corroborated the Rohtas DTO’s statement and said as per the norms, migrant workers of other districts in Bihar are sent to Karamnasa from where they are provided transport facility for their destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-made-to-travel-in-circles-from-sasaram/articleshow/76046225.cms||Alok Chamaria
May 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada principals’ association agrees to start PU paper evaluation||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada Pre-University Principals’ Association has agreed to conduct PU evaluation after district administration decided to fulfil all their demands. The evaluation process was scheduled to commence on Wednesday, but evaluators reportedly refused to conduct the same due to several shortcomings. After a fruitful meeting with additional deputy commissioner M J Roopa on Wednesday, association agreed to conduct valuation from Thursday. In a press communique, DKPUCPA president Umesh Karkera said the district administration has tasked Mangaluru City Corporation to sanitise the evaluation rooms. They will also provide thermal scanners and sanitisers at the centres. The district administration has also positively responded to the demand seeking transportation facility to all evaluators, besides agreeing to open canteen facilities at the evaluation centres and Rs 500 daily allowance for D group contract workers, he added. M J Roopa has also agreed to give order letters to eligible lecturers who haven’t received official orders to conduct evaluation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-principals-association-agrees-to-start-pu-paper-evaluation/articleshow/76048274.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||Hiring cabs a challenge for flyers at Patna airport||PATNA: Flyers landing at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport are finding it difficult to get a cab or any other means of transport to reach their home districts. Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Wednesday said flyers coming from Delhi, Bengaluru and other cities can book the private cab for long routes by using their flight tickets as a pass for inter-district movement. “People can also book the private cab in advance,” he said. The transportation to and from the city airport remains a challenge for several flyers, who do not have their own vehicles. They are spending hours at the airport to get a private taxi only on higher rates to reach their hometowns. Jyotsna Kumari (22), an engineering student in Delhi, said she waited for almost 40 minutes to get a cab to pick her up. “I booked the cab on Tuesday for today, but it reached late. I wanted to cancel it, but I failed to find another vehicle. If the bus services to Rajgir and Nalanda were available, there would be no problem,” she said. A native of Arwal, Saloni Singh (54) said every time she tried to book the mobile-based cab, it showed invalid drop location. “I talked to its customer care and the person told me that they have restricted the movement within city. After waiting for an hour, I went to my relatives’ place at Ashiana Colony. My husband will come and pick me up,” she said and added: “I had gone to Bengaluru in February to see my daughter, but got stuck there due to lockdown.” Krishnaka Swaraj, a medical student in Bengaluru and native of Begusarai, said his father booked a cab from home district to pick her up from Patna airport. “For one-way ride, we had to shell out Rs4,300 and Rs580 as advance payment,” she complained. “I usually prefer to travel by train, but under present circumstances, I think flight is safer,” she said. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, “If the private cabs are charging exorbitantly, people can lodge complaint on the transport department portal or send a complaint to the local administration. The matter will be looked into to check exorbitant fare.” He added: “Right now, all our 5,000 buses are engaged in transporting migrants to their home districts. Around 2 lakh people are returning to Bihar per day. After May 31, we will follow the Centre’s fresh guidelines on resuming bus services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hiring-cabs-a-challenge-for-flyers/articleshow/76046716.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 28, 2020||Business||Revenue loss and labour top worries||MUMBAI: A week after markets regulator Sebi asked companies to disclose in detail their estimated and expected losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, disclosures by some of the leading corporates show that loss of revenue, along with the availability of labour and logistics challenges, top the list of hurdles. Of the about 25 corporates that have disclosed to the exchanges the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on their businesses, the top ones include Bharat Forge, Titan, Avenue Supermarts (D-Mart), Dabur and L G Balakrishnan. Pune-based Bharat Forge, which is a major supplier to global auto majors and also into defence hardware production, said that after an initial closure of its operations in India and Germany, it has partially resumed operations in both the facilities under strict new operational rules. Its factories in the US and Europe are also running but at sub-optimal levels. Retailing major Avenue Supermarts, which runs the D-Mart chain of malls, said its sales are down 45% in April 2020 from April 2019 and that it paid hardship allowance to a large number of its frontline staff. Tata Group’s watches-to-jewellery retailing arm Titan said it lost complete sales during Akshaya Tritiya and, as of May 27, about 43% of its stores were operational under the new social distancing guidelines. “The share of online business is around 2%of sales. The sales in stores that have opened up are at around 50% of the sales in a normal period and are improving gradually,” the company said in a statement to the BSE. Labour and logistics are also seen as major hurdles in resuming normal operations, corporates said. Discussing the future impact of Covid-19, Bangalore-based real estate firm Parsvnath Developers said that the temporary suspension of construction activities and the reduced level of operations are likely to have a significant financial impact, the extent of which is not quantifiable at this moment. “Moreover, there is an acute shortage of labour. Though we do hope the business situation should normalise soon, once the situation comes under control.” VRL Logistics, a leading player in another labour-intensive sector, said that the migration of labour and drivers initially had taken a heavy toll on its operations. However, it is an essential service provider, in the last two months it has been able to manage enough number of drivers and labourers to manage its operations, “but we would need to be well prepared in advance to have sufficient manpower as volumes go up gradually as expected”, the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/revenue-loss-labour-top-worries/articleshow/76048447.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Hydroxychloroquine effective in treatment of Covid-19, says expert||BHAGALPUR: Dr Raj Kamal Choudhury of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH), who had also worked in the World Health Organization (WHO) as sub-regional coordinator, has asserted that anti-malarial medicine—hydroxychloroquine— is very effective in the treatment of Covid-19 patients and as prophylaxis in suspected cases. JLNMCH is one of the collaborating hospitals invited by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Rational Use of Medication Centres (RUMC) along with IGIMS (Patna), whereas St John’s Medical College and Hospital, Bangalore, is the coordinating institution of ICMR-RUMC network among the 15 principal investigators (PIs). Associate professor in the department of medicine at JLNMCH, Dr Choudhary said that clinical trials of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in more than 60 Corona positive besides as prophylaxis (preventive treatment measures taken to fend-off diseases) in more than 350 corona suspected patients, attending doctors, paramedical staff and healthcare workers at the isolation wards of JLNMCH have yielded wonderful results. “The only aspect that has to be taken care of are some side effects of HCQ, a medicine used to prevent and treat malaria in India since long besides others diseases, on patients having heart ailments,” added Dr Choudhary. It may mentioned here that the medicine gained prominence when USA and other countries requested India to send HCQ tablets. Talking to this newspaper Dr Choudhary said that ICMR has categorically stated on May 25 that no major side effects of HCQ have been found so far and its use should be continued in preventive treatment for Covid-19. Similarly, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has also supported the ICMR suggestions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hydroxychloroquine-effective-in-treatment-of-covid-19-expert/articleshow/76046598.cms||Kumar Rajesh
May 28, 2020||Patna||Patna: Infrared thermometers give faulty readings due to heat, cause chaos||PATNA: With the rise in temperature due to heat wave in the city, infrared thermometers, which are being used for thermal screening at shops, private offices, banks and even hospitals, are giving faulty readings. Several shops, offices and other establishments use contactless thermometers to screen people for high body temperature as per protocol to contain Covid-19 spread. Shruti Pandey (33), who works at a mobile phone showroom in PC Colony said, “For last three days, the thermometers are showing my body temperature to be above 99 whereas I’m not suffering from fever. I have to wait at least 15 minutes for my body temperature to cool down before the next screening.” A customer at the showroom was not allowed inside. “The thermometer used by the guard showed that I have fever. So I went to another store. Later, I checked my body temperature at home and it was normal,” said Ruchi Kumari, who had gone to check out a mobile phone. The situation is worse at banks where even employees are not allowed inside without proper screening. “Due to intense heat the thermometer keeps showing high body temperature even though I am not ill. Sometimes, it stops working for more than 20 minutes,” said Atul Sinha, who works at a private bank. Some commercial establishments have stopped using the infrared thermometers as they are showing faulty reading due to high temperature. Krishna Kumar (41), store manager at a super market told this newspaper that they have stopped using the devices. “We are giving hand-sanitizer to people, who are not wearing gloves. If we stopped everyone on the door due to faulty reading then it would create chaos,” he said. Sonu Mishra (27), state service manager of a private firm at AG Colony said they have to wait in the reception hall for at least 15 minutes before thermal screening. “Initially, the wrong reading created a lot panic and chaos among the staff and visitors. But now, the guard gives us time to relax and cool down a bit before screening,” he said. Rahul Kumar, a resident of SK Puri, who had gone out to buy medicines for his mother admitted at a private hospital was stopped from entering as the infrared thermometer showed his temperature to be 100 degree Celsius. “I tried convincing them but they didn’t let me inside the hospital,” he said. Dr Sudhir Kumar, who owns a private hospital on Bypass Road said the contactless thermometers are not faulty or malfunctioning. “The thermometers determine temperature by measuring the heat emanating from the surface of a person’s body. It is due to intense heat in the city that the thermometer might be showing high temperature,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/infrared-thermometers-give-faulty-readings-due-to-heat-cause-chaos/articleshow/76046563.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: One held for firing near ex-minister’s home||PATNA/SAMASTIPUR: One person was arrested on Wednesday for his alleged involvement in the firing incident outside former minister Baidyanath Sahni’s residence at Gunai Basai village under Tazpur police station in Samastipur district on Tuesday night. Sahni, who was animal husbandry and fisheries minister, had quit JD(U) to join BJP in October 2015 after resigning from his post after he was not given ticket to contest from Morwa assembly seat in Samastipur. Tazpur police station SHO Vishwanath Kumar said, “Avinash Sahni, 22, a resident of the same village was arrested as he was named in the FIR lodged by the former minister’s aide Vijay Kumar Sahni. Others named in the Fir are Ganesh Sahni, Ranjeet Sanhi, Vipin Sahni and Ramnath Sahni.” Kumar said the accused had reached the former minister’s residence around 9pm on Tuesday and misbehaved and threatened him. “The accused fled after villagers started gathering. They opened fire while fleeing when villagers chased them. However no empty cartridges were recovered from firing spot,” he added. The SHo said Ganesh was named accused in a case of tractor theft lodged with Patepur police station in Vaishali district, bordering Tazpur police station. “Ganesh believed he was accused in the tractor theft case on indication of the former minister due to which he threatened the BJP man,” he said, adding, raids were going on to nab the rest four accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-held-for-firing-near-ex-ministers-home/articleshow/76046528.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Video of a child trying to wake up his dead mother goes viral||PATNA: A video of a toddler trying to wake up his dead mother lying on a railway platform has gone viral on social media. The child can be seen removing a shawl covering his mother’s body while another child, a little older than him, stands nearby. According to officials, the incident took place on Monday at Muzaffarpur railway station. The woman was returning from Surat and was supposed to get down at Katihar. “The train reached Muzaffarpur at 3.30pm and her dead body was taken out here by relatives accompanying her.” While some reports said the woman died of thirst and hunger on the train, the railways said she was ill. CPRO Rajesh Kumar said, “This woman was mentally unstable and was not keeping well. Government railway police arranged for the transportation of the body to Madhubani, her final destination.” On the same day, a four-year-old child too died at Muzaffarpur railway station. An official said this child had returned from Delhi. “He died of heat and exhaustion,” a district official said. Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav lashed out at the railway ministry and the state government over this incident. He said his party will bear all expenses of the education of both the kids. “We will provide monetary help of Rs five lakh and we will also help any relative who keeps both the children get a private job.” He alleged that Shramik specials bringing migrants were neither providing food and water, nor any social distancing norm was being followed. “Majority of migrants have died of hunger and accident while on their way to their homes, and not of coronavirus,” said Tejashwi. Watch Tragic: Migrant woman dies on railway platform, child plays beside body||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/video-of-a-child-trying-to-wake-up-his-dead-mother-goes-viral/articleshow/76047723.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 28, 2020||Business||IL&FS to sell GIFT stake to Gujarat govt||MUMBAI: The Gujarat government is set to acquire IL&FS’ 50% stake in GIFT City for Rs 32.7 crore by exercising its right of first refusal. The court agreed to the deal, noting that the sale value was higher than the fair one as the company had a negative equity value as assessed by RBSA Advisors. The stake sale in GIFT city is part of the Uday Kotak-led board of IL&FS to liquidate assets of the group, which has total debt of nearly Rs 1 lakh crore and has defaulted on its repayment obligations. The sale has been approved by a committee of creditors to whom IL&FS owes money. Gujarat Urban Development Company (on behalf of the Gujarat government) and IL&FS had jointly developed Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT), which includes a multi-services special economic zone (SEZ) and an international financial services centre (IFSC). As an anchor investor and co-developer in the project, IL&FS Urban had started developing 7.8 million sqft of built-up space in GIFT City. GIFT hosts the first operational IFSC in the country, which is aimed at preventing Indian entities from going abroad for international financial services such as foreign currency borrowing. In January 2019, when IL&FS put its shares in GIFT City on the block, the Gujarat government had said that it would exercise its right to purchase IL&FS shares from the joint venture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ilfs-to-sell-gift-stake-to-guj-govt/articleshow/76048549.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata-bound flyers keep fingers crossed||KOLKATA: Salt Lake resident Abhishek Pal spent most of Wednesday checking and rechecking his flight ticket status and packing his bag with baby carriers, jumpsuits and sets of diapers. Once he reaches Delhi on Thursday, it will be the first time he will see his twins. The babies had been born out of surrogacy at a Delhi clinic and have been staying there ever since. He has return tickets for the next day. “I have been dying to meet my kids since they were born on April 2. But because of the lockdown, I got stuck here. I have tried to book tickets every time the sales opened, but they kept getting cancelled. Once the sales restarted, I booked tickets at the first go and now I have my fingers crossed. I will head to Delhi, take my kids and come back home the next day,” said Pal, who runs a publishing house on College Street. Pal is among thousands in the city who had been away from their family during the lockdown and will be able to meet them on Thursday once domestic flights resume. The family of deceased businessman Mahesh Agarwal, owner of the Haldiram brand (Prateek), have tickets booked for a morning flight from Delhi. Meena and Avni, wife and daughter of the deceased, were stuck in Singapore for nearly two months after Agarwal died of a liver disease there on April 3. The two had a harrowing time running to and from the Indian embassy, filling out requests and requisitions to fly back to Delhi earlier this month. They got themselves quarantined for seven days there. “Finally we managed to get ourselves on to the morning flight to Kolkata and will take the 6.05am Spicejet plane from Delhi. We are mentally exhausted,” Avni said from Delhi. Equally excited to head back home is electronic engineer Tapas Kundu who had gone to meet his wife at Tiruchirappalli on March 21. He had been stuck there since then. “I am thankful that my wife and son are here, but my other family members are in Kolkata. I am coming back with my entire family and my wife will then head to Odisha where her parents stay,” said Kundu. There are also the likes of Garia resident Arindam Ganguly, whose tickets have got cancelled again and they have no clue when they can return. “This is the third time my ticket has been cancelled and the airline has put that on credit shell. I had booked a ticket from Bengaluru on May 21 and had been trying to web check-in only to get a text message this morning that my flight to Kolkata has been cancelled. This is ridiculous,” said Ganguly who works as a project lead in a dairy company. There are also many who are maintaining caution and are delaying their journey to ensure they do not get caught in the “quarantine tangle”. “Several of my clients who had initially booked tickets to Kolkata from various parts of the country have been cancelling their bookings for Thursday as they say they want to see how the airport deals with domestic passengers on the first day. Most are opting for tickets in the first week of next month,” said Anil Punjabi, a travel agent in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-bound-flyers-keep-fingers-crossed/articleshow/76049183.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 28, 2020||Business||SBI reduces FD rates by 40bps, RBI stops sale of 7.75% bond||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) has reduced interest rate on its term deposits of most maturities by 40 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). Following the revision, the highest return offered by the bank is 5.4% on deposits of over five years. On bulk deposits, SBI has reduced returns by half a percentage point. According to the bank’s website, it will now offer 2.9% on deposits of up to 45 days, 3.9% up to 179 days, 4.4% up to one year, and 5.1% for deposits of up to three years. Senior citizens will, however, receive half a percentage point higher return on their deposits. The new rates are effective from Wednesday. With SBI bringing down its deposit rates, most other public sector banks are expected to follow suit. Those who place deposits of over Rs 2 crore with the bank will receive only 3% for above 2 years. Deposits below two years will receive 2.9% across all maturities. With over Rs 1 lakh crore of surplus liquidity, the bank is offering a negative return on bulk deposits (after adjusting for inflation). Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India has said that it will stop selling the 7.75% Savings (Taxable) Bonds, 2018 with effect from the close of banking business on Thursday — May 28, 2020. This follows a government notification on Wednesday for the discontinuation of the scheme. These bonds, which are sold by banks to retail investors, have a tenure of 7 years but can be encashed prematurely by senior citizens. SBI’s steep cut in FD rates follows an equivalent reduction in the repo rate by the central bank last week. Since all retail loans are now linked to an external benchmark — the RBI repo rate — the bank’s loans become cheaper by 40bps on their next reset. For corporate borrowers, the cost of loans depends upon a formula based on the marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR). Last week, SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar had said that the MCLR will be reset in early June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-reduces-fd-rates-by-40bps-rbi-stops-sale-of-7-75-bond/articleshow/76048483.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Business||Blanket ban on recovery impractical, say bankers||MUMBAI: Despite the government announcement of Covid-related delinquencies not being treated as a default, it would be impractical to provide a blanket protection against recovery action to all borrowers, bankers have said. Also, while the government has the powers to grant businesses protection against insolvency, it is the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that will need to relax restructuring norms to enable banks to grant relief to promoters without making large provisions. According to bankers, if the government comes out with a blanket ban against default classification, every business — including those that were stressed before the lockdown — would seek legal intervention to be part of the relief. They say that the relief can be given only when there is a clear measurable impact of the Covid-19 crisis, like on hotels, airlines and retail/malls. If there is a general ban on insolvency proceedings, it could disrupt the recovery process and prevent promoters from exiting a business. “If there is to be no insolvency proceeding, there has to be a relief package to enable the business to survive. At present, banks cannot enter into a one-time settlement with promoters unless the loan is classified as a non-performing asset (NPA) and a large portion of it written off. Classification as an NPA is costly as banks have to make heavy provisions. While the loan can be upgraded in future, it is a tortuous process and requires a substantial repayment of the loan,” said a bank chief while speaking to TOI. Banking analysts say that even if the government pushed through a notification against classifying any business as being in default, it would postpone the problem for stressed businesses. As against making calibrated provisions starting now, banks would end up with sudden losses if the business proves to be unviable. This would require the banks to raise capital in future. Banks have said that they can do a case-by-case assessment of all large borrowers during the extended moratorium period and identify the defaulter. The RBI had said in its monetary policy announcement that banks can exclude the moratorium period from the timeline required to initiate a resolution process for the loan. RBI sources said that, while the stand-still permission allows postponing insolvency, it does not protect banks from having to make ageing provisions on the loans in future. Currently, most of the NCLT benches are not functioning because of the Covid-19 crisis. However, banks say that they will need to start proceedings by June for the smooth functioning of the financial system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/blanket-ban-on-recovery-impractical-say-bankers/articleshow/76048662.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 28, 2020||Surat||Ayurvedic medicine helps fast recovery of asymptomatic patients||SURAT: As many as 182 of the 233 asymptomatic patients at Covid Care Centre in Surat, who had opted for AYUSH ministry-recommended ayurvedic medicines have recovered and were discharged from the centre. According to Milan Dasondi, district Ayush officer, Surat, patients were given choice of which line of treatment they want. “After receiving their written consent, we provide ayurvedic treatment to patients and the results which we got were very encouraging,” said Dasondi. “Of the 233 patients who chose Ayurvedic line of treatment, 182 have recovered and discharged from the centre, while 51 are still under treatment. It has been observed that Ayurvedic line of treatment helped in fast recovery,” he claimed. He said that 137 patients with mild symptoms at New Civil Hospital were also given Ayurvedic treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ayurvedic-medicine-helps-fast-recovery-of-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76046270.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Surat||Surat: 183 barber, paan shops forced to shut||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Wednesday shut 183 shops including barber salons and paan kiosks for not following social distancing rules. "In the lockdown relaxation, we have seen people crowding at paan shops. On Wednesday, our teams surveyed around 2,124 shops which included paan and barber shops and shut 183 found flouting rules,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commisisoner, Surat, said. Surat city recorded 34 more Covid-19 cases on Wednesday while two patients succumbed. A 75-year-old woman Behrunisha Pathan, a resident of Limbayat zone, and 95-year-old Mahesh Rana of Man Darwaja, died. Both were suffering from blood pressure and other co-morbiditiets. The civic chief said that there are 54 clusters in the city and the process of restructuring it was on. "If a cluster does not report a single Covid-19 case for 28 days, we change its status. The restructuring of the clusters is in final stage,'' he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/183-barber-paan-shops-forced-to-shut/articleshow/76046012.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Surat||Empathy ends Bihar migrant’s lockdown miseries||SURAT: In the sea of migrant crisis, this may appear to be just a drop, but had it not been for the benevolent locals, 25-year-old Bihar native Vijay Mandal’s 2,000km travel to the city in search for work, would have ended in cold statistics. However, he safely reached home, empty-handed nonetheless, but safe and still dreaming of working in the diamond city some day. Mandal had reached Surat along with the lockdown on March 21, which not only poured cold water on his aspirations, but the means for survival too. In search of work, this native of Mohanpur village of Bhagalpur district, had initially reached Mumbai in March first week. But as he did not find any job there, he came to Surat to meet other friends here who assured him of some work in the city. “When I reached here, the situation became uncertain and the units where my friends work closed down,” he told TOI. Adding to his miseries, Mandal’s friends left for Bihar as their tickets got confirmed and he was rendered homeless. Left without cash and other means to sustain himself , he found a safe spot on footpath near Sai Baba temple in Ratan Chowk locality of Limbayat. Seeing the destitute, locals first started providing him food. After hearing his sorrow, some nearby residents allowed him to stay in the temple which became his makeshift home for two months “I am leaving empty handed, but with a happy mind. I will never forget the compassion shown by people here. I will come back to work if things improve in near future,” said Mandal. On Tuesday, as he prepared to board the train back home, Mandal was not only provided food by the locals, but also a decent haircut, a pair of new clothes and some cash. “He was disturbed for the first few days due to the shock. He used to speak or sing continuously. But our care and attention helped him gain control of his self and he returned home normal,” said Mukesh Patil, a transporter living in Ratan Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/empathy-ends-bihar-migrants-lockdown-miseries/articleshow/76046052.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 28, 2020||Surat||Surat: Four flights cancelled, passengers fume||SURAT: Passengers flying from Surat airport continue to face turbulent times. On Wednesday too, four flights of SpiceJet connecting Surat with Mumbai, Hyderabad, Jaipur and Delhi were cancelled due to the rotational issue. Since May 25 when domestic flight operations resumed, at least seven flights to various destinations have been cancelled . Official sources said that the Indigo flight from Delhi arrived with 78 passengers and departed with 102 passengers on Wednesday. It was the only flight that operated on Wednesday. “People have been waiting to travel to other states with no road or trains available. The airlines should take necessary precautions to ensure that the flights are not cancelled and are operated as per the schedule” said an airport officer. Airport authorities said that the rotational issue at the airports in the country will continue due to the limited operations started by the airline companies following the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-flights-cancelled-passengers-fume/articleshow/76046091.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Disabled man murdered, wife & her paramour held||Yavatmal: The local police have arrested a woman on charges of murdering her disabled husband with the help of her paramour. The police have also arrested the woman’s accomplice in the crime. According to sources, Awadhootwadi police had on April 21 received a report regarding death of a canteen proprietor Ramdas Ishwar Dahikar (47) and registered a case of an accidental death. During the course of investigations, the police suspected something fishy and they started monitoring Dahikar’s wife Kanchan, 32. According to police, Ramdas along with Kanchan, their 12-year-old son and his parents were staying in Guru Nanak Nagar area on Godani Road. One Ajay Shankar Chitalwar (25), a resident of Bhatali village of Chandrapur, came to stay near their house. Ramdas used to supply tiffin to Ajay on a monthly basis. During his visits to Ramdas’s canteen, Ajay met Kanchan. Their relationship later developed into an affair. Later, Kanchan pressured Ramdas to leave Guru Nanak Nagar area and hired a house in Jamankar Nagar where Ajay had rented a room. After a few days, Kanchan conspired with Ajay to eliminate her husband and started giving Ramdas tablets for diarrhoea initially. She also gave Ramdas cold drink laced with poison. After her husband died, she lodged a complaint that her husband has died accidentally. Police did not believe her story and grilled her. During interrogation, she spilt the beans. The police have on Tuesday arrested Ajay also. A case of murder has been registered against Kanchan and her paramour. Investigation was carried out by PSO Anand Wagadkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/disabled-man-murdered-wife-her-paramour-held/articleshow/76049867.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Three children die as concrete slab falls on Bailey Road||PATNA: Three children died when a prefabricated heavy concrete slab on which they were playing tumbled and fell upon them near Lalit Bhawan under Shastri Nagar police station in Patna around 7.30pm on Wednesday. The slab was kept near a heap of mud alongside the Bailey Road for construction work. The deceased were identified as Keshav Kumar Yadav (13), Karan Kumar (6) and Sahil Kumar (7). Police said they were residents of the slum area of Road number 7 in nearby Punaichak. CM Nitish Kumar condoled the tragic death of the three children and announced ex gratia payment of Rs4 lakh to the next of kin of each of the deceased. DM Kumar Ravi, who visited the spot, ordered an inquiry into the incident. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma rushed to the spot as the agitated local people had blocked the road, damaged the crane which was being used to lift the slab while trying to rescue the children. The locals also thrashed crane driver Randheer Kumar. They thought the slab fell down on the children while being moved by Randheer. Police sources said Randheer was later rescued by police reinforcement sent from neighbouring police stations to bring the situation under control. The SSP said the children were playing on the slab when it fell down. “One child died on the spot,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-children-die-as-concrete-slab-falls-on-bailey-road/articleshow/76048749.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 28, 2020||Surat||Surat: Four cops injured as PCR van overturns while chasing car||SURAT: Four cops suffered injuries when their police control room (PCR) van overturned while chasing a suspicious car in Pandesara area of the city on Wednesday. Police sources said the car could have been carrying liquor stock. Ramesh Premji, head constable; Hemji Vaghela, head constable; Chirag Bipin, police constable; and Jagdish Rawat, PCR van driver, suffered injuries. Ramesh came under the van, but was rescued by his colleagues. He suffered an injury on shoulder. Driver Jagdish suffered minor injuries, Chirag had a cut on his hand and Vaghela received a leg injury. The cops were provided treatment at a nearby private hospital and are out of danger now, a police officer said. “We spotted a suspicious car near Kiran Homes building at around 2am. The car driver sped away on noticing the police van but we gave a chase for a couple of kilometres,” said a policeman. Meanwhile, the van hit a stone while taking a turn near Priyanka crossroads and overturned. “The cops were patrolling and also making announcement to migrant workers to come at a specific spot for tickets for going home next day morning. Meanwhile, they spotted the car and tried to stop it, but its driver sped away,” said a police officer of Pandesara police station. Police are trying to identify the vehicle with footages of CCTV cameras in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-cops-injured-as-pcr-van-overturns-while-chasing-car/articleshow/76046211.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Surat||SMC firming up strategy to revive economic activity||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will is devising a detailed strategy with protocols to restart economic activity in the key diamond and textile sectors falling under the red zones of Limbayat, central, Varachha and Katargam.“We are revisiting our strategy to reboot economic activity in the red zones. We will fix the protocols to contain spread of virus to allow trading activity in the two mainstays of Surat,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said while interacting with the trade and industry representations at the webinar organized by the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on Wednesday, According to Pani, it will be mandatory for industrial units, traders and offices to keep track of their employees and workers coming from the containment zones, daily thermal scanning of people entering the business premises, compulsory masks, downloading Aarogya Setu application etc. “Gathering of people in diamond and textile markets will not be permitted. All unit owners will have to take care when they reopen their businesses by following strict guidelines. Even passing of keys to your driver can spread infection. From top to bottom, the chain of infection has to be broken for the economic activity to restart safely,” he said. Importantly, the SMC has decided to provide sodium hypochlorite free-of-cost to the trade and industry for disinfecting their workplaces, shops, offices and units. “The demand could be huge and procurement a problem. We will provide the disinfectant chemical free-of-cost for massive sanitisation of workplacesacross the city” the commissioner added. The establishments will need the knapsacks and dedicated workers to keep sanitising the area on regular intervals. Pani informed that the civic body is revisiting its strategy for highly contaminated hotspots of central and Limbayat zones. Out of 50 Covid-19 critical patients at New Civil Hospital (NCH), 30 are from Limbayat and 10 from the Central zone. Over 50% of the positive patients are from Limbayat zone alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-firming-up-strategy-to-revive-economic-activity/articleshow/76045983.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 350 stranded Nepalese return||MOTIHARI: Altogether 350 Nepalese migrant workers and pilgrims stuck in Raxaul on the Indian side near Indo-Nepal border for the last 55 days following the lockdown returned to Nepal on Wednesday. After crossing the integrated checkpost at Raxaul in East Champaran district, they were received by Parsa district officials at Birgunj and were also welcomed by Nepal police officers and people in general. Raxaul SDM Amit Kumar said that the returnees have been quarantined at Raxaul in different centres. The Nepalese who returned are residents of Parsa, Bara, Rautahat and Narayanghat districts of south Nepal and they were anxious to reach home. They had blocked the Raxaul road on Tuesday and raised slogans against the Nepal government. Immigration officer Ajay Kumar Pankaj at Raxaul said, “We were waiting for no objection for their return from the Nepal government which was received on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/350-stranded-nepalese-return/articleshow/76046279.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
May 28, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: Five infected in Valsad, 4 in Navsari||SURAT: Five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Valsad and four in Navsari district on Wednesday. According to Valsad district health officials, one case each was reported from Pardi, Umargam, Valsad, Kosmba and Atul. The tall of Covid-19 cases in Valsad has now reached 29. In Navsari, Patel (55) and Chetna Patel (52) —residents of Mohanpur village in Gandevi taluka—tested positive after they had came in contact with an infected patient. Ritesh Patel (32), who tested positive is resident of Kantesvel village in Vansda is employed as peon in the health office of Surat Municipal Corporation and used to travel between Vansda and Surat every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-infected-in-valsad-4-in-navsari/articleshow/76045995.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Business||Your friend in distress could be an e-fraudster||MUMBAI: Although economic activity has come to a near standstill due to the lockdown, there is no let-up in online crime. Fraudsters have managed to steal from hundreds of bank accounts by either impersonating acquaintances of account holders, tricking tipplers desperate to buy liquor online, or deceiving those searching for service providers. Last week, the promoter of a startup in Mumbai fell victim to an identity theft fraud. The fraudster impersonated an acquaintance abroad, using photographs from social media, and reached out to him over messaging apps and social media to trick him into sending over Rs 2 lakh for an “emergency”. Upon detecting the fraud, he filed a complaint with the cybercrime cell and reached out to his bank. But the funds were already transferred out of the impersonator’s account into multiple ones across the country, and from there to digital wallets. Fraudsters are taking advantage of the fact that the entire police force is being pulled into Covid-19 duty and banks’ helplines are partially manned with branches thinly staffed to respond to complaints. After the Maharashtra government announced that it would be allowing online booking for home delivery of liquor, there was a spate of frauds. Unscrupulous elements created wine shop profiles on Facebook and edited contact numbers of different wine shops on Google Maps. Callers were duped into sharing their card details and OTP to fulfil their orders. Those who have fallen for these ‘wine shop’ frauds in Mumbai include a film producer and a Navy officer. Advocate Prashant Malli, who specialises in cyberfrauds, said that in the initial phase of the lockdown, 84% of the crimes took place online. He estimates there have been 500-600 cases of ‘wine shop’ frauds in recent weeks. “I have come across over 50 cases myself. In some cases, they have debited only Rs 5,000 and the victim has not pursued an FIR (first information report),” he said. He added that the excise department could have reduced frauds by sharing phone numbers of the outlets. In another instance, a bank customer awaiting his replacement card did an online search for the contact number of the courier company. The person at the other end asked for card details for verification, which drew his suspicion. According to Malli, recovery is difficult because the account holder had initiated the transfer, which makes it a matter of investigation and gives the fraudster time to get away. Besides confidence tricks, the fraudsters exploit the lack of awareness among people to use new-age payment apps that allow collect requests. “This is a problem when the app does not support local languages and the victim is not familiar with English.” Given that money can be transferred across the country in seconds, it is not just cardholders in metros who are affected. Bank accounts of customers in Jaipur and Chandigarh have been robbed by fraudsters from West Bengal and Jharkhand. Recovery is also difficult because the fraudsters flip the funds through multiple accounts and bankers do share details of their customer’s transactions only with enforcement authorities and do not act unless there is an FIR. In cases where the FIR is registered, the investigation is hampered by the fact that the funds go through multiple states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/your-friend-in-distress-could-be-an-e-fraudster/articleshow/76048369.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 28, 2020||Patna||Patna: Patliputra residents relieved||PATNA: The residents of Patliputra Housing Society in the city heaved a sigh of relief after the second pump got repaired following a month of their suffering from acute water shortage amid lockdown. However, some of the residents said the pressure of water supply was low and feared the crisis again. One of the residents, Ashok Kumar (75), said on Wednesday the pressure of water supply was very low due to which overhead storage tank was not getting filled. “The same is the situation every summer,” he said. Kumar said they pay taxes to Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) after the housing society came under its jurisdiction three years ago, but the society office-bearers put pressure to pay it instead. “The society moved lower court over the jurisdiction issue, but the case was dismissed. It later moved the Patna high court where the matter is pending,” he said, adding there are around 350 families in the society. Another resident Madhur Kamal (65) said she started receiving water supply on Wednesday after the last several days. Kamal, who is living there for the last 45 years, said, “I had asked a PMC tax collector for help, but he advised me to contact the ward councillor,” she said. Society’s secretary Rajendra Narayan Singh (68) said one of the two pumps, which had malfunctioned, was repaired on Tuesday. “Both pumps are now functioning,” he said, citing lack of availability of mechanic amid lockdown as the reason for the pump not repaired. “PHED had helped us in the past,” he said. He said the case is pending before high court over jurisdiction issue. “The PMC is collecting taxes from residents resulting in fall in society’s income while it looks after water supply, drainage and other issues,” he said. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Rai had told TOI that PHED maintained water supply pumps in ward number 22 A, B and C, that includes society. “We will take over these pumps from PHED soon to resolve the issue as the society is now under PMC jurisdiction,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patliputra-residents-relieved/articleshow/76046689.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 28, 2020||Patna||Sainik School Gopalganj runs online classes||PATNA: The Sainik School Gopalganj is conducting online NDA classes and mock tests during the summer vacation to gainfully utilize the time to prepare the cadets for the upcoming UPSC NDA/NA entrance examinations The school also conducted virtual classes since April 1 to cover the syllabus as all the schools were closed from March 25 amid the nationwide lockdown caused by Covid-19 pandemic, school principal Col T Chakravarty said in a press statement on Wednesday. The school also conducted online pre-mid term examination from May 8 to 14 before the summer vacation from May 15. Remarkably, 97% of the cadets wrote the papers. Among all the sainik schools in the country, Sainik School Gopalganj is the first to successfully conduct online classes and examinations, the principal said. The digital mode facilitated the teachers and cadets to connect through video-enabled remote classrooms that provided a platform for interactive and collaborative learning. Before the summer vacation, a parent-teacher meeting was held through videoconferencing. The principal praised the teachers for their dedicated pursuit in preparing and executing the online contents. He requested the parents to supervise the online activities of their children and asked the cadets to complete the assignments given on the school portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sainik-school-gopalganj-runs-online-classes/articleshow/76046342.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Manipal Institute of Technology students have reservations over online exams||Mangaluru: Students of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) have taken the internet by storm, after the college decided to conduct exams online in the first week of June. Many students from across India have tweeted by tagging along the UGC, PMO and the HRD ministry on the issue. In an online petition filed on Change.Org, the students have stated there are many who have left their laptops and notes in the college and returned home, expecting that the college would resume after a week. Many students said, “There are students who are stuck in areas with a bad network as well as in red zones, who will not be able to prepare for these exams, let alone take them online. Due to the lockdown, all the computer repair centres are shut, hence the students who are facing difficulties with their laptops will not be able to learn or take online exams. In many colleges, including Mumbai University, the end-semester exams have been cancelled, and grades are being assigned based on past performance and internals,” they said, urging the college administration to look into this matter and come up with alternatives that suit them better. A few students even shared a screenshot of a lecturer asking students to borrow a laptop from neighbours or a shop. Students from West Bengal, who have been affected by cyclone Amphan, claimed that they faced internet issues. In addition, many families are going through a crisis, because their parents have lost their jobs due to the recent layoffs, they said. On the contrary, a section of students claimed that the college has done its best to ensure that the students take exams. A second- year student alleged that a few of the screenshots being shared are fabricated, and that teachers and students are randomly testing the software efficiency. The college has been conducting online assignments and the attendance is fairly good. Most of the lecturers have uploaded 90 % of the notes in PDF format on time. D Srikanth Rao, director, MIT, said, “The examination is very close to what they were doing offline. They need internet connection only to download the question paper and to upload the answers. They can download the question paper much ahead of the start of the exam. At the time of starting the exam, they will receive an OTP through which they can open the question paper. They can either type the answers or write the answers on a paper and digitise it. Equation editor, scientific calculator, formula sheets and data handbook are in an application on their laptop. At the end of the specified time, the application will close the process. As and when the student connects the device to the internet, the answer paper will be uploaded to the server. Thus, the whole process is almost offline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/manipal-institute-of-technology-students-have-reservations-over-online-exams/articleshow/76048170.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 28, 2020||Business||Sensex soars nearly 1k pts as banks, fin stocks rally||MUMBAI: Strong buying in banks and financials led to a nearly 1,000-point rally in the sensex, which closed just above the 31,600 level on Wednesday as positive domestic and global cues supported the market despite the rising number of Covid-19 infections in India and fears of a flare-up of the US-China political one-upmanship. With the Wall Street showing a strong up move in early trades, market players expect that the rally would continue on Thursday. The day’s rally, aided mainly by a Rs 2,409-crore net buying by domestic funds, added about Rs 2 lakh crore to investors’ wealth with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 123.6 lakh crore. Foreign funds on the other hand were net sellers at Rs 335 crore, BSE data showed. According to Siddhartha Khemka, head (retail research), Motilal Oswal Financial Services, global sentiments are positive on the back of optimism about the re-opening of the world economy and the potential development of a coronavirus vaccine. “European markets were positive on hopes that the European Union will announce a massive stimulus programme for the region’s recovery. However, Asian markets were mixed as investors are concerned over the unrest in Hong Kong due to Beijing’s proposed national security laws as it might escalate tensions between the US and China,” he said in a note. Khemka believes Indian markets may continue its positive momentum for the next couple of days. However, apart from the global sentiments, investors will closely monitor the quarterly results, development around coronavirus cases and vaccines, US-China tensions and any announcements related to further stimulus by governments globally. Among the sensex stocks, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Axis Bank were the top contributors to the index’s gains. As a result of the strong buying in banking and financial stocks, BSE’s banking index closed 7% higher, while the financial services index closed with a 5% gain. United Spirits Q4 profit tanks 81% to Rs 24 crore India’s largest drinks maker United Spirits reported a net sales volume decline of 11.4% in the fourth quarter as bars, restaurants and liquor shops remained shut across the country from the middle of March due to Covid-19. Net profit was down 81% to Rs 24 crore, partly also due to exceptional items and a one-time tax charge. The decline in volumes was led by its costlier drinks segment, referred to as Prestige & Above (P&A), whose volumes tanked about 16% — “disproportionately impacted by drying up of social occasions and closure of on-premise channel in several states”. Sale of cheaper, or popular, drinks fell 11.4%. “Within the P&A segment, our bottled-in-origin (BIO) Scotch portfolio was the hardest hit,” said CEO Anand Kripalu. The P&A segment, which includes drinks like McDowell’s No 1 whiskey and Smirnoff vodka, now contributes 65% to the total sales. Increase in raw material cost hit margins by 433 basis points. For the full year, net sales grew 1.2%, down from 10% in the year before. Alcobev companies are bracing up for one of the worst years. Many executives feel that volumes would be down by 15% this fiscal. “The outlook for next year remains uncertain,” said Kripalu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-soars-nearly-1k-pts-as-banks-fin-stocks-rally/articleshow/76048494.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Patna||1.7 lakh return to Bihar by 98 trains||PATNA: Altogether 1.7 lakh migrant workers and people stranded in Delhi and nine other states reached Bihar by 98 Shramik special trains on Wednesday. Since May 2, nearly 15 lakh people have come back to different places in the state falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). “With 30,000 migrants, 21 trains from Nanded, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus-Mumbai, Lokmanya Tilak-Pune, Bandra and Panvel in Maharashtra reached Araria, Bettiah, Darbhanga, Gaya, Madhubani, Motihari, Patna and Purnea on Wednesday,” ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said. Similarly, 14 special trains from Udhna, Surat, Mehsana, Gandhidham and Vapi in Gujarat returned to Ara, Barauni, Bettiah, Biharsharif, Buxar, Kishanganj, Madhubani, Purnea, Samastipur and Supaul with 23,000 migrant workers and other stranded people. “Six trains from Bengaluru and one from Hubli in Karnataka carried 10,000 people to Araria, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Purnea,” the CPRO said. While 7,000 people stuck in Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jaipur, Udaipur and Sikar in Rajasthan reached Ara, Kishanganj, Motihari, Muzaffarpur and Nawada, nine trains from Karmanasa, Dadri, Saharanpur, Jalalpur and Dankaur in Uttar Pradesh arrived at Araria, Danapur, Katihar, Motihari, Muzaffarpur and Saharsa. Nearly 18,000 migrants from Delhi reached Araria, Bhagalpur, Katihar and Purnea. “While five trains from Delhi reached Bhagalpur, three others reached Purnea on Wednesday,” the CPRO said, adding special trains from Ambala, Hisar and Gurgaon in Haryana carried about 7,600 migrant workers to Araria, Bhagalpur and Jehanabad. Two special trains from Katra in Jammu and Kashmir reached Banka and Motihari and two others from Chennai came back to Darbhanga and Madhubani. “Besides, trains originating from Danapur, Buxar, Barauni, Gaya and Gopalganj ferried about 30,000 migrant workers to different places in the state,” Kumar said. According to Danapur’s senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj, the railways is distributing food, snacks and water bottles among the returnees at different places in the division. “About one lakh food packets have been given to the migrant workers so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-7-lakh-return-to-state-by-98-trains/articleshow/76046742.cms||Kumod Verma
May 28, 2020||Goa||Sawant seeks Centre’s nod for int’l flights to Goa||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said he has requested the Union ministers for aviation and external affairs to facilitate direct flights to Goa, so that Goans stranded abroad are not inconvenienced. He also said that based on the new MHA guidelines, Goa has curtailed the duration of institutional quarantine for seafarers. “Many Goans are still stranded in different parts of the world. Our efforts to bring them back are on. One group has recently returned from Italy. There are others stranded in London and various other places. On Tuesday, I wrote separate letters once again to the aviation minister and the minister for external affairs requesting them that direct flights to Goa from London and other parts of Europe be facilitated,” Sawant said. The chief minister also said that seafarers arriving in Goa will now have to undergo only seven days of institutional quarantine. “We have mandated seven days of institutional quarantine and seven days of home quarantine for seafarers. Although hotels had taken advance payments, we have asked that the tariffs paid for seven days (out of 14) be refunded. The government is transparent. Whatever steps we have been taking are to keep Goa free of Covid-19,” Sawant said. He reiterated that payment for quarantine facilities have not been taken from individual seafarers but from their respective employers. The Goa government making efforts to ensure that stranded Goans arriving by air or sea route are brought directly to Goa and don’t have to pass through red zones. Last month, two domestic vessels and one international cruise vessel disembarked their crew at Mumbai port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-seeks-centres-nod-for-intl-flights-to-goa/articleshow/76049794.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Varanasi||Woman, her three children end life||Varanasi: A 40-year-old women along with her two daughters and a son allegedly committed suicide by lying down on railway tracks near Hinauti village in Chandauli district on Tuesday night. Their mutilated bodies were found on the railway tracks. The police are investigating the matter. According to reports, the gateman of Bichhiya cabin noticed them and alerted the police. Senior police officials including Chandauli SP Hemant Kutiyal reached the spot after getting the information. According to police, prima facie it seemed to be a case of suicide. The SP said that the identity of the deceased could be ascertained after the police found a mobile phone at the spot. They were identified as Premsheela Devi (40), daughters Chanchal (20) and Ranjana (16) and on Ajit (19). They were the residents of Sudaw village in Saiyyadraja police station area. According to the SP, the reason behind the incident was family dispute between wife and husband. Premsheela’s husband had accused her of having illicit relations with several men. A panchayat was also called over the issue in the village on Tuesday. Grieved over the allegations, Premsheela along with her kids left the house in the evening and lied on the railway tracks on Delhi-Howrah route near Hinauti village. They were overrun by speeding goods train (3375). SP said that the further investigation is underway. The bodies were sent for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-her-three-children-end-life/articleshow/76047100.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bareilly||Sitting atop 2 jumbos, forest officials have a task cut out: To chase a straying tigress into jungles||Pilibhit: To dissuade a tigress from venturing into villages, the UP’s forest department has deployed two elephants along the fringes of Mala Forest Range on which the officials will patrol the area and scare the feline away. The officials of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve want to keep the 2.5-year-old tigress inside the forest as she is continuously straying into agricultural field within a radius of 200 meters from the boundary of core forest region. The jumbos reached PTR on Tuesday evening. The combing of jumbos is being carried out as deterrent to restrain the adolescent tigress from straying. According to the field director of PTR, H Rajamohan, the straying of tigress in this high temperature shows her peculiar behaviour as the big cats prefer to shun the hot weather and direct sunshine. “As the tigress is getting mature, she might need to constitute her independent territory following the innate nature of big cats. We guess, as Mala forest range is already saturated with tigers, this situation may have left only a partial portion of forest for the adolescent tigress for her independent territory and for the remaining part, she is straying in agricultural field as the territorial area of tigress as normally stretched in around 40 square kilometres,” Rajamohan said. The jumbos were assisting the forest teams to have access in swampy as well as the dense shrubby wild regions which were not possible to approach for the monitoring of tigress by a tractor, he added. The deputy director of PTR, Naveen Khandelwal, told that the jumbos will stay in PTR until a situation of tigress’s straying was finally addressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sitting-atop-2-jumbos-forest-officials-have-a-task-cut-out-to-chase-a-straying-tigress-into-jungles/articleshow/76046855.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||Seafarers, kin protest against paid quarantine||Quepem: Seafarers and their families from different parts of South Goa went on a chain hunger strike on Wednesday to protest the state government’s decision of compulsory paid quarantine for Goan seafarers and those coming from abroad. Earlier, they had met deputy chief minister and Quepem MLA Chandrakant Kavalekar twice and discussed the issue with him. Kavalekar had assured them that he would discuss their demand with chief minister Pramod Sawant. From 9am, around 25 persons from seafarers’ families from Quepem, Cuncolim, Curchorem, Sanguem and Margao sat on chain hunger strike on the footpath of the Quepem garden with placards. More than 100 seafarers were present to support the strike. Police personnel were also deployed in the town. Since Quepem deputy collector Rohit Kadam refused permission to the hunger strike on Monday, the protesters went on a chain hunger strike. They went to the Quepem deputy collector’s office to submit a memorandum, but the staff refused to accept it saying Kadam was not in office. After waiting for half-an-hour, a seafarer called up additional collector Agnelo Fernandes and sought his intervention. Later the deputy collector’s office accepted the memorandum. The Quepem police led by PI Santosh Dessai requested the seafarers to withdraw the chain hunger strike, or else he would have to initiate action and detain all as Section 144 was in force during the lockdown. Heeding Dessai's request, seafarers withdrew it at 11am. “We are giving the government a week’s time to reconsider its decision to make seafarers pay for being quarantined or else the chain hunger strike will restart,” seaman Sanjeev Borkar said. Flenta Carneiro and Rien Goes, wives of seafarers, asked whether Section 144 was only meant for the common man and not for ministers and their supporters. “No action was taken during the grade separator inauguration at Dabolim where social distancing norms weren’t followed,” vice-president of Goa Seamen’s Association Salvador Cardozo said. QMC councillors Manuel Colaco, Filu D’Costa and Raul Pereira also joined the seafarers in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seafarers-kin-protest-against-paid-quarantine/articleshow/76049890.cms||Johnny M
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Silted canals pose risk to flood-hit panchayats in Kerala||KOCHI: Floods in 2018 had a devastating impact on many local bodies in the district in the form of infrastructure and livelihood losses but some of them do not seem to have learned lessons from the experience. Chendamangalam panchayat, which was one of the worst affected local bodies in the district, is yet to take steps to deepen the canals and clear silt deposits in spots where they join the backwaters. According to the panchayat administration, while they have taken steps to clean the streams and drains, deepening of canals is the job of minor irrigation department as they have no funds to undertake the exercise. “We had given a letter to minor irrigation department more than a month ago and they had taken an estimate,” said Anoob T G, president, Chendamangalam panchayat. He had no answer to the question why there was such a huge delay in executing such a crucial work ahead of the monsoon, which is set to arrive on the first week of June. “We do not have much funds. For one ward alone we have to spend Rs 15,000 for cleaning the PWD and panchayat drains,” said Anoob. Chendamangalam panchayat needs to clean canals — a total length of 20km — ahead of the monsoon but with rains already here it seems to be an almost impossible task. A major worry is that most of canal mouths leading to backwater are blocked, which is a flood risk in the event of heavy rains. Officials in the minor irrigation department said the panchayat could have done these works on time using their plan funds or MGNREGS. “The district collector had issued directives to the panchayats under the Disaster Management Act to undertake canal cleaning works using available funds. Many local bodies have taken a proactive decision and are currently engaged in such work,” said an official. Kalady panchayat too has requested minor irrigation department to take steps to deepen the canals. “It’s true that canal cleaning work can be undertaken using own funds or funds of rural employment guarantee scheme,” said Thulasi Bai Padmanabhan, president, Kalady panchayat. “Normally the work is done in October and November under MGNREGS. We had done this in November last year. But since six months have passed we need to do this again to be on the safer side,” she said. The district collector has also directed local bodies near Periyar, including Kalady and Eloor, to immediately clean the silt deposited at bathing ghats. Most panchayats are currently engaged in pre-monsoon cleaning of streams and drains using MGNREGS funds. They have also completed identification of shelter facilities to set up relief camps in the event of a flood. “We are prepared to face any situation. Cleaning of all large streams and drains are nearing completion,” said Ratnamma Suresh, president, Kadungalloor panchayat who is apprehensive of managing relief shelters effectively in the backdrop of Covid-19 which mandates social distancing. “We have also identified the relief shelters. But the question is how we can accommodate large number of people in camps due to Covid-19 situation,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/silted-canals-pose-risk-to-flood-hit-panchayats/articleshow/76046899.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 28, 2020||Varanasi||Six new Covid cases reported, 7 recover||VARANASI: While eight new cases of Covid-19 were found in the district, seven old patients who recovered from the illness were discharged from the hospitals on Wednesday. Earlier, no new case of Covid-19 was found in the district on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases in district rose to 160. While 90 recovered from the illness, 66 patients are under observation in isolation wards. Five patients were discharged from Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya district hospital, while two patients were discharged from Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University. Besides, two hotspots of Madanpura and Lallapura became green zone. According to district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, the reports of 10 positive cases were received from the BHU laboratory out of which two persons belong to Jaunpur district. Among the eight infected persons of Varanasi, six are migrant workers and other two are a policeman and a compounder. Among the migrants, a 25-year-old woman, who came from Mumbai in a truck, is the resident of Siswa village in Kapsethi area. Other migrants include a 36-year-old resident of Ratanpur village in Phoolpur area who worked in a textile mill in Mumbai, a 30-year-old resident of Ratanpur village who operated auto rickshaw in Mumbai, a 58-year-old resident of Madhopur village in Badagaon area who worked in a power loom in Bhiwandi, a 26-year-old resident of city’s Kotwali area who had a betel shop in Mumbai, and a 50-year-old resident of Pahadi village in Cholapur area who worked as a tailor in Mumbai. Besides, a 34-year-old constable at the police lines and a compounder and resident of Ramakant Nagar in Sigra area also contracted infection. A total of 178 samples were collected in the district on Wednesday. So far 5,156 samples have been collected for testing out of which the results of 4,734 sample were received. Two new hotspots — Nayi Pokhari in Sigra and Paradih in Cholapur — have come into existence, while Harteerath would switch over to red zone again after becoming green zone. Now, the total number of hotspots in the city has gone up to 80.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/six-new-covid-cases-reported-7-recover/articleshow/76047145.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Admission or isolation at home? Age matters most||NEW DELHI: Anyone above 50 years of age and having comorbidities should be quarantined in an institutional facility if he or she tests positive for Covid-19, say doctors. According to Dr S K Sarin, chairman of the task force constituted by Delhi government for Covid-19 management, home quarantine is suitable for younger patients who are asymptomatic. “Even at home, one should keep monitoring the oxygen saturation level. One can buy a pulse oximeter for that,” he said. It is a small, lightweight device used to monitor the amount of oxygen carried in the body. Pointing out that an oxygen saturation of above 95% is considered normal, Dr Sarin added, “If a person’s oxygen saturation levels drop below that mark, he or she should be rushed to hospital immediately.” According to Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, difficulty in breathing, chest discomfort, drowsiness and extreme fatigue are some of the warning signs. “If a patient develops any of these symptoms, he or she should be rushed to hospital immediately,” he said. As Covid-19 cases rise, Dr Guleria added, there is high likelihood of increased pressure on hospitals for admissions and a clear policy may be needed to prioritise admission of those who need it the most, such as elderly people. The novel coronavirus causes mild to moderate symptoms such as fever, dry cough and fatigue in 80% cases, when the infection is limited to the upper respiratory tract — nose and throat. Once the infection involves the lower respiratory tract, complication starts. The lower respiratory tract consists of windpipe (trachea), bronchi and bronchioles, and alveoli, which make up the lungs. These structures pull in air from the upper respiratory system, absorb oxygen and release carbon dioxide in exchange. A review of the Covid-19 cases published in a medical journal recently shows infection caused by the virus damages the lungs that leads to shortness of breath. The patient starts breathing faster — more than 30 times a minute — and the levels of oxygen in blood start dropping. “Lack of oxygen affects brain, heart and all other organs. Without immediate medical intervention, a patient may start getting restless and fall unconscious due to lack of oxygen in the brain. It can also affect the heart, kidneys and other body parts leading to a multi-organ failure,” said a doctor. Dr Rajesh Chawla, pulmonologist and critical care specialist at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said they suggested home quarantine to all stable Covid-19 patients. “But people insist on getting admitted because they do not have a separate room with an attached bathroom and they fear infecting family members. Sometimes, the patients are very anxious and they don’t want to stay at home,” he said. Many private hospitals and companies like Healthcare at Home are offering tele-consultation and management of Covid-19 cases under home isolation through teleservices or apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/admission-or-isolation-at-home-age-matters-most/articleshow/76049900.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||Rift in Congress over talks of bypoll ticket to defector?||Bhopal: Former minister for panchayat in the erstwhile Kamal Nath government, Kamleshwar Patel, on Tuesday supported the return of Rakesh Singh Chaturvedi into the Congress fold. “He was a man who followed Congress ideology though he joined BJP for few years,” Kamleshwar Patel said and added, “Chaturvedi is a good leader but he strayed from our party ideology. But in matters like this, there is nothing very personal.”Patel also claimed that even brothers have differences but issues get resolved and Chaturvedi should not be opposed. Two months after 22 party MLAs including six ministers followed Jyotiraditya Scindia to join BJP, a deep rift has again developed within the state Congress over the man who started the defection from party history in recent years. On July 11, 2013 Congress entered the state assembly to bring a ‘No Confidence’ motion against the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government.Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh rose to address the House. But before he could utter a word, the Congress’ deputy leader of opposition Chaturvedi defected and said he did not support the motion. The BJP bodily lifted Chaturvedi and took him straight to the state party headquarters. He was garlanded, honoured and given saffron party membership. Six years later, in April 2019, during the Lok Sabha polls, Chaturvedi returned to Congress.Now, with 24 assembly seats going for bypolls, one section of the Congress wants to give him the ticket as party candidate from Mehgaon in Bhind district while another section is vehemently opposing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rift-in-congress-over-talks-of-bypoll-ticket-to-defector/articleshow/76049864.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 28, 2020||Varanasi||Shops open, heat wave keeps people at bay||GORAKHPUR: Shops and markets opened finally in the city on Wednesday bringing respite to traders and people alike. Shopkeepers expressed happiness and hailed the district administration’s decision to allow shops to open and assured compliance of social distancing and safety precautions. Some shopkeepers said the markets should have been allowed to open earlier since marriage season is coming. However, due to heat wave, very few customers were seen in the day though footfall was more in morning and evening. DM Vijyendra Pandiyan, SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta and other officials walked from Ghantaghar to Buxipur area to check compliance of social distancing and protection measures against coronavirus. On Tuesday evening, district administration had issued order that all shops except malls, cinema halls, salons and parlours will open as per roster amid strict compliance of protocol against Covid-19. Medicine shops will remain open all days of week while other shops will remain closed on Sunday. DM Vijyendra Pandiyan said there will be complete restriction on movement on roads from 7pm to 7am and only people related to essential services will be allowed. City MLA, Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal, however, expressed concern over opening of shops and expressed fear of coronavirus spread due to it. “Lockdown was followed fully when there were no cases in city, and now when migrants are coming in large numbers and are being found infected, then they have been opened. Covid cases have risen to 60 in Gorakhpur. Gorakhpur has received maximum trains and trains are bringing migrants daily. At present, seven areas in city are hotspots.” CM Yogi himself has said that labourers coming from Mumbai are infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/shops-open-heat-wave-keeps-people-at-bay/articleshow/76047178.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Food for needy: Delhi HC to take up PIL||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court will examine on Thursday AAP government’s claim that all possible steps are being taken to ensure no one goes without food during the Covid-19 lockdown. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad is likely to hear two PILs on the issue. In one of them, the state government has apprised the court about steps being taken to feed the poor and needy. It has said that apart from the regular entitlement under the Public Distribution System (PDS) for May 2020, food has been distributed also under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKY) and Mukhya Mantri Corona Sahayta Yojana from fair price shops (FPSs)since April 29. Till May 21, ration under PDS for May and under PMGKY for April has been issued to 49,41,557 beneficiaries, the affidavit said. Apart from that dry ration has been issued to 29,76,403 beneficiaries under non-PDS category, it has also said. The affidavit was filed in response to the high court’s direction of May 18, to give details of steps taken by the Delhi government to ensure no one goes hungry during the lockdown. The court had earlier this month lamented that its directions in this regard were not implemented, issued on plea by an NGO, Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, alleging non-supply of ration to many poor people during the lockdown. Delhi government, in its affidavit, has said that it issued directions to all FPSs under PDS in the national capital to remain open on all seven days of the week. Besides that field inspections have been carried out to monitor distribution of ration and warnings have been issued and penalties imposed on those FPS licensees who are not complying with the government’s instructions. It also said in its affidavit that to adhere to social distancing norms, FPSs for distribution cycle in May were to be opened in a staggered manner. “As per norms, with closure of one distribution cycle under PDS, the other cycle can be taken up by FPS only after ‘opening of sales’, which requires inspection of availability of stocks in the FPS and registers maintained,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/food-for-needy-hc-to-take-up-pil/articleshow/76049906.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19: Four more test positive, Prayagraj district tally reaches 79||PRAYAGRAJ: Four people including a couple tested corona positive on Wednesday taking the Prayagraj district tally to 79. Ironically, all the four persons who tested positive for Covid 19 infection, were migrants and had returned to city from Mumbai on different dates. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr. Rishi Sahai said ,“A 60-year old man, who along with his son returned to city from Mumbai on May 21 by foot and taxi and quarantined, was tested positive for Covid 19 infection on Wednesday.” He added that the swab sample of the patient was taken on May 22. He was admitted at Covid 19 Level one hospital for treatment. Besides, a couple aged about 34 years and 33 years also tested positive for covid 19 infection. The couple along with their two kids and mother had returned from Mumbai on May 22 by car. They were resident of Meja. Officials said that wife had on Tuesday complained breathlessness as they were advised for home quarantine after their return from Mumbai. When tested, the wife along with husband were tested positive for infection. Moreover, a 40 year-old man and resident of Handia also tested positive for covid 19 infection. He came back from Mumbai on May 14 through a train and was home quarantined. His swab sample, taken on May 25, was tested positive on Wednesday. Till now, the district has a total of 36 active cases. While 24 patients are undergoing treatment at Covid Level One hospital, 12 others are undergoing treatment SRN Level Three hospital. While 40 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals, three have died of the Covid 19 infection so far. On Wednesday, the officials of health department has taken as many as 18 samples under its “operation Prayagraj” where the health teams were collecting samples of migrants who returned to city’s slum areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-four-more-test-positive-prayagraj-district-tally-reaches-79/articleshow/76048575.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Quarantine order, contact tracing after airline official tests positive||Ludhiana: After an Air India security official, who had travelled in a Delhi-Ludhiana flight on May 25, tested positive for Covid-19, the health department officials have started informing his co-travellers to home quarantine themselves. The health department has also written to the Delhi government for contact tracing of the official, who belongs to Mayur Vihar in the Capital.On May 25, the 50-year-old security official of Air India posted at Sahnewal Airport was among 11 passengers who had come on the first day of flight resumption. He tested positive, while other 10 passengers tested negative for Covid-19.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they have started measures to track and trace the persons who travelled with him. He said these passengers were being contacted by their rapid response teams and asked to be under home quarantine. “As the security official had got stuck in Delhi, we have also written to the government there to trace his contacts. After the flight landed at Sahnewal airport, he didn’t come in contact with any of the ground staff. Therefore, they were not being tested,” he added. Health department officials said the security official, who was asymptomatic, had gone directly to his accommodation in Sahnewal, so he might not have come in contact with others. Air India officials said they have asked their staff to be more vigilant. An Air India officer, on the condition of anonymity, said they held a briefing for their staff of 20 officials, wherein they were asked to wear masks, face shields and gloves, among others.“The official, who tested positive, was a security supervisor whose work area included cargo, passenger baggage, passenger safety, aircraft safety, among others. He will resume duty after 14 days’ home quarantine,” the officer added.  Air India said the passenger on Delhi-Ludhiana flight found Covid-19 positive works in the security department of Alliance Air and was travelling on a paid ticket. ‘Flights will not be hit’Airport director SK Saran said the positive report of the security official would not affect the flight operation, as the check-ins and check-outs were contact-less and the ground staff were taking precautions. Air India officials said the flight would operate as usual for four days a week, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/quarantine-order-contact-tracing-after-airline-official-tests-positive/articleshow/76046924.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC tankers caught watering construction site||Nagpur: After getting a tip off, standing and water committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Wednesday caught a couple of tankers busy delivering water to a private construction site in Bahadura area, outside Nagpur Municipal Corporation limits. Zalke said he received a tip off that two NMC water tankers, which were supposed to supply water in non-network areas, had been supplying water to an under-construction site in Bahadura area. He caught both tankers red-handed and on his order, the water works department terminated the agreements with both the tankers to supply water in non-network areas in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-tankers-caught-watering-construction-site/articleshow/76049894.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Meerut||Influx of migrants may ‘disturb’ social order in villages, says new UP ADG||The three-year stint of Prashant Kumar as Meerut zone’s additional director general of police was quite eventful. His appointment as Meerut ADG came just four months after Yogi Adityanath took over the reins of UP as chief minister in March, 2017. Under ADG Kumar, the “crime belt” of UP witnessed unprecedented 2,276 encounters leaving 65 “criminals” dead and over 1,332 injured. The crime rate dipped but NHRC slammed the department for “extra-judicial killings”. Now, as UP’s new ADG (law and order), Kumar has a difficult job cut out for him at a time when the state is facing an unprecedented pandemic. He spoke to TOI’s Sandeep RaiWill we see a replication of Meerut model in UP now?Nature of response depends on the nature of crime in a particular region. No one can deny that western UP has always been aggressively volatile when it comes to crime. From organized gangs to communal riots, the area has been notorious and hence a zero tolerance policy had to be adopted. And we have been fairly successful by deploying that strategy. How many ransom calls do the residents of this region get now? And one thing that needs to be remembered is that NHRC gave clean chits in all cases of police crackdown here. Regarding the pattern, Gorakhpur and Lakhimpur Kheri have different issues as they are close to international borders. The nature of crime taking place there cannot be compared to what occurs in Baghpat or Muzaffarnagar. One strategy doesn’t work in every situation What will be your immediate priority after assuming office?Lakhs of migrant labourers have or will reach Uttar Pradesh. And, such a massive influx is bound to disturb the prevailing equilibrium in villages leading to intra-family disputes that can result in violent events. And, hence my special and immediate focus will be on the UP hinterland. Police will have to strengthen coordination with the village-level stakeholders and gram suraksha samitis. We will certainly develop time-bound strategy because in coming times it will be a major issue to tackle There have been a host of incidents of police excesses on hapless migrants I admit there have been certain disturbing incidents when the policemen on the ground lost cool, but we have to see things with wider perspective. The human face of police has never been as visible as it is now. Police have been reaching out to the hungry with food packets prepared in kitchens of police lines in various districts. Policemen have been celebrating birthdays of migrant workers’ children, SSPs have been motivating public by throwing fitness challenges. The list is endless. But we must understand that the policeman on the road is also highly stressed up. He is working day and night, leaving his family unattended, to enforce lockdown. We are working on these behavioural disorders but still some cases of high handedness do appear. Action is promptly taken against the accused officers And what about the allegations that UP Police is a bit harsh on minorities Allegations are allegations. Anyone can throw an allegation. But it is entirely false and I can give an example of the infamous Syana violence in Bulandshahr where one of our SHOs was shot dead by the mob that protested against cow slaughter, in December 2018. We filed FIRs against more than 40 people, slapped sedition cases against all right-wing perpetrators of violence. It took them 11 months to come out of jail, and that too after the orders from a high court. In the same incident we also made sure that it did not turn into communal flashpoint as lakhs had assembled in the district for Tabhligi Jamaat. There have been several cases like that. We have always followed one policy, to come down heavily on law breakers irrespective of their faith or ideology||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/influx-of-migrants-may-disturb-social-order-in-villages-says-new-up-adg/articleshow/76046918.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Operation Breakthrough need of the hour in Paravur||KOCHI: Failure of local bodies and district administration to clear blockages to streams and canals that drain to backwaters in Paravur assembly ahead of the monsoon has heightened the flood risk of the region. The minor irrigation department has identified 24 streams and canals in the constituency, which needs immediate intervention if the damage due to flooding needs to be minimized. Officials of the department who surveyed the streams in the area found that 24 out 34 streams no more have openings to backwaters in the region. Many of these streams run through private property and the owners have closed the mouths of these streams and small canals thereby increasing risk of submergence. V D Satheesan, MLA for the constituency, said they had requested the chief minister, state disaster management authority and the district collector to look into the matter seriously but no funds have been earmarked for the purpose so far. “If at least one third of water flow we experienced in 2018 happens the area would experience flooding. These measures may not help avoid the floods completely but at least we can reduce the impact,” said Satheesan. District collector had invoked the disaster management Act and directed panchayats to undertake the desilting work urgently utilising MGNREGA or own funds and not wait for support from disaster management agency. “Small tributaries and streams of two rivers if not desilted in time poses serious risk to Paravur. Ernakulam city did not experience the impact of floods but was given Rs 25 crore to mitigate rainwater inundation. None of the local bodies received funds for this,” alleged Satheesan. The local bodies do not have the funds to do this and they are already burdened by expenditure incurred because of fight against Covid-19, he said. Experts who have studied flood zones in the region pointed out that the regulator gates must be kept open with the start of the monsoon. “Water flow from three regulators-two in Periyar and one in Chalakkudy river can impact flooding in Paravur assembly. When monsoon starts, sufficient shutters of these regulators should be kept open,” said C G Madhusudanan, who holds a doctorate in river management from IIT-Madras and was involved in a project to study flood zone mapping in Paravoor assembly. Regulators built to prevent saline water intrusion at Purappillikkavy, Pathalam and Kanakkankadavu had been subject of various controversies. Their ability to control the flow of rivers is severely limited because many of the shutters cannot be regulated efficiently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/operation-breakthrough-need-of-the-hour-in-paravur/articleshow/76046960.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 28, 2020||Allahabad||Migrant labourers quarantine themselves outside their homes||Prayagraj: As large number of migrant labourers have returned to the district from various parts of the country, reports are coming in from different blocks of the district that they have voluntarily quarantined themselves for at least 14 days. While some have found shelter in a cowshed, others are passing the two-week quarantine period in an orchard located on the outskirts of their village. At Kotwa village in Bahadurpur block of the district, 38-year-old Vipin Singh has returned from Kaithal (Haryana) where he worked as a foreman in an industry. He managed to reach his village on May 23 but the family of Vipin were worried as to how he could be quarantined in a small two-room house. Since Vipin’s quarantine was not only essential for him but also for his family members to wade off the risk of coronavirus, everyone decided that Vipin would quarantine himself in the cowshed outside the house. He has been given a few essentials and is prepared to brave the two weeks in the cowshed despite the scorching heat. “I know it’s a difficult thing to do, but this is the only way to keep my family from getting infected. Even though I have no symptoms of Covid, I don’t want to take any risk,” said Vipin. Likewise, a group of young men reached Dharam Gajapati village of Manda block of the district. The group including Yogendra Kumar, Ghanshyam, Vijay Kumar, Anil, Brijesh and Akhilesh, have also come from Kaithal (Haryana) where they were employed in a factory. Unable to arrange a transport, these young men purchased bicycles and reached their village after cycling for around 900 km. Owing to the apprehensions of their family members about catching possible infection, the group decided to quarantine themselves for three weeks at an orchard on the outskirts of the village. “It’s extremely hot in the orchard, but at least we are happy to reach our village. Our families provide us with ration and we prepare our own food as we had been doing back at Kaithal,” said Anil, one of the group members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/migrant-labourers-quarantine-themselves-outside-their-homes/articleshow/76048633.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Old wall falls on five, two killed||RAJKOT: Two persons were killed and three others injured when a wall of a dilapidated house that was being demolished came tumbling down in Nilkanth Sheri area of Lathi town in Amreli district late on Wednesday evening. According to police who identified the deceased as Bhavesh Mer and Mehboob Malek, both in their mid-20s, the incident took place when five labourers were demolishing the old house in Nilkanth Sheri area on behalf of a contractor. While the labourers were removing rubble, the wall supporting the rubble gave away suddenly and it fell on the five labourers got who buried under the debris. The people from nearby houses rushed to the spot and rescued the labourers. However, police said that Mer and Malek had died on the spot. The injured labourers have been shifted to Lathi government hospital for treatment. Their condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/old-wall-falls-on-five-two-killed/articleshow/76046949.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Agra||Covid cases continue to pour in from western UP; 5 in Agra & Meerut reports 12||AGRA/MEERUT: Even as Covid-19 cases from western UP's major hotspot Agra showed some signs of slowing down, cases from Meerut and other parts of the region continued to pour in, till Wednesday evening, with Muzaffarnagar reporting its first Covid death. At least five new cases surfaced in Agra, taking the district's tally to 875. Two patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), a patient suffering from chest pain and vomiting at SN Medical College, an ICU patient of a private hospital and an 18-year-old student were among those infected. The affected areas, on Wednesday, were Bodla, Sadar, Chipitola, Balkeshwar and Paliwal Park locality. Nine patients were discharged. Out of the 875 cases, 88% have "recovered", while 76 remain active. CMO RC Pandey confirmed, “So far, 766 people have recovered and discharged.” In Meerut, at least 12 cases were reported, taking the tally to 399 which included one found in Kanpur. A 78-year-old woman from Subhash Nagar also died, taking the toll to 24, according to Dr SK Garg, principal of LLRM Medical College. “The deceased woman had respiratory problem, septicaemia and diabetes as comorbidity,” Dr Garg added. “The 12 positive cases in Meerut included six PAC jawans, brother of a BJP member whose driver had earlier tested positive and died, one Nagar Nigam employee, one nephew of a positive case who had died two days ago, and three others,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. Eleven fresh cases were reported from Muzaffarnagar, taking the tally to 61. Muzaffarnagar's DM Sevakumari Jayarajan said, “All the positive cases are migrant labourers who had come from Tamil Nadu." Muzaffarnagar reported its first Covid death on Wednesday, with the passing away of an 83-year-old woman who was also suffering from kidney ailment. While Hapur reported 16 new cases, taking its tally to 138. There were 10 from Delhi Gate, four from Pilkhuwa and two from Garh, including a doctor at community health centre and a hotel employee. Also, one positive case was reported in Shamli, one in Baghpat and two in Saharanpur. There was one death reported in Baghpat as well. Three people tested positive in Bijnor. All are migrant labourers. According to Bijnor's CMO Vijay Yadav, total tally is now 83 with 36 active ones. There were also 15 new cases reported in Moradabad district, taking the district tally to 197. Here, among the new cases, three are said to be Mumbai returnee bar dancers. Also, among the 15, one was a 50-year-old patient who died, but his report arrived later. In neighbouring Sambhal, four fresh cases emerged - all of them are migrants. Tally in Sambhal has reached 72 now. Moreover, three new cases were found in Pilibhit, taking the tally to 44, with 14 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-cases-continue-to-pour-in-from-wup-5-in-agra-meerut-reports-12/articleshow/76048664.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Jailbreak attempted’ in central prison||Ludhiana: Some inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail allegedly attempted a jailbreak in the wee hours on Wednesday. They managed to break two rods of trellis in the central ward, but the security personnel spotted them and sounded an alert. Although the jail superintendent denied any such incident taking place, jail minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said he has ordered an inquiry into the matter.According to prison sources, around 1am, a group of inmates from Barrack No. 2 break two rods of the bathroom using some tools. But, the CRPF personnel taking a round saw them and alerted the jail authorities. Soon, the jail officials reached the spot and identified the inmates involved in the act. The security officials also recovered some rods and iron strips. Later, the broken rods of trellis were repaired.However, when contacted, jail superintendent Rajiv Arora said, “No such incident has taken place in the jail. This is just a rumour.”Jail minister Randhawa, however, said, “I have asked inspector general- prisons Roop Kumar Arora to conduct an inquiry into the matter.”On May 12, an inmate with the help of two others had scaled the inside wall of BKU Cell. But, he got his knee injured and was nabbed by a security personnel. A word had spread about the escape bid, but the jail officials had even then denied the incident.BOX- Quality of trellis poor: Jail ministerSpeaking to TOI, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said new trellis in the jails are of poor quality, which inmates can cut without much difficulty. “Such incidents have been reported from Amritsar and Bathinda jails, too. PWD has made these jails and I want an audit of it. I have also written to CM Capt Amrinder Singh regarding this. Security audit of these jails is pending because of Covid-19 outbreak.”BOX – Recent jailbreaksMarch 28, 2020: Four jail inmates, Ravi Kumar of Samrala, Suraj Kumar of Sultanpur, Aman Kumar of Fatehgarh Sahib and Arshdeep Singh of Sangrur, had escaped by jumping off the walls using blankets as rope. Locks of their cell were also found open. Later, the police arrested them from different areasJune 27, 2019: Taking the cover of violence inside jail, when the police had to open fire at inmates, several inmates had managed to jump off the walls of jail. Except for one inmate Amandeep Singh of Gobindgarh area, all other inmates were nabbed from the spot itself. Amandeep was arrested later by the policeBOX- Security beefed upFollowing the violence in jail on November 26, 2019, 76 CRPF personnel were deployed at Ludhiana Central Jail to strengthen security||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jailbreak-attempted-in-central-prison/articleshow/76046965.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||Govindpura units urge BHEL to reschedule delivery dates||Bhopal:Limping on the road to recovery from Covid-induced shutdown, over 100 units of Govindpura Industrial area face a threat of penalty from Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) as they failed to deliver goods on time. Apprehending penalties on late delivery of components, the members of Govindpura industrial area (GIA) have urged the government of India undertaking to reschedule the delivery dates as there was no production for two months - from March 22 to May 18 - because of lockdown.After a lot of pondering, the district administration had finally issued orders to allow the GIA to operate on May 18. The ancillary units now want the BHEL to reschedule the delivery dates by 30 days. Over 150 ancillary units of GIA supply various components to the public sector giant involving large sum, but due to sudden lockdown on March 25, almost 1000 units at the GIA were closed.President of the GIA, Amarjeet Singh, has written to the executive director of the BHEL to “amend the purchase orders” in view of the shutdown of industries due to coronavirus-induced lockdown.“Many of your supplies, which were due till March 31, could not be dispatched. Many other supplies due in the month of April and May could also not be supplied. In many cases, the raw material was procured and processed by us”, stated the letter written to executive director.“We share a very strong bonding with BHEL being your local vendors and we request you at this time of crisis to amend the delivery schedules of such purchase orders by extending it to 30 days over the lockdown period from their respective deliveries, without imposing any late delivery charges on it,” the letter to ED stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govindpura-units-urge-bhel-to-reschedule-delivery-dates/articleshow/76049934.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Daati Maharaj held for violating lockdown rules||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested self-styled preacher Daati Maharaj for allegedly violating the lockdown norms. He later got bail. He was booked after a video, which went viral on social media, showed him and a group of followers performing a ceremony at the Shanidham temple in Fatehpur Beri on Friday, which was followed by a congregation, a violation of the lockdown norms. A prima facie probe revealed that the ceremony was organised as a private event by Daati Maharaj and police were not informed about it. An FIR was registered under the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act. Police are scanning the CCTV footage collected from the area to find out who attended the event and why no one raised an alarm regarding the violation of the social distancing norms. Cops are also trying to locate the person who clicked the photographs and the video. In the photos, Daati Maharaj was seen conducting a puja wearing a black cloak while his followers were standing behind close to each other. The district magistrate took suo motu cognisance of the video and asked the area DCP to register a case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daati-maharaj-held-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/76049942.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Junagadh couple hacked to death in honour killing||RAJKOT: In a case strongly suspected to be an honour killing, a young couple in their twenties was brutally hacked to death on Vanthli-Keshod highway in Junagadh district on Wednesday evening. Victims Sanjay Ramsinh Ram and Dhara, both residents of Darsali village of Mangrol taluka, had got married four months ago against the wishes of their families who were bitterly opposed to their relationship as they belonged to different castes. According to police sources, the girl’s father had committed suicide after their marriage. After marriage, the couple started living in Rajkot. On Tuesday, they had gone to Keshod town for renewal of Sanjay’s driving licence and had put up at a relative’s place. On Wednesday evening, the couple along with Sanjay’s sister was returning to Junagadh on his bike when the assailant came from behind on another motorcycle and attacked the man with an axe. As three of them fell down from the bike, the assailant first dealt the brutal blows of the axe on Sanjay. He then turned his fury at Dhara and the couple died on the spot due to heavy blood loss. However, Ram's sister was spared and she escaped only with minor bruises caused due to falling from the bike. However, before she could grasp at the enormity of the event unfolding, the attacker escaped on the bike. Police are now trying to get clues about the attacker from her. It is possible that there may have been one more person with the assailant. Talking to TOI, superintendent of police, Junagadh, Saurabh Singh said, “We strongly suspect it to be a case of honour killing as the couple had an intercaste marriage, which led to bitter animosity brewing among the woman’s family members. We suspect them of having executed this killing. We have some clues and are following them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/junagadh-couple-hacked-to-death-in-honour-killing/articleshow/76046807.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||Jharkhand CM reaches out to law alumni for efforts to fly migrants||MUMBAI: Wednesday was a busy day for a number of alumni volunteers of the National Law School, Bengaluru. They spent the day coordinating with various agencies to ensure a smooth transit for 180 migrant labourers who are being flown directly to Ranchi in Jharkhand. S Mukherjee, one of the volunteers, told TOI he received a call from Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren for flying workers to Ranchi. “The chief minister said he had wanted to do something similar and had written to the Centre to allow the state government to bring back its workers by flight but so far he has not received any response. The Ranchi collector, too, has been in touch with me and their transport secretary has been appointed as a nodal officer. The workers will be received at the airport by the labour minister,” said Mukherjee. A total of eighty law graduates across batches had raised money in half a day to charter a flight to send these migrant labourers home. They have chartered an Air Asia flight, which leaves early on Thursday morning. The whole idea and its execution is a joint effort, helped by Tata group, the airline and Priya Sharma, research scholar, social sciences, IIT-Bombay, said Shyel Trehan from the batch of 2000. The flight will be filled to capacity with 180 passengers on board. They have raised Rs 11 lakh via crowdfunding so far. Mukherjee said he has been coordinating with Mumbai police, CISF and NGOs to ensure a smooth passage. “Some of our members will be at the T2 terminal to receive the workers. They will be allowed inside the terminal from 2am. We shall provide them with juice and biscuits for their onward journey,” he said. While AirAsia did not comment on the flight, an airport official said that AirAsia flight 9183 with 180 passengers on board is scheduled to depart at 6am. The flight would reach Ranchi by 8.20am. Under the current guidelines, passengers undergo thermal scanning before they enter the airport and then again before boarding and only those with no temperature are allowed to fly. They have to download the Aarogya Setu app on phones, wear masks and gloves at all times and maintain social distancing while boarding and disembarking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jkhand-cm-reaches-out-to-law-alumni-for-efforts-to-fly-migrants/articleshow/76049952.cms||Clara Lewis
May 28, 2020||Allahabad||AIKMS seeks waiving of all loans||Prayagraj: Members of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS) organised a protest at Jasra block of the district on Wednesday and presented the memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister outlining issues and seeking solution from the government of India including waiving of all loans of peasants, particularly waiving of current KCC loan on Rabi crop and immediate release of Kharif loan. General secretary of the organisation, Raj Kumar Pathik informed that, “Government should declare the MSP (minimum support price) for all crops with government backed procurement particularly of milk, vegetables, fruits and eggs, reduction in input prices, particularly of diesel to Rs 22 per litre as has been done for Air Turbine Fuel (ATF)”. The memorandum to the PM also mentioned about waiving of domestic, tube well and commercial electricity bills for small shopkeepers and peasants for this entire period, registration of share croppers with grant of debt, welfare and relief packages to them, increase in PM Kisan fund to Rs 18,000 per year, etc. The protestors also demanded change in policy of 5 kg per unit food grain to card holders only and demanded 15 kg per unit per month per unit as per ICMR recommendations along with one kg of pulses, one kg oil and one kg sugar. This will mean a burden of 14 metric per month to the government while it has 77.5 mt in store as on March 1, 2020.The workers demanded work under MNREGA to all workers for six months and cancellation of bogus beneficiaries and timely payment. They raised the demand to start proper health facility and dispensaries in every village and ensuring that doctors wear safety kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/aikms-seeks-waiving-of-all-loans/articleshow/76048786.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||AWBI asks state authorities to feed strays||Nagpur: The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) has directed the local authorities to make provisions for food and water for stray animals during the lockdown. In a recent letter to state commissioner of animal husbandry department, commissioner of police, Nagpur and district collector, the board stated, “The authorities are requested to implement the provisions of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act , 1960, and directions of Supreme court to prevent unnecessary pain or suffering to animals.” The board issued the letter following an appeal filed by animal activist and animal welfare office member of Nagpur Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals (SPCA) Karishma Galani. She, along with other animal activists of the city, has been feeding stray animals every day since the lockdown began. With the lockdown getting extended, activists cited limitations due to shortage of ration. “We are expecting some sort of deviation and it will be very difficult for us to shoulder the responsibility. We therefore expect at least 50% of the share to come from the government in this crisis,” Galani wrote to AWBI. Galani further requested the board to arrange for 600 kgs of wheat flour daily. “If stray dogs start dying of starvation, the possibility of an epidemic like plague cannot be avoided,” wrote Galani, stressing that the requirements can be fulfilled by the officials of animal husbandry department. Sources told TOI a meeting was held recently between the district collector and officials of animal husbandry department and a plan will soon be formulated to ensure regular feeding of strays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/awbi-asks-state-authorities-to-feed-strays/articleshow/76049951.cms||Manka Behl
May 28, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Around 150 suffer food poisoning in two firms||VADODARA: At least 150 workers of two firms located on the outskirts of the city suffered food poisoning in 24 hours ending Wednesday evening. About 120 workers of Shankar Packagings Limited, a firm based in Waghodiya GIDC, were taken to Parul Sevashram Hospital on Tuesday afternoon with complaint of food poisoning. Hospital sources said majority of them were discharged on Tuesday itself after medication. Nearly 35 others remained hospitalized on Wednesday of whom four were being treated in intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital where their condition is said to be stable. The workers had started complaining of uneasiness after they had lunch at the canteen of the firm. Vadodara’s chief district health officer Dr Uday Tilawat said condition of all those admitted at Parul Sevashram Hospital is stable. In another incident, about 45 employees of coach manufacturing firm Bombardier, which has its manufacturing unit at Manjusar GIDC in Savli, also complained of uneasiness and vomiting on Tuesday night. “According to information, the employees started complaining of uneasiness after having their dinner at the firm’s canteen facility,” said Tilawat, adding that only seven of them required hospitalization while others were provided treatment at nearby health centre by the firm. “Of the seven, five have been discharged while condition of two others is also stable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/around-150-suffer-food-poisoning-in-two-firms/articleshow/76044659.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Body found in plywood factory: Cops collect statements from migrants||Kochi: Ernakulam rural police who launched an investigation after the discovery of a fully decomposed body on the premises of a plywood factory in Kunnathunadu, have begun collecting statements from migrant labourers at the factory. “We have received vital clues about the death which cannot be divulged now as it may hamper the investigation. The deceased is a male (within the age bracket of 25-50 years) and his death seems to have occurred four to eight weeks ago. The forensic team is yet to ascertain the cause of death. On paper, it is still an unnatural death case and we would update the FIR as soon as we get evidence to corroborate our suspicion that it is a murder,” said a senior officer with rural police. Police said they collected statements from guest labourers and others in the area. “There are over 80 migrant labourers associated with the factory. It could have been a murder which happened inside the factory or it could have happened during a clash between somebody inside the factory and an outsider. Someone could also have broken into the factory and dumped the body on its premises. Investigations are progressing and all angles are being considered,” said the police officer. The decomposed body was found on the premises of the plywood factory in Pattimattom, Kunnathunadu near Perumbavoor on Saturday. The body was found in an ash pit close to a chimney and was decomposed beyond recognition. A group of migrant labourers saw a hand sticking out of the pit when they were cleaning the factory premises. The body was decomposed so badly that the police couldn’t even identify the gender of the deceased during inquest proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/body-found-in-plywood-factory-cops-collect-statements-from-migrants/articleshow/76047025.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Agra||Agra admin plans odd-even formula for opening shops||Agra: The district administration is working on an odd-even formula for opening of shops in the city, after lockdown is lifted on May 31. Shops will be allowed to operate from 10am to 5am from June 1 onwards, with those on one side of the road allowed to operate on even days, and shops on the other side allowed to operate on odd days. Except for essential services, no movement will be allowed on roads between 7pm and 7am. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We’re planning to allow opening of markets from June 1. Shops and public transport will be allowed to operate. Markets will open on Sundays, as offices remain closed. On Monday, all businesses will remain closed. Shops on only one side of the road will be allowed to operate on any day. For proper implementation of the plan, five-member committees that include businessmen, police, administration and GST officials, will be constituted at the police station level.” District administration plans to open all city parks too. Children below 10 years of age, elderly (60+), pregnant women and those with pre-existing illness will be prohibited from stepping outside home, except for medical reasons. All shops and offices have to be sanitised every day. Those found not wearing face masks will be penalised. Schools and colleges, coaching centres, archaeological sites, religious places, hotels, guesthouses, bars, cinema halls and multiplexes, gymnasiums and fitness centres, swimming pools, etc, will remain closed. Restaurants and sweet shops will be allowed to operate as takeaways. Customers will not be allowed to sit in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-admin-plans-odd-even-formula-for-opening-shops/articleshow/76045171.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Frame own plans for reopening: Manish Sisodia to school principals||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has asked the principals of its schools to prepare their own plans for opening the institutions after the pandemic. At a meeting with 1,000 principals, held through videoconferencing, education minister Manish Sisodia said there couldn’t be one common plan for all schools. The meeting agenda was two-fold — how schools should stay connected with students and their parents during the lockdown and the plan of reopening. The schools have been closed since March end. Sisodia told the principals to reach out to all children on phone to find out if they were still in Delhi, and to check if they could make use of online classes and links and take their feedback. “School is an important part of the society, and every school has different issues and aspects to work upon. Hence, I appeal to you to lead an in-depth brainstorming at the school level involving all key stakeholders and come up with a micro plan on how to lead the transition when the time comes,” the deputy chief minister said, calling the meeting “historic”. “We cannot have a common plan to reopen all schools this year as the context of every school is different,” he pointed out. The schools have also been told to focus on health, safety, trust and emotional well-being without extra financial resources from the government. As a guideline, a “Preparatory Planning Framework for Heads of Schools” was issued by the directorate of education on Tuesday. The principals will first meet in a cluster of about 10 between May 28 and 30 to discuss the key issues for their schools. Following this, the principals will work along with teachers, guardians and school management committee of their respective schools. The principals will submit their plans to the district deputy education (DDE) of the respective zone, who will send it to the DDE-district. Each of the 13 DDE-districts will present a district-wise plan before Sisodia after June 5. The framework emphasises on figuring out how schools will provide socio-emotional support to the students and ensure that they don’t drop out. The schools will also decide which classes to be called daily and look for ways to balance online and direct teaching-learning. Atul Kumar, principal of Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Kakrola, said children of smaller classes should come regularly as they might be alone at home in case both parents were working. Ritu Singhal, principal of SKV Laxmi Nagar, also felt that students of primary classes required reinforcement at least once a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/frame-own-plans-for-reopening-sisodia-to-school-principals/articleshow/76049955.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Agra||Rainfall brings respite from scorching heat in Agra||Agra/Bareilly/Meerut: Light rainfall in Agra on Wednesday afternoon brought relief to citizens from the scorching heat since the last five days. The maximum temperature was recorded at 44.6 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 29 degrees Celsius. With humidity levels exceeding up to 40%, heatwave flowed at an increased speed of 10 kilometer per hour. According to the metrological department, for the next three days, Agra region is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rains or thundershowers. However, the maximum temperature will remain above 40 degrees Celsius. On the other hand, it was a hot day in Bareilly on Wednesday as the temperature slightly rose to 42.5 degrees Celsius compared to the previous day’s 42.4 degrees Celsius, making the heat effect more intense. As per the information from Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature was recorded at 42.5 degrees Celsius – three degrees above normal – while minimum temperature was recorded at 25.8 degrees Celsius. The maximum humidity level was recorded at 76% and minimum humidity was recorded at 31% for the day. As per the predictions of IMD, there will be some respite from the scorching heat for the next couple of days as partly-cloudy sky with possibility of rain or thundershowers is in forecast from May 28 to 31. The maximum and minimum temperatures will hover around 38 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees Celsius, respectively. City roads wore a deserted look during the afternoon as locals preferred staying indoors despite relaxation in lockdown, due to harsh weather conditions. “The sun is blazing these days and it is impossible to carry out normal day to day activities even indoors. Additionally, frequent interruption in power supply has added to our woes,” said Shubham Sharma, a resident of Shyamganj. In Meerut, the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded on Wednesday were 42 degrees Celsius and 24.8 degrees Celsius respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 37% and 23% respectively, according to Brij Mohan, officer-in-charge, Met department. While the maximum temperature was 2 degrees above the normal temperature, the minimum temperature was 1 degree below the normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rainfall-brings-respite-from-scorching-heat-in-agra/articleshow/76045224.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Reopen courts from June 1: Bar council||NEW DELHI: The Bar Council of India has requested the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde to reopen all courts from June 1, arguing that only 10% of the most urgent cases qualify for a hearing at present in videoconferencing. In a letter addressed to the head of judiciary, the bar body has urged the CJI to frame a suitable scheme containing guidelines to be followed by lawyers to begin open court, physical hearings from next month. “We all know, that almost 80% of the total pendency of court cases in our country are trial matters. Appeals, revisions, writ Petitions etc. make up the rest 20%. Thus, only 10% matters that are most urgent and urgent qualify for hearing these days though videoconferencing or virtual court,” BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra has said in his letter. BCI has also questioned the step taken by many courts across the country to take up cases if both parties to the dispute agree. Manan pointed out that “in an adversarial litigation, where one of the parties is generally interested in delaying the matter, we can’t expect that both the parties will reach a mutual understanding to approach the court to fix a virtual court hearing.” Claiming that its letter is a result of extensive consultations with state bar councils and several bar associations, the BCI has said when “about 95% matters are languishing in courts without any hearing; it further means that almost 95% advocates are without any court work and court appearances these days. It naturally indicates that almost as many judges as well have no court work these days and their valuable time is left underutilised now a days as they are not able to attend to judicial work. Even reserved orders or judgments are being made scarcely.” The letter argues that virtual court cannot displace and replace traditional courts even partly due to lack of knowledge and training in technology, lack of technological infrastructure and also due to law and procedures of dispensation of justice in trial matters, which, “occupies a space of 80% in the litigation spectrum in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reopen-courts-from-june-1-bar-council/articleshow/76049953.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 28, 2020||Allahabad||Searing heat keeps city indoors, temp dips by just 1 notch||PRAYAGRAJ: There was no respite from scorching heat for denizens as Sangam city continued to sear on Wednesday with the mercury dropping by just one degree from 47.6 degree Celsius on Tuesday, which was the hottest day of the season. By the evening, the city did witness some cloud covers but it failed to bring down the mercury much. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature of the city came down by one degree to 46.6 degree Celsius, as compared to Tuesday, while the minimum was also 30.6 degrees. The heat wave and extreme weather made people confine themselves at their homes and the streets of the city were deserted all through the afternoon. Though shops in the city are open only till 6pm as per Lockdown 4.0 restrictions, the searing heat made it extremely difficult for people to venture out for shopping, thereby resulting in less sales. Weather experts warned that there would be no respite from the prevailing heat conditions for the next three to four days after which northern plains will witness dust storm and sporadic rain. Doctors have advised people to take all due precautionary measures so that they should not suffer heat stroke. They advised people to be extra careful and take special care of kids and elderlies. “Make sure children drink plenty of fluids with a pinch of salt and sugar and add few drops of lemon juice,” said Dr Jaiwardhan Rai, a physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/searing-heat-keeps-city-indoors-temp-dips-by-just-1-notch/articleshow/76048720.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||Max temperature refuses to fall below 45 degrees Celcius||Kanpur: For the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday, Kanpur witnessed a whopping 45 degree Celsius, which is 4.5 degrees more than the normal value. According to the Met department of CSA University, it was in the last week of May in 1988 that the day temperature had either touched 45 degrees or stood above it for four consecutive days. The same phenomenon was witnessed this time, said Prof Naushad Khan, agrometerologist at CSA university, while speaking to TOI. Prof Khna also mentioned that on May 27 (same date as in 2020) in 1988, the day temperature had peaked to 47 degree Celsius and the minimum temperature had touched a record high of 35 degree Celcius. On the same date this year, mercury drastically shot up during the day as well as night hours, he added. Prof Khan informed that Tuesday marked the hottest day as well as the hottest night of the season as the maximum temperature was recorded as 45.4 degree Celcius and the minimum temperature touched a new high of 30.6 degree Celcius. Rain and duststorm are expected between May 29 and June 1, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/max-temperature-refuses-to-fall-below-45-degrees-celcius/articleshow/76050099.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Agra||Cops chase & thrash trader for violating lockdown, suspended||Agra: Agra SSP Babloo Kumar has suspended two policemen on Wednesday after a video clip of them surfaced purportedly chasing and assaulting a local trader on a two-wheeler with sticks for not stopping and taking a "deliberate U-turn" after spotting them. The incident took place at 'C' Block of Kamla Nagar under New Agra police limits when the 55-year-old trader Rakesh Gupta, who runs a transport business, tried to "flee" after finding police personnel who were on Covid-19 lockdown duty. In the video, the two constables on their motorcycle could be seen chasing Gupta to his house and then beating him with sticks. The trader was also apparently not wearing a face mask and helmet. The suspended cops were identified as constable Rakesh Sharma and Dinesh of Cheetah mobile force. Their task was to keep a watch on the movement of locals at Shreeram intersection. Agra SSP Kumar said, “This kind of behaviour is unacceptable. Both the cops have been suspended.” Speaking to TOI, Dr Sanjay Gupta, the victim's younger cousin said, “Rakesh Gupta had gone to a nearby grocery to buy bread for breakfast. He had just travelled 50m on his two-wheeler, when he saw the cops at a checkpoint. He made a U-turn after seeing the policemen. This provoked them and they chased him down home.” SHO of New Agra Umesh Chandra Tripathi told TOI, “Rakesh Gupta’s house is not 50m, but farther away from Shreeram Chouraha where policemen were on duty. After seeing the policemen, he tried to flee like a thief and took a U-turn. So, the cops had to go after him. The constable even requested Gupta to stop, but he didnt.” Agra SP city Rohan Botre said, “After a detailed investigation, I’ll submit a report to Agra SSP for any further action.” Meanwhile, following the incident, local traders' association demanded immediate medical aid to Gupta and FIR against the two policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-chase-thrash-trader-for-violating-lockdown-suspended/articleshow/76045208.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||No new case, health teams inspect containment zones||Kanpur: District health department on Wednesday heaved a sigh of relief as no person was tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. The total number of active corona cases stands at 25. Till Wednesday, the city had witnessed 337 corona positive cases of which 301 persons have been discharged and sent home after they recovered and their reports came out to be negative. District health authorities informed that while 11 persons have succumbed to coronavirus, there are at present only 25 active cases. Also, one person who was under treatment and had recovered was discharged on Wednesday. The authorities also informed that 41 teams of health department visited containments areas — Shanti Nagar, Govind Nagar, Gora Qabristan, Bheetargaon, Parauli — and went to 2,506 homes where they apprised people about coronavirus and precautions to be taken. A total of 308 swab samples were collected on Wednesday which have been sent for lab tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-new-case-health-teams-inspect-containment-zones/articleshow/76050116.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Corp fails on providing e-governance||Kochi: Even while the state government is planning to empower all local bodies in Kerala with more and more online services from July 1, Kochi corporation is unable to provide any online services. The tussle between the civic body and TCS, the agency which has been instructed with implementation of the corporation’s e-governance project, has resulted in stalling even a few online services available with the local body for the past couple of months. Government has started measures for implementing Integrated Local Governance Management System, which is a comprehensive software system for providing e-governance services, in all local bodies from July 1. Government started the move in the wake of restrictions as part of Covid- control measures. But, corporation authorities haven’t started any steps to facilitate the services. “We haven’t got any information regarding starting new services,” an official with the corporation said. Meanwhile, corporation authorities are unable sort out the issues with TCS. The authorities couldn’t get the secure socket layer (SSL), a security technology which expired in March, thereby posing threat of the local body’s data being hacked. Though the renewal of SSL is a simple process which requires less than an hour, the corporation is unable to do it even after a month. If the public access the website, they will have to tread an unsafe mode. “The lackadaisical attitude of the corporation authorities has led to the situation,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, corporation. “The civic body authorities failed to get e-governance project implemented even after more than a decade. Kochi corporation will be the only local body in the state where new online services planned by the state government will not be available,” Chandran sad. According to corporation authorities, it is the lockdown that came in the way of renewing SSL. “We have placed the file for getting corporation council’s permission for renewal of SSL. In February, finance standing committee had cleared the file. Immediately after placing the file for the consideration of the council, lockdown was announced. Though a meeting of the council was held after that, only issues of utmost importance were considered,” an official with corporation said “The council meeting to be held soon is expected to give nod for the renewal,” the official said. Even after almost one-and-a-half decades since starting the work on e-governance project, corporation is yet to get it completed. In 2011, corporation entrusted TCS with the implementation project of the local body. As per the agreement, the project should have completed within 52 weeks. Despite giving extensions several times, TCS haven’t handed over all the modules to Corporation. While TCS claims that they have completed all the 22 modules, only four modules such as birth, death, marriage and town hall booking are the modules which are operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-fails-on-providing-e-governance/articleshow/76047094.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Painter electrocuted by HT line in Hudkeshwar||Nagpur: A painter was electrocuted by an 11 KV high tension (HT) line in Pipla Fata under Hudkeshwar police station on Wednesday morning. The police have registered a case of accidental death. The deceased, Shailesh Bhandarkar (42), was painting the first floor of Ganesh Raut’s two-storeyed house when he lost his balance. Bhandarkar grabbed the HT line to prevent himself from falling down. The line was live and he died instantly. MSEDCL’s assistant engineer Rajesh Akare, in-charge of Hudkeshwar area, said the 11 KV line had been erected years ago but Raut’s house had been constructed recently. “It is against the rules but unfortunately many people do this. We will submit a report to the electrical inspector, who will decide whether to take any action against the house owner,” the AE told TOI. HT lines continue to claim lives of poor workmen every year. Last year a construction worker had died when he came in contact with a HT line in Wathoda while an electrician’s right leg was badly burnt due to same reason in Gorewada. In May and June 2017, eleven-year old twins Piyush and Priyansh Dhar had lost their lives when they came in contact with a HT line in Armors Township, Sugat Nagar. Taking suo motu cognizance of TOI reports, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had constituted an expert committee to study the problem of HT lines in the city. The committee has identified about 6,000 illegal constructions. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has served notice to many owners and razed some illegal constructions too including Armors Township. A committee member said that it would take another two to three months to complete the report and submit it to HC. “Our work is held up due to the lockdown. It will resume as soon as the lockdown is lifted,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/painter-electrocuted-by-ht-line-in-hudkeshwar/articleshow/76049975.cms||Ashish Roy
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Khalsa Aid donates robotic food trolley for quarantine centres||Ludhiana: Seeking to help health officials and those undergoing quarantine at isolation centre in Ludhiana’s civil hospital, Khalsa Aid has donated a Robotic Food Distribution trolley to the district administration. The trolley is being used for contact-less food delivered to those admitted in the isolation centre there. Civil hospital officials said that a single person could operate the food trolley through remote. Additional deputy commissioner (development) Amrit Singh said they (Khalsa Aid) were in touch with them and they donated the remote controlled operated food distribution trolley. She added that the same was donated on Tuesday and it was put to use at the isolation centre of the hospital the same day. “It will be of great help in serving food in the isolation centres. As there is one such trolley, it can be used at one place and that is the civil hospital itself,” said Amrit Singh. Amarpreet Singh, director, Asia Pacific, Khalsa Aid, said, “We always go by the teachings of our Gurus and believe in ‘manas ki jaat sabhe ekai pehchano (That the human race is one) and thus serving the community in these trying times comes first.” Khalsa Aid said they had donated one such trolley in Ludhiana and two others in Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. Meanwhile, civil hospital authorities said such a machine would be handy in serving the patients at the isolation centre. Senior medical officer (SMO) at the Civil Hospital, Dr Geeta Kataria, said the trolley would be handy in the sense that it would decrease the risk for health workers. She added that it would also ensure that proper distancing was maintained with the patients during food distribution. “As it is a remote guided machine, the trolley can be stopped in front of patient and then he/she can take food from it. So, the staff need not go to patients and can operate machine from a distance,” she added. Meanwhile, social activists have appreciated Khalsa Aid for the act. “Khalsa Aid has been doing such work for humanity. Hope that the machine serves its purpose and decrease the risk to the health workers serving Covid patients. Also the (patients) don’t have to go to collect food and the same will be served near their beds,” said Narinder Singh, a social activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/khalsa-aid-donates-robotic-food-trolley-for-quarantine-centres/articleshow/76048704.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 28, 2020||Agra||Traffic head constable 'kills self' on railway track in Agra||Agra: A 48-year-old traffic head constable allegedly committed suicide in Agra, after lying down on the railway track in front of a speeding Shramik Special train. The "depressed" cop was identified as Ashok Kumar. He joined traffic police in 1997. He is survived by wife and three children. His two sons are also constables in UP police. Kumar was posted for interceptor's duty, but was recently given traffic management duty of Bijli Ghar area under Rakabganj police limit. On Tuesday, he had joined the duty after a two-day leave. His body was found 2 km away from Agra Fort railway station at 7:30 am on Wednesday. After the incident, Agra SSP Babloo Kumar and other policemen reached the spot. The body was sent for postmortem. SHO of Rakabganj Vikas Tomar said, “The exact reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained, but his colleague posted at Bijli Ghar traffic duty said that after returning from leave, Ashok Kumar looked depressed. He was said to be always in a jovial mood earlier. Since his family is in a state of trauma, we will speak to them later.” The SHO added, “During investigation, we learnt that the Shramik Special train (Durg- Gorakhpur) loco-pilot Rajpal Singh had for a moment seen Kumar lying on railway track as the speeding train approached him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/traffic-head-constable-kills-self-on-railway-track-in-agra/articleshow/76045240.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Migrant exodus: SC seeks answer on border chaos||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police to explain the chaos at Anand Vihar bus terminal on the Delhi-UP border two months ago when thousands of migrant workers rushed there to leave for their hometowns despite the lockdown. When a bench headed by CJI S A Bobde took up a PIL filed by Supriya Pandita alleging laxity on part of Delhi Police and abetment by Delhi government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the Centre would file its response in a week. The bench asked Delhi government, Delhi Transport Corporation and police also to file responses in a week. Pandita alleged that the Centre had asked people to follow one-metre social distancing from March 16. She said on March 22, Delhi’s borders with UP and Haryana were sealed and inter-state bus transport suspended. On March 23, a complete nationwide lockdown was announced. “Despite this, on March 28, thousands of migrants from Bihar and UP, who were working in Delhi, assembled at Anand Vihar to board buses for their hometowns. These people were not stopped by police despite the lockdown. Moreover, Delhi government arranged DTC buses to drop these migrants to Anand Vihar depot despite knowing that the border was sealed,” she alleged. By such action and lapses, both police and Delhi government put lives of these workers and their family at risk, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/migrant-exodus-sc-seeks-answer-on-border-chaos/articleshow/76049982.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Lodhi club ‘party’ controversy: Gen secy prepares report||Ludhiana: In a latest development in the case of a ‘birthday party’ allegedly held at city’s elite Lodhi Club, general secretary Nitin Mahajan has prepared a detailed report about the incident after watching the CCTV footage of Sunday when this incident reportedly happened. Mahajan has also taken statements of the office-bearers and staff members present on the club premises at the time of the incident and will submit this to deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal, who is president of the club. In his investigation after watching the CCTV footage and taking statements, Mahajan could not find any clear evidence of a party being held by the office-bearers, but it has been established that an unknown person did arrive in the club with a bag, content of which are not visible in the footage. Meanwhile, Mahajan has pulled up the office-bearers for organising the meeting in the club in his absence as it’s against the protocol to organise meeting without informing the general secretary. In another development, the security guard, who is eye witness to the chain of events, was still not traceable even on the third day after he went missing on Sunday when this alleged party was organised. Speaking to TOI, Mahajan said, “I have conducted the inquiry into the allegations against our office-bearers for organising the ‘birthday party’ of one of them. So far, I have taken statements of all members of the executive committee who were present on the club premises on Sunday when the ‘birthday celebrations’ of one of them had been said to have taken place. But all of them are maintaining one stand that they had gathered there for a meeting related to developmental works. I asked them how can they organise an official meeting without the general secretary as its against the rules. I was told by one of the office bearer that as he was a government employee posted in Ferozepur, he was only available in Ludhiana on weekends and that was why the meeting was organised on a very short notice that too to take the opinion of the rest of the executive committee members on the projects which were under him.” Mahajan added that, “As far as the allegations of holding birthday celebrations and consuming alcohol inside the club premises is concerned , I have checked the CCTV footage in which it is clear that an unidentified person is entering the club with a bag which is being carried inside the family hall and we could not ascertain about the contents of the bag as we don’t have cameras installed inside the family hall. Moreover, staff of club, which was present at the time of this incident, have given a written statement that the office-bearers only had food, which was brought from outside and no drinks or anything else was consumed by them. As far as the security personnel, who is missing, is concerned the office-bearers have told me that they had an argument with him as he was filming them having their meal, to which they objected and after this he left the scene. We are trying to locate him and I have asked the security supervisor to ensure he gives his statement about the entire incident to me after which everything will be more clear.” Meanwhile, TOI has learnt that during the examination of the CCTV footage club staffers were seen carrying out cases of beers from the club and during the questioning by the general secretary the office-bearers in whose car these cases were allegedly being kept had stated that the cases were of expired beer which he had taken out from club to dispose of. As he felt that keeping this in the club, there was risk of some staffers of consuming the expired beer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lodhi-club-party-controversy-gen-secy-prepares-report/articleshow/76048730.cms||Mohit Behl
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Dist reports 2 quarantine violations on a daily basis||Kochi: Every day in Ernakulam district, one-two people violate home-quarantine protocols, according to mental health programme’s wing extending psycho-social support. They noticed it during random sample collections that have been carried out daily on 50 people undergoing quarantine at their houses in the district. “We take only 50 samples per day. Earlier, we used to find around four to five people violating protocols while undergoing home quarantine every day. Now it has come down to one or two,” said district mental health programme coordinator Soumya Raj. Though the violations have come down drastically, people admit to counsellors of the wing that they use common toilets, which is not allowed according to home-quarantine norms. Some people even told the counsellors that since they are taking immunity-boosting medicines, they are not going to get infected with Covid-19. “Some people due to ignorance say they take preventive medicines (actually immunity boosters being offered by other branches of medicine) and are not going to get infected with Covid-19. This misunderstanding prompts some to violate the quarantine protocols,” said the district mental health programme coordinator. Noticing that people have been violating home quarantine, district health authorities have informed rapid response teams, constituted in each ward under ward members, to be more vigilant and report violations immediately to police stations in respective areas. “An app was launched by city police for keeping a watch on people under home quarantine. Besides the information gathered from the app, we also get tip-off on people violating norms. We have asked rapid response teams to be more vigilant in this regard,” said Dr Mathew Numpeli, NHM district coordinator. Counsellors also noticed that some people who have been undergoing institutional quarantine at Covid-care centres due to lack of facilities or other issues at their homes face a lot of mental stress. Number of people undergoing home quarantine has increased to 6,750 in Ernakulam on May 24 from 341 on April 26. Meanwhile, health authorities have included female sex workers, headload workers, warehouse workers, vehicle transit workers and street vendors, who come in contact with more people, in the sentinel surveillance list in Ernakulam. Their swab samples will be collected for pool testing to identify community spread of Covid-19. The list is revised every fortnight in the district depending on the rise in positive cases. Samples of those being brought to jails will also be collected for pool testing despite them being asymptomatic. Authorities are also planning to start collecting samples of tribespeople at Kuttambuzha panchayat with the support of the leaders in their settlements. The health teams have already started collecting samples of autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dist-reports-2-quarantine-violations-on-a-daily-basis/articleshow/76047165.cms||T C Sreemol
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab looks to fill minimum posts for smooth run||CHANDIGARH: Not in financial position to immediately fill all the posts lying vacant in different departments, Punjab government is looking to fill bare minimum posts necessary for smooth functioning. The outbreak of Covid-19, which has left the finances of the already cash-strapped Punjab government in a precarious position, has dealt a major blow to the plans of government to fill vacant posts in various departments. In the last few years, Punjab has been struggling with finances, as liabilities — salaries, pension, subsidies and interest on loans — exceed the revenue. Punjab is expected to face around Rs 83,000 crore loss this financial year because of the Covid-19 lockdown, making things more difficult for the government. Around one lakh posts are lying vacant in different departments for the past many years. Nearly 7,000 employees retired in the last two months alone, after the government abolished the provision of two-year extension after retirement age of 58 — a step aimed at generating job opportunities for the youth. To curb expenditure and make optimum use of the existing staff, there is also a plan of staff rationalisation, on the lines of the Centre and several state governments. Criticising the government for not filling the posts in last three years, Gurmail Singh Sidhu, convenor of Sanjha Mulazim Manch, Punjab said the government would use the current situation as an excuse for not filling the vacant posts. “They will do nothing except for advertising the posts, that too at the fag-end of the tenure,” said Sidhu. About 20,000 posts are lying vacant in the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) and nearly 15,000 in the education department. Besides, around 13,000 posts are lying vacant in the local government at different levels, 11,000 in the office of state project director-cum-DGSE and 8,000 in the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-looks-to-fill-minimum-posts-for-smooth-run/articleshow/76049979.cms||Vinod Kumar
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||ICMR survey ends, 5 more clusters sampled to check community spread||Ludhiana: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has taken 200 samples from five areas on Wednesday too for sero-survey. A 14-member ICMR team started collecting blood samples under the community transmission surveillance programme and conducted their rapid antibody tests to find if Covid-19 has reached the community transmission stage. On Wednesday, they visited Bajra and Khaira villages, Ward no 20 of Giaspura and two others. On Tuesday, the five clusters sampled included Baddowal, Sham Nagar, Majri, Jagraon, Doraha, Ghungrali, and Khanna villages. Nodal officer for ICMR survey in state, Vishal Chopra from department of pulmonary medicine at Government Medical College, Patiala, who lead the survey, said, “We have completed our survey on Wednesday and collected 400 samples from 10 clusters. We started the survey from Tuesday morning with the help of local authorities, accordingly taken 40 samples in each cluster.” “We did with the help of Asha workers, ANMs, medical officers and nodal officers appointed by the civil surgeon,” added Chopra. A medical officer who accompanied ICMR team said, “We have taken blood samples of the people. Serum is now be separated after centrifugation in a local health facility and transported to the laboratories in designated ICMR institutes.” Till date, Ludhiana district has reported 181 positive cases, including seven deaths. Ludhiana district has been chosen, as most of the cases reported had no known source of infection. Ludhiana is one of the four districts under this programme. The others are besides Patiala, Jalandhar and Gurdaspur. Parts of Pathankot has been also surveyed as it has maximum number of Covid-19 cases. Why the survey Punjab health department will now send 400 samples from each district to the Chennai-based National Institute for Research to monitor the trends of the Covid-19 in community transmission. The blood samples will be tested through rapid antibody test kits and ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test kits, developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. This survey is just to understand how the transmission of infection has been so far and how it is taking place in the later stages. This will also reveal if a person, whose sample is being tested, was ever infected by Covid-19 or not. Even if the person is found negative, the study can show if he or she was infected with the disease in the last 20 days or not. The information from the survey will also guide the policymakers in making decisions related to lockdown options at a district level. The objectives of sero surveillance are to estimate and monitor the trend of seroprevalence for SARS-CoV-2 infection in the general population and high-burden cities, determine the socio-demographic risk factors for SARS-CoV-2 infection and delineate the geographical spread of the infection in the general population and hotspot cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/icmr-survey-ends-5-more-clusters-sampled-to-check-community-spread/articleshow/76048760.cms||Mehak Jain
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||2 groups clash over property in Kannauj, set house on afire||Kanpur:A clash broke out between two groups over land dispute triggering tension in Chapunna village in Saurikh police area of Kannauj on Tuesday night. Several persons from both the were injured, reports said. Trouble broke out in the late night hours of Tuesday when members of the two groups converged in the middle of the village, both staking claim over the property. What started as a verbal duel soon turned into a major confrontation with the members of both the groups armed with sticks attack each other. A house was also set afire. On being informed, police rushed to the spot and mounted a vigil in the village. Police said, a case has been filed in this connection. “The clash occurred over a piece of land. On the complaint of village head Indrapal Singh, a case has been lodged against 15 identified and 30 unidentified persons, while on the complaint of Ajit of rival group, an FIR has been lodged against four identified and 20 unidentified persons. Raids are underway to arrest all the accused ,” said SHO Raj Kumar. He added that an investigation was launched. Additional policemen have been deployed in the area to maintain law and order. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-groups-clash-over-property-in-kannauj-set-house-on-afire/articleshow/76050126.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Agra||West UP breathes easy as locusts’ swarm turns towards MP after reaching near Agra||Agra: A massive swarm of locusts camping on UP border near Agra turned towards Madhya Pradesh in tune with the wind flow on Wednesday morning, giving relief to thousands of worried vegetable farmers of west UP. While agriculture department officials said that another swarm of locusts was spotted on Jaipur-Dausa route, which is also likely to reach MP in next few days. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The swarm of locusts, which was likely to enter in Agra district on Wednesday, went to MP. But the danger of locust invasion is not over yet. We are spreading awareness among farmers to save their produce from locusts. Agriculture department officials are closely monitoring the movement of swarms.” “Around 250 tractors mounted with chemical spraying machines are on standby in the rural areas nearby the Rajasthan border,” he added. The 17 UP districts which were likely to be affected by the swarm are Agra, Aligarh, Mathura, Bulandshahr, Hathras, Etah, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Auraiya, Jalaun, Kanpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur and Lalitpur. When contacted, district agriculture officer Ram Pravesh said, “In search of food, lakhs of locusts from Pakistan entered Rajasthan earlier this month. A new swarm of locusts has been spotted in the neighbouring Dausa district in Rajasthan. Most probably, it will also enter MP. Vegetables are grown in 30,000 hectares of land in Agra alone. We are telling farmers about a suitable proportion of chemicals to be used for killing the locusts.” “A swarm can travel as much as 150km per day if the wind is in favour. We have also arranged tractor-mounted chemical sprayers to destroy the pests,” he said. According to the agriculture department officials, locusts can easily strip an area of its vegetation, including the standing crops. According to the advisory issued by the agriculture department, farmers can bang plates, tin or drums to scare away the locusts. They can also light fire to create smoke to prevent the produce from being consumed by the pests. While in Bijnor, a big producer of sugarcane, chief development officer KP Singh has launched awareness drives among farmer groups to inform them about the pests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/west-up-breathes-easy-as-locusts-swarm-turns-towards-mp-after-reaching-near-agra/articleshow/76045293.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||CISF personnel battered to death, looted in Panki area; two arrested||KANPUR: A 40-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel was battered to death after being allegedly robbed off his SUV in Panki area of the district on Tuesday evening. The two accused were arrested in the loot and murder case on Wednesday. As per reports, CISF sub-inspector Ramveer Singh posted at an under-construction Panki power plant had a dispute with the two accused on Tuesday evening. Thereafter, the duo, in an inebriated state, took away Singh’s SUV and battered him to death. They later dumped his body in Panki canal in Mirzapur and escaped. The accused have been identified as Mohan Verma of Ratanpur colony and Saurabh Singh Kushwaha of Shiv nagar colony of Kanpur. Subsequently, after the recovery of Singh’s body, an investigation was launched. The police team received a tip-off that the duo were in Shivrajpur and were trying to escape a neighbouring district. The police chased and managed to nab the Mohan and Saurabh on Tuesday night. “During the recovery of murder weapon around 5 am on Wednesday, one of the accused tried to snatch a gun from a sub-inspector leading to a fire shot. The bullet, however, missed the target and the police team fired in retaliation. Both the accused sustained bullet injuries in their legs, while the police team escaped unhurt,” said SP (west) Dr Anil Kumar. Mohan and Saurabh were admitted to a community health centre in Bara Sirohi area amid tight police presence. A looted Scorpio and the SI’s firearm were recovered from their possession. “An FIR against the accused has been lodged at Panki police station under relevant sections of IPC and further investigations are underway in this regard,”said SP Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cisf-personnel-battered-to-death-looted-in-panki-area-two-arrested/articleshow/76050142.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||‘Hello collector... two persons from outside just came to our village...’||Nagpur: Gadchiroli collector Dipak Singla seems accustomed to receiving calls from various unknown numbers from callers in different corners of this Maoist-affected district who share information on strangers spotted in their hamlets. A high Covid-19 related awareness level among the tribals of Gadchiroli has even left the district administration amazed. The villagers have adopted different practices, including blocking entrances of villages, making it possible for the administration to keep Gadchiroli in green zone for almost two months before positive cases started emerging with entry of outsiders. At present, Gadchiroli is having 26 positive cases who are lodged at different quarantine centres after returning from Mumbai, Thane, Pune and even Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Singla said he was surprised by the awareness level of the tribal population and their dedication to follow the norms which might not be the case in many urban centres. “I had 15 missed calls from an unknown number while busy in a crucial work. It was intriguing to receive so many and hence called the person back. He was from Mulchera and wanted to share that two persons had returned to village from Andhra Pradesh,” Singla said. “I was moved by the dedication of the unknown person. Immediately, I shared his contact and information with my tehsildar and those two men were shifted to institutional quarantine,” he said. Singla said that the second surprise had come from some unknown persons who had sent him a video of two pregnant women from Telangana having entered a village in Chamorshi. “After we received the video clip, our team could trace the women and shift them to quarantine centre,” he said. Singla also received a call from a person in Etapalli on his cellphone regarding some 21 labourers being intercepted by police at Chhattisgarh who were made to shell out Rs 45,000. “I contacted my batchmate at Raipur and ensured entire Rs 45,000 was recovered. Later, the labourers returned to Gadchiroli in a private vehicle paying just Rs 1,000 each,” he said. Singla attributed the awareness to the medical health survey of 15,000-17,000 people in the district who had returned before the lockdown was announced. “Gadchiroli district had completed the survey of the people by March 20 and they were home quarantined. Even before the lockdown, we were ready with our statistics,” he said. SP Shailesh Balkawade also appreciated the awareness level of the Gadchiroli residents stating the two surveys of health and then that of migrants had raised the knowledge of the tribals regarding Covid-19 and how to fight it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hello-collector-two-persons-from-outside-just-came-to-our-village-/articleshow/76050025.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: He may be gone, but the smiles remain||THRISSUR: Dr Hirji Sorab Adenwalla, the eminent plastic surgeon who has added smiles to the lives of thousands of children suffering from cleft palate, died at the age of 92 on Wednesday. Even though Dr Adenwalla hailed from Maharashtra, he had settled in Thrissur about 60 years ago and had performed numerous surgeries on children suffering from cleft palate, at the Jubilee Mission Hospital (JMH) here. Dr Adenwala was suffering from age-related ailments for the last few months and was undergoing treatment at Coimbatore. He breathed his last at a hospital there in the early hours of Wednesday. He had performed surgeries even at the age of 90, with high precision and without any quivering in his fingers, recalls father Dr Francis Alapatt, the director of the Jubilee Mission Medical College Hospital. Since 2001, Dr Adenwalla has been associated with Smile Train, the New York-headquartered non-profit organization which provides free corrective cleft surgery in 87 countries. Born on June 5, 1930, at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, Dr Adenwalla, completed his studies and training in Mumbai. He joined the JMH on August 10, 1959. He was originally planning to join Albert Schweitzer, the renowned multi-faceted physician and theologian, in undertaking voluntary services among the marginalized sections in the forest areas of Africa. However, he accepted the invitation to join the JMH, Father Alapatt said. Since then, he continued to work at the JMH barring the three years when he went out for Post-Graduate studies. During his over 60 years of his service as a surgeon in Kerala, he performed more than 21,000 cleft surgeries and was a true ‘Smile Maker’ who transformed the lives of India’s cleft children, Mamta Carroll, Smile Train’s vice-president and regional director of Asia, told TOI here over phone from New Delhi. With the meticulous observations during his untiring work as a cleft pallet surgeon, Dr Adenwala could also arrive at a valuable observation about this disturbing deformity among children. He said protein deficiency in food and the consequent absence of amino acids was a major reason for the deformity, father Dr Alapatt said. He could make the cleft pallet surgery accessible to the children from the poor families, by making it free for the deprived sections. The surgery used to cost about Rs 1 lakh. He used to reach the hospital around 7am and would leave after completing the surgeries, in the late hours. He was readily available on call even at late hours for emergency services, Father Alapatt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/he-may-be-gone-but-the-smiles-remain/articleshow/76047180.cms||T Ramavarman
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Of Pb’s 33 new patients, 8 of Asr family, 5 relatives of mom-to-be||Chandigarh/Amritsar/Patiala: The number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab rose to 2,139 on Wednesday as 33 more people tested positive for the virus. Among the new cases, eight are of a family in Amritsar, five are contacts of a 20-year-old pregnant woman in Patiala, and a woman from Delhi who had come to Nabha to take care of her pregnant daughter. There was no change in the number of cured patients. Amritsar reported the highest jump in cases,16 people. Now, the district has 347 cases, of which 44 are active. Twelve of these patients are contacts of previous patients. In Patiala, seven people tested positive. Two cases each were reported in Pathankot, Tarn Taran and Sangrur, while one case each was in Gurdaspur, Barnala and Ludhiana. So far, 1,918 people have been discharged from hospitals and 181 are being treated. A health department spokesperson in Amritsar said cases included eight persons of a family and three relatives of another patient. Amritsar airport director Manoj Chansoria added 107 passengers arrived in a special flight from Singapore under Vande Bharat Mission. The five contacts of the pregnant woman include her 24-year-old husband, two-year-old son, and a 33-year-old man, a 23-year-old woman and her one-year-old child. The woman from Delhi is aged 58. Patiala’s seventh case is of 30-year-old woman who had been admitted to a private hospital for a gynae problem. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra added a patient had recovered in the district. But, this had not been added to the state bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-pbs-33-new-patients-8-of-asr-family-5-relatives-of-mom-to-be/articleshow/76050010.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak pigeon lover ‘seeks’ apology||Amritsar: Pakistani pigeon enthusiast Habibullah, who shot to fame after one of his pigeon’s cross border sortie with ‘embedded codes’, has demanded from both Indian and Pakistan governments to ensure that his pigeon is returned to him, failing which he has announced to stage demonstration at the Indo-Pak IB to attract attention of the international media. Resident of Bagga Sharif village near Shakkargarh tehsil of Narowal district of Pakistan Punjab, Habibullah, in a video message, has said pigeon flying was his hobby and on the occasion of Eid he flew many a pigeons. “The one which crossed the border to India is my favourite pigeon. I am surprised to know the other day that my bird was being touted as a spy pigeon having some embedded code on his ring,” he said, adding that the code engraved on the pigeon ring was his mobile number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-pigeon-lover-seeks-apology/articleshow/76049998.cms||Yudhvir Rana
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite govt nod, 50% sewing machine industry not open||Ludhiana: In a major setback to the sewing machine industry, almost 50% of parts manufacturers have not opened their factories despite the government permitting them to do so. According to businessmen, they have not opened their units as they do not have adequate labour to proceed with any kind of manufacturing activity and those factories which have opened are reporting that only 40 percent of their workforce has turned up for work whereas the remaining has not joined the factories. Speaking to TOI, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “Sewing machine parts manufacturers are the worst hit as far as the problem of shortage of labour is concerned. Till date almost 50% of factories making sewing machine parts could not open as not even a single worker turned up for work. Most of the workers have already left for their villages despite our best efforts to fulfil all their demands. Even my factory is closed till now and we have not been able to commence production despite having orders from large factories to supply them semi-finished goods.” Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries Association, (LSMIA), said, “Majority of sewing machine parts manufatcures have not been able to commence production due to severe shortage of the labour. The few lucky ones who have been able to resume work are only having 40% workers in their factories. This shortage has been caused majorly due to the exodus of the migrants via free trains. As we don’t have any order from our customers in other states due to closure of markets there, but once when the markets open we will be into big trouble as with the present number of workers we will not be in the position to complete orders of our customers.” According to Jatinder Nagpal, finance secretary of LSMIA, “A huge number of factory workers earlier left Ludhiana due to roll out of free trains but now when they have reached home a large number of them are regretting their decision because now they feel that conditions are worse in their home states as compared to Punjab and now they feel like returning, which is not possible”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-govt-nod-50-sewing-machine-industry-not-open/articleshow/76048782.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||5 get bail in Moose Wala firing case||Sangrur: A local court on Wednesday granted bail to five persons, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), two head constables and a constable, who had been booked at Dhuri police station for allowing Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala to fire shots from his personal pistol at the Ladda Kothi police centre firing range. The case against the five cops had been registered on May 5, a day after the Barnala police had booked them at Dhanaula police station for allowing the singer to fire from an AK47 automatic weapon at the Badbar police firing range in Barnala district. The matter had come to light after videos showing the singer using firearms had emerged on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-get-bail-in-moose-wala-firing-case/articleshow/76050012.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Groups of inmates ‘attempts jailbreak’ in Ludhiana prison||LUDHIANA: Some inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail allegedly attempted a jailbreak in the wee hours on Wednesday. They managed to break two rods of trellis in the central ward, but the security personnel spotted them and sounded the alert. Although the jail superintendent denied any such incident taking place, jail minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said he has ordered an inquiry into the matter. Around 1am, a group of inmates from Barrack No. 2 break two rods of the bathroom using some tools. But, the CRPF personnel taking a round saw them and alerted the jail authorities. Soon, the jail officials reached the spot and identified the inmates involved in the act. The security officials also recovered some rods and iron strips. Later, the broken rods of trellis were repaired. However, when contacted, jail superintendent Rajiv Arora said, “No such incident has taken place in the jail. This is just a rumour.” Jail minister Randhawa, however, said, “I have asked inspector general (prisons) Roop Kumar Arora to conduct an inquiry into the matter.” On May 12, an inmate with the help of two others had scaled the inside wall of BKU Cell. But, he got his knee injured and was nabbed by a security personnel. A word had spread about the escape bid, but the jail officials had even then denied the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/groups-of-inmates-attempts-jailbreak-in-ludhiana-prison/articleshow/76049987.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Suicide after job loss: Kin say police didn’t act on complaint||Times News Network Ludhiana: The family of 34-year-old ad hoc bank employee Ravish Kumar alleged on Wednesday that the police had failed to act on his complaint against his seniors’ misbehaviour, forcing him to commit suicide. Ravish, a resident of New Subhash Nagar whose body was fished out of Doraha canal on the night of May 25, was upset over losing his job due to Covid-19 outbreak. His family, which has lost its lone breadwinner, is now worried about the future of his five-month pregnant wife. He had been working with a Sahnewal bank’s gold loan branch for the past eight months. The family said Ravish would not have taken the extreme step had police acted on his complaint. Speaking with the TOI, Narinder Pal, a retired Punjab Police inspector and paternal uncle of Ravish, said, “Ravish’s family did not even have money to perform his last rites. His father, Rameshwar Ram, has been mentally unstable for the past few years after suffering a severe head injury. Ravish was taking care of the family. I have also been helping them financially. Due to lockdown, Ravish was not going to his office. On May 12, when he reached office, his senior told him that he has been fired. When he asked the reason, they started arguing with him. On May 18, he went to his office again and demanded letter of termination and the reason for it. On this, his seniors misbehaved with him and pushed him out of the bank. He felt humiliated and reached Sahnewal police station to lodge a complaint. But the cops paid no heed, saying they were busy.” He said, “Ravish would not have committed suicide if the police had called up the bank staffers and helped in resolving the issue. On May 22, he again went to the bank, but nobody listened to him. He then called his mother and said he was going to commit suicide. He also made a video and sent it to the family. We also have videos of bank staffers abusing and pushing him. The family wants answers from the police.” After receiving his video, Narinder Pal rushed to Doraha canal and called divers to search for Ravish. His body was recovered three days later, on the night of May 25. Jodhewal police station SHO inspector Inderjit Singh said, “In his complaint, Ravish had only said that he has been sacked from job. Police cannot do anything in such cases. He didn’t complain about being abused or manhandled by bank staffers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/suicide-after-job-loss-kin-say-police-didnt-act-on-complaint/articleshow/76047194.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Now, partitions likely in city autos as well||Kochi: Partitions will be installed in autorickshaws plying in the district for the safety of drivers as well as passengers. Currently, there are about 7,000 autos in Kochi city. Health officials are of the view that the administration cannot transport patients with mild symptoms in ambulances alone when the number of patients rises. “We have already asked the taxis to install partitions. People with mild symptoms can be transported in taxis. Likewise, in autos too we have to ensure the required social distance between the driver and the passengers. The administration cannot afford to transport passengers reaching by flight and train to their destinations at the expense of the government,’ said a health department official. As many as 233 people have opted for going into quarantine at paid Covid care centers while 782 others are in institutional quarantine in the district. The number of people undergoing home quarantine in Ernakulam rose to 7,834 on Wednesday. Among them, 150 are in high risk category. There are 63 people undergoing observation in various hospitals. Two people who tested positive in the district on Wednesday had come from outside Kerala. A 34-year-old women who tested positive for coronavirus, had come from Abu Dhabi and was undergoing home quarantine. The other patient had come from Delhi.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-partitions-likely-in-city-autos-as-well/articleshow/76047190.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||As theatres go dark, artists left in the lurch with no funds||Chandigarh: People from various professions are slowly returning to work after relaxations in the lockdown. The performance artists are the ones who have had no financial source for the past two months and will not be able to return to work anytime soon. This has left many artists in a financial crisis. With no government bodies, including the akademies, coming forward to support them, has left them feeling hopeless. Many of them are searching for odd jobs, despite having gold medals in the field of theatre. “The artists survive only with support, and by not providing the same, the government is killing their livelihood. We have a ministry for culture, but where is it in this time of crisis? The akademies are non-responsive which has come as a shock to us. Why can’t they pay the local artists? I fail to understand that when we can have flood relief fund and other funds, then why artists are not being considered for funds,” said Padma Shri Neelam Mansingh. Sahib Singh, a senior theatre personality from the city, said, “We had written to the heads of the akademies, but they showed helplessness by saying that there is no policy to help the local artists. We are not begging. We just asked to pay the local artists for five theatre shows, and these can be staged whenever the situation turns normal.” “The government needs to create new policies for the benefit of artists,” said Vijay Machal, a theatre artist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-theatres-go-dark-artists-left-in-the-lurch-with-no-funds/articleshow/76050022.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Migrants from Bihar demand train service to go back home, block roads in Doon||Dehradun: More than 120 migrants from different cities of Bihar gathered near the RTO in Dehradun demanding immediate train service to take them to their home state. The migrants, who have gone out of work, said that they have been living in pathetic conditions in the city and desperately want to go home. Most of these workers have been living in Dehradun for many years but some among them came to Uttarakhand earlier this year in search of work but got stuck here after the lockdown. The protesting migrants were later pacified by circle officer Dalanwala Vivek Kumar who assured help in the next 48 hours. He also made arrangements for their stay in city’s DBS College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrants-from-bihar-demand-train-service-to-go-back-home-block-roads-in-doon/articleshow/76047188.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||‘Cross-check pvt lab reports by random sample examination’||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde asked the chief medical officer Kanpur Nagar to keep a tab on private pathology labs and cross-check their test reports by random sample examination. At a routine review meeting held here on Wednesday, the commissioner directed the CMO to minutely observe medical reports of private pathologies to check difference in two reports. He has asked the district administration officials to collect complete and correct details of migrant labourers and make necessary arrangements in OPDs, emergency services, Covid -19 ward, quarantine and isolation ward so that they could be equipped well. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari directed chief medical officer Ashok Kumar Shukla to collect samples of workers employed in industries in operation. Some residents of West Bengal, who were being treated in Kanpur, have been cured and would be sent back to West Bengal by train via Lucknow, the DM said. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said in the meeting that with the help of SP (West) Anil Kumar the outlines of vigilance committee had been prepared. Ex and sitting corporators and the police department would assist the health department to identify migrant workers so that they could be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cross-check-pvt-lab-reports-by-random-sample-examination/articleshow/76050183.cms||Anant Chandak
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||No new positive case||Ludhiana: No new Covid-19 positive case was reported in the district on Wednesday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said 147 samples were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Wednesday. All have tested negative. “Five reports of samples sent on Tuesday are yet to come. A pending report from DMCH has also turned out to be negative,” he added.To date, 6,290 samples have been taken, of which reports of 6,079 were received. Reports of 5,811 were negative and of 211 are pending. The total number of positive patients in Ludhiana so far is 268, including 87 are from outside the district. Seven persons from Ludhiana and five from other districts have lost their lives to the virus. As many as 140 from the district were cured and discharged. To date, 6,401 have been kept under home quarantine. About 1,914 are still under quarantine. On Wednesday, 86 persons were sent for home quarantine. DC Pradeep Kumar appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government and stay safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-new-positive-case/articleshow/76047186.cms||Mehak Jain
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Contractor murder case: Lawyers stress on self defence aspect||Ludhiana: In the case of a 40-year-old man, who wanted to rape his daughter and was strangulated to death by his wife, 20-year-old son and 15-year-old daughter on May 24, criminal lawyers suggest that the police should have used Section 100, IPC, (when the right of private defence of the body extends to causing death) in the case. The lawyers stated that according to police, the man had assaulted his biological daughter and also raped her step daughter years ago. Moreover, on May 24, the accused wanted to rape his daughter for which he also thrashed her and his wife, and the murder of such person should be seen in self defence prospective. On May 24, a building contractor was strangled by the trio with a television wire in their house in Daresi area. According to police, the man wanted to rape his 15-year-old daughter. However, the wife and daughter objected to it. The police investigation also revealed that, earlier also the man had molested his daughter. On May 24 also, to pressurize them, the man wrapped television wire around his neck and threaten to commit suicide. On this, the woman and her children strangled him with the same wire. The cops have also identified that in 2014, the man had raped his stepdaughter, who was 15-year-old then. He was also lodged in jail, however, later his wife had withdrawn the complaint. When the accused came out of jail, the girl had committed suicide. Criminal lawyer Parupkar Singh Ghuman said, “Sections 96 to 101 of the IPC are for cases related to self defence. In this particular case, the police should have used Section 100 (when the right of private defence of the body extends to causing death) of the IPC. Otherwise, even if police have to register a murder case, they should first prove in investigation that the murder was done in self defence, before arresting the family. “If police investigation proves that the murder was done in self defence of the body, the court will discharge the accused and further procedure will start to cancel the FIR. However, now since the accused have been arrested, on the basis of police investigation report court it can be decide whether the murder was done for self defence or not,” added Ghuman. An investigating officer of the case said, “We know there are such sections, however, they have never been used. If the CP directs us to use these sections, we would do that. In this case, the police will include all aspects, including of self defence, in the investigation report to be submitted in the court. Legal aid will also be provided to the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/contractor-murder-case-lawyers-stress-on-self-defence-aspect/articleshow/76048799.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Possession of Chandi Mata Mandir challenged in Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice after the priest of the Chandi Mata Mandir, Rajesh Giri, moved the HC and challenged the possession of the temple taken over by the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board during the lockdown period. An application was moved in the case, which has been doing the rounds since 2019, seeking to quash amendments in the Haryana Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Act (HSMMDSA). The amended Act has given unlimited powers to the administration to take over any temple or shrine, within Panchkula district by issuing a simple notification. It was pleaded to take action against the respondents who have taken over the possession of the temple during the lockdown period. The matter will come up for hearing on June 3. It was argued that without any warrant of possession and only on the basis of an administrative letter issued by the DC, the lock of the temple was broken. It was argued that the authorities acted against the directions of the ministry of home affairs, which had closed down all the temples amid the coronavirus pandemic. But, despite that, the officials violated the instructions and took over the possession of the temple, which itself amounts to violation of instructions issued by the Union government. Chandi Mata Mandir had moved the high court in November 2019, challenging the Haryana Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Act (HSMMDSA), 1991, which was later amended on July 8, 2010, praying to quash the Act as it was illegal with malafide intention to acquire any temple in Panchkula district. It was argued that the amended Act was giving unlimited powers to the administration to take over any temple or shrine within the district of Panchkula by issuing a simple notification, which should be quashed. It was contested earlier that the apprehension of petitioners that the powers given after the amendment of the Act will be misused, has come true through the notification dated January 4, 2018 in which Shri Chandi Mata Temple has been brought under the umbrella unit of the Haryana Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Act, 1991, including the petitioners’ temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/possession-of-chandi-mata-mandir-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/76050019.cms||Neha Sharma
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||‘Migrant workers should inform officials about their location in city’||Kanpur: District magistrate Kanpur Nagar Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari has appealed to migrant labourers that it was their responsibility to inform the administration about their presence in the any area of the district. If they failed to do so, they would be prosecuted under the Epidemic Act, he warned. He said that migrant workers could give their information directly to the officials of the district administration on toll free number- 18001805159. They could inform the administration about their presence also through vigilance committees which were active in the district, he added. The DM has directed the lekhpals and naib tehsildars to cross-check the working of the vigilance committees whose job is to inform about the presence of a migrant person in any area of the district. He said the identity of the person giving tip about a migrant worker would not be disclosed. He has asked the tehsil staff to transmit this message among villagers by beating of drums. “It is the duty of the villagers to inform the administration about the presence of any migrant person in their village”, the DM said. The villagers should also be informed that wearing of mask was mandatory, he added. The DM said that the tehsil staff and gram pradhan would minutely watch the migrants who had arrived in their village after May 14, and ensure that they were in home quarantine. “If they develop any symptoms of virus, they should be admitted in the isolation ward of a hospital, Tiwari further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-workers-should-inform-officials-about-their-location-in-city/articleshow/76050259.cms||Anant Chandak
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Police to use drones, CCTVs to keep tab on people under quarantine||Dehradun: Uttarakhand police have decided to deploy drones and install CCTVs to keep a close tab on people put under quarantine to contain the spread of coronavirus in the Himalayan state. According to police top brass, close vigil is being kept on people under institutional quarantine so that no one ventures out of the place where they are isolated. Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), told TOI, “We would be taking help of drones and CCTVs to enforce quarantine orders effectively. The aim is to ensure that quarantine orders are followed in true letter and spirit.” The official added that people found flouting quarantine orders would be booked under relevant sections as such violations would put others at risk. In all, 18,893 people have been put under institutional quarantine across the state and the figure is rising with more locals, stranded in other states, reaching Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-to-use-drones-cctvs-to-keep-tab-on-people-under-quarantine/articleshow/76047210.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||4-hour daily power cuts leave Zirakpur fretting and fuming||Mohali: Power cuts inconvenienced many Zirakpur residents, which have further affected the supply of water. Residents have complained that from the past 72 hours, there have been frequent power cuts ranging from two hours to 4 hours daily. On the other hand, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has reasoned that the grid is under maintenance due to which power supply has been affected. Residents living in Lohgarh, Dhakoli, Ghazipur, Baltana, Pabhat, VIP road and Chhat village have been reeling under the crisis. Raj Rani of Lohgarh said, “There is a power cut of two to four hours daily. This has also impacted the supply of water in the area.” Charanjit Singh, a resident of Dhakoli, said, “We have been experiencing power cuts for the last three days. There is no electricity even during the night. We are facing shortage of water supply. We did not get water supply in the morning today.” Residents of Dashmesh colony are also facing the same problem. There was no electricity for 13 hours. The PSPCL executive engineer, Khushinder Singh, said, “Due to lockdown, we were unable to undertake major maintenance work of upgrading the grids. We appeal to the residents to bear with us for two more days and we assure that residents will not face any problem.” The Powercom has declared that the supply from the 66 KV Dhakoli grid will remain suspended on May 28 from 9am to 5pm due to maintenance work. Maintenance of all the 11KV lines and energization of the new 11 KV feeder will affect electricity supply in Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla, Baltana, Harmilap Nagar, Bishanpura, Nagla, and Sanoli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-hour-daily-power-cuts-leave-zirakpur-fretting-and-fuming/articleshow/76050026.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Miscreants pelt stones at BJP neta’s house||Nagpur: Nandanvan police have on Wednesday registered a case of criminal intimidation against some people after they allegedly pelted stones and smashed window panes of the residence of BJP city vice-president Suraj Singh Thakur. According to sources, Thakur was present at his home along with family members when some armed miscreants started pelting stones at the BJP leader’s house in Nandanvan. Senior PI of Nandanvan police station Sandipan Pawar said we have registered a case under sections 294 and 506 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) following a complaint by Thakur. Thakur had complained several times about anti-socials drinking liquor in open spaces in the area. Though we had taken action every time, it presumed that some of them may have indulged in the attack. Thakur has also named a few suspects and we will investigate the matter, said Pawar. “I had been raising voice against illegal activities in the area. I was planning to submit a memorandum signed by several residents to the concerned authorities against the illegal activities on Wednesday. The miscreants may have learnt about it and attacked my house in a bid to deter me from doing so. The attack also seems to be politically motivated,” said Thakur while speaking with TOI. Thakur claimed that the miscreants had bolted the door of his house from outside before fleeing the spot. “It was only after the cops came that I could get out of the house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/miscreants-pelt-stones-at-bjp-netas-house/articleshow/76050041.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Two on first flight from Mumbai-Chandigarh infected||MOHALI: Two persons, who arrived at Chandigarh International Airport by the first flight from Mumbai two days back, on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19. Confirming the information, Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said after the arrival of passengers from Mumbai on May 25, their random sampling was done, following which these two passengers tested positive. The patients, both 27-year-old, hail from Ludhiana and Barnala. Since they had left for their native places the day they arrived, their respective district administrations have been informed about the status of their health and recommended action as per the Covid-19 protocol, the civil surgeon said. Dr Singh said, "We had taken random samples of 100 passengers who had arrived from Mumbai and their reports were received late Wednesday evening.” In the past three days, a total of 20 flights have arrived and departed from the Chandigarh airport to six different cities, including Mumbai, Bengaluru, Dharamshala, Delhi and Leh. Nearly 2,500 passengers have arrived and departed in these three days from the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-on-1st-flight-from-mumbai-infected/articleshow/76050032.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to seek fiscal stimulus of Rs 51,102cr from Centre||Chandigarh: Punjab government has decided to seek a fiscal stimulus of Rs 51,102 crore from the Centre to help the state tide over the financial crisis triggered by the Covid pandemic and the prolonged lockdown. A draft memorandum to this effect was approved on Wednesday by the council of ministers, at a meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh. In addition to direct fiscal stimulus of Rs 21,500 crore, Punjab plans to seek waiver of the long-term CCL debt as imperative for the fiscal recovery. Additionally, all central schemes should be 100% funded by the Centre in FY 2020-21, as per the draft memorandum. According to an official spokesperson, listing health infrastructure as a key priority in the post-Covid scenario, the state proposes to ask for Rs 6,603 crore for improvement of the public health infrastructure from a long-term perspective. This also included sanction for setting up of advanced centre of virology at a cost of Rs 650 crore in the state, for which the Punjab government has already offered required land free of charge. To contain the Covid-19 contagion in the rural areas, assistance of Rs 5,068 crore has been sought for liquid and solid waste management in the villages. Besides, Rs 12,560 crore for agriculture and farming sector, mainly for up-gradation of farm gate infrastructure, providing income support and interest subvention among others with an additional amount of Rs 1,161 crore identified as assistance needed for the animal husbandry and dairy sector. For urban development, Punjab is proposing a National Urban Employment Guarantee Act (Nuega) to guarantee employment in urban areas, along with an additional capital outlay of Rs 2,302 crore under schemes like Amrut, Smart City. This is in addition to a grant of Rs 1,137 crore on account of revenue loss. Punjab is seeking assistance of Rs 3,073 crore for online education for uninterrupted learning, post-Covid preparedness of educational institutions, and to meet other requirements of school education and skill development. In addition, support is sought for industries, specifically MSMEs, and for interest waiver. Box ‘Punjab debt-stressed’ Punjab is one of the highest debt-stressed state in the general category states i.e. Punjab’s outstanding debt to GSDP ratio is 40.7%, which is significantly higher than states such as Maharashtra (17.9%), Karnataka (18.2%), Gujarat (20.2%), Tamil Nadu (22.3%), Andhra Pradesh (28.9%), Kerala (30.9%) and West Bengal (37.1%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-seek-fiscal-stimulus-of-rs-51102cr-from-centre/articleshow/76050042.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||4 test positive for corona in Kannauj, tally goes up to 42||Kanpur:With four more people testing positive, the number of confirmed Covid patients in neighbouring Kannauj district has gone up to 42. A woman in Chhibramau area who had returned from Ahmedabad tested positive. Total 95 samples had been collected in the district and sent to KGMU lab Lucknow for laboratory test couple of days ago. Ninety-one of the samples were found negative, while four tested positive as per health officials. Chief medical officer Dr Kamal Chandra Rai confirmed that the report of the woman, residing in Chhibramau, was found positive after the initial test was conducted. “Similarly, a man from Birtiya Lahauri Tola, who had returned from Mumbai tested positive. Likewise, a man hailing from Majhgawan Bahadurpur village who had returned from Delhi was tested positive. The fourth positive patient, who belongs to Taalgram’s Jerqila locality, had returned from Jaipur Rajasthan,” said CMO. The family members of all the four besides their other contacts have been put under close watch in isolation and confined to their respective homes for two weeks, CMO added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/4-test-positive-for-corona-in-kannauj-tally-goes-up-to-42/articleshow/76050220.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kanpur||Self-help groups to stitch uniforms for govt schools||Kanpur: District development department is preparing a list of around 110 women self help groups in ten blocks of the district which would be asked to stitch school dresses for students of government schools, said district development t officer JP Gautam. He said at this crucial time, some women’s self help groups have come forward to prepare and supply mask for the people. They had already earned about Rs 1.60 lakh by making around 30,000 masks, he added. He said that the district development department had recently presented a proposal for stitching school dresses for primary and basic shiksha parishad schools which received a warm response from the women self help groups. “A proposal was passed at a meeting with chief development officer and basic shiksha adhikari that under National Rural Living Mission, the women self help groups would make school dresses for basic shiksha parishad and junior schools”, Gautam said and added this would provide employment to women and make them self sufficient. He said out of 1192 registered self help groups, 110 groups would be given the job to stitch dresses of basic and junior schools. “The groups to be selected block-wise would be asked to prepare some uniforms as samples. If found necessary, training about cutting and designing would also be given to the groups to ensure standard of the product. Cloth, thread and other dress material would be provided to them”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/self-help-groups-to-stitch-uniforms-for-govt-schools/articleshow/76050312.cms||Anant Chandak
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Newly appointed Kumaon commissioner takes charge||Nainital: Newly appointed Kumaon Commissioner Arvind Singh Hyanki took charge on Wednesday morning. He is the 44th commissioner of the region. On the day, Hyanki also took charge as the secretary to the chief minister. Earlier, Udham Singh Nagar district magistrate Neeraj Khairwal held the additional charge of Kumaon Commissioner. Talking to media persons, Hyanki said that his prime focus is to deal with the threat of the coronavirus. “We will speak to all the district magistrates of the region and formulate a strategy. We understand that many people have returned to their villages and it is our responsibility to provide them with employment opportunities,” he said. The commissioner added that the government is also planning to open more testing labs to deal with the rising number of coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/newly-appointed-kumaon-commissioner-takes-charge/articleshow/76047200.cms||Prashant Jha
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||One-time amnesty scheme for unregistered boilers in Punjab||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Wednesday offered one-time amnesty scheme for boiler users in the state, who had been operating without following provisions under the Boilers Act, 1923 and the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950. Industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora said it had come to the notice of the department that some boiler users were using boilers without getting them registered or without having a due renewal from the department. Under the Boilers Act, penalties have been prescribed for such illegal use of boilers. Arora said in order to provide relief to such boiler users, one-time amnesty scheme has been formulated so that they can get registered. Now, such boiler owners would have to produce valid documents issued by the respective authorities and will have to pay nominal fee along with the loss to state government in terms of inspection fee for the period of default. He said the nominal fee for unregistered boilers will be Rs 25,000 and for registered boilers without having renewed licence as on December 31, 2019, the nominal fee will be Rs 10,000. To avail this one-time amnesty scheme, the defaulters will have to apply to the director of boilers, Punjab for regularization of boilers online on Business First Portal on or before July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/one-time-amnesty-scheme-for-unregistered-boilers-in-punjab/articleshow/76050051.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on Covid-19 relief for unorganised sector workers||MADURAI: Madras high court on Wednesday sought a status report from the state government on a plea which sought to provide Covid-19 relief to unregistered unorganised sector workers in Ramanathapuram district. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing the public interest litigation filed (PIL) by N Malaikannu, founder of an NGO named Association for Rural Development and Upliftment of Humanity to Virtual Integrity. Malaikannu stated that following the lockdown announcement, all daily wagers and unorganized sector workers are suffering due to poverty. The state government had announced Rs 1,000 and essential commodities for them as Covid-19 relief. The government had also extended such relief to migrant workers in the state. He said that the relief provided by the government had not properly reached unregistered unorganised sector workers as most of them, who are uneducated, were not aware of the fact that they should register with the welfare board. Malaikannu said that he had sent a representation to the authorities with the list of 1,600 unregistered unorganised sector workers seeking to provide relief to them as it would protect their livelihood. Since no steps were taken with regard, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-covid-relief-for-unorganised-sector-workers/articleshow/76050047.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ghatkopar crash report flawed, expert tells aviation ministry||MUMBAI: The final investigation report into the Ghatkopar crash, submitted by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) early this year, is flawed beyond reasonable doubt, alleged Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert in a letter sent recently to the civil aviation ministry. He also submitted his 35-page technical analysis of the said AAIB report called for a reinvestigation through a Court of Inquiry in order to prevent a repeat which could be a larger catastrophe in a crowded city like Mumbai. According to the AAIB report, the probable cause of June 2018 King Air C-90 crash was the pilots’ lack of situational awareness due to spatial disorientation-pilot’s wrongly interpreting aircraft’s speed, height etc. ``It is established that the engines were producing power when the aircraft crashed,’’ the AAIB report said. Capt Singh said, ``There is enough evidence to prove that both the engines had stopped mid-air, before the aircraft crashed”, he said. The AAIB, for some reason, also didn’t use "spectral analysis’’, which finds out the speed of engines before impact. The AAIB have used it their other KingAir investigations to find out whether the engines were working before the aircraft crashed. "I have not seen his representation . He has his own views, he hasn’t seen the evidence, he hasn’t carried out the investigation. We have seen the documents, we have seen the evidence," said Jasbir Singh of AAIB Capt Singh, fellow, Royal Aeronautical Society, London said," I read every accident report because of my interest in the subject matter and normally there are `shortcomings’. The reason why I was shocked is not because of the `shortcomings’ but the deliberate attempt to manipulate facts.’’ The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) transcription was replaced with a translation in certain places, probably to support the investigators’ theory, he added. Then there are other details, like the aircraft nose wheel has been incorrectly identified in the AAIB report, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ghatkopar-crash-report-flawed-expert-tells-aviation-ministry/articleshow/76050054.cms||Manju V
May 28, 2020||Mysuru||6 trains to give Srirangapatna station a miss||Mysuru: The South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to cancel halts of select trains at several stations due to poor patronage. The Srirangapatna railway station in Mandya district is one among them. This has riled rail activists who want the railway authorities to consider daily commuters who use these stations through various passes and direct ticket purchase. Only four trains will stop at Srirangapatna railway stationonce services resume after lockdown. They include three MEMU trains and a passenger which connects Chamarajanagar with Bengaluru. SWR Bengaluru divisional railway manager Ashok Kumar Verma confirmed a notification in this regard. Stoppages of trains have been cancelled at Yadiyur station in Hassan district, Pandavapura station, Maddur station ( Mandya), Chamarajapuram, Kadakola and Naganahalli. The notification will come into effect from the date of implementation of the new time table. S Yogendra of Mysuru Railway Commuters Forum wanted to know where are passengers from these stops expected to board the train from. “Advance reservation in these stations is less as it is used mostly by daily wage workers andgarment workers who travel to Mandya, Mysuru and Bengaluru,” he added. All these stations were recently redeveloped at a huge cost and what is the use if trains do not stop here, he rued.  SWR Mysuru division officials said they are unaware of this notification. “It is issued by the Bengaluru division,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/6-trains-to-give-srirangapatna-station-a-miss/articleshow/76047218.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||SC issues notices to Centre, CBSE & U’khand govt over HC order to schools||Nainital: While hearing a petition filed against the Uttarakhand high court (HC) order that prohibited private schools in the state from sending any texts (or mails) to parents/guardians for payment of school fees during lockdown, the Supreme Court (SC), on Wednesday, sent notices to Centre, state government, and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The apex court also allowed filing of a Special Leave Petition (SLP) against the HC order. However, SC didn’t put a stay on it. The SC bench, comprising of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, Justice AA Bopanna, and Justice Hrishikesh Roy, has given all the respondents two weeks’ time to file their replies. “Permission to file the special leave petition(s) is granted. Issue notice returnable two weeks,” the bench said in its order. Notices have also been sent to the directors of the intermediates and basic education along with the Uttarakhand School Education Board. The Principals Progressive Schools’ Association (PPSA) – an organisation of several private schools in Uttarakhand – and Dehradun-based St. Jude’s School have filed two SLPs in the SC against the Uttarakhand high court order passed by the division bench headed by the Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan on May 12. As reported by TOI earlier, the HC had observed in its interim order that the schools were using subtle methods to force parents to pay fee and since the payment of tuition fee is voluntary, the schools were prohibited from sending WhatsApp texts or mails for the same. The court had also directed the state government to appoint Chief Education Officers for each district. The schools, however, argue in their SLP that the government notification had allowed the schools that are conducting online classes to collect fee. Therefore, they claim that the HC has “erred in interfering with the policy matter” and has “substituted the government’s policy with its own guidelines”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc-issues-notices-to-centre-cbse-ukhand-govt-over-hc-order-to-schools/articleshow/76047222.cms||Prashant Jha
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Cases continue to mount in Haryana, 76 more +ve||CHANDIGARH: NCR districts continued to pose a challenge as they accounted for 74 of the 76 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state’s tally hit 1,381. With another death, the state’s casualty count for the coronavirus reached 18. Also, 14 patients were discharged from hospitals. On Tuesday, Haryana saw the highest jump of 94 cases. The highest number of cases were reported from Faridabad, 25. The district total has so far reported 258 cases. Gurugram got 20 new cases, which has taken the district total to 337. Among the discharged patients, 10 were from the district and the number of its active cases is now 142. Eleven cases were from Sonipat, eight from Palwal, four from Jhajjar, and three each from Rohtak and Narnaul. The remaining two cases were from Sirsa and Karnal. The patient in Sirsa is a bootlegger who was arrested on Monday. His report came on Tuesday, after he was bailed out. As a precaution, the police team which accompanied him has been quarantined and the police station he was kept has been sanitized. With the state getting 170 cases in two days, its recovery rate has come down to 60.68 %. The doubling rate remained stable at 17 days. The testing rate in the state was recorded at 4,132 per million. So far, 104,747 persons have been tested. Of them, 99,555 have been found negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-continue-to-mount-in-haryana-76-more-ve/articleshow/76050050.cms||Manvir Saini
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Finish cotton purchase before monsoon starts: Mins||AMRAVATI/WARDHA: With only a few weeks remaining for the onset of monsoon, people’s representatives from the region have started pushing Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and State Cotton Marketing Federation to complete cotton procurement process latest by June 15. Holding discussions with Amravati collector Shailesh Naval, federation president Rajabhau Deshmukh, district deputy registrar Sanjay Jadhav and others to find out solutions to the problems coming in the way of expediting procurement, guardian minister Yashomati Thakur on Wednesday instructed the authorities to complete the process before June 15, blending speed with precaution and safety against coronavirus. “We have made trained manpower available to cotton federation and this has helped in increasing the number of gins procuring cotton from 18 carts earlier to 25 now,” said Naval. Amravati DDR Sanjay Jadhav informed that about 6.25 lakh quintal cotton has been purchased to date from 22,204 farmers at eight procurement centres in the district, including the one of CCI at Dhamangaon Railway. Thakur instructed the authorities to ensure procurement of all carts on the same day, take precautions against fire, ensure godowns for storage of cotton bales, complete procurement as per plan and avoid any kind of inconvenience to farmers. Meanwhile, minister for animal husbandry, daily development, youth welfare and Wardha guardian minister Sunil Kedar, after visiting 14 ginning mills in the district on Wednesday, directed the concerned authorities to complete the procurement before the monsoon begins. He also suggested that cotton federation should increase availability of graders so as to complete the process. Experts pointed out that owing to lack of coordination between Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), marketing federation, ginning owners and officials, the procurement process is going on slowly. Taking note of this, Kedar also directed the concerned authorities to ensure that produce of at least 100 farmers is procured on a daily basis. Earlier in the day, Kedar discussed the issues with directors of ginning factories, graders, secretary of the marketing federation. MLA Sameer Kunawar, MLA Ranjeet Kamble, former MLA Raju Timande, district collector Vivek Bhimanwar, additional district collector Ashok Latare, district deputy registrar Gautam Walade, tehsildar Mahendra Sonwane and others were present. Kedar said all departments are citing various issues like CCI having no godown facilities, while marketing federation is not providing graders. He also pointed out that ginning factory owners are raising complaints that cotton bales are not being lifted on time. “This all shows there is a lack of coordination between the departments and due to this farmers are suffering,” said Kedar. “I have directed collector to make godowns and manpower available as per the CCI requirement,” said the minister. Procurement process should be continued even on public holidays so that not a single farmer in the district is left with unsold produce, he said. As more fire incidents take place during peak summer, the minister also advised municipalities to keep fire brigade vehicles and staff ready to tackle any incident, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finish-cotton-purchase-before-monsoon-starts-mins/articleshow/76050058.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||City witnesses hottest day yet of this summer season||Ludhiana: The city witnessed the hottest day of the ongoing summer with the day temperature recording at 44.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. There’s some respite though: the met department predicts rainfall from Thursday for the next few days. Wednesday’s temperature was four degrees more than normal. On Tuesday, the day temperature in city was witnessed at 44.1 degrees, which was four degrees more than normal. Among the major cities of the state, Ludhiana and Patiala had same day temperature whereas it was recorded at 43.5 degrees in Amritsar. Chandigarh, meanwhile, recorded the day temperature at 42.9 degrees Celsius. The minimum (night) temperature in Ludhiana on Wednesday was recorded at 24.2 degrees Celsius, which is around normal but 0.6 degree less than a day before. As the residents grappled with simmering heat on Wednesday, the met department’s prediction for the next few days may cheer them up. “There are chances of light to moderate rainfall for two to three days from Thursday and even high speed winds are expected during this period. The rainfall is expected to be recorded between 10 to 30 millimeters and the wind speed can even go up to 50km per hour. During these days, the day temperature is expected to fall significantly but night temperature may witness a rise,” said Surender Paul, director, Met department Chandigarh. Met department’s website suggests that the day temperature might fall to as low as 29 degrees till Saturday whereas night temperature is expected to rise to 26 degrees by Friday before dropping to 24 degrees by Sunday. “It has been extremely hot in the last few days. So hot that it became impoosible without air conditioners, said Harmeet Singh, a Pakhowal road resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-witnesses-hottest-day-yet-of-this-summer-season/articleshow/76050061.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Mobile phone shops run out of stocks, spares||MADURAI: City residents would do well to take extra care of their phones for budget phones seem to have become scarce commodity in mobile showrooms. Even getting spare parts of phones seem to be tough task for the denizens. P Saranya of Chinthamani is in a fix after her baby daughter broke her neighbour’s phone during the lockdown period. She has neither been able to get it repaired nor find a replacement. ``That phone was over six years old and shops here say there are no spares available to get it repaired. I have visited almost all the mobile showrooms in the city, but have not been able to find a phone that costs under Rs 10000, which is the maximum I can afford,’’ she said. People who used their phones for long hours during the lockdown are worried lot after some of their phones have broken down. ``Ever since the lockdown was announced, I was eagerly looking forward to mobile repair shops opening up. But even after the shops have reopened, they say that they do not have the spare parts to repair my Oppo phone, which I bought last December for Rs 12000,’’ said K Shankar of Vilangudi. President of the Madurai Mobile Traders Association, S Jothi Basu, says mobile shops saw good sales on the first day after they reopened two weeks ago. ``We failed to foresee a windfall, and sold the mobiles at their MRP rates. Now almost all the 400 shops are empty due to shortage of stocks, but those who did not fully sell off all their stock are now able to sell phones costing Rs 10000 for Rs 2000 more than the MRP and still there is demand for the phones,’’ he said. ``As online sales were restricted we saw a huge sale and stocks were exhausted in no time,’’ he added. He says that some traders who had sold unbranded phones that have no warranty have jacked up the price of the phones. The distributors have also run out of stock and even a temper glass which cost Rs 20 before the lockdown is now selling at Rs 80 or more. ``Spare parts are not available for any of the branded phones, as they have to come from China. We are now stressed because we have to face angry customers daily,’’ he said. ``People want to invest in a quality phone with a good screen because people are largely relying on WhatsApp video calls to keep in touch with their near and dear ones who are far away. The phones available now with a decent amount of RAM costs above Rs 15000, but many people are looking for a quality budget phone costing less than Rs 10000, which is not in stock,’’ said Ramesh Kumar, a mobile shop owner in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mobile-phone-shops-run-out-of-stocks-spares/articleshow/76050060.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks response on corporation workers without PPE kits||MADURAI: The Madras high court has sought a response from the Madurai Corporation after photographs of cleanliness workers working without PPE kits in several districts, including Madurai were produced before it. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by R Sathiamoorthy, executive trustee of ‘People’s Watch’ NGO at Madurai. He sought to distribute PPE kits to all non-medical frontline workers such as police personnel, fire and rescue services personnel, cleanliness workers, ambulance staffs, revenue officials, volunteers and mediapersons. The petitioner stated that police personnel and volunteers who are involved in duty to manage crowds and traffic management are not wearing any PPE kits except masks. Citing news reports, the petitioner expressed concern that several non-medical frontline workers are being tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. During the previous hearing, the state government informed that Rs 350.29 crore has been sanctioned for various Covid-19 prevention works including distribution of PPE kits to these workers. The court had sought a counter from the state government with regard to the distribution of PPE kits to them. When the case was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, the petitioner’s counsel, Henri Tiphagne submitted recent photographs of cleanliness workers from Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Trichy and Dharmapuri districts working without PPE kits. On perusal of the photographs, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi sought a response and adjourned the case to June 1 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-corpn-workers-without-ppe-kits/articleshow/76050056.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Two booked in Laksar for thrashing village head||ROORKEE: Two men from Dargahpur village near Laksar were booked on Wednesday for allegedly thrashing a woman and her husband. The victim woman Firdaus Begum is the village head of Dargahpur. It is alleged that the accused were asking Begum to shift some men from the quarantine facility of the village to prevent any possible spread of Covid-19. According to reports, five men had returned to the village on May 21 from other states and Firdaus Begum had put them all in a village quarantine facility under the vigil of health officials. It is reported that sample of one among these five men tested positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, that positive case was shifted to Haridwar for treatment. Later on Wednesday, two villagers — identified as Rahul and Kapil — visited Begum’s house and pressurised her to shift the remaining suspected cases from the quarantine centre. When she refused to comply, the accused men allegedly thrashed Begum and her husband with wooden bars. However, the police claims it to be a case of political rivalry saying that the opponent group of the village head has resorted to mud-slinging earlier as well. “We are conducting a fresh and unbiased investigation in the matter,” said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh. Meanwhile, a case has been lodged against Rahul and Kapil under appropriate sections after Begum’s complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-booked-in-laksar-for-thrashing-village-head/articleshow/76047265.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||53-year-old East Godavari man passed away last week||VIJAYAWADA: East Godavari, which had reported comparatively few Covid-19 cases till a week ago (60), has now emerged as another virus hotspot after a super spreader transmitted the disease to nearly 80 primary and secondary contacts. The chain of transmission has once again resumed the trend of positive patients spreading the virus to a large number of people, a trend that had been on the decline over the past few weeks in the state. The 53-year-old man, who unknowingly transmitted the virus, was unaware that he was infected and succumbed to the disease on May 20. However, cases continue to surge in Gollala Mamidada under Pedapudi mandal, the hometown of the deceased, and in the neighbouring mandals of Bikkavolu, Ramachandrapuram, Anaparti and Tuni. Five more cases traced to the same person were reported in East Godavari on Wednesday. G Mamidada village alone accounts for over 50 Covid-19 cases. District officials, however, are yet to trace the origin of the disease in the deceased, who was employed as a cashier in a local hotel and also worked as a photographer. Officials are of the opinion that the nature of the job of the deceased, which involves interacting with several people on a daily basis, may have contributed to his acquiring the disease. East Godavari district health officials said close to 5,000 people in the affected mandals have been screened for the pandemic. “About 100 Covid-19 patients have been undergoing treatment at GSL Hospital, Rajanagaram. The new cases will be admitted to KIMS, Amalapuram from now onwards,” said a health official. Health officials said a person infected with Covid-19 can pass on the virus to two or three people. While there is no clear definition of a super spreader or ‘super spreading’, such a person usually infects a far greater number than accounted for by the usual rate of transmission. Two super spreaders in Karmika Nagar and Krishna Lanka in Vijayawada city, one a foreign returnee and the other a truck driver, were believed to have transmitted the disease to nearly 80 people in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/53-year-old-east-godavari-man-passed-away-last-week/articleshow/76047253.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 69 fresh Covid cases, state’s tally now 469||DEHRADUN: With 69 new cases, of which 55 are returnees from Maharashtra, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Uttarakhand touched 469 on Wednesday. Also, 21 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state in the past 24 hours which health officials said is the highest number of Covid-19 recoveries in the state in a single day. According to the health department, 28 new cases were reported from Tehri Garhwal on Wednesday and all of them are returnees from Maharashtra, most probably they took the Shramik Special that arrived in Haridwar on May 20. On the same day, 13 new Covid cases were reported from Pauri Garhwal, seven from Udham Singh Nagar, six from each Almora and Haridwar, four from Dehradun and three from Pithoragarh. "Two cases are contacts of already positive Covid cases while others are migrants from Delhi, NCR and Gujarat," said additional secretary health, Yugal Kishore Pant. The doubling rate of Covid cases in the state is now 3.99 days while recovery rate is 18%. Around 1,017 more samples were collected on May 27 as a result of which, pending sample count is now 3939. On Wednesday, reports of 670 samples arrived at the health directorate till 2 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-69-fresh-covid-cases-states-tally-now-469/articleshow/76047231.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Demand rises for smaller commercial spaces||Kochi: Property owners in the city say there has been a slight increase in the demand for smaller spaces in commercial buildings. As businesses downsize and reduce the number of employees, many establishments are trying to move out to smaller spaces to save on rent. Mathew Isaac (name changed), who own commercial spaces on MG Road, said, “During the pre-Covid times, there were commercial establishments in Kochi that required 20,000 sq feet space for their running their offices. Now there is decline of 30-40% in this requirement, and they are looking for smaller spaces.” Even as the economy struggles to get back, property owners are hopeful that scenario will improve after a couple of months and businesses would bounce back. Those who want buildings for rent are quoting lower rates as it has become nearly impossible for them to meet operational expenses. “The rentals depend on how furnished these spaces are and also on which floor are these spaces located. Ground floor fetches the highest rent. It is close to Rs 100 a sq feet and as it goes to the top floors, the rentals go lower and lower,” said manager of a retail outlet. Traders say those who have plans to open new stores in the city have put such projects on hold. This is because people are not sure of investing in the market in the current situation. “May be two or three months later they will open their stores,” Isaac said. The merchant community view the relaxations as a positive sign. When people start moving freely and public transport opening up the traders will launch new businesses or projects. “The shutdown cannot continue for ever. It will kill retailers. There should be some parallel plan to revive the business while tackling Covid-19. By wearing masks and following all precautions stated by the government we would be able to overcome this financial crisis,” said Haji Ahamed, an investor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demand-rises-for-smaller-commercial-spaces/articleshow/76047290.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Evaluation of plus-2 answer scripts begins||MADURAI/TRICHY: Maintaining strict social distancing and hand sanitizing rules, nearly 1,800 teachers started evaluation of plus two answer scripts, which began at six centres in Madurai on Thursday. In Trichy district, more than 2,000 teachers including those from self-financing schools, ave been deployed for the evaluation work in 13 centres. There are eight evaluation centres in Trichy city alone. Plus two public examinations were held in the state in March this year, and the lockdown due to the Covid-19 crisis stalled the paper evaluation. Usually, the results of the public examination are released in the first week of May, every year. As per the government announcement, teachers arrived in the six evaluation centres in Madurai, including St Mary’s Higher Secondary School, St Joseph’s Girls Higher Secondary School, OCPM Girls Higher Secondary School, MNUJ Higher Secondary School and PKN Higher Secondary School. They will correct and evaluate as many as 1,74,017 answer papers. Chief education officer R Swaminathan and others inspected the centres. The process is being undertaken by 150 teachers, including 217 chief examiners, security officers and assistant examiners in the six centres. As many as 37 buses were operated to enable the teachers to reach the centres in Madurai in time. More than 2,000 masks for personal protection and sanitizers have been provided to the teachers. They were made to maintain social distance and their body temperatures were checked before they entered the halls. Around 1000 teachers were involved in the process in Tirunelveli, 1,396 in Dindigul, 928 in Ramanathapuram, and 887 in Theni. In Trichy, elaborate arrangements were made by the district chief education office right from bringing teachers and ensuring social distancing in the evaluation centre. An eight-member evaluation team comprises six assistant examiners, a scrutinising officer (SO) and a chief examiner (CE). Every evaluation centre will have six such teams for each subject. SO and CE will oversee the evaluation of answer scripts carried by assistant evaluators. On the first day, an SO and CE each for a subject evaluated 12 answer scripts based on the answer key issued by the director of government examination. Some of the anomalies in the answer keys were highlighted by the evaluators, which was rectified while setting stage for the assistant examiners for the evaluation from Thursday. Apart from TNSTC buses, some of the private school buses were also hired to take teachers from outskirts. Some of the teachers said that maintaining social distancing may not be possible when every evaluation centre will have at least 300 odd teachers starting from Thursday. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi said Trichy doesn’t have containment zones and the possibility of a Covid-19 spread is minimal as Trichy doesn’t fall in the red zone. Further we have asked teachers to keep away from the evaluation centres if they have any symptoms, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/evaluation-of-plus-2-answer-scripts-begins/articleshow/76050068.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Brain behind petrol pump robbery held in Guj||NAGPUR: MIDC police on Wednesday nabbed from Palanpur in Gujarat the alleged mastermind of robbery-cum-murder at Wanadongri petrol pump on Outer Ring road. The accused Sagar Singh alias Paji Bawari was absconding after murdering 55-year-old petrol pump attendant Pandhari Bhandarkar on May 21. The police had earlier nabbed five persons, including three juveniles, in connection with the gruesome crime within 24 hours after the incident. According to sources, after losing money looted from the petrol pump in gambling, Bawari had fled to Gujarat on a bike. After MIDC cops learnt that the accused might go to his aunt in Gujarat, a team left on the trail of the mastermind. However, Bawari had left his aunt’s place before the team reached there. Cops later learnt that the accused might go to Palanpur, so they rushed there. They also informed local police and with their help nabbed the accused. Bawari was brought to the city on Wednesday. Bawari and other accused were produced before a court on Wednesday which remanded them in police custody till May 30. Following the success in solving the case, city police chief BK Upadhyay had announced Rs1 lakh reward to the team of MIDC police, led by senior PI Hemant Kharabe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/brain-behind-petrol-pump-robbery-held-in-guj/articleshow/76050070.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Ministry of fisheries rejigs fishing ban period||Mangaluru: The ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying has altered its order of imposing a uniform ban on fisheries in the Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ) beyond territorial waters – both on the east and west coast of the country. A decision to this effect was taken on May 25 in view of the restrictions in marine fishing activities for 17 days from March 24 to April 10 due to lockdown imposed across India. The ministry in consultation with experts and the coastal states and union territories and in the interest of the fishermen has decided to supersede its order dated March 20 to impose the uniform ban. The new ban period along the east coast will now be from April 15 to May 31 and along the west coast from June 15 to July 31. The traditional non-motorized units will be exempted from this 47-days’ uniform fishing ban imposed in Indian EEZ beyond territorial waters, an order from Sanjay Pandey, assistant commissioner (fisheries), said, adding that the amendment in the period of uniform fishing will be applicable only for the current year. Minister for fisheries Kota Shrinivas Poojari welcoming the new ban period said that extending the fishing period up to June 14 will help traditional fishermen. In a related development, the IMD has warned of a likely development of a low-pressure area over south-east and adjoining east central Arabian Sea and advised fishermen to avoid deep sea fishing activity over the region from May 31 to June 4. Indian Coast Guardauthorities in Panambur have requested boats already at sea to return to harbour prior to the onset of monsoons and adhere to implementation of uniform fishing ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ministry-of-fisheries-rejigs-fishing-ban-period/articleshow/76047900.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hubballi||Losses notwithstanding, we will not hike bus fares, says Savadi||Hubballi: There is no plan to increase bus fares though all the four state road transport corporations together have suffered a loss of Rs 1,800 crore so far, said transport minister Laxman Savadi. He spoke after chairing a review meeting with officials of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation here on Tuesday. Savadi said buses were plying on a stipulated time with only 30 passengers on board at a time to maintain social distancing. “All officials of the four corporations have been asked to prepare a blueprint to reduce loss and utilise resources to their optimum level so that corporations can survive. The department is mulling to use its properties in a better way to increase income. The aim is to plug losses and utilise resources and manpower to their best,” he said. NWKRTC alone has suffered a loss of Rs 414 crore. It is incurring a loss of Rs 90 crore per month. As many as 1.3 lakh employees are working in the four corporations and Rs 326 crore has been released for their salaries for the month of April, said Savadi. The government has released 50% of the funds needed to pay May’s salaries, he added. “I will meet the chief minister and request him to release more funds so that we can fully pay our staff,” he added. “Though the department mulling reducing expenditure, employees will not be sacked,” said Savadi. “Night service of buses will start if there is demand and adequate passengers. Each corporation will take a call considering all factors,” said the minister. MLC Basavaraj Horatti, MLA Prasad Abbayya and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/losses-notwithstanding-we-will-not-hike-bus-fares-says-savadi/articleshow/76045962.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||At Delhi’s PPE mandi, price and protection don’t go hand in hand||NEW DELHI: When a demand arises, Delhi traders are ever ready to rush in with supplies, even if there is the proverbial Indian jugaad involved. Bhagirath Palace, the hub of electrical and electronic knick-knacks in old Delhi, has transformed, in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, into the capital’s ‘PPE mandi’. Most of the shop owners there have diversified from selling lights and bulbs to joining the surgical stores in selling the much-in-demand personal protection medical kits. Read the entire story on TOI+Inside a PPE mandi in Delhi...||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-delhis-ppe-mandi-price-and-protection-dont-go-hand-in-hand/articleshow/76051030.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 28, 2020||Mysuru||Forum wants work on road inside Talacauvery sanctuary stopped||Madikeri: Wildlife First, a conservation advocacy organization, has issued a memorandum to Madikeri Forest Department officials demanding that the latter stop ‘unauthorised road work’ inside Talacauvery Wildlife Sanctuary. Activities like erection of concrete pillars, marking of trees etc by the PWD for construction of a proposed road from Patti to Todikana located within the sanctuary is against a Supreme Court judgment, the letter said. Wildlife First alleged that the forest department is facilitating unauthorised development work inside the protected forest area. It has threatened to take the issue to the apex court if the department does not stop the work immediately. Several trees have been marked and concrete pillars are said to have been raised inside the sanctuary for road construction. The road project is aimed at improving connectivity between Patti and Todikana in Madikeri taluk and will approximately cover 8.15 hectares of forest land. Wildlife First president KM Chinnappa said, “I recently learnt that trees are being marked to enable road widening inside Talacauvery Sanctuary. This is against a Supreme Court judgment and no developmental activities are to be carried inside the sanctuary. I am surprised that such work has been started. This project must be stopped immediately. Else, we will appeal to the Supreme Court.” When asked about Wildlife First’s notice, Madikeri deputy conservator of forest Prabhakaran said he had not received it. However, a copy of the notice has been sealed and received by the Madikeri forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forum-wants-work-on-road-inside-talacauvery-sanctuary-stopped/articleshow/76047598.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE to start conducting remaining board exams after June 15||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) has decided to conduct the remaining board exams of Classes X and XII after June 15. State education secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram held a meeting with department officials and district magistrates on Tuesday in this regard. During the meet, he asked officials to identify the schools which were earmarked as board examination centres but now are being used as quarantine facilities. The department will soon come up with a decision on centres for the remaining exams. Notably, the education department wants to conduct the rest of board exams in the third week of June because it is predicted that the monsoon is most likely to hit the state by the last week of June and this will make it difficult for the students of rural areas, especially those living in hill districts, to reach exam centres. Reportedly, the remaining exams will be conducted within a period of not more than three days. Meanwhile, an official in the UBSE said, “We have been asked to start with the evaluation of the answer sheets of the already conducted exams with immediate effect. This decision has been taken so that the results can be declared by mid-July.” The remaining subject exams for Class X students of UBSE are — Mathematics, Urdu, Punjabi, Bengali, and Sanskrit — and those for Class XII students of the state board are — Sanskrit, Urdu, Punjabi, Biology, Geography, and Geology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-to-start-conducting-remaining-board-exams-after-june-15/articleshow/76047298.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad crosses 11,000 Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: With 256 Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday, Ahmedabad district crossed the 11,000 total positive cases figure, with 11,097. In terms of cases, the Ahmedabad is fourth after Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai. On Wednesday, the district recorded 68% of the 376 new cases in the state. Likewise, of the 23 deaths in the day, 19 were from the district, taking it past 750 mark. In terms of deaths, Ahmedabad is next only to Mumbai. City-based experts said that apart from the established hotspots, new cases were also reported from areas such as Chandkheda, Meghaninagar, Shahibaug, Dudheshwar, Gomtipur, Odhav, Bapunagar, Gurukul, Naroda, Rakhial, Sardarnagar, Khokhra and Vatva, among others. An analysis of the case numbers reveals that the number of active cases in the district is now at 5,383 (48.5%). The number of recovered patients is 4,950 (44.6%) and the deaths are at 764 (6.9%). Meanwhile, the Indian Council on Medical Research (ICMR) announced that they have carried out widespread serology testing across the Covid-19 hotspot cities and states to ascertain whether community spread has begun in the country. While state health department officials remained mum about the survey, national reports say about 24,000 samples will be collected from 69 districts of India to ascertain whether the persons being surveyed had contracted Covid-19 and developed antibodies. Ahmedabad is among the 10 cities under the survey, the media reports said. The survey will be conducted primarily in Red Zone districts and could be crucial in understanding the spread of the virus, said experts. 19 deaths in cityAlso, in all 19 deaths from Covid-19 were reported from within the municipal limits on Wednesday of which, six persons did not have any co-morbidities. In the western part of the city a 53-year-old man from Chandlodia area died of the disease. Deaths were reported from Viratnagar, Indrapuri, India colony, Vatva, Amraiwadi, Gomtipur, Isanpur Asarwa, Bapunagar and Saijpur Bogha. ILI, SARI TO HELP IDENTIFY COVID-19 CASES After almost three months into the pandemic, a focus is now being put on identifying influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) cases, which may help in identifying Covid-19 cases. Till now 50,000 people have been checked by mobile fever vans, said ACS Rajiv Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-crosses-11k-cases/articleshow/76050381.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Alleging wrong medication, doc seeks to be shifted from GHMC||Visakhapatnam: Senior anaesthetist Dr K Sudhakar Rao, who was suspended for voicing concern over alleged shortage of PPE kits and masks, has purportedly written a letter to the authorities of the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) here, requesting to be shifted from the hospital as he has “apprehensions over his treatment and the medicines administered to him”. The letter went viral on social media on Wednesday. Dr Sudhakar is currently undergoing treatment at the GHMC and could not be contacted for verification of the letter. However, a photograph of Dr Sudhakar holding a copy of the letter and showing rashes on his lips also circulated on social media. When asked about the veracity of such a letter written to the GHMC authorities by Dr Sudhakar, the hospital superintendent, Dr S Radha Rani, denied its receipt. However, as per reliable sources in the health department, Dr Sudhakar did write to the GHMC head as he is reportedly apprehensive about the treatment in the hospital and feared that “wrong diagnosis or administering medication for schizophrenia” will adversely impact his health and jeopardise his job and medical career. In the four-page handwritten letter addressed to the superintendent on May 27, Dr Sudhakar had referred to his suspension order on April 8, for asking about N 95 masks. He also mentioned about threats and abuses he received from unknown callers, police registering “false” cases against him after the incident on May 16 in the city and that police had “inflicted injuries” on him and admitted him to GHMC. Dr Sudhakar alleged that he was given “irrelevant medicines used for schizophrenics.” The drugs mentioned in the letter are haloperidol, calmpose, parkin and antibiotics and the drugs are having various side-effects on him, including “dried lips, stoppage of urine, blurred vision, reeling sensation, dyspnoea (shortness of breath) besides broncho pneumonia.” Earlier, AP High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the arrest of Dr Sudhakar. The court also directed registration of cases against officials involved in the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/alleging-wrong-medication-doc-seeks-to-be-shifted-from-ghmc/articleshow/76047295.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Vadodara||Gambler jumps into well to escape raid, dies||VADODARA: A gambling raid proved to be fatal for a 22-year-old man who died after allegedly jumping into a well while escaping the cops chasing him in a village of Dahod district on Tuesday night. Death of Ajay Valvai sparked anger among his family members who accused the police of not informing about his death. When the police went to the village to fish out the body from the well on Wednesday and conduct legal formalities, they faced stiff resistance from the locals. The villagers initially did not allow the police to take the body for postmortem and they relented only after hectic convincing by the cops. The raid was conducted in a house at Afwa village of Fatehpura taluka by a team of Sukhsar police station sometime after 11pm after they got information that 10 people were gambling there. The police managed to nab two persons even as others escaped from the house during the raid. Valvai was allegedly among those who fled. The well was around 50 foot deep and had no boundary wall. Valvai died due to drowning, police said. His family came to know on Wednesday morning that he had fallen into a well and died. They along with other villagers rushed to the police station alleging that the police were aware about Valvai having fallen in the well, but did not inform them. “They agreed to cremate the body only after we convinced the family to maintain the dignity of the deceased. Other aspects of the incident will be probed by a senior officer,” Dahod superintendent of police, Hitesh Joysar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gambler-jumps-into-well-to-escape-raid-dies/articleshow/76044701.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||CBSE students can appear for exams in their home districts||Ludhiana: The Central Board of Secondary Eeducation (CBSE) will be holding examinations in the remaining subjects from July 1 to July 5, but as the some of the students have already returned to their home states, it is decided that they can appear for the exams from their respective districts. The circular issue by CBSE states. “Keeping in view the problem of the candidates who have shifted to other districts than the district of their examination centre, CBSE has decided to shift their examination centre to their present district. In this regard, a notification will be issued by CBSE in the first week of July. Such candidates are informed that they should remain in touch with their own schools and, as soon as CBSE issues notification, they are advised to take suggested action.” Paramjeet Kaur, principal of BCM School, Shastri Nagar, also CBSE city coordinator, said “We have received the date sheet and we will follow the protocol according to CBSE guidelines. We have all the schoolrooms available as there is a school closure so we would utilise all the space available." Jitendra Bhakhoo, principal of Jawahar Navodya Vidyala, a residential school situated at Dhanansu, said, “We are fully residential school and the students have gone to their respective places on March 19. We have 61 students who would be appearing in computer science and Hindi exams. All our students are from Ludhiana district and we will receive the instructions from the department and then we will follow accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbse-students-can-appear-for-exams-in-their-home-districts/articleshow/76050074.cms||Mehak Jain
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Dirty quarantine facility, negligent officials at Kanyakumari irk people awiting results||Kanyakumari: The government may sound stern on quarantine protocols for people travelling amid the lockdown, but the ground reality is different. A TOI photographer, who travelled from Chennai to Kanyakumari and had to stop at a check post at Kavalkinaru in Kanyakumari district at 6.30am on Wednesday, witnessed the negligence of government officials and of those working in a lodge that has been turned into a quarantine centre. At the check post, a team of health, police and revenue officials collected details from travellers. But instead of sending them to the quarantine facility 25km away in Kanyakumari, the officials waited for another 20 vehicles to arrive. The logic, perhaps, was to collectively escort the vehicles to the centre. But amid this, a driver who had returned from Chennai was allowed to go home after he said that he “did not get down anywhere in Chennai”. His samples were not collected either. A group from Kanyakumari that had flown down from Abu Dhabi to Thiruvananthapuram on Monday night was not screened at the Kaliyakkavilai check post that falls on the way when one enters Kanyakumari from Kerala. They had to travel more than 55km by road from Kaliyakkavilai to Kavalkinaru, traversing the district, and get screened. At the lodge, a traveller objected standing next to the group that had returned from Abu Dhabi. “But you are also from such a (Covid-19 infected) place! We are also standing here,” snapped a government official. Another one denied chairs to an elderly couple, in their 70s, who could not stand in the queue for long. When the officials began allotting rooms, the TOI photographer was asked to share it with another man who had travelled from Chengalpet. The argument ended when he was given a separate room. If getting a room after a long travel was a 30-minute wait, the soiled bed without a bedspread was a put-off. Making matters worse, the hotel staff refused to enter the room and said they would not provide bedcovers or a fresh pillow cover. The toilet was not flushed and there was no soap in the bathroom. (That the government has mandated frequent handwashing made little difference.) Weary travellers had to pay for essentials sold at the hotel including drinking water. Some bought towels at Rs 70 apiece to use it as bedspread. Food had to be collected in a semi-buffet type arrangement made on unclean tables. Social distancing was not on the menu either. Kanyakumari collector Prashant M Wadnere said the complaints would be “seriously looked into and instructions would be given to government officials and staff at the quarantine facilities to ensure cleanliness and social distancing”. Soon after, officials checked the rooms, cleaned them and provided bed sheets and other amenities. On bringing international passengers entering Kanyakumari from Kerala to the check post at the border with Tirunelveli district, the collector said: “There is a screening and quarantine facility at Kaliyakkavilai for those flying to Thiruvananthapuram and heading to Kanyakumari by road. But when the number of travellers is high, a few travellers are brought to Kavalkinaru which is the only other district screening facility.” Domestic travellers who are being screened and put up at the hotel will have to wait for a day to get the test results. If negative, they are free to go home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dirty-quarantine-facility-negligent-officials-at-kanyakumari-irk-people-awiting-results/articleshow/76050075.cms||M K Ananth
May 28, 2020||Mangaluru||YouTube channel helps PU students learn from home||Mangaluru: With over 2.75 lakh viewers, the YouTube channel launched by Dakshina Kannada Pre-University Principals’ Association to aid students during the lockdown has gained popularity. Several lessons broadcast through the channel have garnered over 30,000 views. “The channel was launched as there is an uncertainty over commencement of PU classes due to Covid-19 — with an aim that lockdown should not hamper the studies in the most crucial academic year. The channel is free for all and students across the state can access the content online. The content includes lessons taught by experienced faculties who have good command over their subject,” said Vittal K, principal, Kittel Memorial PU College and one of the active member of DKPUCPA. The channel was launched on May 1. Explaining why they chose to record lectures and upload rather than going live, Vittal said, “Connectivity is a major setback for online classes and live classes have been facing this issue. So we focused on recording the lectures and later uploading it online. This is more convenient especially for students from rural areas. They can download and learn any time.” “We have uploaded lessons not only from science related subjects, but also from commerce and arts. All the lectures voluntarily opted to take part in the initiative. The association is thankful to St Aloysius PU College for providing space for recording and other resources free of charge.” Currently, lecture series are in English and in the coming days content in Kannada too will be uploaded. Apart from it, there will be videos made available on motivational talks and career guidance among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youtube-channel-helps-pu-students-learn-from-home/articleshow/76048673.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Fresh fish in short supply in lockdown||KOCHI: Availability of fresh fish in the city during the lockdown has gone down by more than 85%, according to a study. Only 20 metric tonnes (MT) of fish were sold daily during the lockdown as against an average of 150MT on pre-lockdown days, revealed the rough estimate. The shortage was not because of the lack of production, but of hassles in distribution and reaching out to buyers. The reports of contaminated fish also played a role in keeping the customers away. “Around 550 brackish fish farmers couldn’t sell their fish because there were no auctions. There was around 400MT of fish waiting to be harvested in the farms around Kochi,” said Shinoj Subramaniam, project-head, Krishi Vigyan Kendra of Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (KVK-CMFRI). He said a self-help group, functioning under KVK, was roped in to reach out to homes. “It was easier to go to apartments and we managed to help some of the farmers,” he added. KVK has also been associated with multi-level farming initiatives that have been mushrooming in the district during the lockdown. He said the farm service centre at CMFRI has been receiving huge response seeking support for farm-related activities. The centre, which was launched last year, offers a host of services to the farmers. They rent out machineries such as tractors, power tiller, power weeder, different types of ploughs, rotavators, earth augers, motorized and hand operated sprayers, paddy transplanter, agro waste shredder, slurry pump and water pump to farmers on payment basis. Tractor-operated bund former, a tool used to prepare terraces for cultivation of tapioca and ginger, is the most sought-after at the centre by the farmers during this season, said Shinoj. Machineries used in vegetable cultivation and banana farming are also receiving good response from the farmers. Brush cutters are also sought after by budding farmers. The centre also offers agricultural expert advice to the farmers, he said. “The farm service centre was launched with an aim to offer services in agriculture to the public under one roof. Presently, trained staff of the KVK offer technical services such as land preparation, pond preparation, fish cage fabrication and ploughing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fresh-fish-in-short-supply-in-lockdown/articleshow/76047335.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||30 lakh migrant workers have left Gujarat; 2-3 lakh to follow||GANDHINAGAR: More than 30 lakh migrant workers left Gujarat for their own states between May 1 and 27, after the government permitted migrant workers to return. Government sources said that another two or three lakh workers are expected to leave in the coming days. The return of a whopping 30 lakh plus workers to their home states, is likely to severely hurt industrial activity in the state. According to government records, as many as 974 Shramik Special trains transported over 15.58 lakh migrant workers to states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu among others. Another 9.50 lakh workers have so far been sent in government and private buses to the neighbouring states of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. These figures do not include unregistered migrant workers who left the state on foot, bicycle and or other vehicles after being unable to register. Officials say that although the state government does not have exact figures of those who left by foot or other means, the number could be between four and five lakh persons. In the first week of the government allowing migrant workers to return, as many as 21 lakh workers had registered to return, with more registering as the days passed. Along with movement of migrant workers from Gujarat to other states number, the migration of workers from one district to another within Gujarat also spiked. People left Surat, Ahmedabad, Vadodara and other industrial hubs to go to districts such as Bhavnagar, Amreli, Jamnagar, Dahod and Narmada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/30l-migrant-workers-have-left-state-2-3l-to-follow/articleshow/76049100.cms||Kapil Dave
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gas sector finds itself in bright spot||AHMEDABAD: At a time when most industry sectors in the country are reeling from consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, the gas sector seems to have found a bright spot. During the lockdown period, when the overall demand for power was down by at least 30% in the country, a different story unfolded for the gas-fired power generating units. Driven by the steep fall in natural gas prices, the gas-based units generated 5,012 million units (kWh) in the month of April as compared to 4,301 million units in March this year, according to Central Electricity Authority (CEA) data. Gujarat is considered a hub for natural gas and of the 22,000MW of installed capacity for gas power plants in the country, about 6,500MW is from the state. Torrent Power’s SUGEN unit generated the highest among gas-based units at 452 million units in April, up from 349 million units generated in March. Torrent Power’s total generation from gas-based units went up to 1,000 million units in April as compared to 651 million units in the previous month, CEA data shows. Apart from using a cleaner fuel option, gas-fired power plants are also easier to adjust to fluctuating demands, said sources. In India, the declining imported gas (LNG) prices and rise in availability of cheap domestic gas will lower consumers’ average energy cost as much as 21% in 2020, reversing price escalation seen over the past decade, Morgan Stanley said in a report on May 19. The fuelling infrastructure, it said was expected to rise five times and residential connections to increase seven times over the next decade, helping India achieve its target of gas contributing nearly 15% of its energy mix by 2030, up from 6.2% currently. The demand for gas was down to only 30% in the month of April and this has currently gone up to 50% after recent relaxations given to industries, said an industry expert. He said the gas demand got the much-needed cushion from power generating units in the month of April when lockdown restrictions were stricter. “For downstream natural gas companies, the revenue models are very robust. The sector will command and do well as the economy opens. The normalization of volumes is expected around October-November,” said Harshvardhan Dole, vice-president, IIFL Institutional Equities. He said that given the large number of licensees that have been awarded in the past few years, there is a talent crunch. Some new CGD entrants, including one Delhi-based company, have even considered giving pay hikes to their employees, said sources. Share prices of companies like Gujarat Gas, Indraprastha Gas, Mahanagar Gas and Adani Gas are trading at down 15-20% as compared to March levels before Covid-19 lockdown. Companies like Shell Gas, GSPC LNG and Petronet LNG are currently selling re-gasified gas from the cargos that landed at their ports earlier but was stuck due to lockdown restrictions, said an official working with a leading gas transmission and distribution company. He said that new cargo will begin to arrive next month onwards. Covid-19-led demand concern have pulled down the spot LNG price to a new low of about US $2 per mmbtu, according to CLSA report on May 27 on the Indian oil and oil and gas sector. Futures suggest a sub-US $4 per mmbtu price for the rest of the year, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gas-sector-finds-itself-in-bright-spot/articleshow/76049103.cms||Maulik Pathak
May 28, 2020||Bareilly||Woman with disability faints & dies outside bank due to heat||Bareilly: A 55-year-old physically handicapped woman who was waiting outside a bank for around an hour in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri fainted and died in the blistering heat on Wednesday. The woman had visited the bank to withdraw her pension. Her body has been sent for postmortem. Sub-divisional magistrate has sought a report from lead bank manager on the matter. According to police, Laxmi Devi went to the bank to withdraw 'disability pension'. The bank staff reportedly asked her to wait outside as there was already a crowd inside. She then fainted in the heat. Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran said, “A bank staff had reportedly asked her to wait outside to maintain social distancing. However, I have asked the lead bank manager to submit a report. As the woman was elderly and physically handicapped, the bank should have provided her a chair to sit. Action will be taken accordingly, once I get the report.” Sub-inspector Durvesh Gangwar said, “The deceased was unmarried and used to stay with her sister’s family. She along with her nephew Dinesh Kumar arrived at the bank on a bicycle. Kumar has given us in writing that the woman was sitting on a bicycle and he went inside the bank and when he returned, he found that she was lying on the ground. We are awaiting the postmortem report to ascertain the cause of death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-with-disability-faints-dies-outside-bank-due-to-heat/articleshow/76047354.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 28, 2020||Delhi||List steps taken to help seriously ill: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Centre and the AAP government to inform it about the steps taken by them to treat seriously-ill corona patients in the city, including ambulances and hospitalisation. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar took suo motu cognisance of a video of a man detailing his ordeal to get his mother hospitalised with a ventilator after she tested Covid-positive. He alleged that the helplines of both the governments were unresponsive, and that he was denied a bed by several hospitals. “Anyone should be able to call the helpline numbers to not only report Covid cases, but also seek guidance with regard to hospitals, if hospitalisation is necessary. The helplines should render meaningful help to the callers. If the experience of Dharmendra Bhardwaj is anything to go by, it appears, that this aspect has not been adequately addressed,” the bench noted, while directing both the governments to furnish details about the arrangements made to deal with such patients. The court observed that the video raised serious issues of public concern and that the helpline numbers should also provide guidance and information about availability of hospital beds both in government and private hospitals, particularly in the proximity of the caller’s location. It asked Delhi government to file a report detailing the capacity created to deal with calls made on Covid helpline, nature of help given and the log maintained on this, if any. It directed both governments to assess the adequacy of the helpline capacity and state whether the same was sufficient to deal with the current and the future call traffic. The court said the government should also consider providing ambulance facility to serious covid patients, who require hospitalisation. In the video, Bharadwaj alleged that the “tall claims” of both the governments on arrangements for Covid-19 patients “were far from the reality.” He said his mother was admitted to a private hospital on May 19 and she tested Covid-positive on May 21, following which the hospital asked him to arrange for a ventilator. Bharadwaj said he visited several hospitals and called both the helplines, but in vain. Treating the video as a PIL, the court asked both the governments to give details of functional and responsive helpline numbers and also appointed an amicus curiae to examine the effectiveness of the helplines. The Aam Aadmi Party government informed the court that there were 10 helpline numbers, while a mobile application was under development to provide live updates about availability of hospital beds in both government and private hospitals and other related information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-list-steps-taken-to-help-seriously-ill/articleshow/76051040.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Despite lockdown losses, industry feels shutting down was right: PAU||Ludhiana: In a research conducted by a Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) professor, it was revealed that the ongoing lockdown has put a lot of strain on the industrial sector. A survey was conducted by Dr Surabhi Mahajan, assistant professor, department of apparel and textile science, PAU, under the guidance of the dean, College of Community Science, PAU, Dr Sandeep Bains. The respondents of the survey were CEOs, directors, merchandisers, production heads, senior designers, marketing managers and human resource managers from 50 industrial units of Ludhiana. Also, 74% of the industries that provided the data belonged to Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector, while 26% were large industries. In Ludhiana, 46% of the industries were making different kinds of knitted garments followed by those manufacturing woven garments, fabrics and yarns. Though the lockdown severely affected the industries still 84% of the respondents were of the view that lockdown from April 25 to May 17, was the right decision taken by the government. Dr Surabhi Mahajan said “Nearly 64% of the industries were completely shut down due to lockdown, while rest were able to work online on their designing and IT related aspects. There was a mixed response on government’s idea to open up the large industries in between the lockdown by providing stay facilities to the labour within the industry premises with regular medical check-ups, as 38% respondents agreed, 44% disagreed and 18% were not sure about this." She further added that 86 % of the respondents felt raw material availability is going to be a major difficulty due to global lockdown as they were dependent on Chinese import for the same. “Labour movement to their native states has resulted in extreme labour shortage, leading to production issues and it was the concern of 94% respondents. Further, maintaining social distancing among the uneducated workforce was a big problem, as shared by 62 % respondents, while the rest thought that it can be done through regular training of the workforce. Further, 82% of the industry experts agreed that it is the responsibility of the employers to educate their workforce about sanitation and hygiene at this sensitive hour. The non-integration and management issues of the supply chain of the products were a major threat for 94% respondents. All respondents said capital shortage due to liquidity issues will add to the woes of the Ludhiana industry. 88% respondents were facing difficulties due to panic created by the lack of authentic and reliable information among their workforce. Cancellation of orders and accumulation of dead stock due to global recession and no business deals was a challenge according to 94% respondents. An overwhelming proportion of the respondents, i.e. 96%, were concerned due to no summer business this year. This was due to the fact that the lockdown period of 54 days was the suitable time for mass production of summer merchandise, which has been completely thrashed due to shutdown of the industries. Moreover, 54% of the respondents were also concerned with the decreased demand of clothing after the lockdown period as the discretionary income of majority of people has diminished. 48% of the industry people were of the view that the normal working in their premises can be resumed only after 5-6 months as of now and till that time the industry will have to suffer huge losses. About 50-75% loss in business has already taken place due to the lockdown as stated by 80% respondents. Additional expenditure on ensuring medical safety of their employees clubbed with reduced business opportunities is creating trouble according to 76% respondents. However, a ray of hope that existed in the industry came from the fact that lockdown resulted in opportunities for creating new products like face masks and PPE kits as stated by 72% respondents,” stated Mahajan in her study. As far as the future strategies for fighting against this crisis was concerned, the study explained that 76% of the respondents were thinking of buying raw material from local markets or selecting alternative raw material easily available to cope up with shortage of Chinese raw material. 78% of the industry is planning to provide pick and drop and hostel facilities to their labour to overcome absenteeism and ensuring their health and hygiene. To boost up the future sales, product line diversification and exploration of new markets are the most appropriate options. This is reflected in responses of 76% respondents. As far as clearance of dead stock is concerned, the industries are planning for their alternate uses to make new products and to give promotional offers to their customers for increased selling as stated by 76% respondents, while few were supportive of keeping the stock for next season as well. Dr Mahajan concluded that the industry is looking for government support in the present situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-lockdown-losses-industry-feels-shutting-down-was-right-pau/articleshow/76050088.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Decision to strip me of captaincy was unexpected, says Unmukt Chand||Dehradun: India’s Under-19 Cricket World Cup-winning captain Unmukt Chand has said that the decision to remove him from the captaincy of Uttarakhand state team was unexpected while adding that he was not given any prior information by Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) regarding the move. The 27-year-old right hand batsman played the last domestic cricket season for Uttarakhand but he was removed from captaincy of the team in the middle of the Ranji Trophy tournament after the state team suffered crushing defeats in its first three matches under his leadership. Later Chand, who was struggling with the bat like the majority of his team mates, was ousted from the team for the rest of the season. “This captaincy episode happened out of the blue and I don’t know who took the call but I wasn’t given any prior information about it. So, that was definitely a shocker. There was no communication neither from the board nor the selectors. At that time, the team was going through a tough phase and it needed support. However, I believe that one needs to move on,” said the Delhi-born cricketer. When asked about his experience of leading a relatively new state cricket team, Chand said, "The experience was good and we had a good List-A tournament. Ours is a very young team and it is quite difficult to beat teams which are part of the domestic circuit for a long time.The results were not what we expected but we surely gained many positives from the tournament." Sharing his routine during the ongoing lockdown, Chand said that he is undergoing intense training to keep his body fit and perform better in upcoming games. "I am using different types of body weights and undergoing strength training. Initially, I used to run on my terrace but now, I have started running inside the premises of my society so that the fitness part is covered. Also, I am practicing my batting drills in the basement of my residential society in Delhi,” added Chand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/decision-to-strip-me-of-captaincy-was-unexpected-says-unmukt-chand/articleshow/76047325.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Schools cannot collect fees for holding online classes, says Tamil Nadu school education minister||CHENNAI: Schools can conduct online classes \without asking students and teachers to be physically present on its premises, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said. Earlier, some reports said online classes were banned. “We have issued a circular against schools collecting fees in the name of conducting online classes. Chief educational officers are taking action based on complaints about fee collection,” Sengottaiyan said. The minister launched a school observation app “Vagupparai Nokkin” on Wednesday at the DPI campus in the city on Wednesday. Officials doing inspections such as block education officers and block resource teachers can record their visit details digitally using the app so the department would get know the number of teachers, students and available facilities on a particular campus immediately. Speaking to reporters later, the minister said the app, earlier introduced in Chennai and Tiruvannamalai, is now being extended to cover the entire state. On reopening of schools, he said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would take a decision. “We will wait for the Covid-19 crisis to subside and observe the measures taken by other states. A high-level committee meeting headed by chief minister will decide about reopening. There is no urgency,” he said. An expert group would decide on reducing the syllabus according to fewer working days, he added. Meanwhile, private schools association urged the minister to consider the reopening schools in a phased manner after Class X exams. “Schools must reopen only for Classes X, XI and XII intially, as the students will face board exams next year,” K R Nandakumar, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation, Higher Secondary and CBSE Schools Association said in a representation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/schools-cannot-collect-fees-for-holding-online-classes-says-edu-min/articleshow/76050110.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: This migrant takes to pool therapy to beat the heat||NEW DELHI: What do you do when you get baked by the relentless sun? For 51-year-old Samir Karmakar, a labourer from Maharashtra, the best way is to keep himself submerged for 2-3 hours in a shallow waterbody behind Vigyan Bhavan. Last October, Karmakar made his way from Dharavi in Mumbai to work as a utensil cleaner in bars and restaurants in Connaught Place. For the past two months, he has had no work since all establishments are shut. Though he can speak English fluently, he hasn’t been able to land another job. “When the lockdown was announced, I started living on a pavement in Connaught Place. But since police are strict and don’t allow homeless in the area, I moved near Rajpath. They don’t disturb me here,” he said. Asked how he manages to eat, Karmakar said, “When the sun cannot be seen behind South Block, I start my search for dinner. I collect food packets from volunteers and sometimes from the gurdwara.” He didn’t try to return to Mumbai as Dharavi is a Covid-19 hotspot. He hopes to find a job as soon as eateries open after the lockdown restrictions are lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-migrant-takes-to-pool-therapy-to-beat-the-heat/articleshow/76051064.cms||Piyal Bhattacharjee
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Sexual predator Kasi case transferred to CB-CID||KANYAKUMARI: Cases registered against sexual predator T Kasi alias Suji, 26, of Nagercoil have been transferred to the CB-CID. An order for the same was passed by director general of police (DGP) J K Tripathy based on the recommendation of superintendent of police (SP) of Kanyakumari district, N Sreenath. Since his victims are residing in various places, the Kanyakumari police had recommended transfer of the case to the CB-CID to propel the investigation. The CB-CID team will take the accused under custody for further investigations. So far police have taken him in custody twice – three days in the first week of May and for six days till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sexual-predator-kasi-case-transferred-to-cb-cid/articleshow/76050092.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Government urged to open up Kodai tourism with restrictions||MADURAI: With the stakeholders of the tourism industry in Kodaikanal falling deep into financial distress and thousands of people having lost their livelihood, they have urged the state government to open up tourism activities with limitations.Representatives from 16 associations like, hotel, cab owners, traders, roadside vendors, tourist guides and photographers put forth various suggestions to open up tourism activities in a consultative meet held on Wednesday. Santha Sathish, convener of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations said that most of the people in Kodaikanal town are dependent on tourism. With the industry shut, more than 10,000 families are in deep distress. Economically poor among them are at the mercy of NGOs, who supply dry rations. Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations alone has reached out 2,200 families, he said. A website can be introduced, where tourists from green zones can register themselves to visit the hill station. They should be screened before entering Kodaikanal to ensure that the town continues to remain Covid-19 free. The government should see this as an opportunity to step in to balance life for Kodai residents and tourism activities. An assessment to find out tourist capacity of the hill station should be conducted and footfalls should be controlled accordingly, so safeguard the fragile ecosystem. Secretary of Kodaikanal Hoteliers Association S Abdul Kani Raja said that the tourism sector has already lost around Rs 500 crores and it cannot afford to lose anymore. “Number of vehicles at each tourist spot can be controlled, sanitisers and water for washing hands can be kept. Similarly, number of people travelling in hired vehicles can be limited to ensure social distancing,” he said. “With summer vacation season completely wiped out, the government should facilitate second season in September and October,” he added. He demanded the GST paid by the tourism sector for the last 2 years be returned as they lost their livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-urged-to-open-up-kodai-tourism-with-restrictions/articleshow/76050108.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Here, you can print your face on mask||KOCHI: As face masks became mandatory and the demand for customised masks increases, a photo studio in Kottayam has come up with a personalised mask displaying the face of the person wearing it. Ettumanur-based Beena Studios, owned by Binesh G Paul, prints on the mask the photo of the facial parts which are usually covered when one wears a mask. The mask features the same skin colour and facial features of the user and when it is worn the printed parts will complete the face of the user. The mask is reusable after washing. With only Rs 60 for each mask, it has become a hit amid lockdown and there are many takers from various parts of the state. “The idea came into my mind when I had to go to a grocery store near my house wearing mask amid the lockdown. The shopkeeper could not recognise me with the mask on even though I was a regular customer. Wearing masks has become a new normal for us but we lose our facial identity in the public. So I thought of solution and tried printing my face on the mask. The next day I went to the shop with the photo mask and the shopkeeper identified me easily. I shared the idea with my friends and they suggested producing it commercially,” said Binesh, who has been running the studio for years. Binesh use dye-sublimation printing, which is a computer printing technique which uses heat to transfer dye onto materials such as a plastic, card, paper, or fabric. All the user has to do is take a photo at the studio. The photo will be transferred to the white cloth mask by heating it at 360 degrees celsius for 40 seconds. The entire process will take less than 20 minutes but as the orders have increased, Binesh is planning to buy more sublimation printers to meet the requirement. “I tried it out of curiosity but after wearing the mask it feels really good as people can recognise me without me taking the mask off. Moreover, it will be souvenir of the Covid-19 lockdown,” said Avinesh Abraham, a customer. Binesh prefers customers to come to the studio and take the photos for the masks to ensure quality of the photo. But those who cannot come to the shop amid lockdown can send their photos via email as prescribed and the masks will be delivered to the customer by courier, if they bear the cost. Watch Corona fashion: How 'Faceprint masks' are gaining popularity across the country||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/here-you-can-print-your-face-on-mask/articleshow/76047381.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Policymakers forget to include sanitary pads in essentials kit’||Ludhiana: To observe Menstrual Hygiene Day, celebrated worldwide on May 28, women who had no access to sanitary pads will be given the ‘essential’ that is often ignored by mostly male-dominated administrative teams. With women being the worst affected due to Covid-19 economic downturn, many NGOs are trying now to bring to the notice of the authorities that along with groceries and other food items, the administration should also distribute sanitary pads to poor women. Aas-Ehsaas is one such NGO, whose members are distributing sanitary pads among the poor women across the city. Under this campaign, team Aas-Ehsaas has so far distributed more than 60,000 sanitary napkins in the slum as well as rural areas. Gunjeet Ruchi Bawa, president of Aas-Ehsaas, said, “We started with a campaign and we have completed a cycle of one month and have distributed 60,000 sanitary napkins. I have been receiving calls from the poor women demanding sanitary napkins and we still have a stock of 40,000-50,000 sanitary napkins with us. So, we will definitely do a second round.” Bawa mentions that though bollywood movies like “Padman” have helped in a big way in creating awareness about the sanitary pads and hygiene, still there was a lot needed to be done. She also said there is not only accessibility problem but also the issue of affordability, particularly in view of ongoing economic crisis in which poor women are worst affected. Several women are finding it hard to afford the sanitary napkins. “We are planning to kick-off another drive, where we will distribute sanitary napkins and create awareness on menstrual hygiene day. We will continue to create awareness about personal hygiene and this will be our never-ending campaign. Whenever any women will be requiring a sanitary napkin, she can contact us and it will be delivered to them,” added Bawa. Meanwhile, another group, who are also members of Rotary Club, manufacturers 20,000 sanitary napkins every month and distribute it to government schools, rural and slum areas. Param Saini, social activist said, “We work together and manufacture sanitary pads, which are made from wood pulp, cotton and organic fibre. These sanitary pads are biodegradable and eco-friendly.” To kick start this venture, Param bought machinery last year from Arunachalam Muruganantham, who is also known as the ‘Padman of India.’ The machinery was worth Rs 3.4 lakh. The Rotary Club of Ludhiana helped Param in buying this machinery. Param is assisted by Rajinder Kaur, Shikha and Madan Pal Verma. “We distribute these napkins free of cost and the main source of revenue for us is the donations we receive,” she said. The current situation is a great challenge to them, she said “Most of our raw material comes from Mumbai and because of coronavirus, we are unable to procure that. So, we have currently halted the manufacturing, but we will start as soon as the lockdown is lifted,” added Param. On the Menstrual Hygiene Day, Param along with her team will be distributing 3,000 sanitary napkins in the slum and rural areas, as well as create awareness about the importance of menstrual hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/policymakers-forget-to-include-sanitary-pads-in-essentials-kit/articleshow/76050114.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||RDO assures ‘lost’ hamlets of welfare||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam district administration responded within a day of a report carried on May 26 in this paper about the plight of the Kondus, a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG), in Pasuvulabanda and Jeelulova villages under Ravikamatam mandal in the district. An officer of the rank of revenue divisional officer (RDO) visited the villages on Wednesday and assured that the residents’ issues would be resolved within a week. Sixty residents in the two villages do not have an Aadhaar card, ration card, pension while 18 children are without birth certificates. Tribals in the villages have resided here for 50 years and received pattas under the Forest Rights Act but the villages was later removed from the limits of Ravikamatam mandal. It will be recalled that tribals staged a half-naked protest against the district administration this Monday, covering themselves with only ‘addakulu’ leaves, demanding welfare benefits. On Wednesday, Narsipatnam RDO K Sivadevi Jyothi and Ravikamatam tehsildar P Kanaka Rao, with revenue staff, visited the villages and enquired about the living conditions and problems faced by the tribals. The RDO instructed the tehsildar to collect applications for Aadhar, ration cards and housing schemes from villagers, besides making them eligible for government welfare schemes. She also instructed officials to provide nutritious food to pregnant women and children in the villages and ensure minimum support price to turmeric cultivators in the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rdo-assures-lost-hamlets-of-welfare/articleshow/76047340.cms||Siva G
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Jamaat case: 294 foreigners named in 15 more chargesheets||NEW DELHI: Nearly 197 foreigners who came for the Tabhligi Jamaat event could not produce a passport or visa documents during the probe, the Crime Branch of Delhi Police said while filing 15 chargesheets against 294 foreigners who had attended the Alami Markaz gathering at Nizamuddin. The accused came from 14 countries such as Malaysia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and some African ones, and have been booked for allegedly violating visa conditions and spreading a deadly disease. The 197 foreigners will also face legal action under the Immigration Act, the Crime Branch said while filing the second set of chargesheets on Wednesday. Twenty chargesheets were filed against 82 foreigners at the Saket court on Tuesday. Police are trying to find out whether more people had travelled to India on the pretext of Tabhligi Jamaat and absconded thereafter. The foreigners have also been booked for violating the government guidelines and regulations regarding Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. According to the chargesheet, they also violated the prohibitory orders and quarantine rules meant to tackle the novel coronavirus and acted negligently in a way that was likely to spread the infection dangerous to life. The passports of 700 foreigners have been seized and sent for scrutiny to the foreign ministry, a source said. The cops may scan the records of the immigration department to find out how many of them mentioned the Banglewali Masjid as the destination in their entry documents. Police have also asked for documents from the Markaz authorities to match them with that of the immigration department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamaat-case-294-foreigners-named-in-15-more-chargesheets/articleshow/76050444.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Hopper bands found in Wayanad aren’t locusts, pesticides not needed, says Experts||KOZHIKODE: Reiterating that the hopper bands seen at Pulpally in Wayanad are not locusts, experts in the field have cautioned against chemical pesticide application recommended by some agencies against the smaller aggregation (hopper bands) of grasshopper (aularches miliaris). There has been panic among farmers in the area following sighting of bands of aularches miliaris- the spotted coffee grasshopper (Family Pyrgomorphidae) in their coffee, plantain and other agricultural fields which were misconceived by many as early signs of locust swarms, especially in the backdrop of locust infestations in many parts of North India. Dhaneesh Bhaskar, researcher and member of the Species Survival Commission (grasshopper specialist group) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), who conducted field observation in the infested areas in Pulpally said although aularches miliaris is commonly called as ‘coffee locust’ they are not a ‘true locust’. “The aularches miliaris is a grasshopper and behaves like many grasshoppers in reaching high densities from time to time but rarely form bands or swarms,” he said adding that locusts that recently invaded northeast and central India are schistocerca gregaria belonging to the family acrididae which are commonly called desert locust. He said `locusts' are grasshoppers that belong to acrididae family that meet two criteria, like forming at some periods dense groups comprising huge numbers, bands of hoppers, and/or swarms of winged adults which migrate and also have the defining character of polyphenic behaviour in the sense that individuals living separately differ in many characteristics from those living in groups. "There are several grasshopper species that satisfy just the first criterion and thus often loosely called locusts. It is owing to this reason that aularches miliaris is termed as `coffee locust’. However, the second criterion, the expression of density-dependent phase polyphenism, has never been reported in the species in question- auraches miliaris," he said. He said only a limited number of grasshoppers were now left in the around eight acres of infected area in Pulpally as the nymphs have reached adult stage and have scattered and shifted from the coffee and banana plants to the teak trees in the forest fringes, “In the infestation in Wayanad, the economic loss is very minimum and does not warrant for chemical treatment,” he said. Agencies like Coffee Board had recommended application of pesticides like quinalphos as part of pest management measures. Dhaneesh said of the around 28,500 species of grasshoppers only 50 are considered as significant pests and aularches miliaris is not in the list and can only be considered as a minor pest causing occasional economic damages. “Also aularches miliaris is a species listed as lower risk and near-threatened for south India on regional conservation status assessment. Hence, severe pest management strategies are not to be suggested at this stage of infestation,” he added. Experts say mass chemical pesticide application can have adverse effects on the eco system, food chain and pollination. According to experts changes in land use patterns like shift to monocropping in which large areas of the farm are left unattended, which was particularly so this year due to the lock down, could have favoured mass incubation of eggs and survival of nymphs which has led to a gregarious phase||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/hopper-bands-found-in-wayanad-arentlocusts-pesticides-not-needed-experts/articleshow/76047386.cms||K R Rajeev
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Two peddlers arrested with 1.2kg opium in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana rural police have arrested two drug peddlers after it seized 1.200kg of opium from his possession. Giving details, Ludhiana (rural) SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said that as part of a special campaign against drug smugglers, a police party was present at the Chowkiman bus stand. He added that the police team received a tip-off that Vishal Singh of Mugalpura and Deepak Kumar of Model Town in Hoshiarpur used to deal in the illegal trade of drugs. The police said after receiving the information, ASI Sukhdev Singh got the case registered under various sections of the NDPS Act at Sadar police station, Jagraon. It added that following the registration of the case SI Baldev Singh, along with a police party, set up a check post at Chowkiman police post. The cops further said during checking the accused, Vishal and Deepak, along with their Tempo Traveller truck, were nabbed by the police. They added that after search the contraband was seized from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-peddlers-arrested-with-1-2kg-opium/articleshow/76050117.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Vehicle registrations dip to 20% of normal in Madurai||Madurai: Regional transport offices (RTO) in Madurai district are witnessing barely 20% of new registrations due to dull sales though it has been two weeks since automobile showrooms were allowed to open.Transport officials have capped the number of applications for licence, driving test and learner’s licence to 10 each. However, there is no such restriction on registration of vehicles. “We are equipped to register any number of vehicles, but the number is drastically lesser. We used to register 125 to 150 vehicles a day on an average with most of them being two-wheelers before lockdown. But, now only around 25 vehicles come for registration,” said a source from Madurai North RTO.An RTO said that out of every five vehicles, is a car. Situation is similar in Madurai Central and Madurai South RTOs. He said that only Bharat Stage VI vehicles are registered as per instruction from the transport ministry. For licences, at present, only tests for two-wheelers are conducted. Since motor vehicle inspectors need to sit next to the candidate during a four-wheeler test, the official will stand the chance of contracting the virus if the candidate is infected. The RTOs are also receiving about 10 people daily to renew their fitness certificates, although the government has given an extension due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vehicle-registrations-dip-to-20-of-normal-in-madurai/articleshow/76050122.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM lauds Covid heroes for putting duty before selves||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has described as heroes, among others, the doctors, nurses, bus marshals, civil defence volunteers who have been caring for Covid-19 patients and assisting Delhi government in looking after the needs of people during the lockdown. On Twitter on Wednesday, Kejriwal said these people were #DilliKeHeroes and thanked them for their bravery, telling them that they were the capital’s biggest strength in fighting against the novel coronavirus. “Most of us were locked in our homes during the Covid epidemic. But some Delhiites were serving the people of the city and the country. The entire Delhi salutes these #DilliKeHeroes,” the CM tweeted. Community kitchen cooks, civil defence volunteers, teachers and principals engaged in ration distribution, police personnel, ASHA workers, doctors, paramedical staff, bus drivers, conductors and marshals are risking their lives to keep the virus at bay. Saying he would share the stories of these heroes on social media, Kejriwal posted a video of Vijay, a cook at a hunger relief centre in the city. “Our cooks in the hunger relief centres are working for a noble cause and feeding the people in this pandemic. They feed around 10 lakh people daily,” he said in his tweet. Describing his work during the lockdown, 36-year-old Vijay Yadav said that he remained busy most of the day with only a few hours for himself, being among those who cooked to feed 10-12 lakh people daily under the Delhi government scheme. "Our families have been calling us home, but we have to think about all the people. If we return home, who will feed 30,000-35000 people who need help every day?" he asked. Civil defence volunteer Rajendra, posted at a hunger relief centre, was also doing his bit. “I am responsible for ensuring that people follow social distancing norms and that food distribution is done in a proper manner,” he said. Dr Ajit, a nodal Covid officer at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, revealed that the CM held a zoom call with doctors during the lockdown and arranged the best possible staying arrangements for them in hotels when it became clear that commuting daily would be a problem for them. The doctor, who hasn’t met his family for some time now, said, "My wife is a doctor too and she understands, but my kids start crying whenever I talk to them on the phone or video call.” Similarly, life has been challenging for Asha, 34, a nurse at Lok Nayak Hospital, since the Covid outbreak. “We are required to work for continuous shifts for 14 days, morning, evening and night,” she said. “Leaves are out because we are on duty for 14 straight days and then go into quarantine for the next 14 days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-lauds-covid-heroes-for-putting-duty-before-selves/articleshow/76050135.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Petrol bomb hurled at constable’s house||MADURAI: A petrol bomb was hurled at the house of a police constable in Melamadai in Madurai district on Wednesday. However, no one was injured in the incident. S Shahjahan, 22, is a grade two police constable attached with 42nd police battalion in Chennai Armed Reserve. The accused was identified as B Velmurugan, 25, from Ezhil Nagar in Melamadai. Police said that Shahjahan had come to Madurai to celebrate Eid with his family. The incident took place at around 1am, when his family was asleep at their house on Pallivasal Street. They heard a blast and rushed to the entrance of their house. They noticed a broken bottle on the floor. Inquiry by the Anna Nagar police revealed that on Saturday, Shahjahan had a dispute with his friends S Surya, 21, from Yagappa Nagar and a few others. A police team on regular patrol intervened and dispersed them. Meanwhile, on Monday, Surya and his friends S Balamurugan, 20, M Anbuselvan, 34, J Irudhaya Prakash, 25, and M Saddam Hussain, 28, were arrested for planning a robbery. Velmurugan, who was Anbuselvan’s friend, assumed that Shahjahan was the reason for the arrest and hurled the bomb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/petrol-bomb-hurled-at-constables-house/articleshow/76050119.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Watermelons, sprinklers keep animals at zoo cool||NEW DELHI: Water coolers, sprinklers for daily baths and fresh seasonal fruits like watermelons are some of the measures being used to keep the animals cool during the heatwave in the capital that has seen temperatures touch 47.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the hottest so far this season. The zoo has remained shut for over two months now with a lockdown in place. However, officials said arrangements to ensure animals don’t face any discomfort due to the heat were made last month itself. A senior zoo official said carnivores and omnivores present inside the zoo, including lions, tigers, jaguars and the Himalayan bear, have all been provided water coolers outside their enclosures, which run in two shifts. “Each enclosure has two coolers and one runs at night and one during the day. Most animals prefer to stay indoors during the day when temperatures are high, so we water each enclosure during the day to ensure a wet surface. This means each time even a little breeze blows, it feels cool inside,” said the official. For herbivores, sprinklers are installed that not only act as a water source, but officials said they were particularly enjoyable for deer species. “During the day, be it black buck or sambar deer, we can see different deer species having a good time with sprinklers. When they need to cool off, they are seen heading towards these sprinklers,” said a senior zoo official. The newly renovated reptile house, meanwhile, is air-conditioned. To ensure hydration, electrolytes are also being added to the drinking water. An official said there has been a change in diet too, with several hundred kilos of fresh seasonal fruit reaching the zoo premises each day. “The dry green fodder is being wetted before it is fed the animals. Fruits also help cool the animals along with providing water content,” said an official. For carnivores, the meat consumption has been brought down to reduce heat generation. A zookeeper said while 12 kg of meat would be fed to a tiger during winters, only around 10 kgs is fed now daily. “This is enough to keep them well fed and then they like to stay inside, especially post-afternoon,” said the keeper. Watch Delhi: Watermelons, sprinklers keep animals at zoo cool during heatwave||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/watermelons-sprinklers-keep-animals-at-zoo-cool/articleshow/76051078.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Verify documents online for engineering intake, urge educationists||CHENNAI: Verification of certificates as part of counselling for admission to engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu, delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, should be done online, educationists have said. The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee, which normally initiates the process in May, is yet to begin and the exercise could extend up to end-August. Counselling has been made entirely online, but candidates need to be physically present, at the appointed time, at centres where certificates of more than one lakh candidates are physically verified. Experts say such verification is a waste of time. “There is no need for parents and students to travel to centres to get their certificates verified,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi. Online verification would shorten the counselling process, he added. “Every year they start application process a week before the Class XII results are announced. This time, the results are expected around June 25.” With the CBSE rescheduling the remaining Class XII exams to July 1, parents are worried if the results would come in time for students to apply for engineering counselling. “CBSE students can upload their marks anytime before the release of rank list,” Jayaprakash Gandhi said. Principals also say verifying certificates physically would be challenging. “Engineering colleges need to get genuineness of certificates verified with school education department after admissions. So, they can postpone certificate verification or go for online verification,” said B Chidambararajan, principal of Valliammai Engineering College. Certificates are to be verified before the counselling so that the candidates are ranked accordingly. Sources in TNEA said the higher education department is mulling online verification of certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/verify-docus-online-for-engg-intake-urge-educationists/articleshow/76050121.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Trichy||16 new Covid-19 cases in central districts, 23 in south Tamil Nadu||TRICHY/MADURAI: There was a resurgence of Covid-19 in the central region on Wednesday with 16 new cases reported, taking the total count in the region to 861 while 23 fresh cases took the total in the southern districts to 1,334. Trichy district had three new cases including a prisoner at the central prison who returned from Puzhal prison in Chennai. A 53-year-old man and his 47-year-old wife from Somarasampettai area, both asymptomatic, also tested positive. Their 27-year-old pregnant daughter had tested positive on May 25, but the district administration said they were infected by a Chennai returnee. Ariyalur also had five more cases four of whom were Chennai returnees while one was a Maharashtra returnee. The district had 362 cases 355 of whom got discharged. Tiruvarur district also recorded five more cases, all Chennai returnees aged between 18 and 23, and have been admitted to the government medical college hospital there. Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam also registered one case each, two of them Chennai returnees. Meanwhile, nine patients under treatment at government medical college hospital in Karur were discharged on Wednesday. In the southern districts, Tirunelveli became the first to cross 300 cases with four new cases taking the total to 301. Of the 1,577 who travelled on the Mumbai-Tirunelveli special train, samples were collected from 930. The results of 123 of these people have been declared till Wednesday aout of whom 31 were found to be infected by Covid-19. The results of 807 more people who came on the train are awaited. Among the eight trains that carried people returning to Tamil Nadu from May 14, this train had the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Sixteen passengers on the Ahmedabad - Tirunelveli train that arrived on May 22 had tested positive while 15 were found to be positive from the New Delhi - Tenkasi train. Madurai district’s total has now gone up to 241 with one local person and seven others who arrived from Maharashtra recently testing positive. A 25-year-old man from T Mettupatti in Vadipatti taluk, who came from Chennai by car, tested positive. Kanyakumari recorded one positive case taking its total to 59. Tuticorin had two people within the district and five who had come from Maharashtra testing positive. It now has reported 194 Covid-19 positive cases till date. Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar and Tenkasi did not have any new cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/16-new-cases-in-central-dists-23-in-south-tn/articleshow/76050139.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bareilly||Farmers’ body demands Rs 20k crore relief package from PM||Pilibhit: The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella group of over 250 farmers’ unions in the country, on Wednesday demanded a comprehensive relief package for farmers and labourers, including migrant workers, from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a memorandum to PM Modi, the AIKSCC demanded an emergency relief fund of Rs 20,000 crore to make the full and final payment of sugarcane arrears to nearly 40 lakh growers in Uttar Pradesh, out of the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore-package. Meanwhile, on a call given by the farmers’ body, all its allied unions observed May 27 as ‘Kisan Bachao, Desh Bachao’ day. According to AIKSCC national convenor VM Singh, traders are buying crops, especially vegetables and fruits, from farmers at prices much lower than the production cost. “Farmers had to sell the wheat crop at a much lower price than the minimum support price (MSP) due to the lockdown. Even in such a difficult time, the government failed to pay them their due of sugarcane price. Thus, we demand from the PM to earmark a fund out of the Rs 20 lakh crore-package for immediate clearance of their cane arrears,” said Singh. Terming the PM’s announcement of scanty relief package of Rs 3,500 crore for 8 crore labourers for two months “shameful”, Singh said, “This implies financial assistance to a family worth Rs 218.5 a month and Rs 7.26 per day. If a family comprises five members, the PM intends to give relief of merely Rs 1.45 per person per day.” “The PM has extended almost ‘zero relief’ to the farmers and labourers out of his Rs 20 lakh crore-package, even as he assured the countrymen during the lockdown period that the nation had an adequate stock of foodgrain,” slammed Singh. A few other demands that the memorandum included were allotment of 15 kg foodgrain to every poor with or without ration card, immediate operation of all trains and interstate bus services for migrant labourers, opening of at least one dispensary in each village and access to health services for poor farmers and labourers to protect them from Covid-19 in an effective manner. Meanwhile, local leaders of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan (KMS), Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in all five tehsils of Pilibhit district sent their respective memoranda of demands to the PM through sub-divisional magistrates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-body-demands-rs-20k-crore-relief-package-from-pm/articleshow/76047391.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bareilly||Activist seeks PM's help to free PTR tiger from Kanpur zoo||Pilibhit: A Lucknow-based wildlife activist, Kaushalendra Singh, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar, seeking their help in getting released a four-year-old healthy tiger of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) confined in Kanpur zoo since April 4. Singh has sought immediate release of the tiger into the wild before its natural behaviour changes. He has contended that the feline may lose its ability to survive in the wild and fall prey to other carnivores or poachers if there is delay in settling it free. The tiger was shifted to the zoo after it killed two villagers at Richhaula village in Pilibhit barely 300 meters from the core forest region of Mala range of PTR. After its capture, forest authorities had said the tiger would be released after a one-month study of its behaviour at Kanpur zoo. “Normally, a tiger is lodged in zoo when it becomes a maneater or is afflicted with some physical deformity that restrains it from hunting prey," said the activist. This tiger was not a maneater, he added. Confirming that the tiger was healthy and displayed no unnatural behaviour, RK Singh, senior veterinary officer at Kanpur zoo, told TOI that they will release the big cat as soon as "we get a green signal from the chief wildlife warden”. On being asked about it, chief wildlife warden of UP Sunil Pandey said “the forensic report of the tiger revealed the presence of human hair in its intestines. In such a situation, we will take some more time to decide whether to keep the tiger permanently in the zoo or to release it in the forest."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/activist-seeks-pms-help-to-free-ptr-tiger-from-kanpur-zoo/articleshow/76047399.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||16 new cases in central dists, 23 in south TN||Trichy/Madurai: There was a resurgence of Covid-19 in the central region on Wednesday with 16 new cases reported, taking the total count in the region to 861 while 23 fresh cases took the total in the southern districts to 1,334. Trichy district had three new cases including a prisoner at the central prison who returned from Puzhal prison in Chennai. A 53-year-old man and his 47-year-old wife from Somarasampettai area, both asymptomatic, also tested positive. Their 27-year-old pregnant daughter had tested positive on May 25, but the district administration said they were infected by a Chennai returnee. Ariyalur also had five more cases four of whom were Chennai returnees while one was a Maharashtra returnee. The district had 362 cases 355 of whom got discharged. Tiruvarur district also recorded five more cases, all Chennai returnees aged between 18 and 23, and have been admitted to the government medical college hospital there. Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam also registered one case each, two of them Chennai returnees. Meanwhile, nine patients under treatment at government medical college hospital in Karur were discharged on Wednesday. In the southern districts, Tirunelveli became the first to cross 300 cases with four new cases taking the total to 301. Of the 1,577 who travelled on the Mumbai-Tirunelveli special train, samples were collected from 930. The results of 123 of these people have been declared till Wednesday aout of whom 31 were found to be infected by Covid-19. The results of 807 more people who came on the train are awaited. Among the eight trains that carried people returning to Tamil Nadu from May 14, this train had the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Sixteen passengers on the Ahmedabad - Tirunelveli train that arrived on May 22 had tested positive while 15 were found to be positive from the New Delhi - Tenkasi train. Madurai district’s total has now gone up to 241 with one local person and seven others who arrived from Maharashtra recently testing positive. A 25-year-old man from T Mettupatti in Vadipatti taluk, who came from Chennai by car, tested positive. Kanyakumari recorded one positive case taking its total to 59. Tuticorin had two people within the district and five who had come from Maharashtra testing positive. It now has reported 194 Covid-19 positive cases till date. Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar and Tenkasi did not have any new cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/16-new-cases-in-central-dists-23-in-south-tn/articleshow/76050146.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||5 bonded labourers from Chhattisgarh rescued in Madurai||Madurai: Five bonded labourers, including two minors from Chhattisgarh who were working at a borewell unit near Achampathu in Madurai, were rescued by human rights activists on Wednesday. The labourers were found left to work 24x7 at borewell units without sufficient food.The five, belonging to the scheduled tribe community were promised jobs by agents who had in turn sold them to owners. “For Rs 8,000-9,000 each person, agents lure such vulnerable tribal youths. They are promised Rs 10,000 salary per month, but that is not paid properly, forcing them to work continuously,” said Philomin Raj, a human rights lawyer working with the Madurai-based NGO Institute of Development, Education, Action and Studies (IDEAS). Just before lockdown began, when they were working in Kerala, they wanted to return to their native and demanded payment for their work. However, it was refused and they were brought to Tamil Nadu. “During the past five days, they were forced to work for several hours in borewells. They were also being given only meagre food of rice and dal. They were also paid only around Rs 1,000 per month in the past nine months,” said Raj.“We rescued several bonded labourers in Alanganallur a few months ago who had suffered a similar fate. We got information about these youngsters from the rescued labourers,” Raj added.A police complaint has been lodged under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The local revenue divisional officer (RDO) met with the labourers on Wednesday. With legal help, they are now hoping to get full salaries as well as relief amounting to Rs 20,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-bonded-labourers-from-chhattisgarh-rescued-in-madurai/articleshow/76050128.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||16 new Covid-19 cases in central districts, 23 in south Tamil Nadu||TRICHY/MADURAI: There was a resurgence of Covid-19 in the central region on Wednesday with 16 new cases reported, taking the total count in the region to 861 while 23 fresh cases took the total in the southern districts to 1,334. Trichy district had three new cases including a prisoner at the central prison who returned from Puzhal prison in Chennai. A 53-year-old man and his 47-year-old wife from Somarasampettai area, both asymptomatic, also tested positive. Their 27-year-old pregnant daughter had tested positive on May 25, but the district administration said they were infected by a Chennai returnee. Ariyalur also had five more cases four of whom were Chennai returnees while one was a Maharashtra returnee. The district had 362 cases 355 of whom got discharged. Tiruvarur district also recorded five more cases, all Chennai returnees aged between 18 and 23, and have been admitted to the government medical college hospital there. Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam also registered one case each, two of them Chennai returnees. Meanwhile, nine patients under treatment at government medical college hospital in Karur were discharged on Wednesday. In the southern districts, Tirunelveli became the first to cross 300 cases with four new cases taking the total to 301. Of the 1,577 who travelled on the Mumbai-Tirunelveli special train, samples were collected from 930. The results of 123 of these people have been declared till Wednesday aout of whom 31 were found to be infected by Covid-19. The results of 807 more people who came on the train are awaited. Among the eight trains that carried people returning to Tamil Nadu from May 14, this train had the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Sixteen passengers on the Ahmedabad - Tirunelveli train that arrived on May 22 had tested positive while 15 were found to be positive from the New Delhi - Tenkasi train. Madurai district’s total has now gone up to 241 with one local person and seven others who arrived from Maharashtra recently testing positive. A 25-year-old man from T Mettupatti in Vadipatti taluk, who came from Chennai by car, tested positive. Kanyakumari recorded one positive case taking its total to 59. Tuticorin had two people within the district and five who had come from Maharashtra testing positive. It now has reported 194 Covid-19 positive cases till date. Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar and Tenkasi did not have any new cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/16-new-cases-in-central-dists-23-in-south-tn/articleshow/76058879.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA to develop 360 sq km around Bhogapuram airport||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the proposed greenfield airport at Bhogapuram and the metro rail project likely to change the face of the area, the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Devekopment Authority (VMRDA) has decided to prepare a strategic concept plan for nearly 360 square kilometre area in the vicinity of the airport. The site of the proposed airport lies on the border of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts, some 45 kms away from Visakhapatnam and 25 km from Vizianagaram. At a time when the state government is intent on making Visakhapatnam the executive capital, experts say that urbanisation and development may need more careful planning. The concept plan will broadly project the future development and identify areas to be developed. It will come up with proposals pertaining to network improvement, tourism, and strategic public investments. The 360 square kilometre area is located in five mandals of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts. The project area consists of about 31 square kilometres hill area and a coastline of about 40 km. The city has witnessed its maximum growth towards the northern side in the last 15 years. But experts opine that the new expansion should be well-planned and led by strategic investment by government as well as private sectors. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said the proposed 140-km metro rail network and the Bhogapuram airport are expected to further accelerate growth in the northern side of Visakhapatnam city. “But the growth should be environmentally and aesthetically sensitive. To ensure the same, we have invited consultants to prepare a concept plan for the 360 square kilometre area around the proposed Bhogapuram airport. At a later stage, the finalised proposals made under this concept plan may be dovetailed in the VMRDA master plan (2041), which is under preparation,” said the metropolitan commissioner. The GMR Airports Limited has recently received the letter of award from the state government for the development and operations of the Bhogapuram airport. On the other hand, the 140-km metro rail project, which will stretch up to Bhogapuram airport on the northern side once executed, will be developed in two phases. However, the detailed project report is yet to be prepared for the metro rail project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-to-develop-360-sq-km-around-bhogapuram-airport/articleshow/76047378.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Airport police book three for being in one car||AHMEDABAD: Three persons were booked by Airport police for not maintaining social distancing while travelling in a car. They were also booked for coming out on the road after the 7pm curfew had begun. Currently, only two persons are allowed in a car according to lockdown rules. Police sources said Divyesh Macchani, 22, Sunny Totlani, 25, and Paresh Motiboni, 26, of Sardarnagar were arrested. “While our team was posted on bandobust duty, we saw a car coming from Hansol-Ran Mukteshwar Bridge. We stopped them and saw that though only two persons are allowed in a car, thre were three persons in it. They were also moving after after 7pm without any good reason,” said a police official. Police sources said the three were booked under Section 188 of IPC, The Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/airport-police-book-three-for-being-in-one-car/articleshow/76049097.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Wood pyres spark row at crematoria in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The staff and priests at the four crematoria in the city have threatened a boycott fearing for their safety as the municipal corporations have allowed wood pyres for cremating coronavirus patients. The new order was issued on Tuesday for Nigambodh Ghat near Jamuna Bazaar, Punjabi Bagh near Ring Road, Karkardooma ground near Karakari Mor and PK Road cremation ground at Rani Jhansi Road. Two of these facilities fall under North Delhi Municipal Corporation, while one each are under south and east corporations. So far, only CNG furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh were being used for cremation of deceased Covid-positive and suspected patients. Even in the new order, preference has been given to CNG and electric units. An SDMC official said the bodies are cremated at such a high temperature that they don’t pose a risk to anybody. However, the staff and managers at the facilities, most of which are run by NGOs, were not convinced and refused to take part in the process on the first day. The manager at the Punjabi Bagh facility said, “There are 26 workers at the facility, four of whom threatened to quit on Tuesday.” Nigambodh Ghat has 150 workers and Karkardooma four. “Wood-based cremations should be allowed only in open areas in outer Delhi. Why did the government allow such funerals only at four facilities?” asked the manager at Nigambodh Ghat, which receives 15-16 bodies of coronavirus patients daily. On Tuesday, the staff and priests at Nigambodh Ghat refused to work. “They said they will stop entering the ground if all Covid and non-Covid bodies are processed at the same place,” the manager added. At Karkardooma, no PPE kits were provided to the staff and they were scared to carry out cremation in the open. “Unlike CNG units, if cremation is carried out on a wooden pyre, the body is exposed to the air. employees don’t have provisions of compensation and insurance in case we get infected,” said a worker. An EDMC spokesperson said CNG furnaces were preferred due to the closed environment. “However, there is no harm in wood-based cremation. The chances of the virus escaping in the atmosphere are non-existent,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wood-pyres-spark-row-at-crematoria/articleshow/76051092.cms||Paras Singh
May 28, 2020||Ludhiana||As online classes take toll on eyes, docs say take a break & relax||Ludhiana: As online classes have become the only option for parents to keep their children stay connected with studies, a large number of parents are worried about adverse effects of excess use of gadgets by their kids for studies and to pass leisure time.The city doctors claimed that they have been receiving queries from worried parents who are seeking advice as to how they can keep eyes of kids safe without affecting their studies. The doctors, however, advised that parents should ask their kids to avoid using gadgets when they are free and instead go for physical activities.Harpal Singh, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “Out of two kids, I am worried about the elder who spends more than six hours on a laptop. During that time, he attends online classes and then there are online exams.” He said his eyesight is already weak and now there are chances his number will further increase. He said his son keeps complaining about headache after attending the class for long stretches.Mohinder Singh, another resident from Model Town, said, “There are odd timings for online classes and tests and then there are lessons through video calls. Earlier when children used to take mobile phones or other gadgets, we used to stop them but now we are forced to give the same everything.” He said first they do school work on phones and then play games or do other leisure activities on gadgets which leaves impact on their eyes.Professor and head of eye department in DMC Hospital Dr Sumeet Arora said, “Parents mostly complain about dryness in eyes, strain, headache, eye ache, computer vision syndrome among kids.” He said online studying is new concept for teachers, students and even parents, but there is no other option in this time and they do not know for how long it will continue like this.He said parents should keep their children involved in physical activities when they are not taking online classes. He said they should also get eye sights of children checked at regular intervals because sometimes kids find it hard to detect the problem.Professor and head of eye department in CMC Hospital Dr Roopali Chopra said, “Online classes cannot be avoided at this time, but parents can reduce the time spent on electronic gadgets by their kids. The kids should take break after every hour and do some exercise of the eyes. If students will use mobiles or other gadgets for longer they will developed computer vision syndrome.” She said students should also shut their eyes at regular intervals just for relaxation.What is computer vision syndrome?As per eye specialists in every minute eyes blink for at least 10-12 times but when anybody gets stuck to mobile screen or laptop screen he or she blinks eyes lesser time. It causes dryness in the eyes. To avoid this problem people should blink eyes intentionally at regular intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/as-online-classes-take-toll-on-eyes-docs-say-take-a-break-relax/articleshow/76047384.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Madhavaram fruit market to be split to stop crowding||CHENNAI: With visitors to the temporary fruit market at Madhavaram on the rise and social distancing going for a toss, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has decided to split the facility within the premises. About half the shops operating at the Madhavaram Mofussil Bus Terminus (MMBT) would be shifted to the idle parking lot located on the top floor of the terminus. Around 230 shops are operating in the facility since May 1, after the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) was shut as it emerged to be a Covid-19 hotspot. CMDA, which maintains the bus terminus, is also responsible for the upkeep of the temporary fruit market. “We will shift 50% of the existing shops to the top floor. The parking lot was lying idle, now there will be adequate space for movement of the public,” an official told TOI. Plans are afoot for establishing shops on the first floor in the coming days, the official added. On an average, 3,000 to 3,500 people visit the temporary fruit market everyday. The market receives 250 trucks, each carrying eight to 10 tonnes of fruits a day. While the market had few visitors during the first week of May, the footfalls multiplied as hundreds of small traders started thronging the market. This had an adverse impact on following social distancing and several moved around without wearing face masks as mandated. Traders were encroaching pathways, cramming the place. Meanwhile, stress was laid on the need to restrict entry into the market. Association of Builders for Chennai Development founder president A Balasubramani said a system must be adopted for access control so social distancing is at its best. “If 300 people enter the market, new visitors should be allowed only after the ones inside leave. People not wearing masks must not be allowed inside,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madhavaram-fruit-market-to-be-split-to-stop-crowding/articleshow/76050129.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar civic body plans to replant 1,000 trees uprooted in Salt Lake||KOLKATA: Even as Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) drew up a plan to replant 1,000 of the 4,500-odd trees that uprooted in Salt Lake during Cyclone Amphan, a fresh number of green giants again came crashing down on Wednesday evening, when a Nor’wester lashed the city, gusting at 96kmph. Several trees fell near PNB Island, BA-CA Island, between FD Block and Laboni Island and near Karunamoyee. According to the civic plan, trees that can still be salvaged will be pulled up and replanted; while around 3,000 new saplings will be planted, the authorities have decided against putting up any big species along boulevards. “We shall consult experts so that trees can be planted scientifically. And only small plants, like hedges, will line boulevards,” mayor Krishna Chakraborty said on Wednesday. As the cyclone ravaged Bengal last Wednesday, it tore through Salt Lake and New Town’s green cover, amputating branches and blowing away foliage of full-grown trees. Several large trees on medians and boulevards across Salt Lake fell and blocked several stretches. Horticulture experts had earlier pointed out that nurturing large trees on median and boulevards was not a good idea as the soil was porous in nature. “We want 1,000 of the uprooted trees replanted,” BMC’s mayoral council member in charge of environment Rahima Biwi Mondal said on Wednesday. “Replanting will require meticulous planning. The trees can’t be more than 6-ft tall because of the sandy nature of the soil. But we are trying our best to salvage as many trees as we can,” BMC commissioner Debashish Ghosh said. Forest and environment departments will be consulted with to find out how the replantation can be done in the most effective manner. Mondal said, “We have to ensure trees are replanted before the roots dry up.” But the initiative will take some time owing to manpower shortage. For now, the fallen trees will be kept in open spaces. Around 3,000 saplings will be planted simultaneously, starting with the most affected areas—KB, KC, CA, DA blocks, Laboni, Baishakhi and near Purta Bhavan, the MMiC said. “Ten new saplings will compensate for one mature tree.” Conceding not too tall trees could be put back, Mondol said, “I am told it is possible to replant the ones that are not so big.” Mondol added, “After six days after Amphan, most of Salt Lake and Rajarhat have been cleared, using chainsaws and trucks fitted with hydraulic lifts. We worked even on Eid.” Commissioner Ghosh echoed: “By Thursday morning, most thoroughfares were cleared. Around 300 labourers worked round the clock to restore electricity in the entire BMC area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-body-plans-to-replant-1k-trees-uprooted-in-salt-lake/articleshow/76048910.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 75% of Covid-19 cases found by surveillance||AHMEDABAD: Three out of four fresh cases reported in the city are through active surveillance. Of the 245 cases reported on Tuesday, 184 were found through active surveillance said AMC officials. Areas in New West Zone reported 21 cases, mostly from Vejalpur, Ghatlodia, Chandlodia areas, and a few from areas near Shivranjani Crossroads. Of these 21 cases, 11 were detected through active surveillance while 10 patients had gone for testing by themselves. The city reported 248 cases till 5pm on Wednesday. Apart from Sarkhej, Vejalpur and Maktampura, cases were reported from Sepal Residency and Sath Sangath Apartment. Also, a 35-year-old woman tested positive from Ramdevnagar area. This was probably the first case from Ramdevnagar area which has slums like Gulbai Tekra. From areas of West Zone like Nava Vadaj, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Vasna and Paldi, 47 cases were reported. On Monday, 67 cases had been reported from here, the highest figure for a day from the area. Rajiv Gupta, ACS, forest and environment, who is overall in-charge of activities to control further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad, said that to increase surveillance, AMC has launched 104 helplines and started Dhanvantari raths. A total of 74,000 people have been checked by the Dhanvantari and Arogya raths. The officer said as a part of the active surveillance drive about 80-odd Dhanvantari raths (ambulances) which have ayurveda, homoeopathy and allopathy doctors and lab technicians, pharmacists and paramedics, are moving in the city. Gupta said that the Dhanvantari raths were started on May 17 and on the first day 40 raths covered 160 areas. The number increased to 50 raths and on Tuesday 84 raths covered 332 areas. He further said that on May 17 there were 10% patients with fever, 32% patients had cough and cold and 0.6% patients had acute respiratory tract infection. This has now reduced. There was a drop of about 2% in patients coming with fever, while there had been a drop of 16% in patients with cough and cold and the number of patients coming with respiratory tract infections is now almost negligible. 8 new cases reported in rural Ahmedabad The Ahmedabad district barring Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has reported eight fresh cases taking the total number to 178 cases. Of these eight , four were from Bavla, one from Radhevandan Apartment in Sanand and three were from Dholka town. In three of these new cases the patients were below 30 years while in four cases they were between 31 and 50 years. One case was of a 70-year-old man. Officials said that there were seven men and one woman among these eight patients reported from the district including the woman from Bavla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/75-of-cases-found-by-surveillance/articleshow/76050371.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Kalupur grain market opens for 3 hours||Ahmedabad: After a slew of representations made to the state government and civic authorities, the grain market in Kalupur area of the city finally resumed business on Wednesday morning. However, even as the market opened at 8am, cops had to force close the shops as social distancing norms were being violated. “Finally, the shops reopened and business resumed well because a lot of retailers were facing shortages of grains. Of the 180 shops in the entire market, some 90 shops reopened, based on the odd-even formula. The remaining shops were to open on Thursday. However, several other shops in the area too reopened without permission and therefore, due to crowding, the shops had to be shut by 11am itself. The shops had been allowed to remain open till 1pm,” said Kamlesh Nagpal, who is a trader in the Kalupur grain market. The police administration has imposed further restrictions owing to the violation of social distancing norms in the area and thus, only one-third of the shops will remain open from Thursday onwards. DCP zone-4, Neeraj Badgujar, said, “The market opened on Wednesday but a lot of people gathered in the market and there was gross violation of social distancing. As a result, we had to take the market association in confidence and asked them to shut shops. From Thursday, one in every three shops will be allowed to resume, so that social distancing is maintained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kalupur-grain-market-opens-for-3-hours/articleshow/76050340.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 15.5% of 2,300 kids surveyed had high BP||AHMEDABAD: Are we raising our children on food with too much salt which is making them highly susceptible to heart disease when they grow up? Nearly 15.5% of the 2,324 school-going children in Gujarat whose systolic and diastolic blood pressures were measured, were found to have hypertension. These children were between 5 and 15 years old, of whom the majority with hypertension were in the 9 to 12 years age group. In comparison, hypertension was found in 26.5% of children studied in Haryana, 29.3% in Manipur and 9.7% in Goa. Overall, 23% of the children studied had hypertension. The study covered 14,957 school-going children from the urban and rural areas of Haryana, Manipur and Goa apart from Gujarat. The average results showed that 13.6% of kids had systolic hypertension, 15.3% had diastolic hypertension while 5.9% of children had both. Dr Anita Saxena, the head of paediatric cardiology at AIIMS, who supervised the study stressed on early screening of students for high blood pressure. The researchers, however, made an interesting observation that in all the four states a common trend was seen, where prevalence of hypertension was seen to decline with age, especially in boys. Going from 5-year-olds to 15-year-olds, prevalence of hypertension fell from 33% to 16.3% in boys and from 30.1% to 23% in girls. In class-wise analysis of the 14,957 children, prevalence of hypertension was 29.9% in children from rich families, 19% in case of children from poorer sections, and 9.9% in mixed groups. "Major factors for hypertension in children from the higher income group apart from obesity were psychosocial stress and greater intake of salt and processed foods," stated the researchers, who from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi; Goa Medical College; Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences, Manipur; Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Mumbai and the University of Glasgow, UK. Among all the children, the researchers found that hypertension was found in 29.4% of children in groups whose BP was measured in winter – October to March— when compared 18.7% in groups whose blood pressure was measured in the summer, April to September. This pattern is seen in both boys and girls, Dr Saxena emphasized the need to screen students for high blood pressure in schools to help early intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-5-of-2-3k-kids-surveyed-had-high-bp/articleshow/76049137.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Poor befriend environment, purse strings with cloth pads||CHENNAI: Two years ago, Madurai-based homemaker T Kannamma left her home food business to devote her energy into creating cloth sanitary pads. A proponent of the natural way of life, Kannamma was driven to work on menstrual hygiene after a few pond cleanups near her home revealed the water bodies were choking with single use pads from the village. With what started as a campaign for sustainable menstrual alternatives, Kannamma has since distributed hundreds of these pads free of cost to underprivileged women and government schoolgirls in her town. And with the Covid outbreak, those who were on the fence about making the switch, now throng her door. With the rural and urban poor scrambling for essentials without an income, commercial sanitary napkins have become a luxury for the women. And that’s why eco-warriors are working harder than ever to provide sustainable and hygienic alternatives. “I make the pads using neem, aloe vera and a blend of herbs. After knowing what I do, local women come to me and say they want to switch because they’ve suffered allergies with single use pads. Now, with the lockdown, we’re giving it to any woman who needs it,” says Kannamma, who trained under natural menstrual hygiene experts in Trichy before she set out on her own. In Trichy, NGO Gramalaya has trained 40 women of a self-help group to make reusable cloth pads with cotton procured from Tirupur’s hosiery units. As part of their Covid-19 response, Gramalaya will be sending 20,000 pads each to slum women in Trichy and rural women in Pudukottai, and close to 50,000 pads to government school-going girls in Karaikal. “In Trichy Corporation, at least two lakh of its one million population are menstruating women and they throw close to 10 lakh single use pads into open spaces every month. It is a hazard to health and environment,” says Damodaran, CEO of Gramalaya. In Chennai city too, a few Good Samaritans have been buying bulks of cloth pads and distributing them to women in shelters and slums. As a long-term solution, those like Kannamma have been on a mission to train women to make these pads at home. In a video she uploaded on YouTube as well as live sessions to any woman knocking her doors, Kannamma demonstrates how to make simple, reusable cloth pads at home by boiling the fabric in water with turmeric and neem leaves and stitching it together in 15 to 20 layers. “This is also the social message of this movement; that sustainable menstrual hygiene options can be found free of cost, at home,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/poor-befriend-environment-purse-strings-with-cloth-pads/articleshow/76058066.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Dad, 5 others booked for sale of 3-year-old girl||TRICHY/MADURAI: The Nagore police on Wednesday booked six people, including the father of a three-year-old girl, for selling her to a Kovilpatti-based couple a few months ago. The girl was rescued by Tuticorin district child protection unit (DCPU) with the help of police. The accused were M Ashraf Ali, 40, of Vellapallam in Nagapattinam, his friend Hasan Mohammed, an autorickshaw driver, and his friend Mehrunnisha from Nagore, the Kovilpatti couple Renabu Nisha and Abdul Razak, and Nisha’s relative Fatima from Nagore. Ashraf Ali, a van driver from Tenkasi, and Nirmala, a fish-seller from Vellapallam, married in 2015 and the couple has a one-and-a-half-year-old son and a daughter. The couple fell out and Nirmala left Ali to live with her parents, leaving behind the children with her husband. Ashraf Ali claims he could not take care of his children and decided to admit his daughter to a madrassa. For this, he sought the help of Hasan Mohammed, who admitted her to a Madurai-based madrassa on February 19. On coming to know that her daughter was not with her husband, Nirmala pressured him to bring her back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dad-5-others-booked-for-sale-of-3-yr-old-girl/articleshow/76058850.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Dad, 5 others booked for sale of 3-year-old girl||TRICHY/MADURAI: The Nagore police on Wednesday booked six people, including the father of a three-year-old girl, for selling her to a Kovilpatti-based couple a few months ago. The girl was rescued by Tuticorin district child protection unit (DCPU) with the help of police. The accused were M Ashraf Ali, 40, of Vellapallam in Nagapattinam, his friend Hasan Mohammed, an autorickshaw driver, and his friend Mehrunnisha from Nagore, the Kovilpatti couple Renabu Nisha and Abdul Razak, and Nisha’s relative Fatima from Nagore. Ashraf Ali, a van driver from Tenkasi, and Nirmala, a fish-seller from Vellapallam, married in 2015 and the couple has a one-and-a-half-year-old son and a daughter. The couple fell out and Nirmala left Ali to live with her parents, leaving behind the children with her husband. Ashraf Ali claims he could not take care of his children and decided to admit his daughter to a madrassa. For this, he sought the help of Hasan Mohammed, who admitted her to a Madurai-based madrassa on February 19. On coming to know that her daughter was not with her husband, Nirmala pressured him to bring her back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dad-5-others-booked-for-sale-of-3-yr-old-girl/articleshow/76050179.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: St Stephen’s principal gets notice for felling trees||NEW DELHI: The principal of St Stephen’s College is in trouble with the forest department issuing a legal notice over the “illegal” and “arbitrary” felling of trees while carrying out some construction of some houses on the institution campus. Over 13 teachers have objected to the construction work, pointing out not only that trees have been felled but also that some teachers’ quarters and the children’s park have been encroached upon. Bulldozers arrived on the campus on May 22 and digging and demolition began on May 24, leading teachers to protest at the construction site on May 25 and 26. Senior teacher Nandita Narain alleged that approval for the new constructions hadn’t been sought from the college governing body. “At a governing body meeting, the authorities claimed only that were going to renovate the inner roads. But portions of existing houses have been demolished and ancient trees have been uprooted.” The teachers claimed that a large portion of a children’s park, also used as a car park, has also been taken over for the new constructions. After receiving a complaint from an assistant professor on Tuesday, the forest department sent a team on Wednesday morning, but department officials claimed they weren’t allowed entry and even later when police were called in. “Our initial concern was that the institution was removing evidence,” disclosed an official. “Our team went to the police station and lodged a complaint against the college for obstructing government servants from doing their duty. When the team returned with more police officers, we were finally allowed to go in.” Another official said no permission had been sought to fell or prune trees. “Construction work under way at two locations had resulted in partial uprooting of at least 10 trees. There were some trees that had been damaged. We have photographed them,” said the official. College principal John Varghese did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages on the issue. But in a reply to the protest letter sent by teachers, he argued that “no trees have been cut down or damaged”. His reply said, “As part of the relaying of the college roads, it was decided on recommendation of the architect that the existing road at the Allnutt side would be slightly widened in order to comply with the safety precautions and regulations as prescribed by the Municipal Council of Delhi.” Varghese added, “I had communicated this matter to all the residents via my email dated 20 May 2020. I had asked all residents to be prepared for some alterations for the larger good and safety of all residence and the campus community. Your allegation about incurring of capital expenditure without prior approval of the GB is also false and misleading.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/st-stephens-principal-gets-notice-for-felling-trees/articleshow/76050239.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No labour at ice plants, fisheries in Andhra Pradesh may struggle to stay afloat||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fishing activities in the state are bracing for a setback as a majority of labourers employed at ice plants have gone back to their hometowns in other states during the ongoing lockdown. Even as ice production falls, owners at the plants are uncertain when workers will come back and resume operations. “Normally, labourers take a break during this time of the year as fishing activities are few because of the mandatory ban on fishing from mid-March to mid-June. This year the fishermen want to venture out from the first week of June. But because of the lockdown our labourers have been stranded since March and have just returned to their hometowns. We are not sure whether they would come back immediately,” Raju Vasupalli, whose family runs an ice plant in Visakhapatnam fishing harbour, told TOI. In light of the pandemic, the Union ministry of fisheries issued a notification on May 24, reducing the 63-day mandatory fishing ban period to 47 days this year. The notification states that this year fishermen can venture out into the sea from June 1. Fishermen and those involved with fisheries in the state have welcomed the move in view of the slump in fishing activities since March, a crucial period just before the ban is imposed. “Fish stocks available with wholesalers are very low and soon there will be a shortfall of marine fishes in the markets. The government’s decision to lift the ban around 15 days before the usual ban period ends would have been very effective to address the crisis. But now there is a new problem. If the ice plants can’t meet the demand, fishermen can’t venture out into the sea,” said Arijili Dasu, secretary of the district Fishermen’s Youth Welfare Association. While Visakhapatnam fishing harbour has six ice plants, there are around 40 ice plants in the state that supply ice exclusively for fishing activities. Each ice plant supplies around 30 tonnes of ice per day, every alternate day. A block each sells at Rs 200 and seven blocks together weigh around one tonne. The rate for a tonne of ice is around Rs 1,400. Each boat carries five to seven tonnes of ice whenever it ventures out to sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-labour-at-ice-plants-fisheries-in-ap-may-struggle-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/76047402.cms||Arpit Basu
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan ravages mangroves covering 40% of Sunderbans||KOLKATA: Vast swathes of mangroves forest — spanning over an area of about 1,600 square kilometres — in the Indian Sunderbans have been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan that had struck the state last Wednesday, as per an initial estimate of the state forest department. While it accounts for almost 40% of the entire 4,000 sq kilometre-area — Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR) and South 24 Parganas forest division — foresters are worried over the possible impact. TimesViewIt is ironic that one of the most bio-diverse zones of the state is also the most vulnerable to climate disasters. The recent devastations and the evident impact of climate change means that the people, flora and fauna of the Sundarbans need to be cared for and protected like never before.“As per our initial estimate, about 1,600 sq km area in the Sunderbans has suffered damage,” said chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha. The news comes at a time when the Unesco World Heritage Site is already battling the onslaught of various components of climate change and the Forest Survey of India has pegged a loss of more than 2% mangrove cover in the delta between 2017 and 2019. The mangroves act as a natural shield for Kolkata from the impact of cyclones like Amphan. What’s more, the storm has triggered siltation and opened up creeks that might have long-term impacts on the delta. “In the Vidya and Haldibari regions, some creeks have been opened up by the cyclone. It’s likely to change the tidal pattern and trigger erosion of islands,” said Sinha, adding that navigation route maps will also have to be redrawn for this. State wildlife advisory board member Biswajit Roy Chowdhury said apart from erosion, opening up of creeks might lead to overflow of saline water into villages. “The villages will have to focus more on salt-tolerant rice varieties now,” he said. Anurag Danda, senior visiting fellow with Observer Research Foundation, though, has a different take. According to him, in the overall scale, villages have probably suffered more damages compared to the forested islands. “The landfall happened close to East Midnapore coast. The speed was also lower compared to Cyclone Sidr in 2007 that had 1-minute sustained speed of 260kmph. Besides, the landfall didn’t coincide with high tide. So, on overall scale, I hope the forest areas in the Sunderbans won’t suffer much damage,” Danda said, adding that natural islands are higher compared to those with human settlements. Hence, according to him, height of inundation will be lower and happen over shorter duration in the forested islands, which also drain out water quickly. No case of animal casualty or straying has been reported from the Indian Sunderbans ever since the cyclone had struck the region. According to Danda, the vegetated loss will be compensated by the nature in the days ahead. “After Cyclone Sidr, experts had predicted it would take 40 years for the Bangladesh Sunderbans to revive, but that’s not exactly the case,” Danda said. He pointed to the example of Dhoblat village in Sagar block that was abandoned by people in 1843 after a series of cyclones, as per historical records, had struck it since 1833. “Nature (mangroves) has reclaimed the land there now,” he points out. However, Danda sounded an alert over habitat/land loss due to erosion and sea-level rise in the Sunderbans. Meanwhile, almost all the nylon net fencings to check tigers from entering human habitat has been damaged along a stretch of more than 107 kilometres. “We have taken up repairing jobs on a war-footing in Ramganga and Basirhat ranges where villages are located closer to the forested islands,” added Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mangroves-spread-over-40-of-sunderbans-ravaged-by-amphan/articleshow/76048941.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Poor befriend environment, purse strings with cloth pads||CHENNAI: Two years ago, Madurai-based homemaker T Kannamma left her home food business to devote her energy into creating cloth sanitary pads. A proponent of the natural way of life, Kannamma was driven to work on menstrual hygiene after a few pond cleanups near her home revealed the water bodies were choking with single use pads from the village. With what started as a campaign for sustainable menstrual alternatives, Kannamma has since distributed hundreds of these pads free of cost to underprivileged women and government schoolgirls in her town. And with the Covid outbreak, those who were on the fence about making the switch, now throng her door. With the rural and urban poor scrambling for essentials without an income, commercial sanitary napkins have become a luxury for the women. And that’s why eco-warriors are working harder than ever to provide sustainable and hygienic alternatives. “I make the pads using neem, aloe vera and a blend of herbs. After knowing what I do, local women come to me and say they want to switch because they’ve suffered allergies with single use pads. Now, with the lockdown, we’re giving it to any woman who needs it,” says Kannamma, who trained under natural menstrual hygiene experts in Trichy before she set out on her own. In Trichy, NGO Gramalaya has trained 40 women of a self-help group to make reusable cloth pads with cotton procured from Tirupur’s hosiery units. As part of their Covid-19 response, Gramalaya will be sending 20,000 pads each to slum women in Trichy and rural women in Pudukottai, and close to 50,000 pads to government school-going girls in Karaikal. “In Trichy Corporation, at least two lakh of its one million population are menstruating women and they throw close to 10 lakh single use pads into open spaces every month. It is a hazard to health and environment,” says Damodaran, CEO of Gramalaya. In Chennai city too, a few Good Samaritans have been buying bulks of cloth pads and distributing them to women in shelters and slums. As a long-term solution, those like Kannamma have been on a mission to train women to make these pads at home. In a video she uploaded on YouTube as well as live sessions to any woman knocking her doors, Kannamma demonstrates how to make simple, reusable cloth pads at home by boiling the fabric in water with turmeric and neem leaves and stitching it together in 15 to 20 layers. “This is also the social message of this movement; that sustainable menstrual hygiene options can be found free of cost, at home,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/poor-befriend-environment-purse-strings-with-cloth-pads/articleshow/76050204.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Poor befriend environment, purse strings with cloth pads||CHENNAI: Two years ago, Madurai-based homemaker T Kannamma left her home food business to devote her energy into creating cloth sanitary pads. A proponent of the natural way of life, Kannamma was driven to work on menstrual hygiene after a few pond cleanups near her home revealed the water bodies were choking with single use pads from the village. With what started as a campaign for sustainable menstrual alternatives, Kannamma has since distributed hundreds of these pads free of cost to underprivileged women and government schoolgirls in her town. And with the Covid outbreak, those who were on the fence about making the switch, now throng her door. With the rural and urban poor scrambling for essentials without an income, commercial sanitary napkins have become a luxury for the women. And that’s why eco-warriors are working harder than ever to provide sustainable and hygienic alternatives. “I make the pads using neem, aloe vera and a blend of herbs. After knowing what I do, local women come to me and say they want to switch because they’ve suffered allergies with single use pads. Now, with the lockdown, we’re giving it to any woman who needs it,” says Kannamma, who trained under natural menstrual hygiene experts in Trichy before she set out on her own. In Trichy, NGO Gramalaya has trained 40 women of a self-help group to make reusable cloth pads with cotton procured from Tirupur’s hosiery units. As part of their Covid-19 response, Gramalaya will be sending 20,000 pads each to slum women in Trichy and rural women in Pudukottai, and close to 50,000 pads to government school-going girls in Karaikal. “In Trichy Corporation, at least two lakh of its one million population are menstruating women and they throw close to 10 lakh single use pads into open spaces every month. It is a hazard to health and environment,” says Damodaran, CEO of Gramalaya. In Chennai city too, a few Good Samaritans have been buying bulks of cloth pads and distributing them to women in shelters and slums. As a long-term solution, those like Kannamma have been on a mission to train women to make these pads at home. In a video she uploaded on YouTube as well as live sessions to any woman knocking her doors, Kannamma demonstrates how to make simple, reusable cloth pads at home by boiling the fabric in water with turmeric and neem leaves and stitching it together in 15 to 20 layers. “This is also the social message of this movement; that sustainable menstrual hygiene options can be found free of cost, at home,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poor-befriend-environment-purse-strings-with-cloth-pads/articleshow/76058067.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Trichy||839 guest leave for Bihar from Trichy||TRICHY: The district collector, S Sivarasu gave as many as 839 guest workers from Bihar a send-off on Wednesday. They were working in various districts across the state and left by Shramik special train from Trichy to Bihar on Wednesday. Sivarasu distributed food packets, water and snacks to them before they boarded train. Around 248 guest workers from Trichy, 133 were from Ariyalur, 157 workers from Pudukottrai, 148 from Dindigul and 14 from Karur arrived at the Trichy railway junction by special buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/839-guest-leave-for-bihar-from-trichy/articleshow/76050208.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt’s self-study proposal finds few takers||Bhubaneswar: Higher education minister Arun Kumar Sahoo has said students will have to carry out ‘guided self-study’ for a 25% portion of the undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses, drawing criticism from teachers and students alike on Wednesday. The higher education department has said it will provide books and online and offline study material to the students for the guided self-study. “They can approach their teachers if they have any doubts about the self-study portion of their course. This will make them enthusiastic, self-reliant and analytic,” Sahoo said. A teacher of Utkal University, however, said not only was there no clarity about how students would go about the self-study, the government did not consult teachers before such a decision was announced. “Which 25% of the course will be given to the students for self-study? Will the students decide or will we teachers decide the portion concerned? The higher education department should have discussed the proposal with the stakeholders before taking a decision,” he added. He said PG courses had five units each. “If we divide the syllabus into five units, each unit would cover 20% of the subject. How will the extra five per cent be decided? In UG courses, it will be easier as every subject has four units,” he added. Srinibas Samal, a UG student, welcomed the proposal but said it would help only a section of students. “What about weak students who need the attention of teachers? They may not cope with the new style of study. There is no clarity on the issue,” he added. Asoka Kumar Das, vice-chairman of Odisha State Higher Education Council, said, “We are alert to the students’ difficulties. Simple video lectures cater to only the upper 30% of the student population. With doubt-clearing sessions and target-oriented reading material, we are catering to the bottom 70%. Students need not worry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govts-self-study-proposal-finds-few-takers/articleshow/76047464.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Ensure institutional quarantine, DCs told||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has directed all deputy commissioners (DCs) to ensure arriving international travellers remained in institutional quarantine for seven days, after which they will be eligible for home quarantine for seven more days. DCs have also been instructed to follow guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare in letter and spirit. An official said an office memorandum had been issued in this regard by the chief secretary-cum-chairperson of Haryana state executive committee. He said if there was no adequate home quarantine facility, the DC could retain such a person in institutional quarantine for another 7 days after consultation with the chief medical officer of the district. According to the Union ministry’s, all travellers will give an undertaking that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days – sevem days of paid institutional quarantine and seven days of isolation at home with self-monitoring of health. Only in case of exceptional and compelling reasons, such as cases of human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parents accompanied by children below 10 years, as assessed by receiving states, home quarantine would be permitted for 14 days. The spokesperson said dos and don’ts will be provided to the travellers along with the ticket by the agencies concerned and all passengers will be advised to download Aarogya Setu app on their smartphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ensure-institutional-quarantine-dcs-told/articleshow/76050225.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CHSE wants some schools out of quarantine centres’ list||Bhubaneswar: The Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE) has asked district collectors to vacate higher secondary school buildings, which are being used as quarantine centres, as evaluation of Plus II answer sheets is scheduled to start from June 1. The CHSE has also suggested to collectors to barricade and sanitise the unutilised portion of the buildings so that it can be used as evaluation centres. As many as 482 junior colleges have been used as quarantine centres and 40 of these are evaluation centres, official sources said. “We have not asked the district administrations to vacate all evaluation centres but only those where no returnees have been lodged so far. Even if a portion of the same building is provided, then it can be used for proper barricading and sanitisation for evaluation work,” said director of CHSE Amarendra Patnaik. However, teachers have resented the proposal to carry out evaluation at centres separated from quarantine centres with the help of barricades. “We are ready for the evaluation work but not at the centres being used as quarantine centres. The government is not providing us any security. In the current Covid-19 situation, most of the positive cases are being detected from quarantine centres. How is the government asking teachers to evaluate copies in the same building,” said Prabitra Mahala, convenor of a teachers’ association. Beside, some of the papers of the annual Plus II examinations have been postponed due to the lockdown and the fresh dates for the examinations are yet to be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/chse-wants-some-schools-out-of-quarantine-centres-list/articleshow/76047497.cms||Minati Singha
May 28, 2020||Bareilly||Doctor tests positive, health dept to serve his hospital notice||Bareilly: A day after a private doctor in upscale Rampur Garden locality of Bareilly was tested positive for Covid-19, the health department announced it will serve showcause notice to the private hospital he owns and runs, to find out if he had been following the infection prevention and control protocol or not. According to health officials, the doctor had contracted the virus after he conducted ultrasound of a woman from Budaun, who was later tested positive in Budaun. The district magistrate of Budaun duly informed authorities in Bareilly that the woman had visited the private hospital in Bareilly, and the doctor was put on home quarantine and tested. The positive result was revealed on Wednesday. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The infected doctor is currently undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 Level 2 hospital. His wife and daughter have been quarantined. We’ll also serve notice to the doctor, to find out if the ultrasound he conducted was routine or emergency, how many ultrasounds he has conducted during the lockdown, whether he attended the IMA training course on infection prevention and control, whether he adopted preventive measures and if he had visited any patient while he was home quarantined.” A 250m radius around the private hospital in Rampur Garden was already sealed and declared as containment zone on Wednesday. “Nursing homes within the containment zone will be permitted to treat emergency patients and those already under treatment. We’ll also start active case surveillance here,” said Dr Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/doctor-tests-positive-health-dept-to-serve-his-hospital-notice/articleshow/76047456.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Gyms might reopen with new timings||VISAKHAPATNAM: Members of the Visakha District Gym Owners’ Union (VDGOU) are hopeful that gyms will reopen from June 1 under restricted timings. Representatives of the union met state tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao (Avanthi) and MP MVV Satyanarayana and requested permission to reopen gyms, which have been closed since March 25 following the imposition of the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, president of VDGOU K Ganesh said, “We were trying to meet the district collector since last week with our request but did not get an appointment. Therefore, we handed over our application to the minister today. The minister said they are looking into it and it is likely from June 1, we would be able to function but timings will have to be restricted to 12 hours from 6 am to 6 pm and not beyond that. Besides, we will be following the standard safety norms like sanitising, disinfecting, maintaining social distance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gyms-might-reopen-with-new-timings/articleshow/76047451.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cancer patient waiting 10 days for Covid-19 test||AHMEDABAD: A 60-year-old cancer patient, who is scheduled to undergo a major surgery to remove cancer of the tongue, has been awaiting a pre-operative test for Covid-19 for the past 10 days now. Senior cancer surgeon Dr Kiran Kothari said that the patient suffers from third stage cancer of the tongue. While onco-surgeons across the country are being allowed to conduct pre-operative Covid-19 testing for safety of the operating surgeon and staff as well as that of the patient, the local authorities are not forthcoming in giving permission. “The first application to test the patient was made on May 18. The revised application was made on May 20, but there has been no response. The authorities are neither permitting nor rejecting the application. In times of Covid pandemic, such permissions should be granted on urgent basis to provide prompt critical healthcare,” said Dr Kothari. Dr Kothari said that when he discussed this with his peers across the country, majority of them said that pre-operative Covid testing was required and allowed in their states. “On one hand, the nation is praising work done by healthcare workers across India, while on the other, their safety is completely neglected. Every one is asked to keep their hospitals or clinics open. But the doctors are allowed to take a call on Covid testing. Many doctors have contracted the illness and some have even lost their lives. The government should ensure that the frontline warriors are not unnecessarily exposed to the risk of Covid-19,” said Dr Kothari. “We routinely conduct HIV, HBsAg and HCV tests in all pre operative patients. Why can’t we conduct Covid-19 test? Is it for the benefit of the doctors only? The answer is no. It is beneficial to the patient and his or her relatives, all HCWs and public at large. Unfortunately, the government doesn’t consider doctor’s advice at all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cancer-patient-waiting-10-days-for-covid-test/articleshow/76050326.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pvt hospitals move HC against price cap for Covid treatment||Ahmedabad: The city’s designated Covid-19 private hospitals approached the Gujarat high court on Wednesday against the HC order to the government to rein them in by not allowing them to charge exorbitant rates and to place a cap on charges. They complained that any further squeezing by HC and government would lead to closure of private hospitals as they will fail to meet treatment costs.Besides the capping of rates for 50% private beds apart from the beds acquired by the government by the May 14 order by HC, the Ahmedabad Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) has also registered an objection to the high court’s May 22 suggestions to the authorities to reduce rates further for treatment of private patients. Sources said that the authorities have asked private hospitals to reduce their rates further by 30%.AHNA, a body of 246 private hospitals and nursing homes, has urged the HC to recall its orders to the authorities to cap the treatment rates in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients on beds other than the 50% acquired by the authorities. It is saying that the private hospitals are already treating 50% patients referred to them by AMC.Objecting to HC’s May 14 order, AHNA claims that allegations of charging exorbitant price in private hospitals are baseless.The petition contends that because of the cap andthe HC order for further cut in charges for private patients, there is immense pressure on private hospitals. “It is not possible to relent to such pressures as the reduction is not further possible as it is not financially viable and would result in compelling the hospitals to stop functioning for want of proper resources to run and manage the hospitals and nursing homes,” the petition reads.The petitioner has also objected to HC’s order of not charging advance deposit from private patients. “If this applies to private patients, it would create serious jeopardy and it would not be possible to bear the burden of such action. It would not be conducive and not feasible for private hospitals to provide treatment,” the petition claims.AHNA has said that private hospitals were never asked before fixing these rates and taking decisions. Hence, it should also be heard. The HC is likely to hear this petition with its suo motu PIL on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-hospitals-move-hc-against-price-cap-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/76050271.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CMC starts contact tracing after doc tests positive||Cuttack: Health officials of Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) have started contact tracing a day after a city-based paediatrician tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “He is the first doctor in the state who has been infected by the virus,” CMC commissioner Ananya Das said. CMC officials said as per initial contact tracing, the doctor has been to Kendrapada to a relative’s place and returned to Cuttack on May 11. “From May 11 to 20, he attended to patients at City Hospital and went to his clinic,” Das said. As many as 66 people have been traced so far who had come in contact with the doctor who has been admitted to Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack. His family members, including his wife, have been put under home quarantine. The doctor’s clinic and the paediatric OPD at the hospital have also been sealed. Ever since he showed Covid symptoms, he kept himself in home isolation. On May 21, CMC health officials collecetd his swab samples which came out positive on Tuesday, the commissioner added. “We have taken all measures to sanitise the CDA area (the doctor’s residence) and nearby localities to contain the spread of the virus. The paediatric OPD at the hospital and his clinic have been sealed. The doctor’s residence has been sanitised and neighbours have been told about the family members living in home isolation. A team has been formed to monitor the family members who have to stay in home quarantine for 14 days, starting Tuesday,” Das said. Till Wednesday, swab samples of 25 contacts have been have collected, including doctors, nurses and pharmacists at the hospital along with their family members. “The samples have been sent for testing. We expect the reports to come in the next two days,” she said, adding that further action will be taken on basis of the reports. “As there is no local transmission in the case so far, there is no need to declare the area as a containment zone right now,” Das stated. A total of 86 people tested positive in Cuttack so far, including 10 in CMC areas. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cmc-starts-contact-tracing-after-doc-tests-positive/articleshow/76047536.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||East-West Metro on pre-service trial run||KOLKATA: A pre-service trial run was conducted along the 5km stretch of East-West Metro on Wednesday. A similar trial will be done on the north-south underground section on Thursday. The pre-service trial on the East-West section was conducted amid uncertainties since Cyclone Amphan has caused some damages to the city’s new Metro line and its swanky stations between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium. On Wednesday, a train was driven along the 5km viaduct that runs along Salt Lake and a part of the EM Bypass to check if the section was functioning right. The broken shroud on the third rail was removed, but the broken noise barriers between Karunamoyee and Sector V as well as Bengal Chemical and Salt Lake Stadium stations have not been repaired yet. Officials said the repairs would be done in the next few days. Glass of the platform screen gates and various light fittings along the tracks will be also be repaired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/east-west-metro-on-pre-service-trial-run/articleshow/76048981.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Deaths in Nagpur, Washim; record 72 cases in Akola||NAGPUR: Covid-19 positive cases in Vidarbha witnessed a second-highest single day surge on Wednesday with 91 new cases. Out of these, 72 were reported from Akola alone. A 71-year-old woman who died in Nagpur tested positive while a 65-yr-old man, who was under treatment at Washim, died on Tuesday. With this, the death toll in Vidarbha climbed to 58. In all, Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 cases surged to 1,444. Against 91 new cases, only 36 have patients recovered and were discharged taking the total number of recovered patients in Vidarbha to 895 — 62% Wednesday began with a 71-yr-old deceased woman in Nagpur testing positive. This was the second consecutive day on which Nagpur recorded a Covid-19 death. Out of 9 deaths reported till date in Nagpur, seven have happened in May. In Washim, a 65-year-old man died during treatment on Wednesday. District collector Hrishikesh Modak informed that the patient had travelled from Mumbai to Washim along with his family last week. Five members of the family, who came back from Mumbai after staying with a Covid-19 positive woman there, had tested positive. Four of them recovered and were discharged on Wednesday. “The deceased was a patient of uncontrolled diabetes. He was on ventilator support from last four days. Doctors tried their level best but could not save the patient,” said Modak. Akola first in Vid to cross 500 mark Chaitanya.Deshpande, Anil Jadhav, Balwant Dhage & TO Abraham Nagpur:Vidarbha saw a second-highest single day surge on Wednesday with 91 new cases. Washim now has two deaths, both travellers. Akola broke the record of a single day surge in positive cases on Wednesday by reporting 72 new cases in a day. With this, the district surpassed the 500-mark to become the district with highest cases in Vidarbha. Akola, was way behind Nagpur till May 25 but now has 60 cases more. Out of 72 cases on Wednesday, 43 are men and 29 women. They are from 11 different localities and 2 tehsils in Akola district. The highest of 11 are from Akot Faail area which is a hotspot now. In Wardha, the migrant labourer of Jharkhand who died on Tuesday with symptoms of Covid-19 tested negative, but his close relative tested positive. The district administration is concerned as the number of coronavirus positive patients are increasing day by day. A 42 year-old migrant labourer on the Shramik Special from Surat in Gujarat to Jharkhand was dropped off at Wardha railway station due to coronavirus symptoms on Monday evening. Later he died on the way to district general hospital. While the deceased’s report came negative, his close contact tested positive on Wednesday. Civil surgeon Purushottam Madavi said that positive person has been admitted to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi for treatment. “At present, patients from other districts like Washim, Amravati, Navi Mumbai, Gorakhpur (UP) and others are undergoing treatment in Wardha,” he said. In Amravati, a 75-yr-old woman from Masanganj area tested positive. This took the Covid-19 count of Masanganj to 28 and Amravati to 186. The municipal corporation has announced door-to-door survey in Masanganj now. Frezerpura and Police Reserve Line will be new containment zones while Hathipura, Tarkheda, Nalsabpura are on the way to be declared de-containment zones. No new cases were reported from Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Washim and Gadchiroli. Yavatmal has shown a decline in positive cases as there are no new ones for the last four days. At present, 15 persons are in the isolation ward of whom 14 are active positive patients. No deaths have occurred in the district. There were 113 positive cases of whom 99 patients have recovered and been discharged for home quarantine. 61 swab samples have been sent on Wednesday and the reports are awaited, informed GMC sources. A mobile fever clinic has been launched from Wednesday in all the 16 tehsils across the district. A three-member team — doctor, health worker and pharmacist — will man the mobile clinic. They will test patients and if needed medicines will be provided instantly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deaths-in-nagpur-washim-record-72-cases-in-akola/articleshow/76050235.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Foot-operated sanitiser dispensers latest pandemic product in Chennai||CHENNAI: Foot-operated sanitiser dispensers are the latest buzz among street-side vendors, who have been busy selling masks during the pandemic. Apart from small industries and shops, even public are buying such foot operated dispensers, say vendors. Dubbed as ‘touchless hand sanitiser,’ these are priced between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500. While the average price is Rs 1,500, vendors say some variants in the market are priced as high as Rs 5,000. On Bazaar Main Road in Madipakkam, a vendor was selling foot-operated dispensers, made of both PVC and steel. “I bought them from Parry’s Corner. While several shopkeepers bought it to place in their shops, a few customers bought it for their houses too,” said the vendor. However, not everyone has been lucky with sales. On NSK Road in Nanganallur, T Jaisingh, who used to supply furniture, canopies for weddings and outdoor events, took to manufacturing and selling these touchless hand sanitisers as business has remained dull due to the lockdown. “I have put them up for sale the past two days but there have been hardly any takers. Initially, I planned to sell it for Rs 1,500. Now, I am ready to give it for as less as Rs 1,000,” said T Jaisingh. According to Jaisingh, there are manufacturing units in Puducherry and several of them have taken to this business after the lockdown was relaxed. The pandemic has also given rise to several cottage industries making face masks. Vendors are spotted across the city, selling masks in bicycles and motorbikes. Vendors who sell fruits, vegetables on pushcarts, provision stores, everybody has stock of face masks. On Medavakkam Main Road, vendors were seen selling three masks for Rs 50. Most of them are made of cloth and can be washed and reused, according to the vendors. This has, however, not gone well with the pharmacists. “About a month ago, authorities were very strict with us and had laid down stringent rules for sale of masks and sanitisers. Some pharmacies in South Chennai were even sealed. Now sanitizers are sold on the streets and no one knows whether they are alcohol-based or just soap water,” said S Gokul, a pharmacist from Nanganallur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/foot-operated-sanitizer-dispensers-latest-pandemic-product-in-city/articleshow/76050419.cms||Srikkanth D
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||After cyclone, blocked roads lead to waste pile-up||Kolkata: Huge trees felled by Cyclone Amphan had blocked every other roads in the city—thoroughfare as well as lanes—making it impossible for vehicles to pass by. That had an adverse effect on waste clearance in the the city, as KMC solid waste management department could not drive the compactors to their respective stations in different neighbourhoods, leading to garbage piling up over the past few days. A solid waste management official pointed out workers failed to transport garbage from compactor stations to Dhapa as multiple roads were blocked by uprooted trees. He said the scene was particularly bad in some areas, such as Diamond Harbour Road in Behala, Jadavpur, NSC Bose Road in Tollygunge, Garden Reach and pockets off Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, which had been cut off after the cyclone hit last Wednesday. A senior waste management official conceded that with the civic body still struggling to clear uprooted trees, disposal of garbage had suffered a setback. “Our trucks, with compactors machines, could not reach several neighbourhoods where uprooted trees had made the roads inaccessible,” he said. The civic brass on Wednesday, however, said the situation was improving and the department was now ready to clean all arterial roads. “We have planned a special clean-up drive for all major roads and neighbourhoods. We intend to finish work by the weekend,” said an official. A government official, Anirban Sen, who lives in Golf Green, complained that the civic body had not sone anything about the waste not being cleared from a compactor station in the neighbourhood. The civic official pointed out the plight of Golf Green was because of over 100 large trees that had collapsed and blocked the entire stretch, from Lake Gardens intersection. “Our vehicles could not reach the are for several days till the trees were removed,” he said, adding the process had finally begun and the entire waste would be cleared in a few days. In areas off EM Bypass, like, Madurdaha, Anandapur and Mukundapur, waste collection was especially hit as the vehicles could not manoeuvre through waterlogged roads and moreover, residents had put up blockade to protest against long periods of power cut after the cyclone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-cyclone-blocked-roads-lead-to-waste-pile-up/articleshow/76049011.cms||Saikat Ray
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University to begin UG science admissions soon; forms can be filled online||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University will soon begin the process to enroll candidates in undergraduate science courses at 32 colleges affiliated with it. The decision is in line with the state government’s recent directions to all varsities to begin the admission process for Class XII science students from May 26. The admission process for 12,500 seats in GU science colleges is for Class XII students whose results were declared recently by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB). While the form-filling exercise will be carried out online, the document verification process will take place at designated centres. “Students are required to remain present in person for the verification. There are serious concerns about maintaining social distancing and other safety measure, especially when Covid-19 numbers are on the rise,” said sources. College admissions for all courses except those under the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) will begin on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-begin-ug-science-admissions-soon-forms-can-be-filled-online/articleshow/76049093.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Fresh drive to make people wear masks||Bhubaneswar: With the easing of several restrictions in the fourth phase of the lockdown, the commissionerate police have decided to launch a special drive to ensure that people in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack wear masks and keep a safe social distance. The decision comes a day after chief minister Naveen Patnaik expressed his concern about the challenging times ahead in the fight against Covid-19 following the resumption of public transport, flights and trains. Commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi and additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo on Wednesday held a meeting with the officers of police stations in the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar and asked them to intensify the enforcement drive. The police will also mobilise market committees to ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distance while shopping. “We will create awareness among the residents. Many people are beginning to feel that relaxation of lockdown restrictions means that Covid-19 is gone. They should realize that the virus is still active. Wearing masks in confined spaces is more important. Police cannot be present everywhere, especially indoors. Therefore, community mobilisation and support is important,” Sarangi said. Sahoo said social distance enforcement squads were recently constituted in each police station. “We will start the special enforcement drive and awareness campaigns in every police area. Since we come across violation of social distancing norms in marketplaces, we will mobilize the local market committees to help the police enforce the rules of wearing masks and maintaining a social distance,” Sahoo said. Sources said nearly 10,000 persons have been fined in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack during the last month for violating the lockdown norms. The police have repeatedly appealed to the people to act more responsibly. “Easy movement of vehicles, reopening of shops of different categories and parks may pose more risks in the near future. Experts apprehend the peak of Covid-19 spread in June and July. Unless people behave responsibly in public places and take the necessary precautions, it is difficult to fight the novel coronavirus,” another police officer said. The sources said the police are likely to join hands with NGOs to create awareness among people. “We recently started an online art competition among schoolchildren on the theme of social distancing. We have also been sensitizing people to the virus through creative artworks and memes on social media,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/fresh-drive-to-make-people-wear-masks/articleshow/76047573.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Film director steps in to help migrants reach home||Visakhapatnam: Hyderabad-based film director Aneesh Daniel has been helping migrant labourers reach their home town. Till now, he has sent more than a 100 labourers, both men and women aged between from eight to 80s. Besides, Daniel with the help of his friends, has managed to collect around Rs 50,000 to book a truck for around 45 migrant labourers from West Bengal whose houses have been destroyed in cyclone Amphan. His wife shanthi too has joined her husband. “I decided to distribute sanitary napkins among the poor women walking day and night to reach their homes,” said shanthi. It began when Daniel was on his way to Visakhapatnam to pick up shanthi. He spotted a few migrant labourers walking home. Moved by their plight Daniel decided to stay back in the City of Destiny and help such labourers. “While I was on my way to Visakhapatnam from Hyderabad, I noticed a group of migrant labourers travelling under the scorching sun. I had an umbrella in my car and I gave it to a young girl in the group and she was happy. Seeing her smile, I decided to stay back in Visakhapatnam,” he said. But, unlike other volunteers, Daniel did not want to offer food or money to them. Rather, he wanted to help them reach home. “The best possible way to help them out was to arrange transport for them. I started spending time at the NAD crossing negotiating with the lorry drivers to take them home. I also decided to distribute umbrellas so that they can protect themselves from the scorching sun,” said Daniel. “I would say the truck drivers are the real heroes of ‘lockdown’ India. Many of them did not accept money. Rather they cooked food for the migrants,” added Daniel. Daniel is the director of the acclaimed English movie “The Least of These”, based on the story of Graham Staines - the Australian missionary who was killed along with his two sons in Odisha in 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/film-director-steps-in-to-help-migrants-reach-home/articleshow/76047570.cms||Arpit Basu
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Power users may submit meter readings now||Chandigarh: To facilitate consumers in billing-related matters, electricity distribution companies in Haryana have enabled consumers to upload meter reading on their own. This system has been put in place in 42 cities under Uttar Haryana Bijli Nigam Limited and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam. Domestic, non-domestic and commercial consumers having load up to 20 KW will be able to avail the facility. The discoms hope to weed out the problems of wrong billing, inadequate reading or average billing with the move. Due to the lockdown, many consumers got electricity bills on average basis. Consumers will also be able to use this facility to revise their bills according to the actual reading. Details are available on teh discoms’ website, www.uhbvn.org.in or www.dhbvn.org.in. All information about the use of this facility is available there.. Under UHBVN, the facility has been extended in Panchkula, Karnal, Panipat, Sonipat, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Kaithal, Ambala City, Ambala Cantt, Yamunanagar, Shahbad, Bahadurgarh, Kalka, Pinjore, Cheeka, Guhana, Gharonda, Pehwa, Thanesar, Ganaur and Samalkha. Under DHBVN, the facility is in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Jind, Sirsa, Hisar, Rewari, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Dabwali, Barwala, Ellenabad, Tohana, Hansi, Narwana, Narnaul, Hodal, Bhawani Kheda, Siwani and Loharu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-users-may-submit-meter-readings-now/articleshow/76050353.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||Daily case count goes past 300, for the second time||Bhopal: A day after Madhya Pradesh saw a dip in daily case count, the number of new cases shot past 300 on Wednesday — only for the second time since the outbreak. While the health directorate bulletin reported 237 cases, an Indore late-night report added 78 cases, taking the day’s tally to 315. Indore, with 157, accounts for half of it. MP’s Corona count now stands at 7,339. Until the Indore report came, the day’s recovery count (238) was higher than new cases for the first time in 15 days. However, the total cure count is much higher than active cases – 3,927 to 3,099.  Apart from these new cases, eight deaths were also reported. The deaths were reported from Indore (2), Bhopal (2), Burhanpur (1), Dewas (1), Khargone (1) and Barwani (1) districts. New cases were reported from 21 of the 50 Covid-19-affected districts of the state. It is noteworthy that during the period between May 1and May 10, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 was higher than those testing positive for Covid-19. However, between May 11 and May 27 more people had tested positive than those recovering. On the dates of May 2, May 4, May 5, May 7, May 8, May 9 and May 10, patients recovering from the deadly disease outnumbered those testing positive in the state. As per the official figures, 1,152 people recovered from the disease between May 1 and May 10 while just 899 new patients were found. On the contrary, between May 11 and May 27, a whopping 3,647 people had tested positive for the disease while only 2,251 had recovered from it. As per the state health bulletin for May 27, a total of 3,927 people have recovered from the disease in MP so far, which is more than the 3,021 active patients who are admitted at different hospitals across the state and undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-state-wrap-may-27/articleshow/76049039.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||With 14 deaths in 7 days, Vid mortality rate higher than natl figure||NAGPUR: Vidarbha has been reporting Covid-19 deaths every day since the last 7 days, which is not usual for the region. Between May 21 and 27, the region has recorded 14 deaths — on an average 2 per day. Fatality rate in the region is now 4% which is considerably higher than the national figure of 2.79%. In other words, 4 out of every 100 Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha are dying. On Tuesday, a 71-yr-old woman died in Nagpur and a 65-yr-old man in Washim taking Covid-19 death toll of Vidarbha to 58. An analysis of the deaths reveal that 45 of the deceased were above 60 years of age and only 2 of them were below 30 years of age. Almost all the deceased had one or multiple comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, respiratory illnesses like TB and SARI, renal and liver failures, and obesity etc. Akola district accounts for 28 of the total deaths and 7 of the last 14 deaths. But, the highest mortality rate is still in Amravati — 8.06%. Amravati has 186 cases and 15 deaths. With 9 deaths and 447 positive cases, Nagpur’s mortality rate is 2%. Yavatmal is one of the four districts in Vidarbha having more than 100 cases, but not a single death has been recorded here till date. Out of total 115 cases in Yavatmal, 99 have recovered and been discharged, and others are on the road to recovery. Out of 58 deaths, many deceased were tested positive post-death during earlier period. But, in last seven days, 10 out of the 14 deceased died during treatment in the isolation ward. Six of them were kept on ventilator support for more than 24 hours, but could not recover. According to doctors, this situation is grave. “It’s worrisome that patients are dying during treatment. Most of such patients have severe comorbidities, at least in Akola,” said Sanjay Khadse, resident deputy collector of Akola. “Early detection of Covid-19 can save many lives. That’s why, we have launched door-to-door health check-up of each and every citizen from May 29,” Khadse added. Door-to-door active surveillance of all citizens was held in Nagpur and it has proved quite beneficial. In Amravati, the municipal corporation has done such survey twice and has achieved quite a good control on death rate. In Yavatmal, the municipal council conducted health survey of all citizens two weeks ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-14-deaths-in-7-days-vid-mortality-rate-higher-than-natl-figure/articleshow/76050305.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 28, 2020||Trichy||5 booked under Goondas Act for brewing arrack||TRICHY: The Trichy rural police slapped Goondas Act against five people involved in illicit liquor and brewing arrack in Trichy on Tuesday. Superintendent of police, Trichy district, Zia Ul Haque ordered for the detention of P Veeramalai, 33, V Periyasamy, 29, P Thangarasu, 31, S Ajay alias Murugesan, 31, all hailing from Veerappur in Trichy and N Balasubramanian, 30, under Goondas Act. They had all been arrested in sepearate cases of brewing illicit liquor during the lockdown period. The police had seized over 1000 litres of arrack from them. The police said that the Goondas Act has been slapped against them to curtail their frequent illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5-booked-under-goondas-act-for-brewing-arrack/articleshow/76050314.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Stop chasing the virus, focus on those critically ill’||AHMEDABAD: Stop chasing the Covid-19 virus, rather concentrate on treating those who need critical care. This was the advice from a team of disease experts, some of whom are also advisors to the state government on Covid-19. The experts wrote a letter addressed to the state principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi on Tuesday. They included Dr Pankaj Shah, infectious disease expert Dr Atul Patel and cardiac expert Dr Tejas Patel. The three doctors are also in the committee recently formed by the government to inspect issues at Civil Hospital in Asarwa. In the letter, the experts have suggested the authorities should stop testing asymptomatic individuals — patients who do not show symptoms but are carriers of the virus — including their contacts and their family members who may be in quarantine. In fact the experts have also stated that testing of individuals who had been diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier and would want to know their current Covid-19 infection status should also be avoided. “If these suggestions are accepted by the government, it will be a sea change in Covid-19 testing regime for the city,” said a senior official in the state government. TOI is in possession of a copy of the letter. Recently, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline issued on May 18 has suggested testing of, “Asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case once between day 5 and day 10 of contact.” The state experts have suggested that Covid-19 testing should be done for patients with clinical suspicion of Covid-19 by a treating consultant and that only a symptomatic health worker should be tested on the advice of a consultant. The same condition, experts have suggested, should be applied for pre-operative testing for patients undergoing surgery or any other instrumentation on direction of a treating consultant. The only exception being patients receiving cancer chemotherapy, radiotherapy and planned haemo-dialysis and pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stop-chasing-the-virus-focus-on-those-critically-ill/articleshow/76050376.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Remove restrictions on testing’||AHMEDABAD: After the Gujarat high court’s observation against the state government’s restrictive Covid-19 testing policy, the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) has moved the HC for permission to private laboratories and hospitals to carry out the RT-PCR test freely without any government restrictions. AMA, which comprises nearly 9,000 doctors, has urged the HC to quash the government policy mandating private laboratories to seek prior approval form the Sola Civil Hospital before conducting a Covid-19 test. It has urged the HC to permit all private laboratories and hospitals having requisite infrastructure to conduct RT-PCR tests without any government interference. The petitioner claims that there are about 12 private laboratories and 19 government laboratories, which have been granted permission by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct RT-PCR tests for Covid-19. It further says that in many instances, patients require surgery and before that ascertaining their Covid-19 status is extremely essential for various reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/remove-restrictions-on-testing/articleshow/76050360.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||First set of sailors sent on home quarantine||Panaji: The 417 seafarers who arrived in Goa last week on three charter flights were sent on home quarantine on Wednesday after they completed seven days institutional quarantine at hotels in North and South Goa. They all tested negative for Covid-19. They are the first batch of seafarers to be sent on home quarantine following the new protocol. The 40-odd seafarers who arrived from South Africa last week and are presently quarantined at a hotel in Patto, Panaji, will complete seven days institutional quarantine on Friday after which they will be stamped and sent into home quarantine. The 90-odd crew from Karnika who were to complete 14 days institutional quarantine this Saturday were sent home on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-set-of-sailors-sent-on-home-quarantine/articleshow/76050387.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: NCC cadets distribute 2,5000 masks||AHMEDABAD: Continuing with its efforts against the spread of Covid-19 and towards the exercise of NCC Yogdan, NCC cadets distributed 25,000 handmade masks to district magistrates, sub- divisional magistrates, and hospitals to give to needy people at 21 locations in Gujarat. This is in addition to 10,000 masks already distributed during deployment. Five Group HQs under Gujarat Directorate distributed 5,000 masks each in their areas. The districts where the masks were distributed included Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Anand, Kheda, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Surendranagar, Bhuj, and Porbandar. This week, NCC cadets participated in “Hu Pan Corona Warrior” campaign launched by the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ncc-cadets-distribute-25000-masks/articleshow/76049098.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hospitals with Covid labs go in for upgrade to test patients in OPD||KOLKATA: Hospitals with Covid-19 testing facilities across the city are set to start screening swab samples collected from OPD patients. After the Bengal government’s circular, issued on Tuesday, allowed hospitals to test Covid-19 samples from OPD patients, the hospitals with Covid testing labs are upgrading their infrastructure in anticipation of more patients to undergo the test. “This is a positive move by the government. This will widen the scope for tracing more infected people, lead to timely intervention and help in the Covid containment strategy,” said Dr Alok Roy, chairman, Medical Group of Hospitals. So far the norm was that all patients would have to be admitted in the hospitals with Covid testing facilities, even if the patient is asymptomatic. Doctors said that in some cases, the corona test reports of the patients, who need to undergo a simple surgery, take as many as three days to come. “This new testing strategy has come at the right time when there is the need to test more asymptomatic patients. This will ease the mental stress that a patient has to face for hospitalisation and bearing its cost,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Group of Hospitals. Currently, seven hospitals in the city have Covid testing labs. Of these hospitals, three, including Medica Superspecialty Hospital, have RT-PCR testing. A patient has to come from the OPD of the hospital, if asymptomatic, or from the fever clinic, if symptomatic. The new testing strategy, however, will not be applicable to government hospitals. “Currently, we are able to handle the samples of our admitted patients only. But we are revamping both our labs and we should be able to handle more samples by the first week of June,” said Barua. AMRI group of hospitals has Covid labs at Dhakuria and AMRI. Hospitals like Peerless have decided to make patients sign a form saying that they will follow strict home isolation norms till the result arrives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-with-covid-labs-go-in-for-upgrade-to-test-patients-in-opd/articleshow/76049046.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 28, 2020||Madurai||Village women struggle to sell cucumber in scorching heat amid falling demand||Trichy: While cucumber is known for keeping the body cool and helping people beat the heat during peak summers, the demand for it has fallen this year making it difficult for cucumber sellers to earn a decent income.Around 20 women from Pirattiyur village on Trichy-Dindigul Road, who sell cucumber under scorching sun on the platform of the Good Shed Bridge, said that this year, the demand for it has gone down. They said that they got the cucumbers from the farms in Iniyanur, Adhavathur, Allithurai and nearby villages in April and May. Each basket, which is priced at Rs 700 to Rs 800, will have 15 to 30 cucumbers depending on their size, they added. They said that on adding the transportation cost from the farm to the Good Shed Bridge, the cost could go up further. Therefore, they are priced at Rs 40 to Rs 50 for one medium-sized cucumber. The ones that are bigger are being sold at Rs 75 to Rs 80 per piece.“I could hardly earn Rs 200 in a day from the sales. The demand has dropped because people don’t prefer it despite its good quality of keeping the body cool,” said Surya, who was selling cucumber for the first time to make a living.“Some fruits are available only in particular seasons. The response was good last year but this year, only few are buying it,” said Eswari of the same village. The women said that they were confused whether the spread of Covid-19 and the lockdown to contain it may have affected the demand of cucumbers this year. Boopathi, of Pirattiyur, said she was upset as there was no takers for the produce. “Not even one piece was sold till 1 pm. I am waiting with the hope of selling out everything daily so that I can prevent a loss on my investment,” she said.The Pirattiyur village women said that they were selling cucumbers in Gandhi market area also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/village-women-struggle-to-sell-cucumber-in-scorching-heat-amid-falling-demand/articleshow/76050369.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt advises use of neem-based spray to prevent locust attack||Bhubaneswar: In the wake of the locust invasion in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, agriculture minister Arun Kumar Sahoo on Wednesday appealed to farmers here to take precautions against the crop-eating insects. “We anticipate that the locusts may come to Odisha. But there is no reason to panic as the state government and the Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) have already issued an advisory to prevent an attack,” the minister said. The desert locust, which belongs to the family of short-horned grasshoppers, is largely found in East Africa. “These insects eat crops and the green part of trees. The abundant rainfall in East Africa has helped them breed and multiply. These insects have entered Iran, Pakistan and now India. Swarms of locusts have invaded Madhya Pradesh. We apprehend they may come to Odisha,” Sahoo said. He further said Odisha had not witnessed a locust attack in the past several years. “We hope that the swarms of locusts don’t enter the state. But we should be prepared for any eventuality,” he added. Sahoo advised the farmers to spray 200 litres of a solution of five per cent neem seed kernel extract (5% NSKE) per acre of land during the afternoon to prevent attacks from these insects. They can also prepare a solution by adding 300PPM neem insecticide in 200 litres of water and spray it on the crop, he explained. The OUAT has also issued an advisory to farmers in this regard. Apart from the neem-based treatment method, it has asked farmers to beat tin cans to drive the locusts away. They can also keep the locusts at bay by wielding branches full of thorns, it added. “Farmers can spread polythene sheets under trees housing locusts during the evening and shake them hard so that the insects fall on the sheets. Collect these locusts and put them in water mixed with kerosene to kill them,” read the OUAT advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-advises-use-of-neem-based-spray-to-prevent-locust-attack/articleshow/76047612.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: As five flights land, people leaving outnumber arrivals||PANAJI: Goa International Airport handled 10 flights on Wednesday with passenger footfalls also increasing even though some flights flew virtually empty, sources said. The number of people leaving Goa by flights continued to outnumber arrivals with 163 passengers entering the state and 237 flying out. Alliance Air’s Mysore flight will remain the most memorable for the passengers since the flight landed at Dabolim with just three passengers. On the return journey the two passengers had the entire aircraft all to themselves. The other flights that operated were Vistara Delhi-Goa-Delhi flight, IndiGo’s two Delhi-Goa-Delhi flights and IndiGo’s Goa-Bengaluru flight. “Things are improving and now it all depends on how passengers react to the new standard operating protocol announced by Goa,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. Following a cabinet meeting, chief minister Pramod Sawant said the standard operating protocol for individuals entering the state by air, rail or road route had been modified yet again with the 14-day home quarantine option will be no longer available for passengers. Passengers will have to either bring a Covid-19 negative certificate or pay for a Covid-19 test on arrival. Domestic carriers remain under pressure as the passenger load for all flights remains well below the break even point and companies continue to bleed losses. On May 25 when the union ministry of civil aviation permitted airlines to restart domestic operations, Goa saw just three flights landing at the airport while on Tuesday, just two flights brought in passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-five-flights-land-people-leaving-outnumber-arrivals/articleshow/76050422.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 500 fine for not wearing mask, says minister Vij||Chandigarh: To ensure strict implementation of social distancing and other precautions to check the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19), thhe Haryana government has decided to impose a fine of Rs 500 on those not wearing masks as well as spitting in the public place. Haryana’s home minister, who also holds the charge of the health ministry, Anil Vij announced this during his formal interaction with journalists. The notification to this effect will be made by Thursday, Vij said.. Notably, this is one of the measures taken by the Haryana government in the wake of anticipated lockdown 5.0 as lockdown 4.0 will come to an end on May 31. Besides this, the threat of spread of Covid-19 has increased after the government lifted certain restrictions to allow public movement. According to sources, the notification to take stringent action against violators will be made by giving more powers to district magistrates as well as the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-says-minister-vij/articleshow/76050421.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu jails on high alert, samples lifted from 190 inmates, staff||TRICHY: A day after three life convicts tested positive for Covid-19, swabs were lifted from more than 190 of their contacts to prevent the central prisons from turning into a new hotspot for Covid-19. The source of infection for the three life convicts - two from Cuddalore and one from Trichy - is still unknown. They aged between 39 and 45 years and completed more than 10 years of imprisonment. They were among 34 convicts who were brought from eight central prisons for men to Puzhal prison for a six-week para legal volunteers’ training programme in the second week of March. All of them were shifted to their respective prisons last week. In Trichy, after a 39-year-old male life convict tested positive, swabs have been lifted from three others who accompanied him to Chennai. He was shifted to the isolation ward of Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). Subsequently, the public health department lifted samples from around 100 prison guards and prisoners. Samples were also taken from five life convicts in Madurai central prison who attended the Chennai programme. A mobile medical team went to the central prison on Wednesday morning, collected samples and sent them to the laboratory in Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). A higher official from prisons department said that they were kept in isolation in a hospital on the prison campus. Though TN prisons have less than 60% inmates as against their total capacity, they use common toilets. “A single case of Covid-19 behind the high-walls will trigger a wave, leading to a cluster. It would turn fatal as most of the inmates are suffering from various health problems,” said a source. Director general of prisons Sunil Kumar Singh told TOI that samples were collected from 193 contacts of the three men and all of them were quarantined. An official said in Madurai that the department had taken all precautionary measures to avoid the spread of the virus among the convicts - from suspending the interview of the inmates with their family members to segregating persons with symptoms like cough, cold, fever and sore throat. Distribution of immunity boosters like arsenicum album-30, vitamin pills, zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer was also done. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, prisoners are initially lodged in sub-jails for 14 days before shifting them to the central prisons. Over 200 remand prisoners were released on bail from Madurai central Prison to decongest the prison, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-jails-on-high-alert-samples-lifted-from-190-inmates-staff/articleshow/76050416.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Revenge: Man stabbed to death over drugs complaint in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Mohsin Memon, 34, was stabbed to death by four persons on Tuesday night in Vatva because he had called the police control room to complain that the accused were taking drugs and were creating a racket. A complaint has been lodged by Hanif Memon, 62, Memon’s father. The accused have been identified as Tabrejkhan Pathan, Furkankhan Pathan, Sohailkhan Pathan and Maqboolkhan Pathan — all residents of Vatva. The inspector of Vatva police station, H V Sisara, said that the accused were drug addicts. He said that on March 19, based on Memon’s call, police had filed three complaints against the accused. Tabrejkhan was arrested and later detained under PASA. Senior police sources said the accused have been rounded up and sent for Covid-19 tests. According to police sources, Tabrejkhan was released from jail last month and wanted revenge against Memon. The FIR says that at about 9pm on Tuesday, the accused were standing near Saniya Hotel. “The complainant, Hanif, was also standing there. Then Memon arrived at the spot on his scooter.” The four accused then attacked Memon with knives and swords. He was taken to a nearby hospital in an autorickshaw but was declared brought dead by the doctor on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/revenge-man-stabbed-to-death-over-drugs-complaint/articleshow/76049130.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||BMC lists out 400 bldgs are too risky to live in||Bhopal: Ahead of monsoon, the civic body has listed around 400 structures that pose risk of immediate collapse, while 150-plus structures are to be directed to carry out repairs. According to a Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) official, most of these structures are privately owned. Each year, the BMC comes out with a list of structures “too risky to live in” before the monsoon sets in. According to BMC officials, this year, action is likely to be swift in many cases. Given the ongoing lockdown, the survey has been comprehensive and videography of some of the properties has been completed. However, any demolition cannot be initiated without the district administration’s approval. Many of the structures which are dangerous are under litigation. The government can only step in when there is immediate danger to public safety. There are an estimated 200 dilapidated or risky structures in the walled city area. The BMC is yet to complete the yearly exercise to embark on formal listing of dangerous structures. Notices to occupants are sent under two sections of the Nagar Nigam Act - 309 (needs urgent repair) and 310 (needs immediate evacuation, not repairable). For now, the BMC has given additional time to some of the occupants to carry out the repairs. However, in the lockdown, the repair and maintenance work is going to be a challenge. In June 2018, a two-storey building had collapsed in Lakherapura. Twelve people residing in the structure had a close shave when a portion of the nearly 100-year-old dilapidated house came down. In the same year, a building collapsed at the nearby Marwari Road. In August 2015, an elderly woman was killed after her house collapsed in Shahjahanabad area of Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmc-lists-out-400-bldgs-are-too-risky-to-live-in/articleshow/76049061.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Four booked in Trichy for forcing girl, 14, into marriage||TRICHY: The district social welfare department and Trichy city police rescued a 14-year-old girl who was forced into child marriage and arrested the 23-year-old groom. The accused has been identified as an autorickshaw driver and the girl’s neighbour. Search is on for his mother and the girl’s parents who were booked on charges of subjecting the minor girl to marriage. Acting on an anonymous call to ChildLine helpline 1098 on Tuesday, officials from the district social welfare office and police personnel rushed to the girl’s residence. During inquiry with the girl’s parents, they confessed to have conducted the wedding on Sunday morning. However, they managed to give them the slip. Further investigation revealed that auto driver had proposed to the girl, but she refused. He threatened his mother that he would end his life if she doesn’t marry him. His mother held talks with the girl’s parents after which both parties decided to conduct the marriage despite the girl’s refusal. After rescuing the girl, the department lodged her at a reception home in Trichy. The all women police, Golden Rock booked the four under three sections of the prohibition of child marriage Act. While the ‘groom’ was remanded in judicial custody, the three others are yet to be arrested. DSWO officials said they stopped 16 child marriages in Trichy district during the lockdown period since March 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-booked-in-trichy-for-forcing-girl-14-into-marriage/articleshow/76050426.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Rape case convict hangs self in prison||CHENNAI: One of the 16 people convicted for the rape of a minor in an apartment complex in Ayanavaram committed suicide by hanging in Puzhal prison on Tuesday night. R Palani, 41, of Pulianthope, was among the five given life imprisonment in February. Sources said he had since been lodged in prison-I complex that houses for convicted prisoners in Puzhal. He stayed aloof and seemed to be distressed for the past few days, a source said. Around 3pm on Tuesday, fellow inmates found him hanging in the toilet and alerted prison officials. After doctors on the jail premises confirmed he was dead, the body was sent to Stanley Government Hospital for postmortem. Prison authorities said Palani had torn his bedsheet to make a noose and hanged from the toilet window. The Puzhal Police have registered a case and initiated inquiry into the reasons behind the death. The case reported in 2018 saw 17 people employed as security guard, gardening, plumber and electrician in the apartment complex go on trial for raping a minor girl repeatedly over six months. Of them, 15 were convicted, one acquitted and another died during trial. Palani was a security guard in the apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rape-case-convict-hangs-self-in-prison/articleshow/76050427.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Office rentals might drop 20-30%, small companies stressed||MUMBAI: The Fortune 500 companies, multinationals and foreign banks based in India’s premier business district of Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) have not defaulted on rent since the lockdown began in March, but the stress is showing among smaller firms and start-ups. With uncertainties in the coming months, the current BKC lease rentals between Rs 250 and Rs 300 a sq ft per month may come under pressure, fear property experts. At Nariman Point, property consultant Ashok Narang said two of his clients have given notices to terminate their leave and license agreements. “One of them spent lakhs on interiors just three months ago, but now cannot afford the rent and wants to vacate the 3,400 sq ft office,” he said. Some clients in the area want to shift to smaller offices. “They say we can’t pay salaries to our employees, how can we pay the rents?” said Narang. Vishal Sharma, a commercial property owner in Nariman Point, said corporate clients have started delaying rent payments by a month. “They want more time. The next two quarters will be tough,” he said. As commercial lease rentals come under pressure, real estate experts said rents could decline by at least 20% to 30% as companies cut costs and retrench employees. Corporates occupying large floor plates have not yet reacted two months into the lockdown, said Anuj Puri, chairman of ANAROCK Property Consultants. “But if it persists, they may want to renegotiate the rentals or take a call on whether to continue occupying the offices,’’ he said. Puri said Blackstone-backed Embassy Office Parks real estate investment fund collected 97% rent in April and 75% of its May collection till Wednesday. “Big corporates have always honoured their agreements,” he added. But some BKC office landlords confessed that a prolonged lockdown will be devastating. “Property taxes and outgoings are the highest in BKC. Many may want to wind up and move to cheaper locations,” one said, voicing the common fear. Another debilitating after-effect of the lockdown on the commercial market will be many more empty offices as companies look to reduce expenditure and employee cost. Before the lockdown began, about 86 million sq ft or 12% of office space in the top eight Indian cities was vacant, of which 18 million sq ft was in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “This could increase to 32% if the lockdown continues for another four months,” warned real estate research firm Liases Foras in a recent report. In the worst-case scenario, if the effects of the lockdown prolong till September, the vacant office space in these eight cities could reach 225 million sq ft, crippling the commercial market, according to real estate research firm, it said. “Reduction in employee cost will directly impact demand of office real estate as well as lease rates,” said Pankaj Kapoor, MD of Liases Foras. Offices of banking and financial services, information technology and co-working spaces will be the worst affected. In the MMR, 69% of office space demand is from these three segments. Liases Foras said vacant offices in the MMR could increase from 18% at present to as high as 41% by September. “The highest quantum of vacant supply will be in MMR and the National Capital Region,” said Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/office-rentals-might-drop-20-30-small-cos-stressed/articleshow/76050428.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
May 28, 2020||Kochi||More attention to non-Covid patients||Kochi: The health department has asked government medical colleges to come up with a revised strategy for treatment of non-Covid patients amid concerns that these patients were not getting enough attention in the wake of the pandemic. They have also been asked to ensure smooth conduct of MBBS classes. A meeting chaired by principal health secretary Dr Rajan N Khobragade on Monday discussed the matter and decided that the treatment of non-Covid patients shouldn’t be compromised. It has been proposed that each medical college should keep aside only 30% beds for critical, suspected or confirmed Covid patients. Covid patients with mild symptoms should be treated in other government hospitals and private hospitals, it said. The meeting, attended by officials from both the directorate of health services (DHS) and the directorate of medical education (DME), decided to ask each government medical college to come out with a comprehensive plan. “With lockdown relaxation, the number of non-Covid patients approaching medical colleges for treatment has also increased. They need to be treated along with Covid patients while classes should also begin soon," director of medical education Dr Remla Beevi said. Sources said the Kozhikode medical college had -- in a plan already submitted to the district administration and the DME — proposed that only critical Covid patients needing tertiary care should be admitted to medical colleges. Incidentally, only Ernakulam and Manjeri government medical colleges are designated as Covid hospitals but the remaining medical colleges also have not been encouraging non-Covid treatment. Almost 70% beds in their ICU and ventilators as well as paid wards have been kept aside for Covid patients while a majority of staff have been assigned Covid duty. It is estimated that almost 50% people in Kerala seek treatment in government hospitals. “We are conducting a study on the medical behaviour of non-Covid patients during the lockdown period, as about 50-70% of them didn’t have access to treatment in medical colleges,” Dr Beevi said. The Kerala high court had on May 25 directed Alappuzha medical college to ensure medical review, and procedure if needed, for a petitioner -- a non-Covid patient -- at the earliest. The petitioner belonging to BPL category, Radhakrishnan R (58), had moved the court for bypass surgery. "We had taken our father twice to medical colleges for bypass surgery as he had coronary artery disease with angina but was denied the same stating that priority is for Covid patients. In private medical colleges, a bypass surgery would cost Rs 10 lakh," his son Sooraj R said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-attention-to-non-covid-patients/articleshow/76049096.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal cases up 10%, tally 273||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 26 positive cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state’s count for the coronavirus to 273. This is a 10% jump in the number of cases in just a day. In four days, the state has reported 70 cases. The tally was 203 on Sunday Now, the number of active cases in the hill state has increased to 198, while 66 patients have recovered, four have migrated out of state and five have died. Fifteen new cases are from Hamirpur district, seven from Bilaspur, and four from Kangra. Hamirpur’s tally has nwo reached 93, of which 85 cases are active. Bilaspur has reported 18, while Kangra has 65 positive cases. In the state, 38,879 persons had been put under surveillance till Wednesday. Of them, 13,760 have completed it. Also, 30,852 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of whom 30,019 have tested negative, results of 560 samples are awaited and the remaining tested positive. In Kangra, the two cases are of a a 29-year-old man from Talara village in Kangra district, who returned from Delhi four days ago, and a 30 year-old man from Khaniyara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-cases-up-10-tally-273/articleshow/76050435.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||Digital inauguration of projects soon: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the government is considering inaugurating completed projects through the digital mode from now on, after photographs of the CM, ministers and MLAs crowding during inauguration on the grade separator at Dabolim went viral on Tuesday. “I will take note of it. I saw it. I was also part of it. All our projects are getting held up so we are thinking about inaugurating them through the online mode,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/digital-inauguration-of-projects-soon-cm/articleshow/76050436.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 positivity rate jumps six-fold to 18%||MUMBAI: The city’s Covid-19 positivity rate has seen a six-fold jump since the start of April, which experts say is an indicator of the infection spreading rapidly. Currently, the percentage of people testing positive per 100 tests in Mumbai is 18%, i.e. nearly one of five people are testing positive. However, the BMC maintains this is a result of more targeted testing, as only those showing symptoms or being hospitalised are being tested. From 3% in early April, the positivity rate jumped to 6% by mid-month and has been on a steady climb ever since. In the first two weeks of May, the rate was around 12%. As on Tuesday, the seven public and 13 private laboratories had carried out nearly 1.7 lakh tests in the city, of which 32,791 had come positive. The state’s positivity rate is around 14% currently. If compared with rates across others districts in the state, Mumbai undoubtedly is on top of the chart. Neighbouring Thane, for instance, has a positivity rate of 15%, Raigad has 14%, Aurangabad is 12%, while Akola and Pune have 10% each. The lesser-affected districts, including Gadchiroli, Sindhudurg, Bhandara and Parbhani, have positivity rates of less than 2%. Wardha is the only district, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data, which has a positivity rate of less than 1%. In Wardha, out of nearly 1,400 tests, only seven samples have come positive. Epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyal said a rise in positivity rate simply means that the cases are spreading. “It’s a natural progression of an epidemic and also shows that it couldn’t be contained,” he said, adding that it indicates the control strategies must be tweaked. “But more importantly, the difference in positivity between civic wards should be looked at. An average could be giving the wrong picture as certain areas accelerate faster than the rest,” said Muliyal, a former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore. A senior municipal doctor added that if the average was that high, it would mean the hotspots have a much higher spread. “The positivity rate in hotspots, on certain days, has touched 35%. Transmission in congested areas is the city’s biggest challenge now,” said the doctor. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said: “We are only testing people with symptoms or those who are hospitalised. We can bring down the positivity rate any day simply by testing more asymptomatic people, but that’s not the strategy,” he said. Only high-risk contacts of positive people, even if they are asymptomatic, will be tested once between 5-10 days as per the new ICMR guidelines, he added. Currently nearly 4,000 tests are being carried out in the city, and testing is rather strictly monitored. Community transmission is a word that’s largely avoided, said Muliyal, but keeping that in mind, the local governments should emphasise on individual participation. “When the infection is so widespread, onus majorly falls on individuals to wear a mask, follow hand hygiene and maintain distance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mums-positivity-rate-jumps-6-fold-to-18/articleshow/76050437.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Private elephants turn liability for owners during lockdown||TRICHY: While they fetch good revenue for their owners during festival and marriage seasons, elephants in captivity have turned into a liability to their owners during lockdown. While maintaining the jumbos can cost their owners a bomb, forest department is closely monitoring if the captive elephants are being treated well. Individuals can own private captive elephants under the Tamil Nadu captive elephant (management and maintenance) Rules 2011. There are a total six captive elephants in Trichy district owned by four persons in Samayapuram, Srirangam, Thiruvanaikaval and Woraiyur. These elephants are a prime attraction at functions like marriages, temples festivals, housewarming ceremonies, etc and have always been in demand. But the lockdown that was announced two months back has spelt trouble for the elephant owners as all major functions have been put on hold ever since. Owning elephants for the last 40 years, Sugumar, 64, owner of two pachyderms in Samayapuram said that the Covid-19 outbreak has thrown up an unprecedented situation. With events being cancelled, the elephants have not brought in any revenue. It is challenging to maintain elephants without any major income especially when the cost of maintenance is too high, he says. He spends over Rs 2000 per day on the two elephants and has no clue of how long he will be able to bear the costs. Another elephant owner said that he has already exhausted all his savings to take care of his elephant and will need to borrow money to feed it further. But he would do all that is required to maintain his elephant’s health as it has been his source of income for many years now. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said the forest department has been closely watching health condition of the elephants during this lockdown. All the elephant owners have submitted documents on alternative source of income to take care of the elepahants. While retirement age of private elephants is fixed at 60 years, owners will have to maintain the elephant even after its retirement. “Covid-19 has posed a post-retirement like scenario for these elephants and we will have to ensure that they are taken care of under any circumstances,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-elephants-turn-liability-for-owners-during-lockdown/articleshow/76050430.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||Congress will win 20-22 seats in bypolls, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Amid speculations of a possible cabinet expansion in Madhya Pradesh, former chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday took a dig at the BJP government while speaking to the media in Chhindwara and said Congress will win 22 seats in the upcoming bypolls. “With a lot of difficulty after a month of government formation, a cabinet was made comprising just five ministers. Since the last 15 days, we are hearing that the cabinet will be expanded today or tomorrow. Let us see when the cabinet is finally sworn-in,” Nath said. Speaking on the upcoming bypolls in 24 assembly seats, the veteran Congress leader said, “We will win 20 to 22 seats under any circumstances.” Asked about allegations being made by the 22 former Congress MLAs and Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists who left the party, Nath said, “People of Madhya Pradesh know the real reasons behind those who left Congress and joined BJP. They themselves know the reasons why they left the party but cannot reveal the truth. They can only level false allegations and statements.” The MLAs who left had claimed that Nath as chief minister did not listen to them or give them time. Regarding former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia’s role in bringing down the government, Nath said, “People of the state will respond to Scindia’s actions. I don’t want to speak on the subject.” Earlier this month, health minister Narottam Mishra alleged that funds were diverted to Chhindwara, Nath’s old constituency and hometown, during the 15-month Congress rule. BJP claimed that there will be a probe into developmental works undertaken during the erstwhile Congress government. Nath refuted the allegations and said, “Whatever development works undertaken were done legitimately through proper channels and tenders. Let the government conduct a probe if they want. Their aim is to damage the development model of Chhindwara. The probe will make no difference.” Nath said, “I do not want to comment on degraded politics and neither do I believe in indulging in such vendetta politics. Those who are constantly involved in scams, see others in the same light.” Nath said he introduced new schemes for the tribal regions of the state. “We gave people 100 units of electricity for Rs100 under the Indira Griha Jyoti Yojana, which benefitted one crore domestic consumers. We waived crop loans of farmers. BJP can deny it, but farmers know the truth and they will give a befitting reply in the bypolls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-will-win-20-22-seats-in-bypolls-says-nath/articleshow/76049105.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Will move SC to convert govt schools to English medium: CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: On the third day of the brainstorming session Mana Palana Mee Suchana (Our Rule-Your Suggestions) the chief minister discussed the need to revamp the education sector. Addressing the experts, officials, students and parents, who attended the session, Jaganmohan Reddy said providing quality education is the biggest asset that his government could offer to the future generations. It is the only way to bring millions out of poverty. He said they are revamping the education system in such a way that it will help children from under-privileged sections realise their higher education dreams without facing financial burden. The chief minister said if the need were to arise they would go to Supreme Court to convert all the public schools into English medium. “The influential people who send their children and grandchildren to private English medium schools are creating hurdles to conversion of public schools into English medium. There is no question of going back on the issue as we are determined to empower the children from economically backward classes with all skills of tomorrow,” asserted the chief minister. He said children from economically weaker sections were dropping out of schools that is resulting in more economic hardship to their families. “I have personally seen their plights during my padayatra. I was moved by the horrific story of a parent and decided to go to any extent to realise the dreams of the children from under-privileged sections,” he said. Highlighting the initiatives taken so far, Jaganmohan Reddy said the YSRC government has released nearly Rs 6,350 crore to about 43 lakh mothers under Amma Vodi scheme last January; the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, a kit with bag, books, uniform, shoes, belt and socks,will be distributed to the children on August 3, the day schools are set to reopen and renovation work has begun in about 1,500 schools under the Nadu-Nedu scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-move-sc-to-convert-govt-schools-to-eng-medium-cm/articleshow/76047731.cms||Samdani MN
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Space sanitizer’ to scrub out virus from closed spaces||AHMEDABAD: Assisted by Gujarat based incubation centre – iCreate, Kanpur-based entrepreneurs have developed a space sanitizer, which uses negative ions to scrub out viruses from the air, especially in closed spaces like homes, offices and other workplaces. The device, which resembles an LED lamp, cleans up the air in a room within an hour. It consumes less than five watts of electricity and can be kept plugged into a socket and operated continuously with no side effects. Ashish Kanaujia had the idea of using negative air ions to scrub the air clean by removing all the ‘vehicles’ which the virus uses to transmit itself from one person to another. He packed the system inside a low-cost, easy to use bulb housing to make it user friendly for laymen. Most of the Covid hotspots in India have developed where people have been in close contact with each other in closed spaces. Working in the difficult lockdown period, innovators Navneet Pal and Ankit Sharma worked on developing the product, even as the iCreate team guided them remotely through their work. “The product has been priced at Rs 2,000 but it can be customized depending on the size of the room,” said Navneet Pal. He added that they intend to make the product available on other e-commerce platforms as well. iCreate’s Anupam Jalote said, “Ashish and Navneet have used core science and adapted it quickly to create a product that is affordable and easy to use by the common man, and it is very effective. In my opinion, this is the highest level of innovation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/space-sanitizer-to-scrub-out-virus-from-closed-spaces/articleshow/76049087.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra toll surges by 105, government says it includes 66 deaths from earlier||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 105 Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a day so far. In the last two days, the state has added 202 deaths to its toll. With Wednesday’s addition, Maharashtra’s toll climbed to 1,897. Mumbai contributed 32 of the 105 deaths, taking the city’s fatality numbers to 1,097. State officials attributed the high fatalities to book-keeping and said that of the total deaths reported on Wednesday, 39 occurred in the last two days and the remaining 66 were from the period April 21 to May 24. Of the 32 deaths in Mumbai, 21 were from April 21 to May 24. Maharashtra added 2,190 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total cases to 56, 948. The state government pointed out that around 37,125 cases are currently under treatment as 17,918 people have recovered and gone home. Mumbai reported 1,097 cases on Wednesday, taking its total cases to 34,018. After recording a jump of 3,041 cases on May 24, positive cases have marginally reduced in the state and the city. Mumbai, for instance, has recorded 1,097 and 1,002 cases in the last two days, a respite from the positive cases in the range of 1500-1700 earlier. The state’s public health department said that the doubling rate, which was 11.5 days till last week, had increased to 14.7 days as on Wednesday. Also, the discharge rate of the state had climbed to 31% from the 26% last week. In Mumbai, over 9,000 people have recovered and gone home. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the civic corporation was closely monitoring the doubling rate, which has been getting better in certain wards. “In terms of early disease detection, we have also started mobile x-ray clinics in Dharavi on Wednesday. We will soon be deploying more mobile x-ray facilities across the high-density pockets,” he said. Kakani added that the jumbo facility at the MMRDA grounds in Bandra has started admitting patients, and currently 40 are under treatment there. Meanwhile, three Covid-19 patients died in the past 24 hours while 57 new cases were reported from Kalyan-Dombivli, taking the total numbers of patients there to 882, including 26 deaths. All the three patients who died were women, and two of them who were above 70 years old had health issues. Besides Mumbai, 16 deaths were reported from Thane, 10 from Jalgaon, 9 from Pune, 7 each from Navi Mumbai and Raigad, 6 from Akola, 4 from Aurangabad, 3 each from Nashik and Solapur, 2 from Satara and one each from Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Nandurbar, Panvel and Vasai-Virar. Additionally, there was a death of a Gujarat resident in Mumbai. Cases in rural parts of the state were going up after many people from the red zones were going back to their hometowns. Returnees from Mumbai, Pune and other hotspots like Malegaon started reaching their native villages/towns in Vidarbha from May 17 onwards. A sudden surge in number of cases, especially in the rural areas, has been witnessed in the region since. Especially, tribal-dominated districts like Gondia, Gadchiroli and Bhandara have been hit as returnees have tested positive. Maharashtra, as on Wednesday, had 72 labs conducting Covid-19 swab tests, and 12.5% of the total tests conducted in the country were done in the state, officials said. Maharashtra has conducted 3,142 tests per million population against the national figure of 2,363 tests per million population, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-toll-surges-by-105-govt-says-it-includes-66-deaths-from-earlier/articleshow/76050439.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Restoration work on Kattalai high-level canal in Karur begins||TRICHY: Restoration work on the Kattalai high-level canal (KHLC) in Karur district resumed after more than two months on Wednesday. Work on the KHLC was suspended due to the lockdown, and began now with minimal workers to ensure social distancing. K Gopal, principal secretary, animal husbandry department who is the special officer for the project carried out an inspection at two places where the restoration work is underway. The refurbishment of the decades-old canal is estimated to be completed at an outlay of Rs 335.50 crore in two years by giving a pause to the work whenever water is released into the canal for irrigation in Karur and Trichy. Constructed in 1934, the contour KHLC branches out from Cauvery river from Mayanur in Karur district and passes through Karur and Trichy dirsticts to irrigate 23,774 acres of command area of which 20,185.06 acres sprawl in Karur and 3,588.94 under Trichy. With a 62.124km length from Mayanur, the canal has been equipped with a head regulator to ensure the designed discharge of 411 cusecs to irrigate the 23,000-odd acres of farming lands. The need for the renovation arose several years ago after the water distribution system became old besides requiring repair work and replacement in many places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/restoration-work-on-kattalai-high-level-canal-in-karur-begins/articleshow/76050434.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan chalks out strategy, meets VD||BHOPAL: Even as the state government finalised names that are to be included in the proposed expansion of the cabinet in the coming week, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday continued discussions with BJP state president V D Sharma on the responsibilities to be given to senior BJP leaders who are left out of the ministry and to convince them in view of the upcoming bypolls. Sources disclosed that the saffron party has decided to elevate eight leaders as ministers from the 22 former MLAs and supporters of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had resigned in March. The party has also clearly hinted to field them in their previous seats to fulfill the promise made to former Union minister Scindia. Apart from the cabinet expansion, chief minister Chouhan also discussed bypoll preparations with regional leaders. On Tuesday, Chouhan held a meeting with former minister Gauri Shankar Shejwar to discuss poll preparations in Sanchi assembly seat in Raisen district. Earlier, he invited former minister Deepak Joshi who had lost the polls in Hatpipliya seat in Dewas to Congress candidate Manoj Chaudhary. BJP plans to field Chaudhary, who resigned from Congress from this seat, disclosed sources.  Sources in BJP disclosed that leaders tried to convince Joshi, who was upset for fielding Chaudhary from Hatpipliya. The party leaders are believed to have convinced Joshi and will adjust him in boards and corporations, said sources. The leaders also discussed with Mandsaur Lok Sabha MP Sudhir Gupta and former Suwasra MLA Radheshyam Patidar about poll preparations in Mandsaur district. The party asked them to favour Hardeep Singh Dang, who had resigned to join BJP. Dang is likely to be fielded from Suwasra, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-chalks-out-strategy-meets-vd/articleshow/76049113.cms||Rajendra Sharma
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Temperatures subside after four-day heat wave in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: After a four-day heat wave across various parts of the state, temperatures saw a marginal drop on Wednesday. According to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS), the highest temperature recorded in the state happens to be at Peddadornala village in Prakasam district with 44.8 degrees celsius. Meanwhile, Vijayawada saw its maximum temperature drop from 47 degree celsius on Saturday to 42 degrees on Wednesday. By evening the temperature dropped to 33 degrees celsius in the city and rated as moderate. However, the slight difference did not provide much respite as the entire city continues to witness dry heat. The maximum temperatures in Guntur and Amaravati area stood at 40 and 42 degrees celsius respectively. The Rayalaseema region too saw maximum temperatures between 41 to 42 degrees celsius. Bukkarayasamudram village in Anantapur saw the highest temperature in the region at 42.46 degrees celsius. The spacial distribution of humidity across the state remained high with around 27 APSDPS weather stations recording 100%. Compared to the four-day heat wave, the weatherman pointed that it is a significant improvement as the moisture has slowly returned to the winds. During May 22 to 25 heat wave period, daytime temperatures fluctuated between 43 and 48 degree Celsius and where people were appealed to stay indoors. IMD officials explained that the sudden spurt in temperature is attributed to Cyclone Amphan as it siphoned away the moisture in the air, thus reducing humidity and increasing temperature. Officials said that the current temperatures would remain consistent for another two-weeks before pre-monsoon season kicks-in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temperatures-subside-after-4-day-heat-wave-in-andhra/articleshow/76047747.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Trichy||UAVs geo-map, survey water bodies covered under kudimaramath||TRICHY: Camera fitted aero-models are being used for extensive geo-mapping and surveying of the canals and watersbodies that are covered under the Kudimaramath scheme for 2020-21. Pudukottai is the first district in the state to pilot a project on surveying waterbodies to be desilted under Kudimaramathu scheme using radio-controlled unmanned aerial vehicles by engaging a team from Anna University. The remote controlled flying aero-models will significantly bring down the time consumed in accessing the extent of desilting work carried in a tank and also its depth. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami launched the Kudmaramathu scheme in March 2017 to harvest rainwater effectively by desilting irrigation canals and waterbodies across the state. Higher education secretary Apoorva who is the special officer for the Kudimaramathu scheme inspected the survey conducted by the team at various parts of Pudukottiai. As many as 43 works are planned under the Kudimaramathu scheme in Pudukottai district at a cost of Rs 21.75 crore. Besides this, nine canals in the Cauvery catchments areas will be desilted at a cost of Rs 1.74 crore and 115 small tanks will be desilted under the scheme in the rural parts of the district at a cost of Rs 8.62 crore. Survey of waterbodies using radio-controlled camera fitted aircrafts will be more accurate and help better monitoring, said district collector P Uma Maheswari. Assessing the extent of desilting work and surveying the area of water bodies manually is a time-consuming affair. Many of the canal alignment cannot be physically surveyed due to its terrain. But it can be done effortlessly through these UAVs, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/uavs-geo-map-survey-water-bodies-covered-under-kudimaramath/articleshow/76050438.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hubballi||North Karnataka sees a spurt in Covid-19 cases||HUBBALLI: Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in North Karnataka after the return of migrated labourers from other states, mainly from Maharashtra. The number of cases in Davanagere and Yadgir districts, which were categorised as green zone till April, have already crossed 140. While Kalaburagi has crossed 180, Belagavi is just a few numbers short of 150. Bidar has crossed the 100 mark. Vijayapura, Bagalkot, and Raichur have already registered over 70 cases and Dharwad, Ballari Gadag are fast approaching 50. On Wednesday, Kalaburagi reported 28 cases, Yadgir 16, Bidar 13, and Belagavi 4. The spike in cases day after day has left the local people worried. The magnitude of migrant workers returning to their native places in North Karnataka and Kalyana Karnataka has also brought to fore the failure of successive governments in creating employment opportunities for the local people to prevent migration. Labourers from Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bidar, and Raichur usually migrate to Maharasthra in search of work. Now the families of labourers are in fear of being jobless till the situation returns to normalcy for another six months, said Amaranth Patil, president, Hyderabad-Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Kalaburagi. “The government should lease out 2,000 acres of land available in the region to industrialists to start industries by offering concession and other facilities to prevent migration of labourers to other states and to provide dignified life to them in their native towns,” he said. Dr Raghavan, district surveillance officer, Davanagere, said, “We have stepped up measures to contain the spread of the virus in the district. We are strictly testing the samples of people in all 14 containment areas in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/north-karnataka-sees-a-spurt-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76044204.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 28, 2020||Pune||PMC push and residents’ nod stem Covid-19 cases in hotspot||PUNE: The Patil Estate slum in- Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward, till recently a Covid-19 hotspot, has turned a corner. After civic health officials contained the spread of the coronavirus here, the number of fresh cases in this pocket has dropped drastically in the last two weeks. The area, with a population of over 9,000, reported two new cases in 10 days, while the total cases registered so far remains at 190. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) appears to have bent the curve in this slum even as the virus rages in other pockets under the Dhole Patil Road ward office, three km away. Civic officials initiated a rigorous contact tracing exercise in the entire slum pocket after the outbreak. The area was sealed and there were restrictions on movement of people. The strict measures in the area are continuing. Civic authorities said though new cases have not been detected in the recent past, they have continued with the lockdown measures to eliminate the possibility of a resurgence. The slum is spread on both sides of the old Pune-Mumbai highway. The pocket that goes down to the Mula river is identified as Patil Estate slum, while the dwellings between the highway and railway tracks is known as Mahatma Gandhi Vasahat. Covid-19 cases in both pockets have not increased in the last 10 days. Too many people, houses packed together, and common toilets make slums a challenge for civic authorities. But deputy commissioner of zone-II Nitin Udas said efforts by the administration and cooperation by local residents were crucial in containing the spread. Eight factors worked in the last two weeks, he said. “Soon after the outbreak, our teams concentrated on the lanes that had the most number of cases in the initial stage. The swab collection of high and low-risk contacts was increased. All positive cases were sent to quarantine facilities immediately while symptomatic patients were told to isolate themselves,” he added. Every lane and gap was sealed. People got grocery kitsat home and local shops were shut to avoid possible contact points. Civic authorities said there was more emphasis on maintaining hygiene. The toilets were kept clean throughout the day, hands free washbasins were installed, tapped water supply was supplied round-the-clock, people were told to wash their hands regularly with soap. Residents were told to use masks. People responded well to all the steps advised in the last two weeks, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-push-residents-nod-stem-ncov-cases-in-hotspot/articleshow/76050443.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Unscheduled power cuts irk residents||TRICHY: Unscheduled and frequent power cuts have left residents of Ramalinga Nagar, Woraiyur and Puthur in the city fuming. They complain that the power outages during the peak summer has been tough on them and has caused damages to electronic appliances. The residents said that power outages occur at least three times a day and that it takes 15-30 minutes for the power to return each time. "We fear that these power cuts would increase in the days to come", S Kanagaraj, from Mariamman Temple street in Woraiyur said. When contacted, a senior official from Tangedco in Tennur said that residents are provided with uninterrupted power supply and that no complaints have been raised so far. “There are no scheduled power cuts. However, there is a huge demand for power supply during summer. Due to heavy load, sometimes transformers are affected leading to power outages. Also when workers attend to faults with power lines, there is no option but to disconnect the electricity till the work is over,” he said. The officer assured to look into the matter, nevertheless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unscheduled-power-cuts-irk-residents/articleshow/76050441.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||Lockdown takes toll on women’s safety, rise in domestic violence since March in Goa||PANAJI: Violence against women has seen a spurt during the lockdown and Goa is no different. Sakhi, the one-stop centre at Bambolim that supports women affected by violence, has registered 26 cases since March and not only are most of the cases of domestic violence, but the numbers are also higher than what the centre sees normally. Once the lockdown lifts, Sakhi expects a further spike in these cases. “There have been more cases of domestic violence reported during the lockdown than other types of cases,” Sakhi coordinator Emidio Pinho said. Of 26 cases, eight pertained to sexual offences. Pinho said women facing domestic violence are unable to reach out for help with the lockdown in place and continue to live with the perpetrators of violence. If not all, some will seek help post lockdown, he said.“We expect more cases to be reported after the lockdown is lifted,” Pinho said. One of the cases of domestic violence involved an attempt to murder by the husband and the case was registered at Mapusa police station. The husband used a ‘paal koita’ — a type of sharp knife — to assault his wife. The woman almost lost her hand. All the cases of domestic violence are not necessarily that of wife beating, sometimes other male members of the household also assault the woman or women in the family. One case handled by Sakhi dealt with an aggressive husband. The familial dispute assumed drastic proportions due to communication issues between the husband and wife leading to a vitiated home atmosphere and a feeling of terror among family members. In desperation, the wife attempted suicide. However, timely intervention by Sakhi helped avert the tragedy, Pinho said. The family was counselled and every attempt was made to help so that the teenage children were not affected, he said. Among the sexual assault cases that Sakhi has handled since March 24 is one that saw a teenager being assaulted by a neighbour. The case was discovered after the 14-year-old girl was found to be more than 20 weeks pregnant. The pregnancy could not be terminated. “She delivered a baby, but it died immediately,” Pinho said. The girl was counselled after the incident and the accused, who is married and has children, was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-takes-toll-on-womens-safety-rise-in-domestic-violence-since-march/articleshow/76050449.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Onion, green chilli prices plunge amid low demand from hotels||AHMEDABAD: With a bumper crop and decline in bulk demand from restaurants and eateries, wholesale prices of onions and green chillies have come crashing down. In the Ahmedabad Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), the wholesale price of onions declined from Rs 40 a kg ahead of the lockdown to Rs 12 a kilogram on Wednesday. APMC officials attribute the decline to decline in demand, coupled with unsold inventory and even a bumper harvest of the crop. “Onion prices declined 50% against last year as consumption took a hit. About 20% of the stock of onions which arrives at the APMC is left unsold and as a result, the traders have started ordering less quantity of onions,” said a source at the APMC. Similar is the case with green chillies, capsicums and tomatoes. “The demand for green chillies dropped by 30% and consequently, the prices too declined to settle in the range of Rs 12-30 per kg,” said a wholesale trader. Traders have attributed the decline in price to the dropping of wholesale consumption at hotels, restaurants and eateries. “The hotel industry is completely closed due to the lockdown and despite relaxations by allowing takeaway orders, the business hasn’t resumed as much due to which the demand is very low. Moreover, this year, the production of onion has gone up by 10% against last year. Both these factors have contributed to the decline in prices,” said a trader. When contacted, sources in the hotels and restaurants industry said that barely 20% of the restaurants have been able to resume operations through takeaway models and the order volumes too have drastically declined. As a result, the consumption of vegetables is bound to go down. Officials at APMC Ahmedabad said that on Wednesday, barely 537 quintal of onions were traded against 1,800 quintals traded usually. “The dealers had enough stock of onions to meet the day’s demand and thus, only 336 quintals from Maharashtra and 201 quintals from Mahuva was procured,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/onion-green-chilli-prices-plunge-amid-low-demand-from-hotels/articleshow/76049152.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 28, 2020||Vadodara||Fresh cases emerge from new areas in western parts of Vadodara||VADODARA: Fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday from pockets in the western parts of the city that had not witnessed any cases so far. In all 29 persons tested positive for the coronavirus in Vadodara city and district since Tuesday evening. According to details furnished by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 146 samples were tested since Tuesday night of which 29 were found infected taking total number of cases in the city to 933. Out of the fresh cases, 13 were reported from the east zone of VMC, four from the west zone, 10 from the north zone and one from the south zone. One case was also reported from Padra outside VMC limits. The new areas that were affected included Makrand Desai Road, Ambika Nagar in Gotri and Mangalam Tenements in Akota, where one case each was reported. Patel Colony in Akota saw its second case with a man whose wife had tested positive earlier also testing positive. In the city, the north zone remained the worst affected area with 416 cases being reported from there. This is followed by east zone with 297 cases, south zone with 124 cases and west zone with 54 cases. Parts of the district outside VMC limits have registered 35 cases so far while seven others are people from outside the district. Eleven persons were discharged from various facilities taking the total number of discharged patients to 530. As many as 361 persons remained under treatment including seven on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 11 on oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fresh-cases-emerge-from-new-areas-in-western-parts-of-city/articleshow/76044728.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Two months on, buzz back in markets||BHOPAL: After more than two months into the lockdown, shops of specific sectors - clothes, stationery and cosmetics- opened shutters in the state capital on Wednesday much to the relief of the traders. Day 1, was more about enthusiasm and a sigh of relief for more rather than brisk sale. Most shops that downed shutters abruptly, opened for the first time in over two months and cleaning, sanitization and stock verification consumed most of the time, coupled with a slow trickle of customers who feared getting out in scorching heat. Traders said it was only expected on the first day. “We never expected huge sales on the first day of relaxation.” Jewellery shops in the city have opened almost at the end of marriage season. And day one brought nothing much on the sales front. “Shops opened at 11 am and by the time we could clean up, it was already late afternoon and then at 5 pm we had to shut our shops. There was negligible business during the day. The only positive impact was the feeling of returning from 60 days long exile,” said Ajay Agarwal, a jeweller in Jawahar Chowk area. Agarwal, the former president of New Market Jewellers Association, said, “The entire marriage season is over now and dry business season is knocking at our doors. Our only hope is that things get better in next couple of months and we are able to bounce back by Diwali. Our representatives have submitted a memorandum to home minister Narottam Mishra, urging permission to allow us to open shops 6 days a week.” Around a dozen jewellery shops in Jawahar Chowk area were open and half a dozen shops inside New Market too remained open during the day. Hemant Soni, who runs a jewellery shop in Bag Sewania, said, “The only good thing is I could clean up my shop and there was little business, but at least it has started.” Anurag Megatia of Sanjay Prakashan said there are still many lockdown restrictions in the old city, thereby hampering access of the customers to the market. “A customer from BHEL area was coming to my shop near Moti Masjid. He was stopped at Budhwara as the road is closed there. He was asked to take an alternative route, which he didn't know. He called me up, I asked him to wait there and handed over the books to him at Budhwara itself." Lack of clarity on exam would keep the textbook and stationery business lukewarm till schools and colleges actually open, he added. Anurag praised the BMC for sanitising the entire area known as " Kitabon Wali Gali" and also sanitising the shops on traders’ request. Shekhar Roy of M S Beauty World, was however, a busy man with customers particularly salon and beauty parlour owners queuing up to buy products. "We largely deal in salon products only salon owners would now need sanitisers, disposable towels or plastic covers and they are buying all that to be ready to open their salons as and when they get permission," he said. Mechanics and automobile spare part shop owners also faced a similar response. “There was not much work, few people came for minor repairs only. I hope things would get better in the next couple of days,” said Yogesh Vishwakarma, a mechanic who works in Katara Hills area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/day-1-markets-get-back-life-after-2-months-but-no-sales/articleshow/76047783.cms||Amarjeet Singh
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Pvt schools go to HC over charges; notice to Haryana||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday issued a notice to the Haryana government on a plea filed by state’s private schools seeking directions to set aside its order asking schools to charge only tuition fee and not any other funds. Justice Raj Mohan Singh issued the notice after hearing a petition filed by Sarv Vidyalaya Sangh, Haryana (regd), an association of private schools in the state. The next hearing is scheduled for June 4. Directions have been also sought to set aside orders/letters issued by the state government on April 12, 23 and May 8, which ask private unaided schools not to charge fee at enhanced rates. Counsel for the petitioners, Pankaj Maini submitted that the private schools in Haryana have already submitted the Form-VI as per the requirement of Rule-158 of Haryana Education Rules, 2003 before the cutoff date of January 1 of every year. Under this format, the schools also submit complete details regarding increase in fee from the new academic session and the same was approved by the state authorities. The state government accepted Form VI without raising any objection and after starting of the academic session, state cannot pass such type of orders which restrains member schools to charge fee as per Form VI accepted by the state. According to the petitioner, the government’s directions only to charge tuition fee and not to increase any kind of school fee is violation of the Haryana Education Act, 1995, and Haryana Education Rules, 2003. “It puts member schools of the petitioner society/sangh in financial crunch which private schools are facing due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Students have not been paying monthly fees since April 2020. On the other hand, member schools have to incur expenses to maintain the campus and provide online education to students, for which an infrastructure has been created by incurring hefty expenses,” the petitioner submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-schools-go-to-hc-over-charges-notice-to-haryana/articleshow/76050453.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Trichy||Village women struggle to sell cucumber in scorching heat amid falling demand||TRICHY: While cucumber is known for keeping the body cool and helping people beat the heat during peak summers, the demand for it has fallen this year making it difficult for cucumber sellers to earn a decent income. Around 20 women from Pirattiyur village on Trichy-Dindigul Road, who sell cucumber under scorching sun on the platform of the Good Shed Bridge, said that this year, the demand for it has gone down. They said that they got the cucumbers from the farms in Iniyanur, Adhavathur, Allithurai and nearby villages in April and May. Each basket, which is priced at Rs 700 to Rs 800, will have 15 to 30 cucumbers depending on their size, they added. They said that on adding the transportation cost from the farm to the Good Shed Bridge, the cost could go up further. Therefore, they are priced at Rs 40 to Rs 50 for one medium-sized cucumber. The ones that are bigger are being sold at Rs 75 to Rs 80 per piece. “I could hardly earn Rs 200 in a day from the sales. The demand has dropped because people don’t prefer it despite its good quality of keeping the body cool,” said Surya, who was selling cucumber for the first time to make a living. “Some fruits are available only in particular seasons. The response was good last year but this year, only few are buying it,” said Eswari of the same village. The women said that they were confused whether the spread of Covid-19 and the lockdown to contain it may have affected the demand of cucumbers this year. Boopathi, of Pirattiyur, said she was upset as there was no takers for the produce. “Not even one piece was sold till 1 pm. I am waiting with the hope of selling out everything daily so that I can prevent a loss on my investment,” she said. The Pirattiyur village women said that they were selling cucumbers in Gandhi market area also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/village-women-struggle-to-sell-cucumber-in-scorching-heat-amid-falling-demand/articleshow/76050450.cms||Gokul Rajendran
May 28, 2020||Amaravati||TDP chief inaugurates Mahanadu, slams govt for halting development||AMARAVATI: TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday said that development in the state has taken a back seat in the last one year. He said chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy brought in ‘faction raj’ by attacking political opponents and critics. Naidu said Srisailam lift irrigation order was issued only to raise regional tempers without doing justice to Rayalaseema. Naidu inaugurated the two-day-long party’s annual conference ‘Mahanadu’ at the party office in Mangalagiri on Wednesday. Senior leaders Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, Nimmakayala China Rajappa, Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy, Kala Venkata Rao and Nara Lokesh were present at the party office while about 14,000 leaders and cadres from different villages and towns attended the session via webinar mode. Addressing the session, Naidu said that past 12 months were the ‘toughest’ in his political life as he faced several challenges particularly in extending moral support to the cadres. He said Jagan has cancelled at least 34 schemes including NTR canteens which provided food to the poor without any reason. “People gave Jagan an opportunity after his repeated appeals to give him one chance. But he is bulldozing development right from Praja Vedika to three lanterns of Vizianagaram,” said Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/tdp-chief-inaugurates-mahanadu-slams-govt-for-halting-development/articleshow/76047781.cms||Samdani MN
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Six more die of Covid-19 in Telangana, 107 fresh positive cases in state||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asked people not to get scared of the surge in novel coronavirus cases in recent days and follow lockdown rules, even as Telangana reported six deaths and 107 new positive cases on Wednesday, the largest single-day jump so far. “There is a need to take extra care of patients who are critical. They should be kept in hospitals and provided treatment. People who have tested positive, but have no symptoms should also be monitored,” the chief minister said at a review meeting on Covid-19 spread with officials. While the death toll rose to 63 with the six deaths, 37 patients also recovered on Wednesday, taking the total number of discharged patients to 1,321. Authorities said among the new cases, 39 are local residents, including 14 policemen. The rest comprise 68 migrants and deportees from Saudi Arabia. As the novel coronavirus caseload in the state shot up to 2,098, KCR said the spread was not yet on an alarming scale despite the relaxations given in the lockdown guidelines. “People should not get scared but simply follow Covid-19 guidelines and lockdown restrictions. They should take adequate precautions personally,” the CM said. Authorities said a new cause for concern was the count of non-local Covid-19 positive patients going up to 297 in the state. “These non-locals, including 173 migrant workers, 94 deportees from Saudi Arabia, and 30 foreign evacuees. They will be treated and then sent back to their respective states,” a health department official said. While acknowledging the rapid increase in numbers, the CM said that the health department was ready to handle any number of cases and instructed officials to provide emergency services to patients experiencing deterioration in condition. “People started travelling from one place to another. But the virus did not spread rapidly,” said an official, saying the death rate in Telangana was 2.82% as against 2.86% in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-more-die-of-covid-in-t-107-fresh-ve-cases-in-state/articleshow/76050451.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Journalist gets bail in sedition case||AHMEDABAD: Two weeks after his arrest, journalist Dhaval Patel was granted bail on Wednesday by a city sessions court in connection with sedition charges slapped against him by Gujarat government for writing an article speculative of the change of guard in the government. While granting bail to Patel, the editor of web portal ‘Face of Nation’, additional sessions judge Prerana Chauhan observed, “Now, reading of FIR with all police papers and different statements, no such prima facie serious offence is looked out.” The court opined that the article that Patel posted on his portal prima facie does not contain any material that causes hatred among people towards the government. On May 7, Patel posted an article on the portal saying that there was a possibility that the present chief minister Vijay Rupani would be replaced due to mismanagement in his government in its response to Covid-19 pandemic. The city crime branch lodged an FIR against Patel invoking the charge of sedition against him along with booking him under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. On Tuesday, the Gujarat high court directed the sessions court to expedite bail proceedings in this case. The sessions court heard the case and discussed the provisions for sedition. It said, “It is true that it is not sedition to criticise administrative machinery or the officers of government but where the speaker exceeds the limits of fair criticism, and his object in attacking the existing government is to create disaffection the speech amounts to sedition. Now, the question of intention is always an important factor in such cases and intention is proved also by evidences. So intention is a matter of evidence.” The court prima facie did not find the intention match what the police alleged in the FIR, and granted conditional bail to Patel. While other conditions are routine, the court said, “The applicant shall not use the web portal or any type of media for any offensive act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/journalist-gets-bail-in-sedition-case/articleshow/76049158.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||A muted Jamai Sashthi fair in Dakshineswar this year||Kolkata: ‘Jamai Sashthir Mela’, a decades-old annual tradition, on a road leading to the Dakshineshwar temple complements the five-day worship of goddess Vindhyavasini, an ashtabhuja (eight-handed) avatar of Durga. The fair, which witnesses footfall in lakhs for over a week, would have begun on May 28 this year, but for the pandemic and the consequent lockdown. The 150-year-old Vindhyavasini Puja — inspired by the resident deity of Vindhyachal, UP — will also be a muted affair, with one dhaki instead of five, no dhunuchi dancers and no bhog distribution. The desolate Ariadaha road, which would have otherwise been dotted with over 500 food and souvenir stalls, carousels, magic show booths, etc, seems like a lost world that sons-in-law young and not-so-young cannot help but regret. Arijit Ganguly, an IT professional from Bengaluru who recently married Kolkata girl Ankita, said he was all pumped up for his first Jamai Sashthi before the lockdown scuppered their plans. The carnival holds a special place in Rishideb Mukherjee’s heart. The mechanical engineer from Dhakuria had met the love of his life at this very place some six years ago. “We’ve never missed the fair since we met. But the circumstances this year are unfortunate,” he said. Ashim Sarkar, a former Coal India employee and jamai for over 18 years, said the puja and fair were among reasons he bought an apartment in the area. “The spicy ghugni and hot malpoa cheer you up after a long day at work. The Ashtami bhog is not to be missed either. Pity there’ll be none this time,” he rued. Sandip Banerjee, secretary of Ariadaha Vindhyavasini Puja Samiti, said, “We didn’t get permission to hold the fair this year. Even the Vindhyavasini pratima won’t come from Montu Pal’s workshop in Kumartuli. All rituals will be symbolic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-muted-jamai-sashthi-fair-in-dakshineswar-this-year/articleshow/76049163.cms||Moumita Mukherjee
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court stays lawyer’s arrest in child marriage case||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday stayed the arrest of a lawyer, who has been booked under child marriage prohibition laws, for allegedly preparing a live-in relationship contract for a couple in Narmada district. The advocate, Sandip Vasava, approached the high court for quashing of an FIR filed on May 15, by the district child marriage prohibition officer with Sagbara police, for aiding the marriage of Nikhil and Roshni Vasava. The FIR was filed on a complaint by the boy’s father, stating that his son was not of marriageable age when the marriage took place at a temple in January. It was also alleged that the groom had not reached the age of 21 even when the lawyer prepared the legal document declaring the live-in relationship in March. The lawyer is accused of providing assistance and advice to the couple, though the groom was not of marriageable age. Before the high court, the petitioner’s advocate Ronith Joy submitted that Nikhil and Roshni are older than 20 and therefore are legally competent to enter into an agreement to have live-in relationship on their choice. A live-in relationship is not a marriage by any stretch of the imagination, and the documents do not even mention Vasava’s name. The lawyer did not have any role to play in the marriage, if there was any. It was claimed that the lawyer was never directly involved nor had he any active participation in the marriage ceremony. There is no evidence to this effect as there is no marriage certificate or photographs establishing the lawyer’s presence. The petition says, “Petitioner in no way suggested that Roshni and Nikhil get married as being a lawyer he was quite conscious of the law of the land.” After hearing the case, Justice R P Dholaria stayed any coercive action against the lawyer and issued notice to the government seeking a reply by August 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-stays-lawyers-arrest-in-child-marriage-case/articleshow/76049169.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: N Chandrababu Naidu takes ‘essential services’ route to skip home quarantine||AMARAVATI: TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu’s decision to skip home quarantine advisory issued by the government is creating ripples in political circles. Naidu attended Mahanadu programme in Mangalagiri on Wednesday. Naidu, who was stranded in Hyderabad for about two months, reached home in Undavalli only two days ago. “Naidu has clearly violated the guidelines stipulated in the pass. We are looking into the issue,” a cabinet minister told TOI, who does not wish to be quoted. Naidu and Lokesh should have stayed at home at least for one-week as per the revised guidelines of the Centre on Covid-19 management as they have travelled from other state. The state government has been sending all those coming from other states either to institutional quarantine or paid quarantine. The government is granting home quarantine facility in health emergency and special cases. Sources said that Naidu had secured travel pass from Telangana police under ‘stranded persons’ category and applied for pass from the AP police under ‘essential services’ category apparently to skip the quarantine rules. “While all the stranded people have to apply through Spandana portal, we are issuing special passes to two categories--health emergencies and essential services. Naidu got the pass under the essential services category despite knowing that he doesn’t belongs to it,” confirmed a police official. Sources said that mandatory Covid-19 screening was not conducted on Naidu and Lokesh while entering the state from Hyderabad keeping in view of the sensitiveness of the issue. “We have requested Naidu to follow the Covid-19 guidelines,” DGP Gautham Sawang told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/naidu-takes-essential-services-route-to-skip-home-quarantine/articleshow/76047803.cms||Samdani MN
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Left in dark, Kolkata residents master art of ‘jugaad’||KOLKATA: It’s been over a week since Cyclone Amphan left the city battered, but several homes in pockets of Kolkata are still powerless and have no clue when they can get back to normal lives again. “For years we had stopped storing water. But now, we need to wake up early and queue up to fill up our buckets from the civic tap and then trudge back home,” said Kalpana Das, a resident Thakurpukur. Similar has been the situation for a number of households in Sarsuna and New Garia Housing Cooperative society in Nayabad. “CESC officials had started repair works in our area, but they were forcefully whisked away by a group of men on bikes to work in the latter’s area. As a result, we are still in the dark even after a week,” said a local. With hopes of power restoration diminishing, some families are resorting to jugaad or quick-fix solutions. “My house was without power for four days. I tried to buy an inverter, but there was none. So, I had my car’s battery connected to my home line,” said Ranjit Das, a resident of Arabindapally in Parnasree. Thakurpukur Green Park resident Ashok Sen had to go for “legalized hooking” as a friendly neighbour powered their home with a temporary connection from his house. “Thanks to my neighbours, I can power up a bulb, a table-fan and the water pump. The entire family is now sleeping on the floor,” he said. Some families, like that of schoolteacher Iva Saha of Thakurpukur, have started sleeping on terraces. They leave their homes to look for electricity and better phone connection. Some other frustrated individuals have totally shifted to other accommodations in the city. “For more than 110 hours we were left without power, after which my nephew took us to his home on Kalighat Road,” said Bibek Swaran Paul, 79. (With inputs from Somdatta Basu and Sudipto Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/left-in-dark-residents-master-art-of-jugaad/articleshow/76049167.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Meat shops ready for home delivery, few takers on day 1||BHOPAL: After a gap of over two months since lockdown was clamped on March 25, chicken and mutton shops were allowed to do home delivery by district administration from Wednesday onwards. On the first day, however, there was very little response as majority of the customers were probably not aware of it. “I had cleaned only small quantity of mutton, as I knew that very few people were aware about the home-delivery option. But from Friday onwards, I am planning to increase the quantity of meat that I would be preparing for sale,” said Adnan, a meat-seller in Bagsewania. Similar views were expressed by other sellers, majority of them claimed that people are not aware how to order. “There was negligible response but we think it will increase as people get to know about it. As of now, things remain as they were a day ago,” said Shakeel, a meat seller who also owns an eatery near 6 number bus-stop area. Zaid, a chicken and meat seller on Hoshangabad road, said, “We had a small sale but it can’t be compared with the earlier sales.” Sources said that in some parts of the city, people were already selling meat from their homes, but it was in very little quantity and only to the consumers who knew the shopkeepers personally. Poultry sector in Madhya Pradesh has been hit hard due to corona pandemic. Poultry industry is an employment source for at least 8000 tribal women in the state, besides, the employment generated by big private players in the sector. The loss to the sector in lockdown is estimated to be worth Rs 200 crore. Representatives of the industry haveapproached the government for providing assistance. Poultry demand reduced to less than half in major cities of the state. Before the pandemic, around 50 metric tonnes chicken and five lakh eggs were consumed in Bhopal every day. Of this, around 60 per cent was consumed in houses, 30 per cent in hotels, restaurants and cafeterias and remaining 10 per cent was the institutional sale to railways etc. Industry experts point out that sale reduced to 40 per cent in the households while there is no demand in hotels, restaurants and cafeterias, nor is there any institutional sale due to the lockdown. To add to its woes, poultry industry is troubled by rumours linking coronavirus with consumption of chicken, which led to sharp decline in the sector. In MP, wholesale prices for chicken, which were in the range of Rs 70 to 80 per kg in 2019 had declined sharply to Rs 5 and Rs 10 per kg. But the production costs remained at Rs 75, industry experts pointed. Dr Harekrishna Deka, CEO of Madhya Pradesh Women Poultry Producers Company Pvt Ltd that has market share of around 25 per cent in the state, said, “Our producers have destroyed 8 lakh broiler birds. We could manage to sell 4 lakh birds for Rs 5 per kg. Our total loss was Rs 14.40 crores (average Rs 120 each for 12 lakh birds) MPWPCL (state level entity) has destroyed almost 25 lakh hatchlings and hatching eggs of worth Rs.6.25 crores. Total over 20 crores material losses till 31st March, when business is closed totally. Since then there is continued losses at breeder farm, hatchery and feed plant. Fifteen cooperatives that gave employment to thousands of women have closed shop. It has also hit hard the maize farmers, as poultry sector was the major consumer of their produce. The government should take steps to save the sector, he added. In the letter to chief minister, the main demands raised were to provide economic assistance to the societies. Industry has asked the CM to allow easy movement and transportation of poultry, related products and people associated with the sector and to clear the rumours through advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/meat-shops-ready-for-home-delivery-few-takers-on-day-1/articleshow/76047796.cms||Ankur Sirothia
May 28, 2020||Agra||BSP worker & his 20 guests booked for taking part in dance session||AGRA: Aligarh police on Wednesday booked a local BSP worker and 20 others for violating lockdown norms by organising a dance session on the eve of his son’s wedding. The FIR against Mohammad Jahid and the others was registered after a video of the event went viral on social media. In the video, the guests can be seen without masks and not maintaining social distancing norms. According to police, Jahid, who has contested the councillor elections and 20 unidentified people were booked under relevant sections of IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 at Sasni gate police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bsp-worker-his-20-guests-booked-for-taking-part-in-dance-session/articleshow/76046055.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu must test 18,000 a day to flatten the curve: Experts||CHENNAI: At least 10,000 people in Chennai and another 8,000 across Tamil Nadu must be tested every day for Covid-19 to flatten the epidemic curve, according to epidemiologists. But in the past one week, on an average 11,300 people were tested daily. Chennai, which has about two-thirds of the cases in Tamil Nadu, does 40% of these daily tests. ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur says Chennai has to test at least 100 people per lakh population. "Going by the current trends the city must test 10,000 people and the state must have a total of at least 18,000 people tested every day. In addition, they must test migrants from other countries and states," she said. Experts say when testing increases, the case load too will increase. But after a peak, the numbers will decline even as aggressive testing continues. "The number of cases must go down organically without reducing the number of people being tested," said former city health officer P Kuganandam. "When we test and isolate positive cases, we will be protecting the vulnerable population and preventing deaths. Else, asymptomatic individuals will continue to spread the virus to the community," he said. On Tuesday, the government’s panel of medical experts told chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami that unless testing was increased to identify and treat people in the early stages of the infection, Chennai could end up with two lakh cases and more than 1,400 fatalities by June-end. Although the mortality rates been below 1%, the number of deaths goes up with the number of cases. For instance, in March when there were 124 cases, there was one death. In April when there were 2,075 cases, the toll increased to 26 and in May it crossed 100. Health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state is among the few that has been testing aggressively. As per health department data, the state does 539 tests per lakh population. "We have a comprehensive guideline for testing. We have been testing more people than many other states," he said. But numbers and experiences of close contacts of positive people tell a different story. On May 6, the state screened 13,281 people. The next day, swabs were taken from 14,102 people. Three days later, the test numbers dropped to 12,999 people. On Tuesday, the state tested 9,677 people and on Wednesday it was 10,661. The average number for Chennai, according to public health officials, was 3,600-4,000. "The state claims to test people as per ICMR protocols. The apex medical body says all close contacts of Covid-19 patients must be tested," said public health activist Dr Sumanth Raman, "I personally know of at least three cases, who were refused tests in government labs. Worse, these people had symptoms including fever for the last 24 hours. They were given paracetamol, vitamins and advised home isolation," he said. Some patients were also given Kabasura Kudineer satchets. "There is no evidence that any of these can check Covid-19. Testing and isolation can," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-must-test-18k-a-day-to-flatten-the-curve-experts/articleshow/76049185.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 28, 2020||Shimla||Life normal in remote areas of Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur||MANALI: In times of Covid-19 lockdown, life in tribal areas of Himachal Pradesh is routine so far. While people across the country are panicking from coronavirus, residents here are busy with their regular agriculture and horticulture works. Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur are getting benefit of being on the edges of the state with just one or two connecting roads and no settlement beyond. The inter-state movements are not passing through these places, which are generally the last destination of the traveller. This geographical benefit has protected the area from spread of the Covid-19. Residents of Kinnaur district are spending days maintaining apple orchards and cultivating vegetables. The only change that they have introduced this year, is wearing face mask while working in fields. “We are busy in the fields. This is the only source of income for a majority of us. We have no time to sit before TV and watch news on coronavirus,” said Sunil Bodh, a local farmer. “The residents and the administration are ready to face future challenges, but they know their place is safer than other parts of Himachal. We are naturally quarantined and not easily accessible to the outer world. We are also a little assured that outsiders will not bring the disease easily to us as our area is not easily connected and accessible,” he added. No case of Covid-19 has been reported from these tribal regions till now, but that has not made the locals care any less. They are following all the safety protocols. Beyond Kinnaur, Spiti valley has a population of 12,000. Days before lockdown was announced, they had decided to neither leave the valley nor allow entry of outsiders. Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur are the only districts in Himachal where there has been no case of violation of lockdown norms and home quarantine. The sparse population itself makes social distancing effortless. As some stranded people from Ladakh are taking the Leh-Lahaul-Manali route, they are kept under watch during night halt in Lahaul and sent out. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Kamal Kant Saroch said, “People here cooperate with the administration and police. Though the area is remote, we are prepared for future possibilities with isolation wards in hospitals and sending people to home and institutional quarantine. All those entering the district for any reason are undergoing multiple health check to ensure Covid-19 does not enter the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/life-normal-in-remote-areas-of-lahaul-spiti-and-kinnaur/articleshow/76050520.cms||Suresh Sharma
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||PIL against AP govt’s move to hold Class X exams in July||VIJAYAWADA: The high court, on Wednesday, heard a PIL filed by a NGO working in the education sector challenging the decision of the state government to conduct Class X (SSC) exams in July. The petition was filed by T Bhavani Prasad, president of Society for Better Living, who contended that the decision of the government to conduct exams without giving students enough time to prepare is unfair. Pointing out that the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to peak in India in July per AIIMS and WHO predictions, the petitioner said the state government still decided to conduct the exams in the same month that could put the students’ lives at risk. He also raised doubts over the logistic arrangements to maintain social distancing norms in the classrooms. The students will also find it difficult to adjust to the new exam pattern, as per which each subject will have a single paper instead of two papers, he argued. The petitioner requested the high court to direct the state government to promote students to the next level based on the marks they obtained in SA-1 (pre-final) exams, which have already been conducted and the results of which are with the respective schools. The high court, after seeking a reply from the state government on the issue, posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-against-govts-move-to-hold-class-x-exams-in-july/articleshow/76047834.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mangaluru||KMC interns who were stuck in Malaysia finally get home||Mangaluru: The sight of aircraft taxiing in to park at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) is routine for Rajeev Kumar Gupta, joint general manager (engineering-civil), MIA, but on Tuesday, when an IndiGo aircraft docked at the aerobridge, it brought to end a 75-day ordeal that he underwent as a father. On board this flight was his daughter Mahima Gupta, an intern of Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, who was stranded in Kuala Lumpur for more than 50 days. Mahima and college mate Navin Mallya had left for their surgery internship at International Medical University, Seremban, Kuala Lumpur, on March 12. Five days later, a lockdown was clamped in Malaysia, due to which the duo got stranded there. They were finally able to make it to Chennai on May 11. After completing 14 days of institutional quarantine there, the duo landed at MIA in an IndiGo flight via Bengaluru, and they will be in home quarantine for another 14 days. Waiting for health authorities to come and put a stamp on his hand for home quarantine, as they were not present at the airport when the flight came in, Navin said in the interim they have informed Dr M Venkataraya Prabhu, their dean, about their return, and have sought his permission to complete their internship at Wenlock Hospital after their quarantine period ends on June 10. “We are doctors first, and want to be on the front line of our fraternity’s fight against Covid-19,”| he adds. Happy to be home, Navin soon happily tucked into piping hot conji (rice gruel) and bibbyaupkari (tender cashew kernel curry), that his mother Nayana had prepared. With Mahima still catching up on sleep, a relieved Rajeev Gupta, filling in for her, said, “She is very methodical when it comes to her professional and personal obligations, and it is a matter of 14 days before the family can get together again.” Navin said the 14 days of home quarantine should be a breeze for both him and Mahima, in that they are medical professionals, and know the drill. “Mother keeps the food on a stool outside my bedroom, and takes all the necessary precautions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kmc-interns-who-were-stuck-in-malaysia-finally-get-home/articleshow/76044296.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Pay cut for govt staff in May too: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Much to their disappointment, the state government employees will not get their full salaries even this month also. Announcing this on Wednesday, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said the government was in no position to pay full salary, attributing it to falling revenues despite easing the lockdown norms in some sectors and opening up economic activity. The employees have already endured 50% pay cuts for the last two months. The CM said salary bill alone would cross Rs 3,000 crore if salaries and pensions are paid in full. “The entire treasury will be empty and no payment can be made nor any work undertaken,” he said. He said deduction of 75% in the salaries of public representatives, including his, 60% of All India Services officers, 50% of government employees and 25% in pensions would continue for May also. “For outsourcing and contract workers, there will be a 10% cut in their salaries,” he said. At a review meeting with senior finance officials, the CM said there was no significant improvement in revenues from transport, stamps and registration, excise and other revenue generating departments. “Telangana gets about Rs 12,000 crore income every month. But the entire income has fallen flat due to the lockdown. We received Rs 3,100 crore, which includes the state’s share of Rs 982 crore from the central pool.” He explained that the government has to meet the requirements with these meagre revenues. Also, the government has to pay debt instalments of Rs 37,400 crore per year. “These instalments are to be paid every month without fail. We have urged the Centre to reschedule the payments. There has been no response from the Centre,” he said. The CM said though the Centre had increased the FRBM limit to avail more loans, the conditions imposed by the Centre to secure additional loans are coming in the way of securing the loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pay-cut-for-govt-staff-in-may-too-cm/articleshow/76050456.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Prisons on high alert; 190 inmates, staff get tested||CHENNAI: A day after three life convicts tested positive for Covid-19, swabs were lifted from more than 190 of their contacts to prevent the central prisons from turning into a new hotspot for Covid-19. But there’s still a puzzle for prison officials to crack. The source of infection of the three life convicts, two from Cuddalore and one from Trichy, is yet to be identified. Aged between 39 and 45, they were among the 34 convicts, who were brought from eight central prisons to Puzhal prison for a six-week para legal volunteers’ training programme in the second week of March. All of them were shifted to their respective prisons last week. Besides, prisoners from various prisons were brought to Puzhal to appear for the Class X and Class XII board examinations as it is the only examination centre for the convicts. Prisoners, who were in close contact with the three infected prisoners, have been quarantined in a dormitory on the Puzhal prison campus. Health staff have collected nasal/throat swabs of the prisoners. Though TN prisons have less than 60% of inmates as against its total capacity, they use common toilets. "A single case of Covid-19 behind the high-walls will trigger a wave, leading to a cluster. It could be fatal as most of the inmates suffer from various health problems," said a source. Director general of prisons Sunil Kumar Singh told TOI that samples were collected from 193 contacts of the three men and all of them were quarantined. From Puzhal alone, 74 samples were collected. "As of now, no fresh cases have been reported. Samples will be collected from other inmates and staff in Puzhal in the coming days," he said. The petrol bunk run by prisoners would be closed down from Wednesday as a precautionary measure. Contact tracing has begun. Every day, at least 30 prisoners are going to work in shifts at the fuel refilling station, which was reopened 10 days ago, and 40 others work as orderlies at the prison officers’ quarters. The orderlies in senior officers’ quarters including DGP (Prisons) are being screened. Besides identifying the infected people and containing the spread of virus, the department will ensure the well-being of the 14,000 odd prisoners. "They are scared. But they are not cooperating for screening as they are scared. It is a tricky situation," said an officer, pointing to the prison riots in West Bengal triggered by Covid fears. Interactions of inmates with their family members have been suspended and convicts with SARI and ILI symptoms have been segregated. More than 3,900 remand prisoners were released on bail to decongest the prisons as part of the precautionary measures. (With inputs from R Gokul and V Devanathan )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/prisons-on-high-alert-190-inmates-staff-get-tested/articleshow/76049192.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 28, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 claims 300 lives in Pune so far, 163 turn positive||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 case count dropped below 200 for the first time since May 21 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday. A total of 163 people tested positive for the contagion in the PMR on Wednesday, taking the total case count in the region to 6,643. Besides, 11 more patients succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, pushing the casualty count in the PMR to 300. Of the fresh cases, 105 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, while 13 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas and 45 in rural areas of the district. The PMC health department said 184 patients were declared cured and discharged on Wednesday. The civic body said 171 patients were in critical condition. Of the total deaths, three were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 37-year-old man from Nana Peth, a 75-year-old woman from Mangalwar Peth and a 60-year-old woman from Bhavani Peth. The rest of the deaths were recorded at private hospitals and the deceased included a 90-year-old man from the Chavannagar area, a 55-year-old woman from Janwadi, a 38-year-old woman from the Yerawada area, a 66-year-old man from the Sinhgad Road area, a 60-year-old man from Wadarwadi, a 67-year-old woman from Yerawada, a 60-year-old woman from Bhavani Peth and a 70-year-old man from Daund taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-claims-300-lives-in-pune-so-far-163-turn-ve/articleshow/76050459.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||NTR university told to explain its quota policy for PG seats||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday asked Dr NTR University of Health Sciences to explain its reservation policy, following a petition challenging the same by Ala Venkateswara Rao. Rao had questioned the allotment of PG medical seats to general candidates under clause 8, which were otherwise meant for SC, ST and BC candidates. Stating that it’s in violation of Supreme Court judgements and reservation guidelines, he said the university was denying opportunity to students from under-privileged sections of the society under the guise of clause 8. The HC directed university officials to submit details of the high-level committee constituted by the high court earlier on the same issue and also the com- mittee’s recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ntr-varsity-told-to-explain-its-quota-policy-for-pg-seats/articleshow/76047860.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Denied burial over Covid-19 fear, Muslim man finds place in Hindu graveyard||HYDERABAD: A Muslim man who died of a heart attack had to be buried in a Hindu graveyard near Hyderabad after mutawallis (caretakers) of six graveyards denied him a final resting place on suspicion that he was a Covid-19 patient. It was two Hindu men from the area, Sandeep and Shekar, who came to the family’s aid and arranged a place to bury the man in a Hindu graveyard. Mohammed Khaja Miyan (55), who had moved to Gandamguda in Rangareddy district about 10 years ago, had died of cardiac arrest on May 22 at his residence. Narrating the ordeal, family members said Khaja Miyan was refused burial by mutawallis in six graveyards, first citing that they were non-locals and then claiming that Khaja could have died from coronavirus and they did not want to take a chance. “We made rounds from one graveyard to the other before we eventually gave up hope of giving my dad a proper burial,” said his son Mohammed Basha. “We went to at least six different Muslim graveyards in a hope to get a place for my father,” he added. On Wednesday, a delegation headed by Mustaq Malik, president of Tahreek Muslim Shabban, met Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) chairman Mohammed Saleem and submitted a memorandum, seeking immediate removal and action against the mutawallis who allegedly denied Khaja Miyan a Muslim burial. “We want the TSWB to take immediate note of the prevailing situation in the city and outskirts in case of anyone’s death amid lockdown,” Malik said. “The irresponsible caretakers of the Muslim graveyards must be removed and legal action should be initiated against them without any further delay,’’ said Malik. Amjadullah Khan, spokesperson of Majlis Bachao Tehrik (MBT), also took up the issue with TSWB and sought to set up an immediate helpline for poor families facing a similar ordeal. TSWB chairman Mohammed Saleem assured the delegation that notices would be served to the mutawallis and legal action would be taken. Officials said they will also probe allegations that many Muslim families were facing similar issues as mutawallis, fearing the spread of novel coronavirus, have denied burial to some families in the city. Watch Telangana: Denied burial over Covid-19 fear, Muslim man finds place in Hindu graveyard||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/denied-burial-over-covid-fear-muslim-man-finds-place-in-hindu-graveyard/articleshow/76050460.cms||Omar bin Taher
May 28, 2020||Hubballi||Pregnant woman quarantined in hospital goes on a hunger strike||BELAGAVI: A woman who is 7 months pregnant and quarantined in a hospital,went on a hunger strike, demanding the food of her choice. The expecting mother, who is also suffering from thyroid, barely ate on Sunday and Monday. “I lived on water and a packet of biscuits,” said the woman. As she is a vegetarian, she refused to eat eggs served to her at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS). The woman was quarantined at the hospital on May 13. “In the initial days, when I said I do not eat eggs, the authorities simply removed the egg from the food packet and served me. This did not go down well with me since I developed a repulsion towards the food. Patients here are served food thrice a day,” she said. Hence on Sunday and Monday, the woman decided to go on a hunger strike. However, she drank water and ate biscuits. This got her family worried, prompting them to call up the hospital authorities. After that, better food was served on Tuesday. Although, they do not serve me egg now, the rotis, dal and rice served are of a poor quality. “The dal and rice are salty, and I am worried about my heath, as I have blood pressure issues.” The woman added that she is pregnant, but so far no fruits or juices were provided to her, despite her demanding the same. The woman, who has spent over 15 days in the hospital, may again go on a hunger strike. The woman also said that only ward boys and nurses visit every day, and doctors rarely come and check on her. The woman is asymptomatic of Covid-19. BIMS director Vinay Dastikop said no non-vegetarian food is served at the hospital. The woman had demanded vegetarian food and the hospital is meeting the demand. “We are also serving dry fruits to the woman. Government hospitals have their limitations, and we are doing our best with our limited resources.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pregnant-woman-quarantined-in-hospital-goes-on-a-hunger-strike/articleshow/76044324.cms||Shreyas HS
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Parents move HC against Modern School||Nagpur: Poor parents whose wards were admitted in Modern Primary School’s Civil Lines branch approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court for admissions to their children in fifth standard under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009. According to them, the Civil Lines school branch is closing down by May 31. The management failed to inform the parents or grant the children admission to fifth standard in another school. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar issued notices to the Maharashtra government, zilla parishad (Primary) education officer and other respondents, asking them to reply by June 15. “The respondents should take a decision for the admission of the students. However, those would be subjected to the result of petition,” the bench said. According to petitioners — Nishant Samarth and others — their wards secured admission under 25% RTE quota in Modern School branch at Civil Lines in the city in 2016 and now, all of them are now studying in fourth standard. Petitioners counsel Girish Kunte contended that the ZP officer and school management failed to inform them about admissions in another branch of school at Koradi for further education from fifth to tenth standard after branch’s closure. After they came to know about it, they made multiple representations to the respondents on September 19, 30 and again on December 16 last year for seeking their children’s’ admission into school’s Koradi road branch under the RTE quota. The education officer however, failed to get any directives from the government to safeguard the interests of children. Subsequently, they filed a petition in the HC on February 7, which was disposed of with directives to the government to take the decision as per law. The petitioners were granted liberty to approach the court again for a relief. Since no decision was taken, petitioner submitted fresh representation in this regard on March 5. Subsequently the respondents send a proposal to transfer 88 students from only class first to third, but didn’t send for fourth standard where wards of petitioners are studying. Even admission forms were not issued to their children for getting admission in either Koradi or Neeri road branch. Due to Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lock down, no examination was conducted and all children were promoted to the next class. But no action was taken till today to accommodate the petitioners’ children, Kunte contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-move-hc-against-modern-school/articleshow/76049200.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 28, 2020||Hubballi||First Covid fatality in Yadgir; district tally climbs to 156||YADGIR: Against a backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in Yadgir, where 16 more individuals were confirmed infected on Wednesday, the district reported the first casualty to the pandemic. A 69-year-old woman who had collapsed during the screening process while entering the state from neighbouring Maharashtra, and had been declared ‘dead on arrival’ when taken to the hospital, was later confirmed to have had Covid-19 infection. The officials decided to have her throat swabs tested since she had come to Karnataka from Maharashtra. Meanwhile, the 16 fresh cases confirmed on Wednesday took the Covid-19 tally in Yadgir to 156. In the past week, with nearly 15,000 people returning to Yadgir from neighbouring states, the district has seen a spurt in the tally. In Bidar and Raichur, two other districts in North Karnataka that have registered a huge influx of returning residents, 13 and five cases were reported on Wednesday. In Belagavi district, four fresh cases were reported on Wednesday. With 89 people having recovered from Covid-19 so far in the district, the number of active cases in Belagavi stands at 56.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/first-covid-fatality-in-yadgir-district-tally-climbs-to-156/articleshow/76044350.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chaos as classes set to go live online in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Messages from schools asking parents to confirm their presence along with their children during live online classes planned for primary class students from June 1 have come as a shocker to many, especially working parents. By the time many parents doubly confirmed that schools are indeed planning live online classes from pre-KG to Plus Two, gadget shops in most of the cities had gone dry. The unique situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic has left parents, teachers and private school managements in confusion and quandary over the next alternative choice till schools open again for regular studies. While most schools have decided to use the service of Google and Microsoft platforms, available for free, some have gone for custom-made software services for conducting online classes. But in all cases, the online classes are being handled from the school’s perspective only, with students and parents forced to follow instructions. “It’s not that we are forcing anything on students or their parents. Give us an alternative to online classes we can currently rely on?” asked the representative of a leading educational trust which runs multiple schools under different boards. According to him, the management was willing to make changes as per demand of parents once the live online classes begins for lower classes from June 1. According to the chairman of another school in the city, his school has developed an in-house software solution, using which they have already started conducting live online classes. “In my experience, parents are very enthusiastic and are willing to find time to spend with children during live classes. It also puts into test the quality of faculties when parents also watch them. Of course, the live online modules planned for primary classes are of short duration,” he said. The state government has already announced its plans to start classes on June 1. This would be through broadcasting of classes on Victers television channel. “The fad for live online classes has no advantage over the recorded ones. Instead, schools should ensure that a student can access the recorded classes at his/her own convince,” said K Anvar Sadath, CEO of Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE). According to gadget sellers here, the demand for smart phones and tablets under Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 has risen substantially, following announcement of online classes. Same is the case with laptops in Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 bracket. “Most shops have run out of basic smart phones, tabs and low configuration laptops. So is the case with web cams. Since production has come down owing to the pandemic, it’s impossible to meet the sudden spike in demand,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chaos-as-classes-set-to-go-live-online/articleshow/76046190.cms||B S Anilkumar
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman jumps to death in Ahmedabad's Bodakdev||AHMEDABAD: A 55-year-old woman from the Bodakdev area of the city on Wednesday morning allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the second floor of the apartment complex in front of her house. The deceased was identified as Aditi Ravikumar Taneja, a homemaker and resident of Chandrasen Bungalows. According to police officials, Taneja left her house for a morning walk and went towards the apartment complex called Sukhshanti Flats, barely 50 metres from her house. She went to the second floor where a security guard, who was switching off streetlights, spotted her and asked why she was sitting there. After a while, she went to the gallery of the second floor of the flats and jumped off. Locals called an ambulance which took her to Sola Civil Hospital where she was declared brought dead. Her husband, Ravikumar Taneja, told the cops that his wife left home at around 6am on Wednesday for a walk when he was sleeping. After a few minutes, his son Rahul informed him that she had fallen from a building in front of their house. Ravikumar rushed there and found her lying unconscious. Inspector M M Jadeja of Vastrapur police said that the cops did not find any suicide note and family members did not specify any reason that could have led her to commit suicide. Police will question the family members and neighbours after a couple of days, he said. A police official said that she might have committed suicide due to domestic issues but it was too early to draw any conclusions. “Her family income was around Rs 80,000 which they got from renting two houses in the area,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-jumps-to-death-in-bodakdev/articleshow/76049265.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||NLIU students help labourers get e-pass & food||BHOPAL: In order to help migrant laboourers and others who are not able to access internet and arrange e passes and other issues, the students of NLIU have formed a group Mazdoor Mitra. They have brought different NGOs, govt agencies and others together so that those in need can get help quickly. Students are helping such people across the country and lawyers and high court's have also shown interest in providing support to these students in their cause. Convenor of the group, Amar Tandon, said migrant workers in huge numbers have been compelled to leave their life in urban centers and move back to their ancestral villages. “Central and state governments are helping these workers and are taking initiatives on a daily basis to mitigate their hardship. In pursuit of the same, students and faculty of National Law Institute University, Bhopal have undertaken to establish the Centre for Labour Laws, not only to combat the problems prevailing but also to preserve the dignity of our workers,” said Tandon. He added that centre is reaching out to the people in need through their recently launched website www.mazdoormitra.info, which is a platform that provides essential official and non-governmental information related to the workers in times of crisis at one place. “Helpline numbers issued by various state governments, information of relief centers, social organizations which are distributing ration and food, providing temporary accommodation has been collated and provided on the website. Student volunteers also provide timely and simplified information in vernacular languages to anyone who contacts through the numbers mentioned and is unable to take assistance through the website,” added Tandon. Through this initiative the centre has been able to help hundreds of people in a short span of time, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nliu-students-help-labourers-get-e-pass-food/articleshow/76047904.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||SMS Hospital tests new ‘Wuhan drug’ to treat Covid patients||JAIPUR: The city's Sawai Man Singh Hospital is using a 'new' drug, tocilizumab, for Covid-19 treatment. This drug was successfully given to patients in Wuhan, the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak. Tocilizumab is used for treating diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. The 'controversial' drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) too is used for treating arthritis. The SMS Hospital has given tocilizumab to two patients, so far, and has claimed that it is showing good results. The hospital, which has provided treatment to over 1,000 Covid patients, has already taken initiative to use drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir-ritonavir, a combination useful for HIV treatment; and plasma therapy. Now, in the series, the doctors have decided to use tocilizumab for treating Covid patients. While treating patients, the doctors had discovered cytokine storm, a condition in which the immune system attacks the body in critical patients. The doctors at the hospital looked for a medicine to block the cytokine storm, which could cause multiple organ and cardiovascular failures. For preventing cytokine storm, the doctors started using tocilizumab. “So far, we have provided tocilizumab to two patients. They have responded well to the treatment. Three other patients are lined up for the same treatment,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College, and one of the five members of the core group for treating Covid-19 at SMS Hospital. The treatment is effective in critical Covid patients, suffering from bilateral pneumonia. “Increased concentration of cytokine inflammatory markers such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-10 cause acute respiratory distress syndrome in which the level of oxygen in tissues and cells goes down dangerously and causes hypoxia. So, there is a need to block the cytokine storm and tocilizumab is proving an effective drug for such a condition,” said Dr Ajit Singh, a member of the core group. Dr Singh said that tocilizumab is a humanised monoclonal antibody against IL-6 receptor. The IL-6 is a cytokine which plays key a role in Covid-19 induced cytokine storms. Doctors at SMS Hospital are keeping an eye on the level of IL-6, a cytokine, in Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment. The doctors have taken lessons for using the drug from a study conducted by the department of pharmacy, Tongji Hospital, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-hosp-tests-new-wuhandrug-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/76050461.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vishwas Mehta to take over as chief secretary of Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The cabinet on Wednesday appointed additional chief secretary Vishwas Mehta as the next chief secretary of the state. He will be the state’s 46th chief secretary and will continue to hold the office till February 28, 2021. Mehta, a 1986 batch IAS officer, will take over from Tom Jose, who will retire from service on May 31. At present, Mehta is additional chief secretary (home, vigilance, water resources and housing) and is also the chairman of coastal shipping and inland navigation corporation. Talking to TOI, Mehta said that the biggest challenge that he finds as the chief secretary of the state in the present times is to maintain the achievements that the state has been able to make with regards to controlling the Covid-19 outbreak. "We cannot afford to lose the strides that we have made in controlling the pandemic. We are a state of literate as well as rule-abiding citizens. So this achievement can be sustained only if it is made a people’s movement," he said. Mehta also said that other than effectively fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the state will also have to focus on rebuilding all that have been lost. "Reviving the economy as well as completing certain priority projects in the next six months will have to be done simultaneously," he said. Mehta had served in the state in various other capacities, including as additional chief secretary (revenue), principal secretary (general administration), secretary (health and family welfare) and resident commissioner of Kerala House in New Delhi. In the Centre, Mehta has held positions including joint secretary of ministry of health and family welfare, senior directing staff of National Defence College and director in the ministry of tourism and culture. Mehta who began his career in the IAS as assistant collector under training in Kollam and later as sub-collector at Mananthavady in Wayanad, had served as the district collector of Wayanad as well. He had also been the district collector of Idukki for a brief period. Hailing from Rajasthan, Mehta, after obtaining post-graduation from Geology, completed PhD from Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur. He also holds a diploma in management from Indira Gandhi Open University and has also completed certificate course in public administration from Syracuse University, New York. Before getting inducted to IAS, Mehta was selected for IPS in the 1985 batch along with the present state police chief Loknath Behera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vishwas-mehta-to-take-over-as-chief-secretary-of-kerala/articleshow/76047910.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dentist commits suicide in Ahmedabad' Jodhpur||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old woman from the Jodhpur area of the city allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday. Her body was found hanging from a ceiling fan by her family members, at her room on Tuesday morning. The deceased was identified as Dr Pooja Thakkar, who worked at a private clinic in Jodhpur village in Satellite. She was a resident of Samkit 2 Apartments, opposite Nandanvan in Jodhpur. Inspector S J Baloch of Anandnagar police, said that Thakkar was living with her parents and brother at their flat in Jodhpur. On Monday evening, the family dined together and then went to their respective rooms. On Tuesday morning when a family member knocked at the door of her room, Pooja did not respond. Suspecting something wrong, family members along with neighbours broke open the door and found her body hanging, said a police officer. Locals called an ambulance and the doctor declared her dead. Later, her postmortem was conducted and a case of accidental death was registered. Baloch said that reason behind Pooja’s death was not known as the cops are yet to question her family members. “The family had gone to Rajasthan to conduct her final rituals and once they return from there, police will question them about the suicide,” he said. Baloch said that the family left for Rajasthan immediately after the funeral and cops did not question the bereaved family members. Police did not find any suicide note from the house due to which the reasons for her suicide are not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dentist-commits-suicide-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76049259.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa’s active Covid cases fall 2nd day in a row||Panaji: Goa’s active Covid-19 tally dropped for the second consecutive day as nine more patients were cured and discharged on Wednesday. They have been placed in facility quarantine for seven days, after which they will spend seven days in home quarantine. The day also saw one person who travelled from Maharashtra to Goa by road test positive for the novel coronavirus. He had gone to Mumbai to bring his family.  He will now be treated at the Covid hospital in Margao. “The two family members who were with him have been tested and their results have come negative, but they are in quarantine and we will be watching them,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan. The state now has 31 active cases. Out of the 637 samples tested on Wednesday, 524 results came negative, and 112 were awaited. Over 400 passengers were home-quarantined and 74 have been placed under facility quarantine. Meanwhile, a private laboratory, Suburban Diagnostic, that approached the directorate of health services (DHS) for permission to collect swabs, has got its nod. “It will send samples for testing to their laboratory in Mumbai,” Mohanan said. Recently, the permission granted to another private laboratory as a collection centre was revoked after three positive patients reported by it tested negative after their samples were tested at the virology laboratory of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Mohanan said that on average, 350-400 people come to Goa by road every day. Rail and air arrivals change on a daily basis as it depends on whether or not trains are running. Currently, everyone who is tested on arrival in Goa is charged Rs 2,000. Earlier, travellers coming in by road were not charged though they were tested. Also, while the option of bringing a Covid-19 negative certificate is also available, only 4-5 passengers have submitted such a certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-active-covid-cases-fall-2nd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/76050492.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa’s active Covid cases fall 2nd day in a row||Panaji: Goa’s active Covid-19 tally dropped for the second consecutive day as nine more patients were cured and discharged on Wednesday. They have been placed in facility quarantine for seven days, after which they will spend seven days in home quarantine. The day also saw one person who travelled from Maharashtra to Goa by road test positive for the novel coronavirus. He had gone to Mumbai to bring his family.  He will now be treated at the Covid hospital in Margao. “The two family members who were with him have been tested and their results have come negative, but they are in quarantine and we will be watching them,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan. The state now has 31 active cases. Out of the 637 samples tested on Wednesday, 524 results came negative, and 112 were awaited. Over 400 passengers were home-quarantined and 74 have been placed under facility quarantine. Meanwhile, a private laboratory, Suburban Diagnostic, that approached the directorate of health services (DHS) for permission to collect swabs, has got its nod. “It will send samples for testing to their laboratory in Mumbai,” Mohanan said. Recently, the permission granted to another private laboratory as a collection centre was revoked after three positive patients reported by it tested negative after their samples were tested at the virology laboratory of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Mohanan said that on average, 350-400 people come to Goa by road every day. Rail and air arrivals change on a daily basis as it depends on whether or not trains are running. Currently, everyone who is tested on arrival in Goa is charged Rs 2,000. Earlier, travellers coming in by road were not charged though they were tested. Also, while the option of bringing a Covid-19 negative certificate is also available, only 4-5 passengers have submitted such a certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-active-covid-cases-fall-2nd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/76050465.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 39 SRPF jawans contract disease||PUNE: As many as 39 jawans of a State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) contingent who returned to the base camp at Ramtekdi in Wanowrie on Sunday after a month-long duty in Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 contagion.  “All the 39 jawans are asymptomatic and fine. They have been moved to various Covid care centres,” deputy inspector-general (SRPF) Navin Reddy said. Earlier, 40 jawans had tested positive, all of whom recovered and reported to work .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/39-srpf-jawans-contract-disease/articleshow/76050463.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||At 134 cases, Andhra Pradesh records highest one-day surge||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 134 coronavirus cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day surge in either of the two Telugu states since the outbreak even as the death toll rose to 58 with one more death. The overall caseload rose to 3,117, including 219 patients from other states and 111 foreign returnees. Even a week after the death of a man, suspected to be a super spreader in East Godavari, cases having links to him continued to emerge as five more tested positive for the disease on Wednesday. Of the 101 cases reported in East Godavari in the last one week, nearly 80 cases are believed to have contracted the virus from the 53-year-old person who died on May 20. District medical and health officer Dr Satya Suseela said they have been implementing strict containment measures in the affected mandals. “Nearly 5,000 people in these mandals were tested for Covid-19,” said Dr Suseela. As many as 11 Covid-19 patients in the district were so far allowed to avail home isolation facilities. Andhra Pradesh currently has 1,002 active cases with the discharge of 2,057 people and the death of 58 Covid-19 confirmed cases. This translates to a recovery rate of 66%, faring better than the national average of 42%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-134-cases-ap-records-highest-one-day-surge/articleshow/76050464.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Policeman killed in road accident||AHMEDABAD: A city police constable died on Tuesday evening after his scooter was hit by a speeding truck near Sector 30 in Gandhinagar. The deceased was identified as Kirtisinh Rathod, 33, a constable with Gujarat University police station and a resident of Sector 3A in Gandhinagar. According to the FIR registered with Sector 21 police, the deceased’s brother Nirmalsinh Rathod, 37, who at the National Institute of Design (NID) in Gandhinagar, on Tuesday night got a call from his friend Rahul Parmar, who told him that Kirtisinh had met with an accident. Nirmalsinh rushed to the spot near Muktidham in Sector 30, where his brother was lying dead in a pool of blood on the road. His scooter had been crushed by a truck that was parked by the road. Witnesses said Kirtisinh was going towards Chiloda Circle from Sector 30 when the truck, coming from the opposite side, hit him, killing him on the spot. Locals called an ambulance and doctors declared him dead. Inspector H M Vyas of Gujarat University police, where Kirtisinh worked, said he had been a constable for around three years. He was unmarried and is survived by elderly parents, a sister and a brother. Sector 21 police began an investigation by taking statements of witnesses and collecting CCTV footage. The driver of the truck, which bears an Ahmedabad registration number, fled the scene of the accident. Police registered a case of negligent driving causing death and rash driving under the IPC along with charges under the Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/policeman-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/76049253.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Coronavirus travels to remote Rayari village||PUNE: A family of four, including two girls aged 6 and 2 years, from Rayari village in Bhor taluka, has been quarantined in a hospital in Pune city after their swab samples on Tuesday showed they had developed Covid-19. The father had visited Market Yard a few days ago and was the first to develop nCoV symptoms. Rayari is in the hilly terrain near the backwaters of Nira-Devghar dam, about 90km from Pune. One has to cross the Nira river twice and a couple of ghats to reach the village. A Bhor police officer said after returning from Pune and falling ill, the man approached the local primary health centre and was sent to the government hospital. Swab samples of the family were collected and they were told to shift to a quarantine facility the same day, the officer added. It is not known how the man contracted the virus. Eight persons have tested positive in Bhor. Neighbouring Velhe has 18 infected persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-travels-to-remote-rayari-village/articleshow/76050485.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Sample of woman who died at home on Tuesday tests positive||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) proactive measure to test samples of suspected home deaths helped identify a Covid-19 case on Wednesday. The deceased, and 12 more persons, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the district’s tally to 447. Again, new cases were registered from three different non-containment zones taking the number of such cases to 14 in last five days. A 72-year-old woman passed away at her home situated under Satranjipura containment zone at around 2pm on Tuesday. NMC zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane told TOI, “Our team came to know about the home death. Our team took the body to IGGMCH at around 5pm. Her samples tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. We have quarantined 34 family members and close contacts,” she said. The NMC team led by assistant commissioner Vijay Humne arranged for the funeral of the deceased at Mominpura Kabrastan in the afternoon. Four family members of the deceased were present. Dr Mane added, “The deceased’s house is situated in the area where we planned mass quarantine and testing of people around 10 days ago, but failed thrice due to lack of support from the people. Quarantining of people and testing would have led to treatment of people in initial stage and contain spread of Covid-19,” she said Ater the death, NMC had again planned to quarantine around 300 from the area but people did not turn up. TOI was the first to report about testing of suspected home deaths on Wednesday. Earlier, the civic body had tested samples of three deceased from Mominpura containment zone and all were negative. Number of cases from Satranjipura containment zone, city’s first hotspot, have now increased to 123. There were no cases from this zone for 10 days between May 15 and 25. A SRPF personnel posted in this zone tested positive on May 27. On Wednesday, the NMC team went to take the body of a deceased from Mominpura to IGGMCH for testing, but was delayed due to strong protests from local residents. A large number of people gathered and raised an objection. The teams of NMC and police rushed to the spot and explained the importance of the measure. Then, the body was taken to IGGMCH and the samples tested negative. A 23-year-old man from Naik Talao area and a 35-year-old from Bangladesh under NMC Satranjipura zone in East Nagpur were admitted at IGGMCH with fever. Both work as labourers and tested positive. The two areas will be part of a new containment zone as they are situated close to each other. NMC has quarantined 46 persons from these two localities. A 24-year-old car driver and a resident of Sonuli in Kalmeshwar tehsil was admitted at IGGMCH for fever and tested positive. He had history of travelling to Mumbai. This is also a new area for Covid-19 in the district. A man (40) along with wife (39) and son (4) from Pune had come to Kamptee in their car to visit the wife’s maternal home on May 25. The health team of zilla parishad had taken their swab samples. Their reports came positive on Wednesday. With these, cases from Nagpur Rural have increased to 11. A 65-year-old male inmate of NMC Night Shelter at Hansapuri under Mominpura containment zone, who was quarantined at Wathoda, tested positive in second sample. Earlier, 12 from this shelter home have tested positive. A 21-year-old pregnant woman from Mominpura went for check-up and tested positive. A 22-year-old and 40-year-old, both male, also from Mominpura containment zone were admitted at IGGMCH and tested positive. Thus, three new cases came from this zone. Number of cases from Mominpura containment zone, city’s second hotspot, increased to 230. Wife (51) and son (23) of a 57-year-old man who tested positive on Tuesday also came positive on Wednesday. They are residents of Hawrapeth, Onkar Nagar, in South Nagpur. Two corona positive patients were discharged from GMCH, increasing number of discharged persons from the district to 355. With nine deaths, 83 patients are now undergoing treatment at AIIMS, IGGMCH and GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sample-of-woman-who-died-at-home-on-tuesday-tests-positive/articleshow/76049534.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 28, 2020||Goa||Restaurants in state may start from June 1: Lobo||Panaji: The state government may allow restaurants and small tea stalls to open up for business by adhering to social distancing norms and with 50% capacity, ports minister Michael Lobo said on Wednesday. Lobo said that he has already raised the issue with CM Pramod Sawant, who showed willingness in preparing a standard operating procedure for restaurants and other small eateries to open from June 1. Lobo, who is Calangute MLA, said that if restaurants and other eating joints are not allowed to restart, unemployment in the state will increase. He said he is waiting for an official announcement. “Today I requested the chief minister that in the next phase of the lockdown, the restaurant industry should restart,” Lobo told reporters after the cabinet meeting. “Social distancing should be maintained and the state government should decide the SOP.” Lobo also said that due to the lockdown, tourism-allied activities are facing losses. According to Lobo, Sawant is in favour of allowing restaurants, bars and small eateries to operate with 50% seating. “If we don’t start this, unemployment will increase,” Lobo said. “Once 50% of the tables are removed, automatically you get social distance. The CM is very positive on this. He said that from May 31, we will have an SOP and start,” said Lobo. Lobo also said that opening up of resorts and restaurants within resorts will continue to be dependent on the Union ministry of home affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restaurants-in-state-may-start-from-june-1-lobo/articleshow/76050516.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Vadodara||16-year-old tribal girl brutally flogged for eloping with youth||VADODARA: A 16-year-old tribal girl was subjected to draconian punishment for allegedly eloping with a youth from the same village in Chhota Udepur district. The girl was mercilessly flogged by some of her family members and other men in Bilvant village on May 21, but police swung into action on Wednesday after the video of the brutality was widely shared on social media. The teenager was found from the youth’s house and brought to the local primary school where one person held her hand and four others began thrashing her with wooden sticks. The two-minute-long video showed one man constantly beating her until the stick broke. Even as she wailed in agony, he slapped her repeatedly on her neck while grabbing her hair with one hand. Later, one of the man removed her dupatta and pushed her down to the ground. The four men then kicked her mercilessly even as the girl kept writhing in pain crying for help. According to police, there were more than a dozen people present at the spot, but none of them came forward to rescue the girl. “Nobody had come forward with the complaint of the girl eloping with the boy. We would have found an amicable solution and not allowed such brutality,” claimed Dhundiben Rathwa, sarpanch of Bhordali group gram panchayat. Bilvant falls under this group gram panchayat. “Based on the video, we have identified and booked others who were present there and shot the video. Those who have resorted to violence include her uncles and other men from village,” said sub-inspector D M Vasava of Rangpur police station. None of the accused have been arrested yet. On Wednesday, police registered an offence against 15 persons for rioting, assault, criminal intimidation, sexual harassment, violation of Information Technology Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Sources said that the video had been doing rounds for the past few days, but cops got into action only on Tuesday when senior police officials of neighbouring Alirajpur district in Madhya Pradesh confirmed that the incident did not take place in their region. “A separate offence of abduction has also been registered against the youth as the girl is a minor, but he has not been found yet,” said Vasava. Locals said that such brutality is quite common in the region as elders of the village decide and punish girls or couples who flee from the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/16-yr-old-tribal-girl-brutally-flogged-for-eloping-with-youth/articleshow/76044796.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||With his factory stuck in red tape, Corlim man makes infrared temprature scanner at home||Panaji: While many people fret about Covid-19, the threats it poses and the boredom of the lockdown, one man in Corlim decided to put his engineering background to good use and build a temperature indicator at home. And yet, the man’s industriousness is a classic example on how Goa Industrial Development Corporation is killing the Make In India dream for Goa’s entrepreneurs. The man behind the idea, Tirathprasad Nagvekar, has been running from pillar to post for an industrial plot for the past five years in and despite paying lease fees, Nagvekar’s attempt to set up a manufacturing facility at Panchawadi to design and manufacture electronic scientific instruments has been tied up in red tape. With time, money and effort poured into this initiative, he now wants to scale up production and improve his temperature indicator. “If I had a working facility at Panchawadi, I would have gone on to manufacture thermal scanners and ventilators which would have ensured 150 jobs. If I had the plant, I would be able to make at least 1,000 thermal scanners per day,” he rues. Nagvekar says ‘Make in India’, ‘Atmanirbhar’ or ‘Vocal about Local’ will remain empty statements till the Goa government and GIDC get their act together. On paper, there are 32 industrial units at Panchawadi which have paid Rs 13 lakh as annual lease rent along with the crores pocketed by GIDC during plot allotment. The number of actual industries is zero. Confederation of Indian Industry - Goa council chairman Blaise Costabir said that Nagvekar’s case highlights the struggles of entrepreneurs who seek to start a factory and innovate in Goa. “He got a plot four years ago at Panchawadi from IDC, but nothing has happened and his money is stuck. This is a classic example of a disconnect between what is spoken and reality. Somebody has to be held accountable for this,” said Costabir. Most infrared temperature guns are imported, often from China, and were initially being sold at Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000. Prices have now dropped to around Rs 3,000 a piece, but the products don’t carry a guarantee. “When the lockdown happened, the requirement for everybody was temperature scanners. I had certain temperature sensors and micro-controllers based on which I developed the first version,” said Nagvekar. After spending more than Rs 50,000, browsing through online manuals and countless hours of tinkering at the work desk, he has developed an infrared temperature indicator, which is already being used at a city-based co-working hub, MeWo. The first version was rudimentary, using a touch-based sensor, which could also be used to display the ambient room temperature. Knowing that contact-less thermal guns were required to fight the battle against the novel coronavirus, Nagvekar got his hands on a few infra-red sensors and, sitting at home, designed a temperature reader which can be placed on a desk, thus eliminating the need for a person to hold the device. “Most important for me is to get the product certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards, so that it carries a BIS mark. The break even will happen when I sell 10,000 units,” said Nagvekar. He demands that if Goa really wants to promote industrial activity and generate employment, the state government needs to be accountable. The responsibility of GIDC has to be set and the Goa government must to maintain checks and balances. I feel if we answer these questions we will reach to the conclusion as of what is the status of make in India in Goa,” said Nagvekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-his-factory-stuck-in-red-tape-corlim-man-makes-infrared-temprature-scanner-at-home/articleshow/76050559.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Coronavirus cases cross 2,000-mark in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: With a rise in confirmed Covid-19 cases in different parts of Marathwada over the past few days, the total number of positive patients in the region reached 2,022 on Wednesday evening. The region, which has witnessed spread of the disease in parts of rural areas as well, has registered 74 deaths due to the pandemic so far. Aurangabad health division — comprising Aurangabad (1,368), Hingoli (164) Jalna (78) and Parbhani (67) districts — has reported a total of 1,677 cases of Covid-19. Latur division, that includes Nanded (137), Latur (105), Beed (55) and Osmanabad (48) districts, has a total of 345 confirmed cases of the pandemic. While Aurangabad division has reported 63 deaths due to Covid-19, the number of deaths in Latur division stands at 11. Also, as many as 934 patients have been discharged from hospitals in Aurangabad division by Wednesday, whereas in Latur division it is 148. With 30 more patients, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad increased to 1,360 on Wednesday morning. Jalna district reported nine fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while Hingoli recorded four new cases. In Nanded, no new case of Covid-19 was reported on Wednesday. The daily increase of patients from the four remaining districts from Marathwada could not be ascertained. A health official said that tally of Covid-19 patients is bound to go up considering the awaited lab reports for swab samples taken from suspected cases. The number of such awaited samples is 759 and 382 from Aurangabad and Latur divisions, respectively. “Along with urban areas, rural areas too are witnessing surge in Covid-19 cases with most of them having a travel history. The rural areas from Marathwada where new cases are surfacing are facing complete lockdown. The taluka-level authorities from revenue and other departments have been asked to work in unison with the health department to contain the spread of the disease,” a senior health department official from Latur division said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/coronavirus-cases-cross-2000-mark-in-marathwada/articleshow/76046256.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Close contacts to be quarantined at home, tests only if symptoms show||PUNE: The Maharashtra government is considering a complete stop on testing of symptomless close contacts of positive patients. The state, so far, has been testing all close contacts of people found positive for Covid-19. But studies show nearly 60% of these contacts have remained free of symptoms. Officials now believe doing away with testing of people who have shown to be largely asymptomatic or free of symptoms will allow them to boost tests among at-risk individuals and reduce the burden on government labs that are analysing samples. According to the proposed new protocol, close contacts of patients will now be home quarantined and monitored for symptoms. If the decision is made, Maharashtra will become the third state — after Punjab and Telangana — to adopt the new testing strategy. The new testing plan is a deviation from guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research, which has recommended mandatory testing of all immediate close contacts — symptomatic as well as asymptomatic. “But we have to prioritise resources at this stage,” said Subhash Salunke, the technical advisor to the state government on Covid-19. “We presented the revised testing protocol to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during a meeting in Pune on May 22. There is no point in testing asymptomatic close contacts. They can be home quarantined and monitored. We now want to focus on those above 40, people with comorbities and the elderly. We will do that through syndromic surveillance. These at-risk people need to be identified, tested and treated immediately,” he said. Senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee said: “We have a young population with a large proportion of asymptomatic people. Recent research indicates that asymptomatic individuals do not transmit Covid-19 infection. So testing them will only result in wastage of limited resources.” But will this change in testing protocol amount to violation of ICMR guidelines? “Not, exactly. The asymptomatic contacts will be home quarantined and monitored daily. Restricting their movement in this manner will check whatever little chance these individuals may have of transmitting the infection. We can take this call since we have resources to closely monitor and test them if people turn symptomatic,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/close-contacts-to-be-quarantined-at-home-tests-only-if-symptoms-show/articleshow/76050595.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa tightens SOP, makes Covid-19 testing mandatory||PANAJI: The state government’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for persons entering Goa changed again on Wednesday, after it removed the option entrants had of opting for a 14-day home quarantine. Now, only two options remain available for those coming in to Goa — submit a Covid-19 negative certificate from a lab approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), or pay Rs 2,000 and get tested. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that this altered SOP will be valid till June 3. He said the option to opt for 14 days of home quarantine was removed after a cabinet meeting. “We discussed the SOP with the cabinet, and now that we can test 1,000 persons a day, there will be no need for the home quarantine,” he said. “Every person who enters Goa will have to bring a Covid-19 certificate issued within 48 hours prior to arrival, or get tested when they enter Goa.” “Passengers who enter the state will be tested and sent home, where they will have to self-quarantine themselves from their family till their result is out,” Sawant said. “It may take up to a day for the result, and when it comes, we will telephonically inform them. If a person tests positive, we will send them to the Covid-19 hospital, and the family will be placed in facility quarantine.” While the SOP currently stands valid till June 3, it is open to be revised from time to time based on the situation, Sawant said. “When we saw flight and other bookings, it was estimated that 4,000 persons would enter Goa every day,” Sawant said. “It would take four days to test them (4,000) based on our current testing capacity. Keeping this in mind, we decided on the earlier SOP. Then, we started monitoring the situation on a daily basis and noticed that many have cancelled their bookings. Now, around 1,000 persons arrive in a day, and this is a manageable number. If the number of arrivals increases, we will decide accordingly.” Sawant said that the cabinet is worried about the health of the people. “We maintain that Goa is a Green Zone. All those who have entered Goa have been tested and quarantined, or admitted to the Covid hospital. We are sure that most persons in the quarantine facility will be sent home shortly.” Meanwhile, the CM said that since testing has now been made mandatory, there will be no separate SOP for those entering the state from Maharashtra. He also said that the issuance of travel passes has now been simplified, as those entering at the border can self-generate a travel pass from the government app. There is no need to provide the self-declaration on arrival at the border check-post either, he added. The CM also said that even after regular trains resume in June, Goa isn’t expecting bulk arrivals, as most Goans who were stranded in other parts of the country have already returned. “Now, the numbers are far fewer,” he said. “Even if trains start, limited trains will come (to Goa).” Meanwhile, power minister Nilesh Cabral said that some politicians keep criticising the government without understanding why SOPs are being altered from time to time. “The day we changed the SOP, 4,000 persons were set to arrive in Goa,” he said. “In Goa, we have the facility to test up to 1,000 persons a day. Those who are criticising us are doing so out of frustration, because under the CM, Goa has been declared a Green Zone. They are criticising because they find no other outlet to suit their political agenda. We are open to suggestions. But such accusations show their level of frustration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-tightens-sop-makes-covid-testing-mandatory/articleshow/76050537.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Cash, liquor worth Rs72klooted from Sinnar bar||Nashik: Four men struck at a bar around 1.30am on Tuesday and escaped with cash and valuables worth Rs 72,000 after thrashing the manager of the outlet in Wavi village of Sinnar taluka. A case has been registered at Wavi police station and teams have been formed to trace the suspects. A police officer said on Wednesday that the criminals broke into the bar from its rear entrance where the 65-year-old manager was sleeping. “The suspects thrashed him and tied him using a piece of cloth in a room. They then snatched the keys of the main permit room and and took cash and three boxes of liquor. They also snatched the keys of the manager’s motorcycle, which was parked outside the permit room and drove away with it,” he said. The officer said that they are investigating the case on priority and the suspects will soon be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cash-liquor-worth-rs72klooted-from-sinnar-bar/articleshow/76046254.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Udaipur||Dungarpur centre provides a cheerful environment to Covid-19 patients||UDAIPUR: Poha, upma or aloo paratha with sprouts for breakfast, lauki or palak cooked in dal, rice and chapatis with green salad, biscuits and melons/mangoes, tea, milk or even coffee—that’s the lunch menu for coronavirus patients in the Parda Chundawat Covid-19 Care Centre at Sabla block, around 60km from Dungarpur district headquarters. Then there’s aerobics and yoga sessions for physical fitness and light music, bhajans, patriotic songs to keep the inmates’ mood lifted. The Dungarpur administration is making all efforts to ensure the well-being of the expatriates under their care. With a capacity of 112 people, the care centre is housed in the TAD hostel building, where 10 asymptomatic corona patients are residing at present. District collector Kanaram chalked out the diet plan after consulting a professional dietitian and nutritionist. The breakfast, served around 7am, includes poha, daliya, aloo paratha, upma, sprouts and boiled chickpeas with tea or milk. The lunch served between 12pm to 1pm includes chapatis, rice, dal with curry. The patients are served tea and snacks (biscuits/ banana or any seasonal fruit) at 3:30pm, followed by dinner between 8pm to 9pm comprising vegetables, rice and chapatis. Apart from the scheduled menu, the inmates have the liberty to request for any special item like sweets, halwa, kheer, etc. “Each block has a Covid care centre to care for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild ones as they are asymptomatic. In the Sabla centre, all the inmates are expatriates who have returned from Maharashtra or Gujarat. Along with their physical health, we have to ensure their mental wellness too because they are prone to mood swings and short temper,” says SDM Manish Faujdar, incharge of the care centre. Initially, the centre was a quarantine facility which was transformed into a care centre after the state government instructed each block to have a Covid care centre for asymptomatic positive cases. “We faced difficulties in the initial days to convince our team as many of them were hesitant and thought it risky to serve positive cases. But, we held a counselling session for the employees and cleared their misconceptions and myths related to coronavirus. They finally agreed to work here, presently there is a team of around 15 staff looking after the patients,” the SDM said. When the inmates were brought here, they were quite difficult to manage. They threw tantrums, refused to participate in yoga and aerobics, etc. “We understood their mental condition as it was stressful to learn that they were infected. We adopted music therapy to boost their spirits. They are woken up in the morning with soothing bhajans while in the afternoon they get to hear classic songs from superhit movies. In the evening, bhajans, light music and patriotic songs keep them occupied,” Faujdar said. The counsellors who visit here daily too have reported improvement in the behavior of inmates, who are no longer irritable. According to ADM Krishna Pal Singh Chouhan, there are 69 quarantine centres, seven Covid care centres, two Covid health centres and one dedicated district hospital in Dungarpur which have been braving the sudden spike in cases after receiving a heavy inflow of migrant workers from the neighboring states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dungarpur-centre-provides-a-cheerful-environment-to-covid-patients/articleshow/76049322.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Prepare for monsoon, says divn commissioner of Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar has asked the officials concerned to be prepared for the forthcoming monsoon, in a meeting held through video conference on Tuesday. He also asked the officials to focus on the 1,572 villages situated on the banks of Godavari. The meeting was held to discuss the administration’s preparedness during monsoon. The divisional commissioner, who had a meeting with all the eight district collectors and officials of the other departments, said that it was essential to take precautionary measures now, particularly for the villages situated on the banks of the rivers, especially the Godavari in the region. He said the officials should identify the villages that usually record excess rain by assessing the data of the last three years and make necessary arrangements like residential arrangement for the people in case of any untoward eventuality. The sources in the administration said that all the zilla parishad have been asked to physically examine all the water bodies. While referring to the floods involving the Kham river in the city, Kendrekar has asked the officials to ensure that people living on the banks of the river are shifted to a safer place whe required. Kendrekar also stressed on the need to assess the condition of roads,bridges, railway crossings and to carry out repair works if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prepare-for-monsoon-says-divn-commissioner-of-aurangabad/articleshow/76046274.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Despite RTR rescue operation, injured jumbo dies||Dehradun: The injured jumbo, which was rescued by the forest department on Tuesday late evening, died later that night. The officials had rescued it from the Ganga banks near Bhimgoda Barrage in Haridwar after almost a day-long operation. The officials of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) said that the elephant, which had to be tranquilised, had gone into the river from Chila range during a fight with another tusker. Amit Verma, RTR director, confirmed death of the pachyderm while adding that the postmortem report is yet to be received. “Although we are yet to see the postmortem report, it seems that the jumbo succumbed to severe injuries it had sustained in its pelvic area during a fight with the other tusker in the jungle,” Verma told TOI. Meanwhile, a few local residents claimed that the deceased tusker was “stuck in the river for hours.” “The forest department lacks advanced techniques to save elephants during an emergency situation,” a resident alleged. The forest department meanwhile said that it had sent two captive elephants and mahouts for rescuing the victim tusker but it refrained from walking out making the entire evacuation process tedious for the rescue operation team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-rtr-rescue-operation-injured-jumbo-dies/articleshow/76046338.cms||Shivani Azad
May 28, 2020||Goa||No plans to hold ZP polls soon: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday ruled out conducting the pending zilla panchayat polls anytime soon. He said that panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho’s statement on conduct of zilla panchayat elections had been misinterpreted. The ZP polls will not be held after Class X exams, as is being wrongly interpreted from Godinho’s statement, Sawant said. He said that the Class X exams are going on smoothly, despite the objections that were raised against the conduct of the exams by the opposition. “There is no issue of ZP elections at all. I personally inquired with panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho about his statement on ZP polls. He said reporters themselves asked him when ZP polls would be held. The minister told me that he had said that a decision on the matter would be made by the cabinet. The statement in no way means that elections will be held after Class X exams,” Sawant said. On Friday, Godinho had told TOI, “After successfully conducting the SSC and HSSC exams, we will conduct the ZP elections. We will pick up from where we left off.” All processes of the ZP elections were completed, but polling was called off as the lockdown was imposed. “Some people were pressuring us to hold Class X exam and when we declared the exam schedule the same people went to court. After the exams began, it has reduced the strain and tension for Class X students. The exam is going on smoothly. The same people were protesting to get seafarers back. When we brought the seafarers back and kept them in hotels, the same people came forward to say that do not keep them in hotels in our village. These people are criticising either ways. But Goans are smart enough to understand what these people are up to,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-plans-to-hold-zp-polls-soon-sawant/articleshow/76050620.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Gurgaon||94-year-old from Jind builds health centre, awaits nod for staff||JIND: A 94-year-old man from Jind has shown that it is never too late to fulfil your dreams. He has spent Rs 52 lakh on the construction of a sub health centre on his land to provide health care to people of his area. The nonagenarian, Dhanpat Shastri, belongs to Nidani village, located 10 km from Jind on the Jind-Sonipat road. Once the sub health centre starts, people will not have to run to the local civil hospital or any other nearby hospitals for treatment. Construction of the double-story sub health centre built on a plot of one kanal and 17 marlas was completed on December 21, 2019, but the senior citizen had to run about to obtain approval for the centre as well as medical staff. Talking to TOI, Dhanpat Shastri said, "I had left the village in 1947 to begin work in Assam. I did well in life and wanted to do something for society. I first explored the possibility of undertaking this project in 2015, but my dream came true in 2018 when health department approved construction of the building." Shastri ascribes to the view that anyone who succeeds in life should contribute for the betterment of his place of origin. "Our birthplace is like heaven and it’s our duty to maintain it if we get the chance at any stage of life. I was inspired by my friends who have done a lot for their respective places," he maintained," he added. Jind civil surgeon Jai Bhagwan Jataan said the staff will be inducted soon as approval has been granted for inducting three staff members including two with a degree in Master of Science in Public Health -- one male and one female -- and a class IV employee. He used to work as an astrologer initially in Assam . He went there in search of some work but started working as an astrologer. He has three sons and two of them settled in Assam who are running their own shop and one is staying in Nasik city of Maharashtra. He is staying in Assam now along with his children but currently stuck in Delhi due to lockdown. He is seeking an inauguration of sub health centre after lifting the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/94-yr-old-builds-health-centre-awaits-nod-for-staff/articleshow/76050704.cms||Vijender Kumar
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: No plans to hold zilla panchayat polls soon, says CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday ruled out conducting the pending zilla panchayat polls anytime soon. He said that panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho’s statement on conduct of zilla panchayat elections had been misinterpreted. The ZP polls will not be held after Class X exams, as is being wrongly interpreted from Godinho’s statement, Sawant said. He said that the Class X exams are going on smoothly, despite the objections that were raised against the conduct of the exams by the opposition. “There is no issue of ZP elections at all. I personally inquired with panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho about his statement on ZP polls. He said reporters themselves asked him when ZP polls would be held. The minister told me that he had said that a decision on the matter would be made by the cabinet. The statement in no way means that elections will be held after Class X exams,” Sawant said. On Friday, Godinho had told TOI, “After successfully conducting the SSC and HSSC exams, we will conduct the ZP elections. We will pick up from where we left off.” All processes of the ZP elections were completed, but polling was called off as the lockdown was imposed. “Some people were pressuring us to hold Class X exam and when we declared the exam schedule the same people went to court. After the exams began, it has reduced the strain and tension for Class X students. The exam is going on smoothly. The same people were protesting to get seafarers back. When we brought the seafarers back and kept them in hotels, the same people came forward to say that do not keep them in hotels in our village. These people are criticising either ways. But Goans are smart enough to understand what these people are up to,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-plans-to-hold-zp-polls-soon-sawant/articleshow/76050589.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Sircilla water mgmt to be a topic for IAS trainees at Mussoorie||Hyderabad: The transformation of Sircilla Rajanna district from a drought-prone area to a water-surplus hub will soon be a topic for IAS trainees at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration. The academy has chosen Sircilla water management as a topic for its trainee IAS officers. The academy has asked the Sircilla district officials to document the developmental activities and send them. The course includes the irrigation projects, Mission Kakatiya, lakes’ maintenance, harvesting pits and farm ponds, an official press release said. Officials said the water table in the district has increased to six meters. This is seen as a milestone in water conservation as Sircilla earlier was categorised as a drought-prone district. Sircilla district has received awards at the national level in the last five years under MGNREGA, water management and cleanliness categories. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao, who represents Sircilla in the assembly, expressed happiness over the Sircilla model receiving praise from across the states. KTR said new recreational activities would come up near various water bodies in the state. He also said lakes in the villages would be inter-connected with streams to ensure good water levels throughout the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sircilla-water-mgmt-to-be-a-topic-for-ias-trainees-at-mussoorie/articleshow/76049376.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Experts against trapping of leopard spotted in Parbhani||Aurangabad: Wildlife experts have expressed concerns over demands for installation of a cage to trap a leopard that was spotted on various occasions in the farms located on the banks of river Godavari.Honorary wildlife warden Atindra Katti said a leopard or tiger can only be trapped that too with the permission of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF) only when the big cat is found to consistently attack the humans in a particular area.“The mere spotting of leopard does not call for efforts to trap the animal using cage. Such action can be the violation of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The public at large needs to develop awareness about behaviour of wildlife creatures including leopards in order to avoid nature-human conflict,” he said.Vijay Satpute, district forest officer for Parbhani, on Wednesday said, “We installed trap cameras in the area and confirmed the presence of the big cat. The leopard, however, is not stationary and moving continuously,” he said. Satpute said the leopard has sufficient prey and water available in the area and therefore chances of the animal getting strayed into human habitats were negligible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/experts-against-trapping-of-leopard-spotted-in-parbhani/articleshow/76046350.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Home minister takes stock of measures taken by police||Nashik: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday took review of the functioning of Nashik range police in tackling the Covid-19 situation during a brief meeting with police officers while en-route to Washim from Mumbai. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil, IG (special) Chhering Dorje and superintendent of police Arti Singh along with other seniors officers were present for the meeting with Deshmukh. A senior police officer, who attended the meeting, said that the discussion revolved mainly around the preventive measures taken by police to prevent people from moving around freely, mainly from the containment zones which could lead to the spread of Covid-19. “The minister was informed about steps being taken and the force deployed across Nashik to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown in the containment zones. The meeting lasted only for a few minutes at the government rest house in Ozar after which Deshmukh left for Jalgaon,” he added. Police across Nashik district are on their toes ever since the lockdown to ensure that the movement of people is limited so that the spread of Covid-19 can be controlled. More than 150 police personnel, deployed in Malegaon, have so far got infected and as many as three have succumbed to the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/home-minister-takes-stock-of-measures-taken-by-police/articleshow/76046357.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Under-40 make up for 40 per cent of infections, but just 0.7 per cent of toll||PUNE: The highest numbers of Covid-19 cases in the city are from two age groups: 20-30 and 31-40. Fortunately, the mortality rate among them has been just 0.7%, a study has shown. A report prepared by the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pune Smart City Development Corporation shows the two groups have 1,102 and 1,083 Covid-19 patients respectively as of May 26. The total accounts for 39.9% of the total 5,472 cases within PMC limits. But the mortality rate among those under 40 has been low. According to civic officials, most of the infected people from these two age groups are first contacts of positive patients or those in essential services. The report adds that 16 patients from these two age groups have died in PMC limits out of the total 2,185 positive cases. That's a mortality rate of just 0.7%. Of the 273 deaths in Pune municipal limits, 5.86% fall in these relatively young age groups. “Better immunity is a key reason that has helped these two age groups recover quickly from infection,” said a senior official from themunicipal corporation. The official said many senior citizens died because of serious underlying conditions like heart ailments, respiratory problems, diabetes, high blood pressure, etc. The mortality rate among those between the ages of 60 and 80 has been 50.18% (137 deaths from the total 273 deaths). Nearly 19.51% of the positive cases within PMC limits are from this age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/under-40-make-up-for-40-of-infections-but-just-0-7-of-toll/articleshow/76050654.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||98% reduction in property registration earnings||JAIPUR: The state witnessed a 98% drop in registration of properties in April due to lockdown. While it was approximately Rs 298 crore in April last year, it nosedived to Rs 7.77 crore this year. Though, the state government’s revenue increased in May, it is nowhere close with last year’s figures. According to figures available with TOI, in 2019-20, the government earned Rs 375 crore from registry in May, but in the same month this year, the income has been only Rs 48 crore. A senior official source said, “Revenue generation from property registration was adversely impacted. Attempts are been made to meet the target.” Sources said in an attempt to increase the revenue, the state government increased the surcharge on stamp duty by 10% to increase its income. However, it could become a deterrent for the real estate market to revive. Developers alleged that at a time when the real estate market was facing a slowdown in the state, successive governments were increasing the DLC the rates since 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/98-reduction-in-property-registration-earnings/articleshow/76049392.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Masks help women embroidery makers earn a decent living||RAJKOT: Preparing home-made washable masks has become common during lockdown. But with the intervention of district administration, the women self-help groups (SHGs) in Surendranagar has begun mass production of masks. These women have set target of producing of 2.5 lakh masks out of that one lakh have already been distributed. These SHG women were otherwise engaged in various activities like embroidery and other cottage industry. But now were directed towards mask making work. The initiative by the Surendranagar district administration provides the women SHG with material and training. Zarina Ansari, taluka development officer (TDO) of Dhrangadhra said, “We diverted these women into mask making because it was the need of the hour. Initially, Rs 20,000 was collected from the employees to provide them the raw material. One mask costs Rs 7 and it is sold at Rs 10 per piece. The women waived off their profit in 50% masks which was distributed among the poor people.” The SHG procures best quality cotton material from market and makes masks of one layer, two layer and three layers. They are getting bulk orders from various educational institutions and NGOs. Surendrangar district collector K Rajesh said, “The women SHGs have been successful in making a profit. Now we are getting good orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/masks-help-women-embroidery-makers-earn-a-decent-living/articleshow/76046378.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Competition for families at home||Aurangabad: A private group Kala Katta that imparts training in acting and singing has organised a ‘quarantine competition’ for families staying at home. The interested families have to perform a skit while those participating in the singing contest would have to send their video to the group. Amit Kulkarni, who is part of the group, said that they conceptualized the competition so that the families come together and have a good time. “Kala Katta has organized two unique competitions — Acting and Singing with family. The platform has been provided to every family member through this competition,” he said. The interested families have to send their acting and singing videos on 8554028072 and 8796769533 respectively. The winning families would be given prizes and e-certificate. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/competition-for-families-at-home/articleshow/76046313.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Women in south Rajasthan counter rumours on Covid||JAIPUR: To make people aware about the real symptoms of coronavirus and its prevention, a women’s organisation in Southern Rajasthan ‘Ujala Samooh’ has started a door-to-door campaign. When Covid-19 spread in the country, rumours started spreading in rural areas of southern districts that the government would shot dead the migrants or the government will take away excess ration from people’s houses. On the advice of priests, women started fasting for six continuous days to save their families from the impact of the virus. Ujala Samooh is a women solidarity group active at six blocks in Rajsamand, Udaipur, Banswara and Dungarpur districts. The objective of the group is to protect rights of women in the region, but with the spread of the virus, they started a campaign to generate awareness about the pandemic. The group, which was launched a decade ago by Ajeevika Bureau in Udaipur district, now consists of 13,000 women members. Manju Rajput, an executive of the group said, “There were many rumours spreading in villages about coronavirus. Someone said it spreads through dogbite while others said police will kill migrants to prevent its spread. We started visiting people’s households to make them aware about the way virus was spreading and its prevention.” Hundreds of women in the region started fasting for 5 – 6 days continuously believing that was the only way to save their family from coronavirus. Prema Dhruve, a volunteer of Ujala Samhooh working in Salumbar bock in Udaipur, said it was always women who had been asked to fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/women-in-south-rajasthan-counter-rumours-on-covid/articleshow/76049369.cms||---
May 28, 2020||India||SC: Why no free Covid care at private hospitals?||NEW DELHI: Amid reports of spiralling cost of Covid-19 patients’ treatment in private hospitals, the Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre why such hospitals, most of which were given land free of cost or at nominal rates, not be asked to treat coronavirus patients without charge or at reduced cost. Acting on an application filed by advocate Sachin Jain alleging commercial exploitation of Covid-19 patients, a bench of CJI SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta why private hospitals be not made to comply with an executive order to treat Covid-19 patients free. Mehta told the bench that it was a policy issue and needed to be considered by the government for an appropriate decision. The bench asked the solicitor general to respond within a week to the court’s suggestion about free treatment by private and charitable hospitals, which got land free of cost or at nominal prices. The government had earlier capped the cost of testing patients for coronavirus after it was pointed out that some private hospitals were overcharging for the tests. Jain's application said, "With no treatment cost regulation in place, various private hospitals/doctors are commercially exploiting the plight of patients suffering from Covid-19 and making a fortune out of the health crisis staring at the nation and its population." The bench said those healthcare institutions which enjoyed free land or subsidies from the government could be directed to provide cost effective treatment to Covid-19 patients during the health crisis. Quoting a TOI article, Jain referred to a surgeon's statement that a Covid-19 patient was billed Rs 12 lakh by a private hospital, leading a reputed insurance company to question the high cost. Jain referred to the news item which quoted the insurance company confirming that during March-April, it settled 41 claims of Covid-19 patients who sought reimbursement of an average Rs 5-6 lakh they had paid to private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-why-no-free-covid-care-at-private-hospitals/articleshow/76052919.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 28, 2020||Meerut||180 West Bengal migrants go door to door in Meerut to fund their trip home||MEERUT: Sukumar Mondol had moved to Meerut with a lot of hope in March this year. But soon Covid-19 lockdown caught up with him. A resident of a village in West Bengal’s Murshidabad, Sukumar had come here in search of work. “I was still looking for work when this lockdown was imposed," he said. Sukumar had to collect money door to door at several villages in his desperate quest to reach home - yet another migrant directly affected by the extended Covid-19 lockdown. Now, finally on his way home, Sukumar narrated his plight, "I waited patiently with the savings I had and planned to take a train ticket back home. But, when I went to book a ticket, I came to know that even the trains were very expensive and when they drop me to my state, I’d have to find a way to my village again. This is when I started looking for ways to return via road." The West Bengal resident learnt that some private buses were ready to ferry them to their state, but only after extracting a huge price. They must pay Rs 1.20 lakh for 30 people – which means nearly Rs 4,000 per person. He then contacted all the people he knew from his home state and they, in turn, contacted more people to pool in the money, and take the arduous journey. Sukumar's case wasn't an isolated one. There were similar stories everywhere. Darjit Mandal, 70, who was working as a labourer at a sugarcane farm in Meerut’s Daurala, said, “I waited for as long as possible but when I saw that there was no way left to return, I gave up all my savings for the bus journey. Now, I just hope to reach home safely.” Manish Bansal, owner of Rajdhani tour & travels, which provided the buses, said, “They found our number online and approached us. They are travelling to different districts - Murshidabad, Midnapore and Hooghly - of West Bengal. A charge of Rs 1.20 lakh per bus was taken to ferry them to their state. It is almost a four-day journey.” Initially, the buses were not getting "permission". Later, Meerut MP Rajendra Agarwal had to intervene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/180-wb-migrants-go-door-to-doorin-meerut-to-fund-their-trip-home/articleshow/76048212.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 28, 2020||Meerut||‘Lineman’ gets electrocuted after transformer goes live unexpectedly, body stuck for 3 hours||Bijnor: In a tragic incident, a lineman died while repairing a transformer in Bijnor on Wednesday as current was supplied unexpectedly. The villagers and the family of the victim protested as the district administration failed to remove the body from the transformer even after three hours of the incident. Officials of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL), however, disowned the lineman – identified as 45-year-old Chetram Singh of Inampura village – claiming that the department had nothing to do with him.The incident took place at Alampur Umari village under Akbarabad sub power house which falls under Nagina division of Dhampur circle.According to family members, he was working for the power corporation on a contractual basis for years.“There was a technical fault in the power line and Chetram had climbed atop the transformer to fix it. He had informed the power house for a shutdown. He was working when current was suddenly supplied without his knowledge, resulting in him getting electrocuted. His body remained hanging from the transformer for three hours. No one from the power department sent help,” a family member said.After getting wind of the accident, sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Sangita Singh rushed to the spot and managed to get his body down.Dhampur's superintendent engineer SK Agarwal said, "He was not an employee of the power corporation. He was probably a private electrician who might have climbed atop the transformer for some work. We are probing the matter thoroughly and trying to find out who hired him and asked him to repair the line."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lineman-gets-electrocuted-after-transformer-goes-live-unexpectedly-body-stuck-for-3-hours/articleshow/76048185.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Malkajgiri residents get water on time after TOI report||Hyderabad: A day after residents from the Malkajgiri area complained of erratic water supply, residents confirmed they got water on time in the morning. The Hyderabad Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) clarified the reasons for the disruptions. It said that Devinagar area was provided with normal water supply up to May 20. However, the HMWS&SB in order to provide efficient water supply to some areas — Vivekanandapuram, Defence Colony, Officer’s Colony, totalling 12 colonies -- took up junction works at several places on the outlet line of Defence Colony Elevated Level Surface Reservoir (ELSR) and Sainikpuri ELSR. This work was completed on May 25. As a result, there were disruptions in water supply to some of the colonies. The board said normal water supply would be restored to Vivekanandapuram and adjoining areas on Wednesday and Devinagar started receiving normal supply on May 25. In order to address the complaints in Devinagar and adjoining areas, additional quantity of 4MLD is being provided to Defence Colony Master Balancing Reservoir, the board added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/malkajgiri-residents-get-water-on-time-after-toi-report/articleshow/76049434.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Class XII answer paper evaluation begins in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The Class XII board exam answer script evaluation process began at 11 centres in the district on Wednesday. Chief examiners and scrutiny officers visited the evaluation centres on Wednesday and assessed the arrangements. A total of 2,250 assistant examiners would evaluate the answer scripts for 10 days from Thursday. A total of 11 evaluation centres — five in Coimbatore, two in SS Kulam and four in Pollachi — have been set up for the purpose. School education department officials said arrangements have been made to ensure personal distancing and hygiene at all exam centres. On Wednesday, teachers were allowed into the centres only after preliminary thermal screening and after sanitising their hands. They were also asked to wear masks. Coimbatore chief education officer (CEO) P Usha said around 3,000 teachers have been roped in for the evaluation camps. “They have been divided into teams of eight, to ensure proper personal distancing in rooms. We sanitised the school premises in the morning and we would also do the same in the evening after the day’s session,” she said. In order to facilitate transport for teachers to evaluation centres in the district, 74 buses would be operated on 44 routes and a total of 74 organisers have been appointed to coordinate with teachers in each of the 74 buses. Teachers involved in the evaluation camp said on Wednesday that chief examiners (CEs) and scrutiny officers (SOs) have started evaluating the papers. On Thursday assistant examiners (AEs) would start evaluating the papers. A teacher said on Wednesday, when they entered the evaluation centre they were given hand sanitisers and face masks. “There were markings to ensure 1m distance while entering. Inside classrooms one teacher has been allotted one bench,” the teacher said. “On Wednesday morning there was a discussion on the answer keys. CEs and SOs were given 12 answer scripts each. They evaluated them and exchanged and verified it. From Thursday onwards, AEs would evaluate the papers and it would be verified by CEs and SOs,” the teacher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-xii-answer-paper-evaluation-begins-in-dist/articleshow/76049418.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Meerut||As migrant labourers return home, 4,200 apply for ration cards in Bijnor||BIJNOR: As migrant labourers return home, nearly 4,200 people have applied for ration card in Bijnor in this month. Having lost their jobs and staring at a bleak future, their only hope now is free ration provided by the government. The food supply department has issued 200 temporary cards -- valid for three months -- recently, and the verification process for the remaining is on, said sources. In a bid to provide free ration to all migrant labourers, the state government has also started an initiative to make temporary ration cards so these section of people could avail of free ration under the National Food Security Act. District supply officer Manish Kumar said, "The state government wants to provide free ration to all migrant labourers under the National Food Security Act. For this, we are getting additional 10% ration. We have a capacity to handle over 40,000 additional ration cards. Around 4,200 people have applied for ration cards recently, and the verification procedure is on." Ration, including 5 kg foodgrains per person and 1 kg pulses per household, is provided free of cost to each migrant family at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-migrant-labourers-return-home-4200-apply-for-ration-cards-in-bijnor/articleshow/76048201.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown violation: Rs 53,000 fine collected in four days||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has collected fine of Rs 53,000 from people for violating social distancing rules and not wearing masks in public places in the last four days. JMC, along with police, has been entrusted with the responsibility of penalising people for violating modified lockdown rules. People fined for not wearing masks include shopkeepers, commuters etc. Enforcement officer Rakesh Yadav said, “Our teams make round of the city to enforce lockdown rules and fine people for violating norms. Fines have been collected from May 23-26. Due to some technical reasons, we are not been able to collect fine on Wednesday. However, we have been assured that those issues will be resolved soon.” According to guidelines of the state government, Rs 200 will be charged from persons for not wearing masks, any shopkeepers allowing people without masks in their shops will be fined Rs 500 and people not following social distancing will be fined Rs 100. Those found violating 14-day quarantine rule will be fined Rs 1,000. Any person refusing to pay the fine will be dealt with as per municipality rules under which property or items can be impounded. Zonal deputy commissioners, revenue officers, revenue commissioners and health officers will be entrusted with the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-violation-rs-53k-fine-collected-in-four-days/articleshow/76049439.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Rlys provides breakfast to travellers of Shramik Spls||Nashik: Nashik Road railway station authorities provided breakfast to over 2,000 migrant workers travelling in two Shramik Special trains from Mumbai to Azamgarh and Banda stations in Uttar Pradesh. The trains took brief halts at the Nashik Road station, where the migrants were given two bananas, a packet each of biscuits and potato wafers along with a bottle of water. According to railway sources, several trains have started departing from Mumbai since last night at regular intervals. “We have received orders from the senior authorities to provide food to the migrant workers travelling by these trains. Apart from Nashik Road, officials of major stations like Manmad and Bhusawal have been instructed to provide food to the migrant workers,” said the sources. Senior officials at these stations would provide food depending on the time when the trains arrive. “We got a feedback that the authorities at the Manmad station provided lunch to migrant workers travelling by these special trains,” said the sources. Railway officials said that Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel helped the staff in distributing the food among the migrant workers by ensuring there were no chaos. Meanwhile, a couple of more Shramik Special trains have been planned from Nashik Road station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rlys-provides-breakfast-to-travellers-of-shramik-spls/articleshow/76046423.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Jharkhand labourer tweets gratitude||RAJKOT: “Bahut Bahut Shukriya Aap Logo Ka. Hamko Ghar Jane Me Aap Logo Ne Bahut Sahyog Diya” — is a simple tweet that speaks volumes about the depth of gratitude that migrants felt after being able to reach their home-towns, safe and sound.Gulam Ansari, a labourer who went home from Morbi, thanked the Morbi district administration for all the help it had offered to ensure migrants reach their natives. He was among the hundreds of labourers who were sent to Jharkhand in the Shramik special trains. Responding to the tweet, Morbi district superintendent of police, Karanraj Vaghela thanked Ansari for his thoughtfulness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jharkhand-labourer-tweets-gratitude/articleshow/76046452.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||JMC to keep issuing digital birth, death certs||JAIPUR: The registrar (births and deaths) has issued a notification to continue with the process of issuing certificates digitally using e-signature. This notification was issued to prevent people from coming to the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) building and violating social distancing. As the lockdown rules have been modified, office of the registrar has now started functioning, but to prevent people from crowding like earlier, authorities are encouraging to go for online registrations. Responding to the order, JMC officials have written to the registrar to direct banks and other government departments to accept digital birth certificates with e-signatures. “Many people have complained that government offices, banks and other agencies are not accepting these certificates. Problem arises because at JMC we issue certificates on coloured paper, while people are taking printouts on plain white paper. Higher authorities should make other government departments aware about these certificates,” said a senior JMC official. Another challenge that JMC officials are facing is registration of marriage certificate. Officials have written to the state registrar to make some arrangement for couples to visit JMC as for marriage registration presence of the couple is necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-keep-issuing-digital-birth-death-certs/articleshow/76049412.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||For the first time, IMA passing out parade to not have parents & kin of cadets due to Covid-19 threat||Dehradun: The forthcoming Passing Out Parade (POP) for the summer batch at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) which is scheduled to be held on June 13 will be a toned-down affair in the wake of the Covid-19 threat, as per officials of the academy. For perhaps the first time ever, parents and relatives of the passing-out batch will not be in attendance to watch the ceremony. This would mean that a major tradition of the POP– the pipping ceremony in which parents and family members of the gentlemen cadets (GCs) formally pin the stars on their uniform marking their transition from cadet to officer – will be sans the GCs’ families. IMA authorities said that the decision was taken to ensure the safety and health of the would-be officers and their family members. Public relations officer (PRO) of IMA, Lt Col Amit Dagar told TOI that as per his knowledge, this would be the first time that parents will not be attending the POP in IMA. “This would be a break from tradition but it is being done to ensure safety of everyone at the academy.” The academy has also requested the media to “give real-time coverage of the event to the rest of the country so that parents of the GCs get to see their brave sons on the most important day of their lives.” Commenting on the number of cadets passing out this year and who would be the reviewing officer of the parade, Lt Col Dagar said that the final list of cadets, which includes those from friendly foreign countries, is being prepared and the details of the reviewing officer would also be shared as soon as the approval for the same arrives. Incidentally, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had also conducted an E-passing out parade on April 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/for-the-first-time-ima-passing-out-parade-to-not-have-parents-kin-of-cadets-due-to-covid-19-threat/articleshow/76046429.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hotel associations seek reopening of eateries||Hyderabad: Hoteliers in the city on Wednesday said that the state government should allow hotels to operate amid the lockdown. Stating that they were unable to make profits even though restrictions have been eased and take away is permitted, they said that the government must allow them to operate. “Many who travel for work don’t have a proper place to stay. I request the government to allow hotels as well as standalone restaurants to open. I also request the government to save the industry by waiving property tax, excise duty and electricity bill,” said Ashok Hemrajani, president, Hotels and Restaurants Association of Telangana State (HRATS). “We are running into losses, take away is allowed but restaurants are not making any profits. I urge the authorities to allow restaurants in the city to open,” said Jagadish Rao, secretary, Telangana Hotels Association (THA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hotel-associations-seek-reopening-of-eateries/articleshow/76049415.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||TPDK protests closing of pipe in Siruvani dam||COIMBATORE: Members of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) staged a protest on Wednesday at the collectorate against the Kerala government for trying to close a pipeline from Siruvani dam that supplies water to Coimbatore and western part of the district. They sought the intervention of the Tamil Nadu government so that drinking water supply to Coimbatore Corporation and many villages in the western part of the district is not affected. However, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board) said that the Kerala government had not closed any pipes that supply water to the city. Some digging work is going on in Siruvani dam to identify leakage in one of the pipes, the department said. “Our water supply will not be affected,” said an executive engineer with the TWAD. The TPDK members submitted a petition to collector K Rajamani. Though the Siruvani dam is in Kerala, the Tamil Nadu government and Coimbatore Corporation have been spending crores of rupees to maintain it every year. “However, the Kerala government recently violated the agreement by closing one of the pipes with concrete,” TPDK general secretary K Ramakrishnan said. “They did this purposely to reduce supply of drinking water to the state during the summer season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tpdk-protests-closing-of-pipe-in-siruvani-dam/articleshow/76049401.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Man stabbed to death in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A 55-year-old KK Pudur resident was murdered by his brother following a property dispute on Wednesday. The accused, Sekar, 53, was staying with his brother Alagu Raja of Anna Nagar, police said. Sekar often engaged in disputes with his brother over property. On Wednesday evening, he grabbed a kitchen knife and fatally stabbed Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-stabbed-to-death/articleshow/76049426.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Flower market to be shifted to school ground||COIMBATORE: The city corporation is planning to shift the flower market on the Mettupalayam Road to the Corporation Boy’s School ground in RS Puram to enforce social distancing measures. The market, which accommodates as many as 180 traders, was closed when the lockdown was imposed in the city to control the spread of Covid-19. Even though the State government relaxed some of the restrictions, it was not allowed to open to ensure that it does not become a hotspot, said a corporation official. The civic body had earlier planned to shift the market to the ground of the Devanga High School, but later dropped the plan. The corporation, which was planning to establish a hockey stadium at the Corporation Boy’s School ground under the smart cities mission, dropped the project last year. The traders will have to set up temporary shelters on the ground on their own, the official said. But the traders are not excited about the idea. Trustee of the Kovai District Flower Merchant Association K K Ayyappan said there are a lot of disadvantages in shifting the market. “There is no direct public transportation to the school. Flowers will wither as they might get exposed to the sun. At a time when our business is dull, this might further affect us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flower-mkt-to-be-shifted-to-school-ground/articleshow/76049443.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 28, 2020||Mysuru||Tiger which killed villager in Nagarahole trapped||Mysuru: The tiger which had mauled a villager to death at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve was trapped by foresters and shifted to Bannerghatta National Park in Bengaluru. Given that the tiger is past its prime, it was shifted to Bannerghatta where some of the big cats which have strayed out of the woods or are injured are housed. The 12-year-old tiger fell into a trap cage around 9pm on Tuesday. Foresters had kept the trap near the spot where they had found the body of Neralakuppe B Haadi villager Jagadish, 65. Jagadish had entered the forest to graze cattle on Monday when he was killed by the tiger. During the search operation using camp elephants on Tuesday, the foresters found the victim’s head and hands near Handhihalla area while the rest of the body parts were eaten by the tiger. Later, two trap cages were laid to capture the big cat. During the medical checkup, the wildlife veterinarian found injury marks on the tiger’s foreleg and face. Foresters suspect the old tiger would have sustained the injuries during a territorial fight with another dominant male tiger. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director D Mahesh Kumar said the tiger was sighted prowling in the forest fringes areas from 2018. “The tiger had killed cattle in fringe villages. We were constantly monitoring its movement and had also warned the villagers not to venture near the forest area or take cattle for grazing,” he said. Mahesh said they had contacted Mysuru Zoo authorities to shift the captured tiger to Chamundi Animal Conservation, Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at Koorgalli. “But as the centre is fully occupied with rescued animals and we had to shift it to Bannerghatta,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tiger-which-killed-villager-in-nagarahole-trapped/articleshow/76048875.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Govt awards Rs 200-crore MLA flat project to housing board||JAIPUR: Construction of flats for MLAs is now being handed over to the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB). The announcement was made by urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal during the stone laying ceremony for two schemes — Mukhyamantri Shikshak and Prahri Awas Yojana — on Wednesday. Earlier, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) was appointed as the nodal agency for construction of these houses. Dhariwal said, “Looking at the performance, chief minister has decided that work to construct MLA flats should be transferred to the RHB. The Rs 200-crore project will be completed within two and half years.” As per the proposal, the state government will constuct flats for MLAs at Jyoti Nagar, Lal Koti and Jalupura. “The JDA will cooperate and transfer the title of land to RHB, in order to achieve the task,” the minister said. On Thursday, the minister also launched two schemes, where a total of 576 flats will be developed. To compete with private builders in terms of facilities and infrastructure, the RHB for the first time proposed to develop swimming pool, gym and cycle track, basketball and baseball courts for the residents. RHB commissioner Pawan Arora said, “These will be RHB’s first ever schemes to have swimming pools and other infrastructure. The board will develop 576 flats of 2 BHK in these schemes, which are christened ‘Mukhyamantri Shikshak and Prahri Awas Yojana.” “The chief minister has also sent a letter of appreciation to RHB team for carrying out work during the lockdown to launch these schemes,” he added. In Sector 26, the board earmarked 20,925 square metre area to develop the condominiums. The built up area of the flat will be 706sqft, while super-built up area will be 900sqft. An official said, “The price of the flat is Rs 15.70 lakh. The board has received over 700 applications for the two schemes during the lockdown imposed to combat Covid-19.” Officials claimed, making optimum utilisation of the lockdown, the board completed the tender process and work orders were issued to the contractor. Sources said the new projects would revive the RHB, which had no projects in its kitty in last government’s tenure. Official said, “Unlike past projects, these houses are constructed on an economical cost on a prime location of the city. Moreover, RHB has updated itself to compete with private developers. Despite lockdown, applicants have shown tremendous response and deposited 10% of the money of the flat amount and registered themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-awards-rs-200-crore-mla-flat-project-to-housing-board/articleshow/76049465.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Accountant’s body found by roadside near Bagru||JAIPUR: An accountant’s body was found dumped on the roadside under Bagru police station area on Tuesday night. The deceased had multiple injuries on upper part of his body. Police are yet to determine if it is a case of murder or accident. The victim had left his house on Tuesday morning but was reported missing by his wife. The deceased was identified as 35-year-old Suresh Sharma. “The victim’s body was found on the side of the road and it is unclear if it was a case of accident or murder. Prima facie it appears that the victim died due to the injuries on his body but at this stage it is too early to say anything as the post-mortem report is awaited,” said Bagru SHO Brij Bhushan said. The victim worked as an accountant in a factory in Bagru and cops said Suresh’s family believes it was murder. The official added, ‘When he did not return home, Suresh’s wife called police station and looking at the nature of the injuries, family claimed he had been murdered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accountants-body-found-by-roadside-near-bagru/articleshow/76049497.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Release Asha workers’ wages for April, May: HC to NMC||Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of thousands of Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers, working fearlessly as Covid-19 Warriors, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court sternly directed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to release their salaries for two months of April and May by June first week. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar also directed Maharashtra government and NMC to inform it about policy for distributing wages to Asha workers and make their payments accordingly. The directives came while hearing an intervention application filed by NMC workers’ union member Jammu Anand through counsel Ravi Sanyal highlighting Asha workers plight and how they’re surviving on extremely meagre salaries. They’re also told to conduct door-to-door survey in containment areas without personal protection equipment and refreshments. Earlier, Sanyal contended that Asha workers’ salaries were not released since January and they were paid a meagre Rs2,500 per month, which is less than Rs100 per day. TOI had also highlighted their plight on April 20, and the report was cited by Sanyal during his pleadings. Countering him, NMC lawyer Sudhir Puranik argued that they’re appointed on voluntary basis and are engaged in 59 types of works. They’re paid incentive as per their works and their salaries till March have been released. He claimed that each of them is now being offered Rs7,500 per month on an average for various works they’re doing, as per the policy of more work more pay. In the last hearing, the HC censured NMC for treating Asha workers in most “unfortunate manner”. “These workers, who’re performing special duties, including door-to-door survey of houses during such crisis, are being treated in the most unfortunate manner by the corporation. Even if Rs2,500/month is being paid to them, it’s hardly sufficient for their survival. It’s distressing that they’re meted out such treatment by the public authorities,” the HC tersely stated. While directing the centre to increase their remuneration, the court warned that it will pass orders to pay Rs1,000 per month and Rs200 per day to these aggrieved workers in case of failure to abide by its directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/release-asha-workers-wages-for-april-may-hc-to-nmc/articleshow/76049472.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 28, 2020||Pune||District admin races to get more oxygen supply beds in hospitals for long haul||PUNE: A leading government hospital in the city is struggling to get its oxygen supply pipeline repaired. The hospital’s system was in place in 2010 for swine flu patients. It has 17 wards and 350 beds, buts can facilitate oxygen supply for a little more than two weeks for just two wards. If supply is restored, 750 beds would have oxygen supply, essential when Covid-19 patients are admitted with low saturation. This multi-specialty government hospital may not be the only one with such issues. Patients have been turned away from such hospitals for lack of oxygen supply bedsThe district has readied 18,000 beds but the number of oxygen supply beds and critical beds may not be enough, health officials told TOI. Private hospitals have been told to ramp up their oxygen supply. “The oxygen beds have to increase as in the coming two months the cases are expected to surge,” health experts said. “Oxygen supply beds should increase as any Covid-19 positive patient should be continuously checked for low saturation and provided oxygen,” district health officials said. District collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI that the civic bodies are ensuring that hospitals increase their beds with oxygen supply. In the rural areas, such facilities are being readied for 18 hospitals and jumbo cylinders and pipelines will be in place in two weeks. “We have cases increasing in the city and we have to ensure that those in the rural areas do not have to be rushed to the city for lack of oxygen supply. We are talking to providers. We will ensure that there is no shortage in the rural areas,” Ram added. Activist Vijay Kumbhar wrote to Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad about oxygen supply for all multispecialty hospitals and citizens made to run around for beds. “Huge budgetary allocations are done for such government hospitals and when the time comes, half the equipment is not functioning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dist-admin-races-to-get-more-oxygen-supply-beds-in-hospitals-for-long-haul/articleshow/76050701.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||4 minor boys held for stealing laptops||COIMBATORE: The district police on Wednesday arrested four minor boys, including three school students, for stealing nine laptop computers from the government higher secondary school in Valparai. The stolen laptops were scheduled to be distributed to Class XI and XII students under the state government’s free laptop scheme, a police official said. The boys were arrested based on a complaint from the school head master G Sivanraj. The school had received orders in May 2019 to distribute 731 laptops to its higher secondary students. The school management had distributed 665 laptops and the remaining 66 computers were placed safely in the store room of the school. “The store room was sealed on March 24, before the lockdown was imposed in the state,” said an official. On Monday, the school head master received a phone call from one of his staff, who said he had seen two boys loitering near the store room. The head master and a few teachers rushed to the spot and found that nine laptops were missing, the official said. A preliminary inquiry revealed that three school students – two from Class X and one from Class XII – along with a boy from their neighborhood, had stolen the laptops after breaking open the window of the store room. “After the lockdown was imposed, the boys asked their parents to buy them laptops to study, a request which their parents refused. The boys then stole nine laptops and sold four of them for money. They confessed this during an enquiry,” he explained. Police officials recovered five laptops from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-minor-boys-held-for-stealing-laptops/articleshow/76049480.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||One more dies before reaching hospital in city, test positive for Covid-19 after death||JAIPUR: Sudden death of a 35-year-old woman who was brought dead to Sawai Man Singh hospital suspected to have died of hypoxia. The woman was brought to SMS hospital on Tuesday but before she could reach the hospital she died. She was resident of Jagannath Shah Ka Rasta in Kishanpole Bazaar, one of the worst affected areas of the Walled City. She was declared Covid-19 positive after her samples were found infected with the virus on Wednesday. Her samples were taken after her death. “The cause of sudden death could be many and one of those is hypoxia in Covid-19 patients. The woman brought to the hospital was a case of sudden death,” said a SMS hospital administration official, while reacting on the death of the woman. However, since no diagnostic test was done, the cause of death is still inconclusive. However, the SMS hospital doctors are not ruling out the possibility of hypoxia, which is one of the major complication in Covid-19 patients. It is not the first time such an incident has happened. A 25-year-old youth, who was brought dead to Bangur hospital in Pali on May 10 had died suddenly without getting any medical attention. Dr HM Chaudhary of district hospital, Pali had suspected it as a case of happy hypoxia saying that in such a condition, a patient does not realize that he is sick and he dies due to low level of oxygen in blood causing hypoxia. In such a case of sudden death, a 24-year-old man, resident of Bhatta Basti was brought dead to Kanwatia hospital, which is hardly 10minutes away from his residence. He too, was tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. A 17-year-old girl was brought dead at JLN hospital from a hotel at Delhi Gate, which is hardly 10 minutes away from her hotel, where she was residing recently. BOX: Happy hypoxia is a state where body’s oxygen concentration gets lower (to about 60%) in a patient infected with Covid-19 virus but not so low that patients feel uncomfortable. They can behave normally till they deteriorate rapidly and collapse. The rapid deterioration and collapse has been one of the reasons Covid-19 has emerged as a major killer. What government is doing to check happy hypoxia: The health department teams are visiting Covid-19 hotspots and checking blood oxygen levels with oximeters to detect the cases early to prevent mortalities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-more-dies-before-reaching-hospital-in-city-test-positive-for-covid-19-after-death/articleshow/76049494.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 28, 2020||Nashik||4 killed in three road accidents||Nashik: Four people, including two teenagers and a senior citizen, were killed in three road accidents in rural parts of Nashik district on Tuesday. According to police, two 18-year-old boys were killed when their scooter was hit by an unidentified vehicle in Savargaon village of Yeola. The deceased were identified as Siddharth Pagare of Nandgaon and Praniket Ubale of Yeolaescaped from the scene without informing anyone about the accident. A 70-year-old woman ,Kalyabai Karbhari Wagh, when the car she was travelling in hit a road divider in Pimpalgaon. The driver, Vyankatesh Pagare of Cidco, has been booked for rash and negligent. In yet another accident, a 55-year-old bicycle rider, Nandu Damale, of Bhatwadi in Sinnar taluka, died when hot asphalt in a truck-tanker fell on him on the Ghoti-Sinnar Road in the afternoon. The tanker skidded off the road and fell. Damle who was right in front of the tanker fell into a nullah along the road. The lid of the tanker opened and the asphalt fell on him, following which he died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-killed-in-three-road-accidents/articleshow/76046462.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 1,000 crore Kokapet land belongs to HMDA: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Justice A Rajasheker Reddy of the Telangana high court dismissed the claims of AB Mistry & Company and five individuals over 45 acres of prime land at Kokapet and ruled that the land parcel belongs to HMDA. The market value of the land is more than Rs 1,000 crore. The judge also slapped costs of Rs 1 lakh on the petitioners and directed them to pay the amount to Telangana State Legal Services Authority. The judgement will pave the way for HMDA to go ahead with developmental plans in Kokapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1k-cr-kokapet-land-belongs-to-hmda-hc/articleshow/76049486.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 28, 2020||Vadodara||18 Covid-19 cases in single day in Mahisagar||VADODARA: With 18 persons testing positive for Covid-19 on a single day, panic triggers were pressed in the Mahisagar district. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 112. The cases reported on Wednesday include three each from Lunawada, Santrampur, Khanpur and Virpur talukas as well as six from Balashinor taluka. What has raised eyebrows is the fact that some of these cases have been reported from remote villages. Only one of the cases reported on Wednesday had a travel history. The man had returned from Kuwait and was quarantined. Mahisagar has witnessed a steady rise in Covid-19 infections. Most cases so far were of persons who had travel history to Covid-19 affected places or of health workers as well as policemen on duty in the district. Officials said that the only possibility of people from interior villages getting infected was that they may have contacted the disease while visiting a shop to buy necessities or at places like milk cooperatives where many villagers go to pour milk. Mahisagar district health officer Dr S B Shah said that the 18 new cases were from the tests of 101 persons. He added that officials were visiting the residences of all the positive cases to gather details. Sources said that so far two persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 had died in the district. One of these deaths is, however, yet too be declared officially as a death audit was being conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/18-cases-in-single-day-in-mahisagar/articleshow/76044740.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists write to CS, seek help for migrants||Hyderabad: Raising the issue of stranded migrants on the Medchal highway, activists on Wednesday wrote to chief secretary Somesh Kumar seeking immediate intervention. The letter written on behalf of the COVID Advocacy Lockdown Collective by A Suneetha, Sarath Davala, C Vanaja, Sujatha Surepally and K Sajaya, said there was an urgent need to address the shelter, food, toilet and travel needs of hundreds of workers who have been gathering on the highway. To address the migrant crisis, the letter suggested that staff at the local police station needs to be bolstered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-write-to-cs-seek-help-for-migrants/articleshow/76049502.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Man kills son, surrenders before police||KOLHAPUR: A 60-year-old man murdered his son by smashing his head with a stone after he came home in an inebriated condition and started quarrelling in Shirala of Sangli district on Tuesday. The suspect, Bhagwan Jagnnath Dange, surrendered before the police and claimed that his son was an alcoholic and always created problems and quarrelled with the family members, due to which he had attacked him. The suspect — Bhagwan Jagnnath Dange — told police that he hit his son Gajanan with a stone. Gajanan sustained serious injuries to the head and later succumbed. The suspect told police that his son was married and that his daughter-in-law was not at home at the time of the incident. According to a police officer, Gajanan came home in an inebriated state and picked a fight with his parents and also attacked them. The old couple tried to pacify him, but in vain. In the heat of the moment, Dange picked up a stone and hit his son on the head, leading to serious injuries and eventually death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-kills-son-surrenders-before-police/articleshow/76046463.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||IAF chief calls for big push to indigenous defence production||COIMBATORE: Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshall R K S Bhadauria called upon the defence manufacturing industry to grab the opportunity presented by the current situaion and work together with IAF to “change the face of Indian defence industry”. Operationalizing No 18 Squadron of the Air Force, equipped with indigenously made final operations clearance (FOC) version of light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas Mk1 at Sulur in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, Bhadauria urged the defence industry to synergize with other stakeholders to design and develop aviation systems suitable for air force. Addressing members of the squadron, delegates from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and Aeronautics Development Agency after the official ceremony, Bhaduaria said a lot of work was happening in IAF in order to fine tune its capabilities. This fine tuning on technology and capability fronts was being done as far as possible within the country. “Only when it is absolutely essential, we seek capability outside,’’ he said, underlining the significant role the defence industry could play in the current phase to cater to the needs of the IAF to design and develop suitable indigineous defence systems. “So much is possible within the country,’’ he said. Noting that IAF was close to signing the contract for 83 Tejas Mk 1A fighter crafts with HAL, he said the mission and requirement of IAF for the next two to three decades was to seek indigenously made systems, from Tejas Mk 2 crafts, radars and technologies among other things. Bhadauria stressed more than once on the need for synergy and working together by defence design, development, production sectors with the Air Force. “We should be able to grab this opportunity and change the face of defence industry in the country in the next 10 to 20 years. If you do not act now , you will lose time and opportunity,’’ he said. Bhadauria noted that in trying to change the face of the defence industry, budget will be an issue, but budget constraints should not become an excuse for the industry to not take off.  Earlier, Bhadauria said the operationalization of No 18 squadron was a moment of pride for Sulur Air Force Station, the Air Force and the defence manufacturing industry. With the operationalisation of “Flying Bullets” and induction of Tejas, Sulur now has two squadrons equipped with Tejas. “Flying Daggers”, the No 45 squadron operationalised at Sulur in 2018, was the first to induct Tejas, but an initial operational clearance (IOC) version. The current version inducted into No 18 squadron is an improvised one, after incorporating the feedback given by airforce pilots. HAL chief managing director R Madhavan, Girish S Dheodhare, Director of ADA, and Air Marshal Amit Tewari, Air officer commanding-in-chief of Southern Air Command were present. The famed No. 18 Squadron which participated in 1971 Indo – Pakistan war was formed 1965 but was decommissioned in 2016 and has been resurrected now at Sulur. “As time goes on, No 18 and No 45 sqaudraons will become the core of our growth in terms of combat capabilities,’’ Bhaduaria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/iaf-chief-calls-for-big-push-to-indigenous-defence-production/articleshow/76049514.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||In a first, drone used to clear locusts in Chomu||JAIPUR: In a first, the state agriculture department is using a drone to clear locusts in the state. The first batch of tailor-made drones given by the Union ministry of agriculture was handed over to the state agriculture department on Tuesday. Its operation started on Wednesday morning at Samod village in Chomu tehsil of Jaipur to clear a big swarm of locusts which arrived in the area a day ago. These are designed to spray 10-litre of chemicals, along with creating a sound that would disperse the locusts into different areas. “It has successfully contained the movement of locusts in an open area and on the foothills where it was not possible for the usual tractors to make it reach. A detailed assessment of its impact is being studied by the field officers,” said Om Prakash, commissioner, state agriculture department. An official at the agriculture department says that they are soon rolling a tender for engaging 30 drones for the said purpose. The spray tank attached with a drone is exhausted within 10 minutes of its flight. Thereafter, it gets refilled by the handler through a tractor or a gipsy. It is a cost-effective measure for the state agriculture department and the Locust Warning Organization (LWO). “The biggest advantage of the drone is that it can fly above the flying zone of the locusts giving the flexibility to the officials to carry out combat operation while they are flying. Earlier, the operations were restricted to when they resting on a tree or on a crop,” said Prakash. Their demand for drones is in the hundreds but due to the lockdown, it is not being made available by the state. “In fact, the state is running short of drones as they are being used in surveillance of areas under the curfew of the local administrations,” said an official. Meanwhile, the agriculture department has demanded personal protection equipment’s (PPE) For their field officers as they have to run from one place to another following the movement of locust. “The locust doesn’t discriminate between red and green zones as per the Covid-19 cases in a particular area. The PPE kits will be given peace of mind to the field officers,” said an agriculture official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-first-drone-used-to-clear-locusts-in-chomu/articleshow/76049524.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Massive dip in swine flu, dengue cases||Nagpur: In some good news amid the corona gloom, the city has recorded a sharp dip in incidence of two deadly diseases — swine flu (H1N1), which is a contagious disease like Covid-19, and vector-borne dengue, caused by Aedes aegypti mosquito. Between January and May this year, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) recorded only two positive cases of H1N1 while just 12 dengue patients were reported despite intermittent rains lashing the city leading to possible accumulation of water at several places. The city had recorded 227 swine flu cases and 15 dengue patients during the corresponding period last year. Of the 242 swine flu cases reported last year, maximum numbers came in the first four months, including 22 deaths. Twenty people had succumbed to the influenza between January and April, while two had died in August last year. As per data, out of the 627 dengue patients, only two had succumbed last year. Over 2,000 serum samples were tested at the viral research and diagnostic laboratory at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) last year. In stark contrast, only 106 samples have been tested so far. The decline in H1N1 trend has baffled NMC health officials, especially because the contagious disease spreads from person-to-person contact and can spread through air by droplets produced by sneezing, coughing or even with saliva or mucus secretions. NMC officials say the data of last decade points that the number of cases spike after a lull in a year during which no case is reported. “This has remained unexplained. Yet, the measures are in place in case infection spreads,” they said. NMC’s malaria and filaria officer Deepali Nasare said citizens can prevent dengue outbreak by destroying source of water holdings. “The eggs are there in dry state and hatch when they come in contact with water. Hence, it is the responsibility of every citizen to ensure water doesn’t get accumulated in scrapped items at homes and in our surroundings. If such material is lying at home, people can hand it over to NMC garbage collection vans,” said Nasare. She added that 50 serum samples have been sent for IGGMCH VRDL for testing and results are awaited. “People are avoiding consultation with doctor because of Covid fear. But one must not avoid visiting doctor if telltale signs like unusual fever, bodyache, joint paint, retro orbital pain are experienced,” she said. VIRALITY TRANSFERRED Swine flu *Jan to May 2020 Month ------------- positive Jan ---------------- 1 Feb ---------------- 0 Mar ---------------- 0 April ---------------- 1 May ----------------0 Total ---------------- 2 *2019 Jan ---------------- 44 Feb ---------------- 84 Mar ---------------- 79 April ---------------- 18 May ----------------2 Total ---------------- 227 *2019 Jan to Dec | 242 Deaths | 22 *Dengue 2020 Jan to May Suspected | 106 Positive | 12 Jan to May 2019 Suspected | NA Positive | 15 * 2019 Jan to Dec Suspected | 2,356 Positive | 627||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/massive-dip-in-swine-flu-dengue-cases/articleshow/76049546.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Married woman commits suicide||JAIPUR: A woman, who had gone missing on May 24, was found dead in Galtagate police station area on Wednesday morning. Her body was found hanging from a tree and the police suspect that she committed suicide due to marital discord. The woman had been married for 15 years. The woman was identified as 34-year-old Mamta Meena. Dharamveer Singh, SHO, Galtagate police station, said, “It appears to be a case of suicide and we had received the missing person report on May 25 after she went out of the house a day before without informing anyone.” According to officials, the couple was having marital issues for quite some time and also had a 12-year-old son. “On May 24, the husband called his wife’s mother to their house so that she could help in sorting out their issues. After Mamta’s mother left, she also left the house without telling anyone. On that day the family thought she would return on her own and did not inform us. When she did not return the next day as well, her husband lodged a missing person report with us and we started looking for her,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/married-woman-commits-suicide/articleshow/76049510.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens rush for homeopathy drug to boost immunity against coronavirus||PUNE: Arsenic Album-30 is flying off pharmacy shelves with citizens hoping that the homeopathy drug will boost their immunity against coronavirus. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has included the medicine in the kits distributed in the containment areas. Several citizens’ groups are also distributing it among frontline workers and people. “After my doctor prescribed the drug. I came to the shop to buy the medicin,” Deccan resident Chandrakant Bishnoi said. Housing societies are also distributing the medicine among members residents. Citizens’ group Divine Jain Group has so far distributed the medicine among 1 lakh people in the city and nearby villages. “Apart from residential societies, we have given the medicine to the police and employees of the Pune and Pimpri Chnchwad civic bodies. We bought the medicine with donation amounts and are working under the charity commissioner’s guidance,” said Sanket Shah of the group. The Karhade Brahmin Sanghatana has distributed close to 1,500 bottles of the drug among policemen. Homeopath Apoorva Deshpande said, “Arsenic Album-30 leads to greater absorption of Vitamin C and boosts immunity. But people should consultdoctors before taking it.” Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, President Avinash Bhondwe said Arsenic Album-30 was not even considered by many homeopathy doctors to treat Covid-19.“There is no study to prove that the drug helps a person prevent getting infected by Covid-19. The AYUSH ministry had stated in a notification that no medicine should be promoted stating it will treat Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-rush-for-homeopathy-drug-to-boost-immunity-against-coronavirus/articleshow/76050703.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 28, 2020||Udaipur||Chital & sambar are back in Jaisamand sanctuary||UDAIPUR: Situated some 50 km away from here, the Jaisamand Wildlife Sanctuary (JWS) has finally got back its two exterminated species — chital (spotted deer) and sambar. For the first time in Rajasthan, the forest department had tried reintroduction of these hooved population. While chital were reintroduced six years ago, it has been an year of the reintroduction of sambar. Forest officials are excited to get their count as the waterhole census for 2020 is scheduled for June 5, which would provide an accurate status of sambar population. Interestingly, the Delhi Golf Club was concerned with the growing numbers of sambar there and wanted to send some of them to other parks. JWS, which is spread over an area of 50-sq km, was the games reserve of the erstwhile rulers of Mewar State. The annual tiger shooting by Maharana of Mewar began from the reserve which was rich in wildlife and had tigers, panthers, hyenas, wolves, jackals, jungle cats, wild boars, chinkaras, sambars, spotted deer and other animals. However, post-Independence, the rich wildlife of this reserve saw an alarming decline with top predator, the tiger, getting exterminated from this area and over a period the hooved population too reduced. “Two herbivore species namely chital and sambar, which got exterminated from this protected area, were shortlisted for species recovery plan. Surplus animals from various zoos and Delhi Golf Club were transported following Central Zoo Authority directions and guidelines. The animals had to be kept in quarantine for 21 days before releasing them in the wild,” Rahul Bhatnagar, ex-chief conservator of forest (wildlife) told TOI. Relocation and rehabilitation enclosures were created at Dimda Bagh in the sanctuary to house the translocated animals for 21 days. To protect the zoo animals from leopards and panthers, proofing was done in this centre. Waterholes were created for the deer and wallowing area was created inside the relocation centre for sambars. Before shifting the animals, green fodder was also grown in patches. Chitals were picked from Shikarbadi Mini Zoo in Udaipur in 2014 after the Central Zoo Authority ordered its closure and JWS was first choice for translocation of the animals. In all, 18 spotted deer including 10 males were captured and released in Jaisamand after their quarantine period was completed. The zoo bred animals had been accustomed to the new environment and natural alarm calls. Herd behaviour also developed in the shifted animals. “The waterhole census carried out by the department from 2010 to 2014 showed no presence of spotted deer whereas the census figures for 2018 and 2019 showed the presence of 32 spotted deer in the sanctuary. The reintroduction of deers paved way for the recovery of sambar. The annual waterhole census data since 2009 showed no presence of sambars in the sanctuary. The same protocol, procedure and sanctions were adopted and a total of 23 sambars (8 males, 15 females) were brought in three batches from the Delhi Golf Course, nearly 700 km away, to Dimda Bagh, the relocation centre,” Bhatnagar informed. According to reports from the range forest officer of the sanctuary, two herds of 15- 16 sambars with two newborns are sighted regularly in the wild. As per the 2019 waterhole census, 13 panthers were reported in the sanctuary. This indicates that sambars have acclimatised themselves well in the new surroundings and thus the reintroduction has been successful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/chital-sambar-are-back-in-jaisamand-sanctuary/articleshow/76049508.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||2 men arrested for stealing vehicles||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police arrested two men on Wednesday for stealing the motor vehicles parked on the premises of the government hospital in the city. Police identified them as Bharathiraja, 27, a resident of Dindigul and Aravind, 29, of Pudukkottai. Police officers patrolling near the hospital premises had noticed the duo roaming aimlessly. As they gave contradictory answers, the men were brought in for inquiry, during which it was revealed that they had been stealing the vehicles parked on the hospital premises. Based on the confession, the Tirupur south police recovered two vehicles worth lakhs of rupees from them. A theft case was booked against them. They were produced before the judicial magistrate and lodged in the Coimbatore prison. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-arrested-for-stealing-vehicles/articleshow/76049491.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Private schools demanding fees ignoring government order, say parents||COIMBATORE: Private schools in the district are demanding term fees despite the government order barring it during the lockdown, parents say. A parent, whose ward studies in an ‘international school’ at Thoppampatti Pirivu, said he got a call from the school on Tuesday asking him to collect textbooks for the coming academic year. “When I asked them whether it was only about getting books, they said only if we pay the term fee of Rs 50,000, we would be given the books,” he told TOI. “I run a small business. Amid the lockdown, I had no income and had to take care of other expenses such as salaries. How can I pay the fee?” A Thondamuthur resident, whose kid studies in a matriculation school at Kalikkanaickenpalayam, said the school sent a message asking him to get books and uniform. “When I went to the school and bought them, they asked me to pay the term fees next month,” he said. A school on the Avinashi Road hiked the fee and asked them to pay it within May 31, parents said. Private school representatives said while they understood that some parents would not be able to pay fee due to financial constraints, those who can, should pay up and help schools pay salaries to teachers. R Visalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association, conceded that private schools could wait for some time before demanding fee. “But affluent parents can pay fee. Schools depend on it,” she said. Meanwhile, school education department officials said they have been acting on the complaints. Director of matriculation schools A Karuppasamy said they have taken action against private schools through the chief education officials. “We will act on violations based on complaints,” he said. Dheeraj Kumar, principal secretary to the department of school education, said the State has given a written order that private schools should not to compel parents to pay fee. “No school should force parents for fee. Those who wish to file a complaint can contact chief education officers,” he said. Coimbatore chief education officer P Usha said the officials are following the complaints and are maintaining a record. Parents can send complaints to ceo_cbe@yahoo.co.in and ceocbe@nic.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/private-schools-demanding-fees-ignoring-govt-order-say-parents/articleshow/76049539.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||SVPNPA puts in place new Covid-19 norms||HYDERABAD: With Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) all set to resume training on its premises at Shivrampalli, the Academy administrators have decided to classify 137 soon to return IPS probationers into three groups — red, orange and green — as part of its precautions to avoid spread of Covid-19. Also, on the 250-acre campus, there will be no group activities, including interaction, dinning and social meetings. The 2018-batch probationary IPS officers, who have already completed district practical training (DPT), are expected to return from different parts of the country to NPA by June 7, while the 2019-batch 150 probationers, who are at the academy and would take their last exam on June 5, would leave for DPT. Interestingly, the 137 probationers of the 2018 batch, who were part of the frontline warriors during the Covid-19 in the last two months while undergoing DPT, would be sharing their on-field experiences to the 2019 batch probationers during their upcoming e-classes. “We will categorise the cadets into three different groups (red, orange and green) based on factors like the zone from where the cadet returned, what duties he/she performed, health condition, mode of travel and who they contacted and others. Depending on the group, their accommodation will be provided accordingly ,’’ SVPNPA director Atul Karwal told TOI. After they return, the 2018 batch cadets would be under quarantine for 10 days, NPA officials said. Later, they would be allowed to take up training. As of now, no decision has been taken on aspects like arms training since||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/npa-puts-in-place-new-covid-norms/articleshow/76049515.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||NU to wait for govt directives on exams||Nagpur: The Nagpur University on Wednesday conducted an online meeting of the Academic Council for the first time. The issue examinations was discussed. About 50 members, including vice chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar, newly appointed pro-VC (officiating) Subhash Chaudhari, registrar Neeraj Khaty, Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable and other senior office-bearers from NU participated in the meeting along with the members from their respective offices/homes. It was unanimously decided not to take any major decision till the state government comes out with concrete directives. Earlier, the government directed all universities to conduct only final year/semester examinations and promote other students on the basis of previous performance and internal assessment. The confusion was created after state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant wrote to UGC on allowing the government to skip even the final year/semester exams in view of huge spike in Covid-19 cases across the state. “As the government would be reviewing the situation on June 20 and taking a final decision on conducting exams, it was decided to wait for its directives. Many members came out with suggestions on conducting the exams and several doubts were also cleared on the issue,” Sable told TOI. A majority of members were of the opinion that exams should be conducted even if those were delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. “They suggested conducting exams in September or October when the situation would be normalized. We also apprised them that NU is fully ready for exams and could arrange for it within ten days if the government grants it green signal,” the BOEE director said. Senior academician Baban Taywade said the colleges weren’t opposing NU’s decision to ask them to hold the exams. “A majority of colleges have just one regular teacher. How can s/he alone would set a paper of all subjects and also evaluate them. Moreover, there would be no transparency if college teachers are allowed to set question papers and evaluate them,” he asked. Quoting example of IIT Kanpur, which had promoted all students based on previous performance, Taywade said NU could also adopt same methodology by awarding marks on same model to even the final year/semester students. “In present scenario, it would be very difficult to conduct exams of students without maintaining Covid distancing. Those who want to improve their grades can be allowed to appear in class improvement exams later in October-November,” he said. # Suggestions given by AC members: * No major decision till government comes out concrete directive on June 20 * Exams should be conducted even if delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic * NU should set question paper & also evaluate answer books at centralized facility||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-wait-for-govt-directives-on-exams/articleshow/76049537.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Ask varsities to withdraw exam move’||Chandigarh: The Haryana unit of National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Wednesday urged the governor to direct the universities to withdraw the decision of holding final examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate classes from July 1. In a memorandum to governor Satyadeo Narayan Arya, Haryana NSUI president Divyanshu Budhiraja alleged that the state government lacked infrastructure and technical ability to hold online examinations and the use of pen and paper in the examination will put life of students in danger. “We are surprised to hear about the calendar rolled out by the universities. This has come at the time when the entire country is reeling under the threat of coronavirus (Covid-19) and grappling with nationwide lockdown. Despite guidelines given by UGC, students are still in confusion and tensed for their future as the state government has not cleared its stand on their examinations and promotion till now,” he said. Budhiraja gave indications of a stir by students in case universities in Haryana did not withdraw the decision on examination. As of now, Kurukshetra University, Maharishi Dayanand University, Chaudhary Devi Lal University, and other institutions have announced exams from July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ask-varsities-to-withdraw-exam-move/articleshow/76050710.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||‘Action taken against 1,306 for flouting quarantine’||JAIPUR: The state government has so far taken action against 1,306 people for violating quarantine norms. It is compulsory for migrant labourers and others returning to state to be in 14-day quarantine, but many of them breach quarantine rules for which action has been taken against them. Additional chief secretary, public works department Veenu Gupta and head of the state-level quarantine management committee said that at present more than 21,000 people are in institutional quarantine, while more than 4.75 lakh people are in home quarantine. She said people who violate home quarantine are first counselled and then sent to institutional quarantine. Monitoring of people in home quarantine is done through Covid Quarantine Alert System (CQAS) application by department of Information and Technology (DoIT). She said that 1,306 people breached quarantine rules of which 604 people were sent to institutional quarantine from home quarantine, while notice was served or penalty was imposed or lodged FIR against 702 people for violating quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/action-taken-against-1306-for-flouting-quarantine/articleshow/76049521.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Coop society secy held taking Rs 3k bribe in Baran||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested the secretary of a cooperative society at Atru panchayat samiti in Baran after he had allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs 3,000 from a local farmer. The secretary allegedly demanded the bribe for sanctioning crop loan for which the farmer applied in September 2019. ACB Baran arrested Rahul Suman after he allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs 3,000 outside the bank on Wednesday afternoon from farmer Om Prakesh Mehar, a resident of Piplod village, circle in-charge, ACB, Baran, Gyanchand Meena said. Suman will be produced before ACB court in Kota on Thursday, he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coop-society-secy-held-taking-rs-3k-bribe-in-baran/articleshow/76049547.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Varsity launches diploma in German||Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University has started a diploma in German language. From the start of this session, students will be given admission in this course. Vice Chancellor of the university Anula Maurya in a meeting in the university through digital medium announced this step taken by the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/varsity-launches-diploma-in-german/articleshow/76049528.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Homeopathy med endorsed by Ayush sees 400% price rise||Kolhapur: Arsenic album 30 (Ars Alb), a homeopathy drug recommended by the ministry of Ayush as an immunity booster and preventive medicine for Covid-19, is now being sold for Rs 100 per vial. Earlier, a plastic vial containing 100 globules with the dilution of arsenic album used to cost around Rs 20. In the past few days, the price went up to Rs 50 per vial and now it has touched Rs 100. Food and drug administration (FDA) officials said that since there is no price cap on the medicine, they cannot act against those selling at exorbitant prices. They have, however, started visiting the retailers selling arsenic album to collect the samples for testing.  M S Jawanjal Patil, the assistant commissioner of FDA, said, “The prices of this medicine has not been capped by central pricing regulatory authority unlike the prices of masks and sanitisers. So we are focussing on the quality of the arsenic album used to make tinctures or globules.”She added, “We are checking whether the formulations are being made by a competent person in the pharmacy because as per rules, the person should have homeopathy drug licence.”A pharmacist in Rajarampuri, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The homeopathy doctors are prescribing the medicine through social media and during consultations. The medicine can be used in the form of tinctures or globules. We dilute the medicine on lactose sugar globules.”Incidentally, no validation on the effectiveness of the drug to prevent the infection has been given. Modern medicine practitioners have already raised doubts over the claims made by homeopaths over the effectiveness of the drug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/homeopathy-med-endorsed-by-ayush-sees-400-price-rise/articleshow/76046483.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Coimbatore||HAL expects cabinet nod for 83 tejas aircrafts by December||COIMBATORE: Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is expecting a cabinet sanction for 83 indigenous Tejas Mk 1A light combat aircraft by December end. HAL chief managing director R Madhavan, who was in Sulur air force station on Wednesday, said that they were hoping for the cabinet clearance by August, but there was a delay. “We expect the sanction by the third quarter,’’ he told reporters. He said three months have been lost because of the Covid situation. Vendor and supply chains were disrupted and there were raw material issues, he said. A part of the existing order for 40 Tejas flights has been delivered to IAF, while remaining are under various stages of production. “Four more FOC variants are in advanced stages of production and testing and are expected to join the squadron soon,’’ Madhavan said. The FOC variant comes with air-to-air refuelling capability, close combat gun, additional drop tanks, BVR missile capability updated avionics and flight control software. Tejas Mk-1 FOC is a single engine, light weight, highly agile, all weather multi role fighter. “ It is going to add to our fighting capabilities,’’ said Air Marshal Amit Tiwari, Air Officer Commanding in Chief of the Southern Air Command. Once the 40 Tejas Mk 1 flights are handed over, HAL would move to production of Tejas MK 1A. HAL said once the clearance is given, they would be able to deliver the first aircraft in 36 months from that date. Tejas Mk 1A will have certain other modification over and above FOC version. Madhavan said there were few countries that showed interest in Tejas adding that export was a possibility in future. Aeronautical Development Agency director Girish S Deodhare, who was also present at the joint press interaction, said after Mk 1A, they would focus on Tejas Mk 2 that would be inducted into the IAF. It is in design stage and ADA has finalised and frozen the designs now, he said. “Mk2 is a bigger version with bigger engine which will be altogether a different aircraft.,’’ he said. “By 2022, we hope to have a test flight of Mk 2’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hal-expects-cabinet-nod-for-83-tejas-aircrafts-by-december/articleshow/76049526.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||After locusts invade Maharashtra, officials in Telangana on high alert||HYDERABAD: Agriculture officials in Telangana said the locust invasion in northern India is likely to hit some districts in the state as well. Amaravati in neighbouring Maharashtra, which is already infested, is only 200 km away from Adilabad and officials are on their toes as it won’t take much time for the locusts to head towards northern Telangana, if the wind speed is favourable. Collectors of some districts and district agriculture officers have been asked to keep necessary quantities of insecticide ready to counter the locust attack. Agriculture commissioner B Janardhan Reddy said there was a possibility that the locusts would enter into Telangana if they were not contained in Maharashtra. In particular, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Mancherial, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Adilabad and Kumaram Bheem districts have been put on alert. “This is a real big threat. By June, the population of the locusts is expected to grow by 400 times,” agriculture scientists said. They said the locusts travel at 1.2 km to 1.5 km per hour, prey on crops and cause extensive damage. Normally, the desert locusts are seen in Rajasthan and Gujarat between June and November, but they were spotted by the Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Association in April. A swarm can be made up of 150 million locusts per square km, an expert said. “A small, one sq km locust swarm can eat the same amount of food in a day as about 35,000 people,” the expert said. P Chengal Reddy, chief advisor, Consortium of Indian Farmers’ Associations, said the problem could go out of hand if immediate action is not taken. “If they reach Adilabad, the army of locusts will be difficult to handle. With monsoon in early June, they will multiply fast,” Chengal Reddy said. Reddy, who had a telephonic conversation with farmers’ associations from various parts of the country on Wednesday, urged the Centre to declare the locust invasion as a national calamity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-locusts-invade-maha-officials-in-t-on-high-alert/articleshow/76049540.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Three-year-old slips into borewell in Telangana, rescue operations on||HYDERABAD: A three-year-old boy fell into an abandoned borewell on his grandfather’s farm in Podchanpally village in Medak district on Wednesday evening. Immediately, the the district machinery, including police and local officials, launched a rescue effort to save the child, Sai Vardhan. Till last reports came in, they were digging a trench, parallel to the nearly 150-foot deep borewell, to reach the boy. NDRF personnel have been requisitioned to join the effort. Sai VardhanOfficials were trying to ascertain the exact location of the boy in the borewell. Four earthmovers were pressed into service and oxygen was pumped into the borewell, which was sunk just a few hours before the mishap and abandoned as it yield no water.Around 5pm, Sai Vardhan, who was playing in the agricultural field belonging to his maternal grandfather Mangali Bhikshapathi, slipped and fell into the failed borewell. On Tuesday night, a borewell was sunk, but it did not yield water up to 160 ft, Bhikshapathi’s daughter and Sai’s mother Naveena said. The family – Naveena, her husband Goverdhan and their three sons— was at the site. Another borewell, which was sunk up to 150 ft too did not yield water, it was in this Sai Vardhan fell. The third borewell was sunk up to 300 feet. As it did not yield water too, the family decided to go home. The boy fell into the borewell as they were walking home. The grieving parents, Naveena and Goverdhan, sat at a distance with their two elder sons, Vijay and Sanjay, as the rescue operations were on. Medak district collector K Dharma Reddy said it was estimated that the boy could have got stuck at 25-30 feet inside the borewell. Initially, his cries were heard from the borewell. The collector and district SP Chandana Deepti reached the spot and were overseeing the rescue operations. Bhikshapathi said they owned three acres of land, but took up cultivation in two acres. Medak MLA Padma Devender Reddy said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was informed about the incident. The CM asked that no efforts should be spared in rescuing the boy, the MLA said. She said it was not the time to talk about contemplating action against not covering up the open borewells as the family just then finished sinking three. An ambulance was rushed to the place of the mishap and with the earthmovers arriving on the site, police personnel and local district administration held torches to light up the place to continue rescue effort all through the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-year-old-slips-into-borewell-rescue-ops-on/articleshow/76049577.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Cantonment hospital re-opens for non-Covid patients||Nashik: The Cantonment Board, Deolali (CBD) hospital was opened on Tuesday for non-Covid patients over three weeks after it was declared dedicated Covid health centre. A separate arrangement has been made for Covid patients within the hospital with proper precautions to ensure that Covid-19 and non-Covid patients do not come in contact with one another. The hospital was closed for non-Covid patients from May 2 following which the patients were forced to go all the way to Nashik Road Bytco hospital. Taking into account the hardships faced by the people, the hospital authorities had made a separate OPD arrangement in three rooms of a school belonging to the CBD. Meanwhile, recently, there were no Covid-19 related patients at the hospital on Saturday and Sunday. This prompted the members of Cantoment Board Deolali to put up a demand of reopening the hospital for non-Covid patients. Officials said that they had also got instructions from the district health department that since the flow of Covid-19 patients was negligent in and around Deolali Camp, the hospital can resume non-Covid related services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantonment-hospital-re-opens-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/76046513.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt remains mum on film shootings||HYDERABAD: Days after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao gave the go-ahead for resumption of post-production work, representatives of the Telugu film industry on Wednesday met cinematography minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and urged the government to grant permission to resume shootings. While the minister did not give any assurance to the industry representatives on allowing shootings, he, however, pointed out that the government had already permitted post-production work. He said the problems that would crop up if shootings are allowed and theatres reopened will have to be factored into before any decision is taken. Shootings of as many as 85 Telugu films have been stuck in various stages since the announcement of lockdown in March. The industry representatives will also hold a meeting with chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-remains-mum-on-film-shootings/articleshow/76049558.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka slashes number of Shramik trains from Bengaluru||BENGALURU: After assuring the high court of bearing the travel cost of migrants returning home via Shramik Special trains up to May 31, the state government is scaling down the number of trains it’s commissioning to send back stranded labourers from Bengaluru. On Tuesday, only two trains operated from the city — one to Barkakhana (Bihar) with 1,600 passengers and another to Dhanbad (Jharkhand) with 1,749. “Technically, only one train was scheduled from Bengaluru on Tuesday, but the one to Barkakhana, which was supposed to run late Monday night, was rescheduled to 1.17am the next day. So, it falls into Tuesday’s account. We are operating trains based on the government’s request but now it’s saying there’s less demand from workers to go home,” said a senior South Western Railway (SWR) official. On Wednesday, SWR scheduled only one train: Bengaluru to Jodhpur (Rajasthan). On May 23, N Manjunatha Prasad, principal secretary, revenue department, and nodal officer for migrants, had written to SWR, seeking trains mainly to Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh from May 24-31. With these states not footing the bills of migrants, Karnataka decided to pay their fares. Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Assam, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Tripura and West Bengal have deposited money in advance with Karnataka to facilitate free train services for those stranded from their states. The state, according to Prasad’s communication accessed by TOI, had proposed nine Shramik Special trains — four to Bihar, two to UP, one to Odisha and two to Jharkhand — on May 26. Similarly, it planned eight trains — four to Bihar, two to UP and two to Jharkhand — on May 27. It had sought five trains on May 28, six on May 29, six on May 30 and two on May 31. Prasad was unavailable for comments on Wednesday. SWR records show it has operated 165 trains and ferried over 2.3 lakh passengers between May 3 and 26. However, another senior government official said a large number of workers have already returned to their home states. “Demand for these trains has now reduced and there are fewer travellers,” he claimed. Asked how there could be less demand given that 7 lakh people had registered on Seva Sindhu portal, he said: “All those who registered are not migrants. Initially, everyone signed up and many have already gone back. Many may not have deleted the request on the portal. Train services are now free but only a few passengers want to go.” Many still strandedHowever, many workers continue to walk home along highways, besides gathering near railway stations and bus stands as well as Palace Grounds, from where they are picked up for train journeys. All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) alleged many migrants received messages from the state government at 2pm on Tuesday, directing those who want to leave on Shramik trains to send an SMS saying ‘Yes’ followed by last 6 digits of Seva Sindhu application number to 161 from their registered mobile number before 6pm. Those who responded within the said time received a reply reading ‘service is expired’ and continue to be stranded in the city. “Some people from Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan have also registered but don’t want to travel on Shramik trains as they’re quite well off. Many are not willing to go after getting to know of the mandatory quarantine protocol at their destination states. Earlier, when the state government sent SMS to 1,500 persons, around 5,000 would turn up. Now, when it’s sending messages to 1,500 persons, only 700 are showing up,” said another government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-slashes-number-of-shramik-trains-from-bengaluru/articleshow/76048356.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Ghorpade continues as acting dean of CPR hosp||Kolhapur: Amid the entire CPR dean transfer saga, acting dean Arti Ghorpade continued to preside over the daily Covid-19 activities and attend meetings called by the Kolhapur district administration. Former dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye, meanwhile, has been waiting for the state health directorate communication for the past two days. Gajbhiye expects the order to be issued soon and she hopes to be reinstated to her former position. Meanwhile, she has been sitting next to Ghorpade for the past two days. The hospital employees want the drama to end soon and want the appointment of a full-time dean. According to the sources, Gajbhiye has sought the charge of the hospital again from the authorities. Earlier, she was to join the Jalgaon civil hospital. But the staff there opposed her appointment, and she was forced to return to Kolhapur. “We have teams set up for Covid-19 management. No non-Covid patient is allowed and only Covid-related works aee done here. There is no disturbance in our routine. However, the unnecessary drama is tainting the hospital’s name, that too at such a time of crisis. We have urged the ministers from the district to resolve the issue as soon as possible,” said senior administrative staff at the hospital. District administration is currently issuing orders in name of Ghorpade. The district authorities said that they have no role to play in dean appointement and resolving the matter is the prerogative of the state health directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ghorpade-continues-as-acting-dean-of-cpr-hosp/articleshow/76046510.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Indifference shown by ‘haves’ towards ‘have nots’ is extremely disturbing: U’khand HC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday said that the indifference shown by the ‘haves’ towards ‘have nots’ – the migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometres in peak summer – was extremely disturbing. The division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe made these remarks in their written order while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that has highlighted the plight of migrants workers stranded across the country. "The indifference exhibited by the ‘haves’, to the plight of these ‘have nots’ who are forced to walk for miles together without food and water (during peak summer when several parts of the country are seeing a record surge in day temperature), is extremely disturbing. The lackadaisical approach adopted, to ameliorate the plight of these miserable lot, does not show the administration, both at the Centre and in the state, in good light," the bench said in its order. The court said that the rising temperature in many parts of the country may also prove fatal for these people travelling several miles each day. "The abnormal rise in temperature, in some places beyond 45 degrees Celsius, may well result in a large number of those, walking back to their homes, suffering from heat stroke, some of them fatally," the court said. The court while hearing the same petition had held that the migrants’ right to return to Uttarakhand is their fundamental right which can be traced back to the right to life guaranteed by the Article 21 of the Constitution. The state government meanwhile informed the HC that it has deployed 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers coming to the state to their homes and villages. The Assistant Solicitor General (ASG) Rakesh Thapliyal -- appearing for the Centre -- on the other hand said that the information he has received is inadequate and therefore he should be given more time. When the court asked him what arrangements have been made to bring back the willing migrants who have registered themselves with the state, the ASG said that two trains will run from New Delhi to Haridwar and Dehradun and another from Amritsar to Haridwar for migrants and that around 2,000 people will be brought to the state each day. The court, however, said that if only 2,000 migrants are brought to the state each day, bringing almost one lakh of them would take at least 50 days and the failure to take steps to provide transportation as well as food would only result in their continuous walk for thousands of miles. Terming the response from the authorities towards the plight of migrants ‘inadequate’ and ‘extremely disconcerting’, the court has now given the Centre time till Saturday to file its report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/indifference-shown-by-haves-towards-have-nots-is-extremely-disturbing-ukhand-hc/articleshow/76046518.cms||Prashant Jha
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Laxminagar in SCB is now a containment hub||SECUNDERABAD: Laxminagar, a thickly populated area in Picket under Secunderabad Cantonment, has now become a hotspot after Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials announced it as ‘containment area’ after a positive Covid-19 case was reported from there. “A constable, working with the Bowenpally police station, was deputed at Gandhi Hospital on Covid-19 duty. On May 22, he was down with fever and doctors at Gandhi Hospital tested and found him positive for the virus. He was immediately shifted to the isolation ward and placed under quarantine. Members of his family too were tested and put in self-isolation in the house,” highly placed sources in the SCB told TOI. Laxminagar has, thus, become the first containment area in the SCB since the pandemic began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/laxminagar-in-scb-is-now-a-containment-hub/articleshow/76049530.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 28, 2020||Mysuru||Four cops among 25 fresh Covid cases in Hassan||HASSAN: Hassan district has reported 25 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 137. Ten cases were reported on Tuesday and 15 cases were reported on Wednesday. As many as 14 out of the 15 patients tested positive on Wednesday have returned from Mumbai and one from Tamil Nadu. They tested positive on the 14th day of quarantine. This turns out to be a matter of concern as the state government in its recent guidelines has directed to restrict institutional quarantine for returnees to seven days. District minister JC Madhuswamy said he would raise this matter at a state level meeting on Thursday. Four policemen, including a PSI, are among those tested positive on Tuesday. On returning from Nippani after a week’s duty, they were quarantined directly, said Holenarsipur tahsildar KR Shreenivasa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-cops-among-25-fresh-cases-in-hassan/articleshow/76044746.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||After ‘kadha’ dose, ‘amrutdhara’ pills for corona warriors||UDAIPUR: The age-old ayurvedic preparation, ‘amrutdhara’ — which has been used as a household remedy for day-to-day ailments — has been prescribed for thousands of employees of various government departments and volunteers, who have been combating the coronavirus from the frontline for over two months now. The ayurveda department has prepared and distributed amrutdhara pills to nine thousand personnel in the city and in the next stage, another 11,000 packets will be delivered in all the blocks of the district soon. The medicine is effective in curing ailments like dysentery, diarrhoea, common cold and cough, abdominal pain, vomiting and insect bite etc. “Amrutdhara is made of concentrate (extracts) of three things — Camphor, Mint and Ajwain. It has terrific healing effect, specially for ailments related to the hot weather. The prescribed dose for adults is four pills four times a day, which would develop immunity in the body,” Vaidya Shobha Lal Audichya, in-charge of the programme said. The amrutdhara concentrate, which has a peculiar taste, has been mixed with homeopathic sugar pills, to neutralize the bitterness. One packet contains 140 pills that would sustain for nine days. “A nine-day course is enough for a normal adult which would keep him or her energetic and one would not feel fatigued or fall ill due to heat stroke,” Audichya said. Staff from the health and medical, police, fire, water works, power supply, education departments and other volunteers working towards containing the pandemic, would be given the medicine. In April, ayurveda department had distributed herbal kadha powder to corona warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-kadha-dose-amrutdhara-pills-for-corona-warriors/articleshow/76049561.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Khachariyawas slams Sushil Modi||Hitting back at the deputy CM of Bihar Sushil Modi, state transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas clarified that the state govt never asked for travel expense for providing transport to students of Bihar from Kota. “Sushil Modi’s claim of paying for transporting students is a blatant lie. He should know students from Bihar were sent through trains,” he said, adding that he will write a letter to railway minister Piyush Goyal urging him to return the sum they had charged from their own government in Bihar. He further clarified that Rajasthan had asked the respective states to take back their students. “Rajasthan has spent Rs 15 crore on sending outbound migrants to different states,” Khachariyawas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/khachariyawas-slams-sushil-modi/articleshow/76049564.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM junks BJP’s allegation of not inviting Union min||Thiruvananthapuram: Refuting allegations by the BJP, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Union minister of state V Muraleedharan had been invited for the MPs’ conference held on Tuesday. He attended the meeting too before leaving it early, the chief minister said. “The invitation of the meeting was sent to the minister’s office and even the link for the video conferencing was sent to them. It was received and they had connected the minister for the conference through this link. It was informed that he had to leave since he had some prior appointments,” said the chief minister. He slammed V Muraleedharan for making controversies while occupying a responsible position. “It is up to the people of Kerala to say whether the home quarantine (HQ) was a success or not,” said Vijayan, on the allegation made by the Union minister that HQ was a failure in the state. It is most unfortunate that people holding such responsible positions are making such baseless allegations, the CM said. “Neither ICMR nor have any officials in the ministry of health criticized any decision taken by the state for Covid prevention. Then how can a minister holding such position say that Kerala is going against ICMR guidelines,” asked the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-junks-bjps-allegation-of-not-inviting-union-min/articleshow/76046522.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Pages from the diary of a ‘Coronakaaran’||CHENNAI: Up until Covid-19 began holding the city to ransom, P Venkatesh was a lighting assistant in the movie industry. Nowadays, he is known as the ‘Coronakaaran’ or Coronaman. "It’s funny, when the kids run in to tell their parents that the Coronaman is here. But at times the name does prick a little," says Venkatesh, who signed up a month ago as a temp with the Greater Chennai Corporation to help conduct Covid19 door to door health surveys. Venkatesh enrolled for the job along with his wife Kalaivani, an aspiring seamstress, to make ends meet after the lockdown rendered the two unemployed. Now they visit more than 100 families between 7am and noon every day to monitor their health and then update corporation officials on the same. It’s a two-way street, says Venkatesh. "I also get queries from people on my route regarding the virus, which I get answered for them by the officials. For instance, why their street has not been disinfected." One man chased after him demanding a tablet for the virus and refusing to believe there wasn’t one. In the beginning, says Kalaivani, people were suspicious, but now that she is a regular face in the neighbourhood, the ice has melted. "They would interrogate me before I had a chance to ask them any questions. Sometimes, in front of my eyes, people would run into the back rooms and pretend they cannot hear me calling out to them," she says. "Now, out of concern they ask me why I am doing such a dangerous job. What can I say except that I too have a family to feed?" Kalavani’s tailoring classmate Deepa Murugan also joined as a health worker, despite being warned by her family about the dangers of working outdoors in potential Covid-19 hot spots. She confesses she was lured by the Rs 15,000 a month pay cheque, especially at a time her husband, a driver, had been laid off. Deepa says learned fast enough the job is all about good PR. "My first few days on the job, I was overwhelmed by the sheer number of houses I had to get done in four hours. So I would just ring the doorbell and ask the people living there – irumbal chali irukka (does anyone have a cold?). I found people would answer me rudely." That changed on day five when an elderly man asked her why she insisted on being so negative first thing in the morning. "He said that I was the first person he saw every morning and I was always asking about illness." So she quickly changed tactics. Deepa now greets her residents with a smile and says, ‘How are you today?’ It elicits a much better response, she says. "They even offer me a cold drink." Of course, Deepa politely declines. "I have inflamed tonsils. The last thing I want is to get a cough myself and lose this job. I’m the only earning member now."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pages-from-the-diary-of-a-coronakaaran/articleshow/76049563.cms||Kamini Mathai
May 28, 2020||Kolhapur||6 private hospitals acquired in Solapur to treat critically-ill Covid patients||Kolhapur: The Solapur district administration has acquired six private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in critical condition, besides forming a special team of health officials to ensure that patients with general ailments are treated in such facilities across the city. All the beds in these hospitals have facilities like oxygen and ventilators, which will be used for Covid patients while it is mandatory for the staff to offer their services. The hospitals will be in possession of the local administration until further orders, as per an order issued by Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar. Shambharkar has also ordered the appointment of five special officers to ensure treatment to non-Covid-19 patients in view of complaints that patients are not being entertained by private hospitals. The collector said that patients suffering from cardiac problems, paralysis, diabetes, kidney and even pregnant women are being asked to go to another hospital, which is serious. “It is mandatory for all the private hospitals to treat the patients.” The five officers will visit all the private hospitals in Solapur city. People have been urged to contact the Covid control cell if they have any complaints.43 more test positiveA total of 43 people — 24 male and 19 female — have tested positive for Covid-19 in Solapur district on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 653. The local administration had sent 128 swab samples for testing on Wednesday and 99 were found negative. Meanwhile, three people, including one woman, succumbed to the disease on Wednesday, taking the death count at 66 deaths. A total of 279 patients recovered from Covid and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-private-hospitals-acquired-in-solapur-to-treat-critically-ill-covid-patients/articleshow/76046530.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kochi||Rapid testing facility now in Palakkad||Palakkad: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has finally given approval to rapid testing for Covid-19 at the district hospital. It will now take just 10 minutes to get a result, and 100 samples can be tested daily. Earlier, samples from the district were sent to Thrissur medical college and it would take two days for the results. The rapid PCR installed at the district hospital cost Rs 21.22lakh, taken from Palakkad MLA Shafi Parambil’s local area development fund. Another Rs 15 lakh was allotted by the MLA to purchase kits for the next three months. Thermal power scanner at Walayar The thermal power scanner installed at a cost of Rs 8 lakh from the local area development fund of Malampuzha MLA V S Achuthanandan has started functioning at the fourth counter of Walayar checkpost. Now, four people can be scanned at a time to check their body temperature. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rapid-testing-facility-now-in-palakkad/articleshow/76046550.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Locust swarms spare paddy field in Tumsar, moving towards MP||NAGPUR: Locust swarms that were seen hovering around a paddy field in Tumsar tehsil of Bhandara district did not harm the crop. This has left the agriculture department officials who were tracking the pest surprised. The observation is also being taken as a sign of relief so far. From Bhandara, the pest was seen going toward Tiroda tehsil of Gondia district. By 12 on Thursday afternoon, there were reports that the swarms were flying towards Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh which borders Gondia. “However, the pest devoured the leaves of mango, jamun, mahua, ber, and babul trees,” said Ravindra Bhosle, the joint director agriculture (JDA) for Nagpur division. The Nagpur division covers the eastern Vidarbha districts of Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gondia and Gadchiroli. In Vidarbha, the pest was first seen in Amravati district where it had entered through Madhya Pradesh. “After a daylong chase, the locust was spotted in Temni village of Tumsar district. There was a paddy field right next to it, but fortunately the pest just did not seem to be interested in the crop. The crop was being harvested at that time,” said Bhosle. The eastern districts are paddy-growing areas. Though a Kharif crop which is harvested by Diwali time, paddy is also grown during summers in irrigated areas. This year the area under summer paddy has increased by more than double at 4.46 lakh hectares in the three districts of Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur. “The swarm was located in Temni village at around 10. The spraying continued throughout the night, leaving a huge quantity of locust dead,” said Bhosle who remained there throughout the night. Two fire tenders were deployed in the operations. “The mango trees were affected the most, the entire upper part of foliage was eaten but the fruit was spared,” he said. From Tumsar, the swarms were seen migrating towards Gondia district and the department’s officials in the district were alerted. “It was seen going toward Tiroda tehsil of Gondia,” said Bhosle. “I have received reports that the swarms are moving towards Madhya Pradesh,” said the district agriculture officer at Bhandara. The size of the locust swarm had also reduced substantially. From 17km length when it was spotted for the first time, it has now come down to 2km length and 2km breadth, he said. Now, the focus is to ensure that the locust does not lay its eggs in the areas so that another attack happens in the monsoon. According to initial surveys, no breeding area was found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locust-swarms-spare-paddy-field-in-tumsar-moving-towards-mp/articleshow/76063136.cms||Shishir Arya
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan eyes a slice of global investments moving out of China||JAIPUR: Sensing an opportunity with its vast expanses of semi-fertile to barren land, proximity to NCR and the soon to be completed dedicated high-speed freight corridor, the Rajasthan government is looking to have its slice of share if the US, Japanese, and South Korean companies decide to move out of China. The state government has recently written to the ambassadors of these countries seeking investments and offering ‘best possible assistance and concessions and facilities’ while showcasing the Japanese zone at Neemrana as a successful model for country-specific dedicated industrial cluster. In the letter to the US ambassador in India, state chief secretary D B Gupta said, “While we deal with the pandemic, we hope to look ahead, to the post-corona macro environment where new alignments for manufacturing and software hubs are likely to emerge worldwide, and we anticipate a renewed potential for US companies to diversify to other countries, with India being a potential location.” He also said Rajasthan has been a preferred location for marquee foreign investors like Honda Cars, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter, Saint Gobain, JCB, Cargill, Lafarge, Bosch, Daikin, Ashok Leyland, amongst others. Drawing on the past experience of the two Japanese zones in Neemrana and Ghilot where 45 companies are operating, the state government offered land anywhere in the state. Japan has recently announced to relocate investments of $3 billion from China, but said much of it will be deployed in their country. In the letter to the Japanese ambassador, additional chief secretary Subodh Agarwal said, “With long association, the functionaries in the Rajasthan government are also very well aware of the requirements and concerns of the Japanese investors. The manpower in and around Japanese companies is also familiar of the Japanese production standards.” An experiment with South Korea like the Japanese has not fructified in the past despite the state government reserving a dedicated area in Ghilot. But given the changes in current geopolitical equations, especially in relation to China, the state government is willing to revive the proposal for Korean companies. “Having earlier demonstrated our commitment by developing a dedicated zone for South Korean companies, we wish to convey the renewed keenness of the government of Rajasthan to promote Korean investments in Rajasthan,” said Agarwal in the letter. He said the state government is willing to develop a dedicated Korean Investment Zone for the Korean companies at a suitable location and extend the best possible assistance and concessions and facilities to Korean investors in Rajasthan. “We request your consideration to the proposal to put in motion the renewed dialogue between the state government of Rajasthan through RIICO and Republic of Korea through KOTRA to facilitate Korean investment in Rajasthan,” Agarwal said in the letter. The state government is also planning to constitute a task force which is likely to be announced soon for attracting global companies looking to move out of China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-eyes-a-slice-of-global-investments-moving-out-of-china/articleshow/76049613.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 28, 2020||Dehradun||Tehri’s Major Suman Gawani country’s first woman officer to receive UN’s prestigious Military Gender Advocate award||DEHRADUN: Major Suman Gawani, who hails from Tehri Garhwal district of Uttarakhand, has been named for the prestigious United Nations Military Gender Advocate (UNMGA) award for her contribution to the UN’s anti-sexual violence campaign. She will share the award with Brazilian naval officer Carla Monteiro de Castro. Major Gawani will be the first Indian woman officer to receive the award which recognises the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles within the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325, which pertain to women, peace and security. Speaking with TOI, Major Gawani, who works with the Army Signal Corps and joined the Army in 2011 after graduating from the Officers Training Academy (OTA), Chennai, said, "Being the first from the country is very exciting but the award comes with a very big responsibility too. I am happy to receive this honour." Gawani will be felicitated online by UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres on May 29 (Friday), which is the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers. The 32-year-old officer had been involved in conducting workshops, seminars and multimedia presentations besides sensitising the government about sexual violence against women. From November 2018 to December 2019, she mentored over 230 UN Military Observers (UNMO) on conflict-related sexual violence and ensured the presence of women military observers in each of the mission’s team sites at United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS). Gawani, who hails from Pokhar village in Bhilangana block of Tehri Garhwal district, pursued her schooling from Uttarkashi while her father served in the state fire department. Her parents Prem Chandra Gawani and Kavita Gawani said she had always been a determined girl. "She studied in a Hindi medium school till class V and when we got her the admission form of Girls Inter College in Uttarkashi, she refused saying she wants to get admitted to a English medium school,” they told TOI. Gawani’s brother is also an officer in the Indian Air Force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tehris-major-suman-gawani-countrys-first-woman-officer-to-receive-uns-prestigious-military-gender-advocate-award/articleshow/76046537.cms||Shivani Azad
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Case against 49 for abusive comments against judiciary||VIJAYAWADA: The cyber crime cell of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) has registered a case against 49 persons for making objectionable comments against AP high court judges on Tuesday. The cops took action after receiving a written complaint from B Rajasekhar, the register general of high court. Rajasekhar said the high court received several mails in their official email ID with videos and posts on social media attributing motives, caste and corruption allegations against some Supreme Court and high court judges. “They contained fabricated material with abusive, hatred and contemptuous contents to cause incitement, disaffection and ill-will against the high court and judges,” the complaint read. CID inspector K Prasad booked a case against the accused under section 6 of IT Act, and sections 153 (A), 505 (2) and 506 of IPC at Mangalagiri cyber crime police station. Meanwhile, DGP Gautam Sawang warned people against posting objectionable posts against high court judges and state government on social media. In a statement, Sawang cited that they have fast-tracked investigation against those who had posted objectionable comments against the judges. “During the current tough times, it is important that everyone realises we are part of a mature society. We are once again warning that in a democratic country, the dignity of constitutional institutions should not be violated,” Sawang said. On Tuesday, the AP high court had taken suo moto cognisance of the issue and issued notices to the 49 persons who made ‘abusive’ remarks against the judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/case-against-49-for-abusive-comments-against-judiciary/articleshow/76048349.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: After cops test positive, police stations sanitised to stave off Covid-19, says ADG||Even as more police personnel test positive for Covid-19, Mahesh Buddi speaks with Jitender, Additional Director General of Police (Law & Order) Can you elaborate on additional duties taken up by police during lockdown?During the past two months, our main duty has been enforcement of lockdown, especially the night curfew part. Another important thing has been sending migrant workers to their native places through special trains. We are supporting the revenue department in sending migrant workers home. We have been locating migrant workers, enumerating them and then taking them from their place of stay in the state to the railway stations. We are also providing security at quarantine facilities and hospitals where Covid-19 patients are being treated as also assisting the health department in tracing contacts of the infected. We are also providing support to health and revenue departments in keeping a watch on people who came from abroad. What measures have been put in place to ensure the safety of cops?Police stations are being sanitized every day. Cops have been advised to take care of their personal hygiene, wear masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distance while talking to people. Once they reach home after duty, they are advised to wash the uniform and take bath immediately. We have also distributed, homeopathy preventive medicine to boost immunity. Chavanprash has also been distributed. Ayush department has also given advisory on usage of citrus fruits and turmeric to boost immunity. Police personnel and visitors who are of of certain age group are more vulnerable to the virus. What’s being done in this regard?Cops who are above 50 years old are not normally being sent on Covid-19 field duties. We have also advised staff to immediately seek medical advise if they notice symptoms like fever, cough, cold and body pains. Visitors at the police stations are being provided soap and water to wash their hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-cops-test-ve-police-stations-sanitised-to-stave-off-covid-19-adg/articleshow/76049555.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: E-payment of fines helps traffic police in Covid-19 times||NASHIK: The e-payment system of paying fines for violation of traffic rules, which was introduced a long time ago in the state, is helping the police personnel in the city in times of coronavirus pandemic as they don’t have deal with cash or come in close contact with motorists. Police imposed fines of Rs 26.72 lakh from March 25, when the nationwide lockdown had started, till May 24 and told the violators to make e-payment. Police have, however, received only 4.84 lakh of the fine amount while the remaining Rs 21.87 lakh is still pending. City police commissioner Vishwas Nangare Patil said that there are instructions from higher-ups in Mumbai that fine should be collected mainly through the e-payment mode. The police personnel have been given devices with the help of which they can issue e-challans and also collect fine. Police said that the record of motorists who have not paid the fine would always remain with police. Even if such a motorist goes to another part of the state and violates a traffic rule, police there will immediately know that he/she has not paid the previous fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/e-payment-of-fines-helps-traffic-police-in-covid-times/articleshow/76046535.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||ED attaches accused’s flat for 2011 hooch deaths||Jaipur: Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached a 2 BHK flat measuring 985 square feet belonging to accused Amandeep Singh Bhullar, resident of Indore, under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA).The attached asset located at Silver Lake Vista, Limbodi, Indore worth Rs 10 lakh has been attached in the hooch tragedy in Jodhpur resulting in the death of 22 persons in 2011. FIRs were registered by Basni police station and Luni police station (both in Jodhpur) on January 19 and January 29, 2011, respectively, and charge-sheets were filed against accused Kaluram Vishnoi, Sharda Devi, Amandeep Singh Bhullar and others for illegal sale of spurious liquor which resulted death of 22 persons in Jodhpur. ED initiated investigation under provisions of PMLA on the basis of Sections 304, 467, 471, 420 read with 120B of IPC being scheduled Offence under Section 2(1) (y) of PMLA 2002. Investigation revealed that accused Bhullar supplied illegal spirit in Jodhpur and Pali area of Rajasthan to co-accused Kaluram Vishnoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-attaches-accuseds-flat-for-2011-hooch-deaths/articleshow/76049573.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Collector reiterates no increase in school fee, suggests cuts||Nagpur: In a webinar on Wednesday with local education officials and ‘high enrolment’ school principals, district collector Ravindra Thakre said the state government’s order of May 8 regarding fee must be followed. The state had asked all schools not to increase fee and, if possible, try to reduce it. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer (primary), who was part of the webinar, said over 50 schools representatives had joined in. “These were a mix of state and CBSE schools where a lot of students are enrolled. The collector told them that it is important for all government norms to be followed,” said Vanjari. Schools were told to explore the possibility of reducing fee after discussing with parents-teachers associations. The education department also clarified parents have to pay up fee as there is no moratorium on that. “Parents have to pay fee but the only thing is that schools have to provide monthly instalment options. Also online payment facility should be available as parents’ movement is restricted due to lockdown,” said Vanjari. A CBSE school principal who attended the webinar said talk about reduction in fee was focused on expenses not incurred by schools. “Government feels transportation fee could be slashed since buses did not operate from mid-March. But this means the bus owner does not get paid, which means his drivers don’t get paid and then their families will struggle to survive,” the principal said. Starting Thursday, Vanjari will hold a series of webinars with schools and his officials about preparedness regarding school reopening. “As of now, the proposed date is June 26. I think we can open schools in rural areas where there are no cases at all. However, before we take any step, a lot of planning has to be done and SOPs established regarding distancing and sanitizing the premises,” said Vanjari. Rural schools will be the focus of reopening initiative in sparsely populated areas in green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-reiterates-no-increase-in-school-fee-suggests-cuts/articleshow/76049610.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Pre-monsoon work begins on war footing in Rajkot||RAJKOT: As part of its pre-monsoon preparedness, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has been working on a war footing basis. Between May 4 and May 25, the RMC has cleaned 9,002 storm water drain in the city. “That apart, of 47 natural rainwater streams, 37 have been cleaned. The work on 10 streams is under way. The repair work on 155 poles and cable junction boxes of 160 such poles and boxes have been completed, and the work on five remaining set ups are on. The restoration work on 8,727 running metre roads has been done so far,” said a senior RMC official. In order to discuss the pre-monsoon preparedness, RMC commissioner Udit Agrawal convened a meeting of senior civic body officials of different departments on Wednesday. Agrawal instructed the managers and officers of all the wards to monitor the ongoing works in their respective wards. The commissioner instructed the officials to ensure the draining of water in low lying areas which suffer water logging every monsoon. Open manholes are one of the biggest menaces experienced on Rajkot roads. “In order to drain water logging on roads, people open the caps of manholes and leave them as they are. These manholes cause road accidents every year. The RMC will deploy a special team of officials who will ensure that the caps of the manholes are back in place,” the official said. That apart, in order to prevent spread of water-borne diseases, the RMC has arranged for distribution of chlorine tablets at its urban health centres. Also, arrangement for quinine tablets for vector-borne diseases has been made. Box: Development works to in full swing Rajkot: The Rajkot mayor Bina Acharya and RMC standing committee chairman Uday Kangad, have been stated that development works in different zones of RMC have begun in full swing. These works include paving block on Raiyadhar Road, claning of drainage line under Amrapali railway under-bridge, re-carpeting work on Shriji Nagar road and roads in Rajanagar, Nehrunagar, Subhashnagar, Mochinagar-2 of Haridham Society. Civil work on Aji Dam garden and drainage and metalling work in Santosh Park, Shivdham Society, Patel Park, Kailash Park, Somnath Park and Shyam Park was also under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pre-monsoon-work-begins-on-war-footing-in-rajkot/articleshow/76046562.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Acid leak from tanker sparks panic at night||PUNE: Leaking acid from a tanker near Chandni Chowk created panic among the residents of Bhusari Colony off Paud Road late on Wednesday night. Many people complained of breathing problems and irritation in their eyes. Police constable Dnyaneshwar Gujar said he and his colleagues started feeling uneasy around 9.45pm. “We were not able to breathe properly and felt burning sensation in our eyes,” he said. Gajanan Pathrudkar, fire officer, Kothrud fire station, said that the tanker carrying acid was heading towards Katraj. When it reached near Chandni Chowk, acetic acid started leaking from the tanker. “We have covered the acid spilled on the road with sand and summoned a technician to plug the leakage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/acid-leak-from-tanker-sparks-panic-at-night/articleshow/76049591.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda couple found hanging in different rooms||CHANDRAPUR: A couple from Mahatardevi village near Ghugus town is suspected to have committed suicide by hanging themselves at their residence on Wednesday afternoon. The deceased duo has been identified as Debasish Roy and his wife Shashikiran. A family friend had visited their home in the afternoon and when no one responded, he informed the police. Cops broke open the door and discovered bodies of Debasish and Shashikiran hanging in different rooms in the house. Both of them worked with a share marketing company in Ghugus. They have left behind a suicide note in which both have apologized for ending life, but reason behind taking the extreme step is not mentioned in the note. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-couple-found-hanging-in-different-rooms/articleshow/76051637.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Twenty +ve cases recorded in coast||Mangaluru/Udupi: Blips on Covid-19 graph of the coastal districts re-emerged on Wednesday after a day of relative lull on Tuesday. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi recorded 20 positive cases in 24 hours up to 5pm on May 27 with DK alone accounting for 11 of those cases. All 20 cases are ‘imported’ with 19 of those tested positive having come from Maharashtra and one from Gujarat. Incidentally, this was also the trend across Karnataka with 118 of the 135 fresh positive cases that the state reported up to 5pm on Wednesday were those with history of inter-state travel. Two of them have come from abroad. With swab test reports on a good number of samples of those who have entered the two coastal districts yet to be received, the number of positive cases is expected to rise further. Sindhu B Rupesh, deputy commissioner, Dakshina Kannada, said that seven of the 11 people tested positive in the district are members of two families. While P-2287 to 2290 who had arrived from Mumbai on May 15 were in quarantine centre in Ullal, P-2326, 2329 and 2330 are also members of the same family who had arrived on May 16. Arrangements have been made to shift these seven and other four individuals to the designated Covid-19 hospital of the district, she said. G Jagadeesha, Sindhu’s counterpart in Udupi, said all nine cases are people who had come to the district from Maharashtra. Since they were in quarantine, they have been shifted to TMA Pai Hospital and their treatment has commenced. Udupi at present has 116 active cases while Dakshina Kannada has 45 active cases. In a related development, Udupi district administration after a medical technicality in admitting a positive patient, shifted him to TMA Pai Hospital. The person was a staff from Udupi ZP who reported positive on May 24. As per the new guidelines issued on May 26, the health department did not admit him to Covid hospital, as he had no travel history or epidemiological link. However, as the public identified him as an infected person, the DC directed authorities to shift him to the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/twenty-ve-cases-recorded-in-coast/articleshow/76044783.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown fails to hit oil & gas production||Jaisalmer: While many sectors were affected due to the countywide lockdow, the oil and gas production continued in Barmer and Jaisalmer.The employees worked taking full precautions against coronavirus for two months and now many of them will be sent back home. Cairn India in Barmer and Oil India Limited in Jaisalmer worked efficiently despite the lockdown. Many engineers and employees continued working as it was not possible to send them home due to lockdown. Now, to give them rest, the companies have decided to send them home. Cairn India sent its 83 employees to Chennai and Kochi through a special flight on Monday, while brought over 70 from Rajahmundry and 11 from Delhi. Oil India has planned to send its employees who have been working for last two months in Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-fails-to-hit-oil-gas-production/articleshow/76049605.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple killed in road accident||Hyderabad: A couple died in a road accident at Pudur in Vikarabad district on Wednesday after the vehicle they were travelling in was hit by a car coming from the opposite direction. Vikarabad police said the couple Anand (49) and his wife Ushamma (34) were heading to Somangurthi. A case was registered and the car driver was taken into custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/76049622.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Cancelled Shramik trains leave migrants on streets in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Hundreds of migrant workers, desperate to head to their hometowns and villages, were left stranded on the streets of Bengaluru as Shramik Special trains that were promised by the state government were cancelled virtually at the last minute on Tuesday and Wednesday. Workers had received SMS texts from the government confirming their seats on the train only hours earlier, and had set out with bags, baggage and children in tow to KG Halli police station or Palace Ground where BMTC buses were to ferry them to railway stations. Many had vacated their places of stay, thinking they were leaving for good. Tailoring assistant Mohammed Iftakar was one of many who received an SMS past 2pm on Tuesday. “My wife Sabisha Parveen and I packed all our belongings and came running with our two little kids. We wept when we learnt there was no train,” lamented Iftakar, who is form Purnia district in Bihar and worked at a tailoring shop on Shampur Main Road, RT Nagar, Bengaluru. The family has had no income since the lockdown was enforced. Construction worker Shamu Ram, also from Bihar, also received the SMS and replied with a confirmation text. He and over 50 others reached the Yelahanka police station to board bus to the station on Wednesday, but were turned away, citing train cancellation. Sources in the South Western Railway (SWR) said that there weren’t enough passengers to Bihar which was why trains were cancelled, but hundreds of migrants making a beeline to local police stations and Bengaluru Cantonment railway station told another story. “I vacated my room and I came running, hoping to go home. Now I can’t go back and am stranded on the street,” said Puniya Kumar, a Begusarai-native stranded near Mehkri Circle. On Wednesday, many NGOs and social workers handed out food and water to these starving workers across the city. Many were also provided temporary shelter. “It is shocking how state authorities raised hopes of these poor workers and then backtracked. Imagine the plight of these workers who were left on the streets during heavy rain,” said Anita Kanaiya, a volunteer working for welfare of migrant workers. Her group helped shift many to shelter. More than 130 workers from Bihar and West Bengal at a construction site in Hosahalli received an SMS on Wednesday with an altered train departure date (May 28). “We are in a dilemma whether to believe it or not. We heard about the bad experiences on Tuesday from our fellow natives,” said Tantula Baira along with his co-worker Inder Ram, who is desperate to leave the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cancelled-shramik-trains-leave-migrants-on-streets-in-bengaluru/articleshow/76048402.cms||Petlee Peter
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC admin ignoring elected reps in Covid war: Mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Wednesday expressed anguish over civic administration allegedly ignoring office-bearers while taking important decisions like issuing notification of containment zones. Addressing a meeting convened to assess the Covid-19 situation and containment zones, the mayor ordered Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) administration to issue a show-cause notice to additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar for remaining absent from the meeting despite instructions. Apart from mayor, former mayor Pravin Datke, senior corporators Dayashankar Tiwari, Tanaji Wanve, Divya Dhurde, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja, additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar, superintending engineer (public works department) Manoj Talewar were present. Datke and Tiwari raised the issue of civic administration issuing various notifications related to Covid-19 without intimating or taking the elected representatives into confidence. “Had the administration taken the elected representatives into confidence while announcing any containment zones or quarantining citizens from any residential area, it would not have been a difficult task for the NMC,” said Tiwari. Citing examples of residents opposing NMC action in Pandhrabodi and Parvati Nagar, which have been declared containment zones, Datke said, “The administration must understand the role of elected representatives before taking such decisions. We are elected by the citizens and serving people. If the administration takes us into confidence, the NMC could serve better even in quarantine centres too.” Congress corporator Wanve expressed similar views. Senior corporators also raised the issue of appointment of Dr Sawai as NMC’s chief medical officer. Neither the administration informed the elected representatives about the appointment of Dr Sawai nor shared any details about its plan to combat the coronavirus outbreak, they alleged. Mayor Joshi also expressed concern over substandard food being served in institutional quarantine centres in the city. Tiwari also complained to the mayor about Dr Sawai not responding to the corporators’ calls. Mayor later directed the administration to arrange a meeting of elected representatives with administration including civic chief Tukaram Mundhe to review Covid-19 situation in the city within three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-admin-ignoring-elected-reps-in-covid-war-mayor/articleshow/76049651.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 28, 2020||Kolhapur||22 new patients take Kolhapur’s tally to 400||Kolhapur: As many as 22 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in Kolhapur district between Tuesday and Wednesday, with two Covid related deaths. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 400 in the district The total number of deaths is four in the district. The two patients who died were undergoing treatment in hospitals. According to the Kolhapur district health authorities, 37 Covid-19 patients are in a critical condition. According to the district administration, around 600 people returned from the red zones on Wednesday. All of them were taken for a health check-up and their throat swab samples were taken for testing. Those without Covid symptoms were asked to home quarantine themselves. The district administration has put a limit to the number of persons allowed from red zones Not more than 1,700 people will be allowed. On the last two days the number has remained low. Most of them are returning to Kolhapur city. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has taken the decision that the returnees will be allowed home quarantine only after the approval of the local committee. The decision has been taken after it was observed that many people have returned to their homes without informing the local-ward level committees. Four new cases in Sangli Sangli district has reported four new Covid-19 cases, with one death between Wednesday. The total number of Covid-19 cases is 92 wit 41 active cases. A 50-year-old person from Shirala tehsil in Sangli district who was on non-invasive ventilator died. The total number of Covid-19 deaths so far in Sangli district stands at three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/22-new-patients-take-kolhapurs-tally-to-400/articleshow/76046545.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Offender escapes from hospital, held||Pune: A 19-year-old suspect in a body offence case was arrested on Wednesday after he fled the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri a day before. The Wakad police had arrested the youth — Krishna Sonawane of Kalewadi — along with Akash Pawar (21) and Ganesh Kamble (19) on Monday for severely assaulting a 28-year-old man. The court had sent them to police custody. Around 1.30pm on Tuesday, a Wakad police team took the trio to the hospital for medical check-up. “They started creating a ruckus in the hospital. Sonawane managed to escape, while the police overpowered the other two,” an officer from the Pimpri police said. Ganesh Sawant, a constable with the crime branch, received a tip-off that Sonawane was in Moshi. The crime branch team led by inspector Uttam Tangade took him into custody. “After escaping from the hospital, Sonawane walked till Nashik Phata and reached Moshi by taking a lift. He had borrowed money from his friend to run away from the city,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/offender-escapes-from-hospital-held/articleshow/76049574.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Four private hospitals seek NMC’s permission to treat Covid-19 patients||NASHIK: Four private hospitals in the city have sought permission from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) for treating Covid-19 patients. The hospital authorities said that they have arranged at least 150 beds for the purpose. Civic officials said they will issue permission to the hospitals after conducting an inspection of the facilities. NMC has also decided to allow more such hospitals with the capacity of at least 30 beds. They said that more such hospitals need to be allowed to admit Covid-19 patients so that people do not have to travel long distances for treatment. There are already government guidelines to reserve up to 80% beds in private hospitals. “At present, we have adequate beds for institutional quarantining and treatment of Covid-19 patients in the city. But, we also come across some patients who do not wish to receive treatment in municipal or government hospitals,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-pvt-hospitals-seek-nmcs-permission-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76046548.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 strategies and Centre's response||UPDATE: The Niti Aayog has issued the following statement on this story:  "This news item is not factually correct. It tries to convey that Niti Aayog or Union Ministry of Heath and Family Welfare have endorsed Mumbai's COVID response strategy. The caseload in Mumbai continues to be a cause of concern."MUMBAI: Though hit hard by the Covid-19 outbreak, civic officials have a reason to smile as they claim that some of their “innovative” mechanisms to control the virus may soon make it to national guidelines. Mobile fever clinics, involving private sector doctors, focus on oxygen-supported beds as well as door-to-door survey of senior citizens are some of the measures that earned all-round praise from high-powered central officials at a virtual meeting held on Wednesday. Teams from the BMC and the state government participated in the meeting held by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Niti Aayog. A BMC official said fever clinics held in congested slums attracted attention. “After the formation of the state task force under former KEM Hospital dean Dr Sanjay Oak, many decisions were taken that helped us reduce the death rate,” said the official. Private practitioners were involved in developing ways to reduce the city’s high death rate and spread. Soon after the first coronavirus cases were detected on March 11, BMC health staff started door-to-door visits in narrow slum pockets and semi-slum areas with thermal guns to check for fever. The teams also started fever clinics with the help of local activists to convince slum-dwellers to visit them in case they had any Covid-19 symptoms such as fever or cough. “The BMC checked thousands of people at its fever clinics with the help of local doctors. This helped identify more positive cases as even symptomatic slum-dwellers were reluctant to visit civic hospitals,” said the official. One of measures that caught ICMR’s attention was the house survey of seniors in slums. “We wanted to identify seniors with comorbidity and check their oxygen level using oximeters. Those with low oxygen levels were given medical attention even if they didn’t have symptoms,” he said. (This story has been updated to include the statement of Niti Aayog. The headline of the story has been changed accordingly.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-covid-19-strategies-and-centres-response/articleshow/76049637.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Cops take 41 days to book BJP neta for offensive posts||Nagpur: Ganeshpeth police took 41 days to register a non-cognizable offence against a senior office-bearer of BJP for having allegedly posted defamatory post on social media against state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Filed on April 15, cops took almost one-and-a-half months to decide the course of action for reasons best known to them. Despite Deshmukh having asked city police chief BK Upadhyay to look into the matter, the case gathered dust at the office of Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar. NCP’s senior leader Nutan Rewatkar had lodged a complaint at Ganeshpeth police station against the BJP activist for making derogatory remarks on the social media against Deshmukh holding him responsible for the failure of the government in controlling Covid-19 outbreak in Maharashtra. The activist had also linked Deshmukh with Wadhawan brothers who had travelled from Mumbai to Panchgani after the lockdown was imposed. The activist had also levelled several allegations against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and blamed his government for the worsening Covid-19 situation in the state. Apart from targeting political opponents, the activist had also made irresponsible claims against a community in objectionable language holding them responsible for the spread of Covid. Though city police’s cyber cell had traced the post’s origin to the activist, Ganeshpeth police opted to overlook the complaint. The complaint was referred to special branch and the NC was registered after much delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-take-41-days-to-book-bjp-neta-for-offensive-posts/articleshow/76049619.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||No action yet in Dalit teacher molestation case||Alwar: A Dalit teacher of a government school in Sikri police station in Bharatpur district had lodged a case of molestation against the principal of the same school nearly a month back but is still awaiting action against him. According to the FIR, the 26-year-old complainant joined the school in 2018 and from December 2019, the principal started sexually harassing her.Speaking to media, the complainant said, “Since December last year, the principal started troubling me and made my life miserable. He would touch my private parts and sexually harass me. After putting up with it for months, I finally lodged a complaint on April 29 but no action was taken against him.” The teacher alleged that after lodging the complaint, the principal started pressurizing her to withdraw her complaint and is using his political connections to make her do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-action-yet-in-dalit-teacher-molestation-case/articleshow/76049617.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Satara cops book Pune ACP in extortion case||PUNE: The Satara police on Tuesday registered an offence of extortion against an assistant commissioner of police from the Pune police’s special branch after a 21-year-old businessman at Bhuinj lodged an FIR, accusing the officer of demanding Rs40,000 for not implicating him in a firing case. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Deepak Humbre, on forced leave pending inquiry about an incident over two months ago when he headed the city police’s control room, is accused of visiting Bhuinj in uniform and threatening the complainant with arrest in relation to the firing incident a fortnight ago. On May 17, Humbre had been to the Bhuinj police station for meeting his former colleague when he learnt about the businessman being questioned in connection with the firing incident. The complainant and his friend were then summoned to the police station. The police are questioning a few other youths also in connection with the firing. Prior to his transfer to Pune about two years ago, Humbre was a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) at Wai in Satara district. Pune city police commissioner K Venkatesham told TOI, “After receiving the copy of the complaint from the Satara police, we have sent a default report of Humbre to the office of the director-general of police. He was sent on forced leave few months ago after many people complained about him.” Satara superintendent of police Tejaswi Satpute said, “We have registered an offence of extortion and investigating further.” Humbre, on the verge of retirement, did not reply to TOI’s repeated calls and text messages sent to him. A Bhuinj police officer said, “The complainant has stated in his FIR that he received a call from an unknown phone number and the caller identified himself as DSP Deepak Humbre. The FIR further stated that Humbre offered to remove the complainant’s name from the firing case if the latter paid him Rs50,000. Humbre told the complainant that there would be trouble if he did not pay the money and settled for Rs40,000 after negotiation. The complainant later approached senior officers of the Satara police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/satara-cops-book-pune-acp-in-extortion-case/articleshow/76049615.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur, Kota & Jaipur in top 5 for random samplings||Jaisalmer: The health department has carried out maximum random samplings in Jodhpur, Kota, Jaipur, Bhilwara and Jaisalmer. In Jaisalmer city and Pokhran, patients have recovered and returned home. Curfew has been lifted and the entire district is back to normal from an earlier high risk zone. Samples are still being taken and tested here continuously. According to health department figures released on May 25, maximum samplings and testings per lakh population were done in Jodhpur at 1,475, followed by Kota (916), Jaipur (762), Bhilwara (676) and Jaisalmer (575). The first Covid-19 case in Jaisalmer district was detected in Pokhran on April 5. The district administration made efforts to break the chain. Out of the 68 positive cases, 35 were in Pokhran and the remaining 33 were among non-resident Rajasthanis who came from Mumbai, Ahmedabad and other areas. Collector Namit Mehta said on an average 100-150 samples were collected and sent for testing daily. Similarly, samples are being taken from migrant labourers and non-resident Rajasthanis coming to Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-kota-jaipur-in-top-5-for-random-samplings/articleshow/76049641.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fire breaks out at electric substation||HYDERABAD: A fire broke out at an electric substation in Narketpally on Wednesday at around 5.10pm. No casualties were reported. It is estimated that property worth around Rs 5 lakh was destroyed. “What sparked the fire is yet to be ascertained, we suspect it may have occurred due to overheating or short-circuit,” said a fire station officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-breaks-out-at-electric-substation/articleshow/76049630.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Water points for animals to beat heat in desert dist||JAISALMER: The scorching heat in the desert areas in Jaisalmer has taken a toll on the wildlife. In many areas, animals can be seen searching for water. Wildlife officers of Desert National Park in Jaisalmer have set up more than 50 water points for the animals, which are being regularly filled, bringing respite to the animals. At temperature of 47 degree Celsius, animals like chinkara, deer and Great Indian Bustard etc have been struggling to survive in the heat. The water points have come as a relief to them. In many cases, deer and other wildlife searching for water become victims to stray dogs. These days, breeding of Great Indian Bustard is on and male and female Godawans can be sighted near the water points. Water points have been set up by wildlife enthusiasts and villagers in areas such as Dholia, Khetolai, Ramdeora etc in Jaisalmer district. In 3,162 sqkm area of DNP, there is a shortage of wildlife personnel to stop poaching and to make arrangements for the wildlife. Large number of posts is lying vacant due to which illegal farming, poaching, among other illegal activities, are continuing unabated. DNP deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawat said that many arrangements have been made for the wildlife in DNP. Around 60 water points and guzzlers have been provided in closure and outside the closure areas in DNP and these are filled regularly by the water tankers. He agreed that 50% posts of front line staff in DNP are lying vacant and there is also shortage of forest guides. Out of 56 posts, only 28 are filled and posts of eight forest officers and other employees are lying vacant. He said senior officers have been informed about the vacant posts in DNP, Jaisalmer. On the other hand, villagers and wildlife enthusiasts have arranged for water for the animals on their own as well at many places. Wildlife enthusiast Radheyshyam Pemani said that there is a large number of animals such as deer, Godawan and others in Dholia, Khetolai who are struggling in the heat and that water points have been set up at 20 places, to quench their thirst. He said still, there are many places where animals can be seen roaming in search of water and many times, they fall prey to the wild dogs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-points-for-animals-to-beat-heat-in-desert-dist/articleshow/76049654.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||It’ll be hot until weekend, then some showers||Nagpur: Citizens seem to be getting no respite from the scorching heat. Mercury levels continued to be on the higher side, with the city’s maximum temperature reaching 46 degree Celsius on Wednesday. This was nearly three degrees above the normal mercury levels. Nights are also getting hotter as the minimum temperature recorded on the same day was 26.6 degree Celsius. Nagpur was the second hottest in Vidarbha. The hottest was Chandrapur at at a sizzling 46.4 degree Celsius. The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, has issued heatwave warning till Friday for the city. The maximum temperatures are expected to stay between 45-46 degree Celsius. Minimum temperatures will vary between 26-27 degree Celsius. From Saturday onwards, citizens might get some relief as a few spells of rain are expected to hit the city for next four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/itll-be-hot-until-weekend-then-some-showers/articleshow/76049635.cms||Manka Behl
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Scolded by mother, teen ends life in Kota||Kota: Scolded by mother for spending too much time on mobile phone, a 17-year-old girl ended her life by jumping into a well, around 500m from her house in Dwarka Colony of Ramganjmandi in Kota district, on Tuesday. Police lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC. The deceased Sanju Aerwal was daughter of Babulal, a resident of Dwarka Colony in Ramganjmandi town. Preliminary probe revealed that the girl’s mother scolded her over talking on mobile for long on Tuesday night following which she, in a fit of rage, jumped into the well, police said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/scolded-by-mother-teen-ends-life-in-kota/articleshow/76049628.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Revive business in Kutch, urges GCCI||RAJKOT: Gandhidham Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) has listed out several steps to state government for the revival of industrial operations in Kutch district. GCCI has recommended GST stimulus package, steps to stop workers from migrating, desalination plants, GIDCs for MSMEs, exemption of stamp duty on Covid loans, package to attract new businesses, setting up of district promotion committee, 50% reduction in stamp duty, one-time settlement scheme on old dues of property and other municipal taxes and waiving off fixed energy charges among other things. Kutch is Asia’s biggest timber hub. Over 150 plywood manufacturing units are thriving here. There is a huge potential for entrepreneurs to make value-added products because the dry climate of Kutch is conducive to wood, GCCI said in a press release. Kutch district has two large ports which handle 40% of export and import cargo. There exists an adequate supporting infrastructure for custom handling and clearance services, warehouses, logistics etc. A proper strategy of promotion can attract many branded players in this area. Kutch has also emerged as a national hub for edible oil industry. All major players have their presence in this region, which has the potential to become the biggest location for edible oil refining and manufacturing, the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/revive-business-in-kutch-urges-gcci/articleshow/76046591.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Water points for animals to beat heat in desert dist||JAISALMER: The scorching heat in the desert areas in Jaisalmer has taken a toll on the wildlife. In many areas, animals can be seen searching for water. Wildlife officers of Desert National Park in Jaisalmer have set up more than 50 water points for the animals, which are being regularly filled, bringing respite to the animals. At temperature of 47 degree Celsius, animals like chinkara, deer and Great Indian Bustard etc have been struggling to survive in the heat. The water points have come as a relief to them. In many cases, deer and other wildlife searching for water become victims to stray dogs. These days, breeding of Great Indian Bustard is on and male and female Godawans can be sighted near the water points. Water points have been set up by wildlife enthusiasts and villagers in areas such as Dholia, Khetolai, Ramdeora etc in Jaisalmer district. In 3,162 sqkm area of DNP, there is a shortage of wildlife personnel to stop poaching and to make arrangements for the wildlife. Large number of posts is lying vacant due to which illegal farming, poaching, among other illegal activities, are continuing unabated. DNP deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawat said that many arrangements have been made for the wildlife in DNP. Around 60 water points and guzzlers have been provided in closure and outside the closure areas in DNP and these are filled regularly by the water tankers. He agreed that 50% posts of front line staff in DNP are lying vacant and there is also shortage of forest guides. Out of 56 posts, only 28 are filled and posts of eight forest officers and other employees are lying vacant. He said senior officers have been informed about the vacant posts in DNP, Jaisalmer. On the other hand, villagers and wildlife enthusiasts have arranged for water for the animals on their own as well at many places. Wildlife enthusiast Radheyshyam Pemani said that there is a large number of animals such as deer, Godawan and others in Dholia, Khetolai who are struggling in the heat and that water points have been set up at 20 places, to quench their thirst. He said still, there are many places where animals can be seen roaming in search of water and many times, they fall prey to the wild dogs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/water-points-for-animals-to-beat-heat-in-desert-dist/articleshow/76066232.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||SHO’s family says false allegations, political interference in work drove him to suicide||JAIPUR: Rajgarh SHO Vishnudutt Bishnoi’s family has alleged that false allegations against him for the first time in 23 years of police service were the reason for his suicide on Saturday. The family said Bishnoi had requested for a transfer from Rajgarh as there was too much political interference there and he did not want to be a part of it. His relatives said Bishnoi was falsely accused of corruption by local leaders after a new police building was constructed with the help of community contribution. The state crime branch is awaiting the call record details of Bishnoi‘s official mobile number. “Vishnu had always focused on his work and was completely honest with it. He did not believe in being anything else but honest and was a man of few words. But there was something troubling him for at least two months due to which he took his own life. Everything was fine in his personal life and it was only lately that he was stressed about how things were happening in office. I know how police works and he was unlike other officers,” said a close relative of the deceased cop. Bishnoi was posted to Rajgarh less than a year ago and according to DGP Bhupendra Singh he was one of the most hardworking and honest police officers in the state. The deceased cop’s relative who went to bring his body back home said, “A couple of months after joining in Rajgarh, Bishnoi took the initiative of getting a new police office constructed with the help of contribution from the community and made a committee to oversee the project. A total of Rs 41 lakh was spent but soon after it was inaugurated, local leaders started spreading rumours that he spent less than what was collected from the locals.” The family also claimed that Vishnu’s body kept hanging hours after his death till his family reached nearly 7 hours after the incident. The state crime branch officials claimed that they are still in the initial stage of investigation and a team is camping in Rajgarh since Saturday to conduct inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shos-family-says-false-allegations-political-interference-in-work-drove-him-to-suicide/articleshow/76049653.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 28, 2020||Pune||Trio arrested on murder charge||Pune: The crime branch of the Pune police on Wednesday arrested three men on the charge of hacking Shoaib Shaikh (20) to death over previous enmity at Bhekrainagar on May 22. Police ientified the arrested as Jeevan Kamble (31) of Mantarwadi Chowk, Aniket Sonawane (22) from Phursungi and Vilas Padole (28) of Wadki. Assistant inspector Santosh Tasgaonkar of the crime branch made the arrests after the images of the suspects were caught on a CCTV camera. “Eyewitnesses have also confirmed their involvement in the murder,” he said. The Hadapsar police had earlier arrested seven men on the charge of murdering Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-arrested-on-murder-charge/articleshow/76049600.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Fireman removing branch from electric pole dies in line of duty in Howrah||HOWRAH: A 27-year-old auxillary fire operator at the Belur Fire Station was electrocuted when he tried to remove a branch of a tree that got uprooted in cyclone Amphan and got entangled in power lines at Ganguly Street in Howrah’s Belur. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has ordered a probe into the death of Sukanta Sinha Roy, the deceased. “I am pained at the death of Sukanta. He was at work at a CESC electric post. I learnt from the police that CESC had misled them. CESC told them that they can start work because the overhead wire had been deactivated. But the fire department employee got electrocuted. Negligence is also a crime. I will ask police to take action against the offender,” the CM said. The CM announced Rs 10 lakh compensation for Sinha Roy’s family and a job for one of the family members. Three people from CESC were taken into custody by Belur police station. They have been charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder under section 304 IPC. Police have also seized a CESC van. The fire services team had been called in to help CESC chop off the huge tree that was making it impossible for the latter to restore power in the area. The fire brigade team alleged that it had asked a CESC team of three who were present in the area to cut off power supply. Sinha Roy’s colleagues said that it was only after the CESC team assured that power had been switched off that the 27-year-old climbed the pole to chop the tree. He was instantly electrocuted and taken to the TL Jaiswal Hospital where he was declared dead. Sukanta hails from Hooghly’s Tarakeswar. His elder brother Sudipto, too, is in the fire services. Fire Services director-general Jagmohan rushed to the spot. “We have filed an FIR and an investigation is on. This is an unfortunate incident and if negligence is reported, appropriate action will be taken,” he said. State fire services minister a Sujit Bose said: “We have lost a bright young fire services employee solely due to CESC’s negligence. We will take legal action against CESC.” His mother Bijoli Devi has not yet been told of her son’s death. Around 11.30 am on Wednesday, Sinha Roy’s father Sushanta received a call from police. He was told his son was seriously ill and was asked to go to Howrah hospital. Sushanta, a retired government employee, left home with his elder son Sudipto. Sukanta’s cousin Pulak said, “The two brothers built a new house recently. But Sukanta won’t be at the housewarming party.” Sushanta later said: “My son would have lived and had a bright future but the laxity of CESC led to his death.” (With inputs Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey, Rupak Banerjee, Falguni Banerjee, Suman Chakraborti & Koushik Koley)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fireman-removing-branch-from-electric-pole-dies-in-line-of-duty/articleshow/76048414.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pulmonary patients suffer as Cyclone Amphan pulls plug off oxygen lifeline||KOLKATA: The week-long power outage in several pockets has landed scores of patients in respiratory distress — who rely on electricity-driven devices for oxygen support — in dire straits. Deprived of the life-saving support, many were left gasping for breath and had to seek emergency admission in nursing homes and hospitals. TOI came across several such patients whose condition had deteriorated sharply without oxygen and had to be hospitalized. Even as Amphan blew off electricity in large parts of the city, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients kept fingers crossed. While some of those using oxygen concentrators and nebulizers had battery back-up that lasted a couple of hours, the rest were left without oxygen immediately after power went off. An 80-year-old COPD patient’s family desperately called Peerless Hospital last Friday asking for nebulizer support. The hospital had to explain that it couldn’t help unless the patient got admitted. A day later, the patient’s condition deteriorated further and he had to be admitted. “He had to gasp for nearly 48 hours and it affected him badly. He has now improved, though,” said Peerless chief executive officer Sudipto Mitra. He added that such requests have been pouring in from all over the southern fringes that have been without power since last Wednesday. Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar received at least a dozen calls from respiratory patients who were left with dead devices. “Some were in such a bad state that they sought nebulizer support at the outpatient department, which was not possible. A few had to be admitted but the rest had financial constraints. It has been a torrid time for these patients and their families, particularly those with COPD,” said Dhar. While interstitial lung disease patients require oxygen concentrators, COPD patients, which include chronic bronchitis and emphycema, need nebulizers. “The latter group faces a bigger crisis. While interstitial lung disease patients can survive with oxygen cylinder support, COPD patients are usually discouraged from using them. They can’t depend on cylinders in the long run,” said AMRI Hospital consultant Debashish Saha. Many sought admission in smaller nursing homes, preferring to stay away from hospitals that have Covid patients. A 65-year-old chronic bronchitis patient from Tollygunge had to be rushed to a nursing home 10km away. He has been admitted since Saturday since his home is still without power. “He is not yet in a state to be taken off the nebulizer even for an hour. So, he has to stay at the nursing home till power returns at his home. The Covid threat is an additional risk for these patients who have low immunity in any case,” said a private hospital consultant who treated the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/without-power-respiratory-patients-suffer/articleshow/76048423.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||‘Stalker’ guard killed by couple||RAJKOT: A couple was arrested on Wednesday for the murder of an elderly security guard of a godown on Morbi Road in Rajkot on Sunday night. Police said that the deceased, identified Govind Chawda (65), had allegedly stalked the woman when she had gone to attend nature’s call. The accused, identified as Ali Mohemmed Sai (28) and his wife Nanki Begum (24), had allegedly strangled Chawda to death, said cops. “While Begum grabbed Chawda from behind, Sai strangled him with a rope in the godown on Sunday night. Before committing the crime, the accused had smashed the CCTV camera in the godown. However, a resident from the area testified to the fact that he had seen Sai in conversation with Chawda. When we nabbed Sai, he confessed to the crime,” said Jaideepsinh Sarvaiya, assistant commissioner of police, Rajkot crime branch. After killing Chawda, the couple packed his body in a gunny bag and dumped it in a heap of other gunny bags. On Tuesday afternoon, as stench started emanating from the decomposed body, the labourers suspected a foul play and called the cops. Sai and his wife told the cops that Chawda was a pervert. He had the habit of watching Begum attending nature’s call in the open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stalker-guard-killed-by-couple/articleshow/76046623.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Locust swarms smaller but still persist in region||Nagpur: Locust swarms seem to have left Kalmeshwar near city and made an entry into Mohadi and Tumsar tehsils of Bhandara district, also hovering over other parts of Nagpur and Wardha districts. Officials chasing the pest reported the numbers had reduced substantially from a swarm of 17 km length that was seen on Monday. Teams of the state’s agriculture department told TOI the swarms were of 2 km to less than 1 km on Wednesday. Swarms were spotted in Tumsar tehsil of Bhandara at around 5:30 pm and then they disappeared into forest area, said the district agriculture officer (DAO) here. A swarm was then spotted at Temni village in Tumsar tehsil at around 10 pm after which the department began pesticide spraying operations. The department’s officials have mantained that so far there has been no major loss to any crop. The summer crop of paddy which is grown in irrigated areas is due to be harvested in Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur districts. The department has not received any call from farmers complaining of losses, said the DAO. Ravindra Bhosle, joint director agriculture (JDA) for Nagpur division, said it may be too early to say the numbers had gone down. This can be judged only when the locust settles down after sun down. He said the spraying will begin in the night when the settlement is identified. “May be Monday’s massive spraying in Katol helped but no conclusions can be drawn,” he said. From Kalmeshwar, the locust had gone towards Parseoni. There were reports that a swarm had also gone towards Gorewada in Nagpur but that could no be confirmed, said Bhosle. From Ghatrona village in Parseoni tehsil the pest was seen in Ramtek and Mouda and finally in Bhandara district, he said. Subhash Nagre, JDA for Amravati division, said locust had left Amvarati district. In Bhandara it was seen in almost a dozen villages of Tumsar and Mohadi tehsils. R V Wasnik, taluka agriculture officer (TAO) of Mouda, said the swarms were seen in Aasthi, Chacher, Nisatkheda and a couple of other villages. Farmers have grown brinjal which was in its final stages. There have been reports of losses to the crop, he said. Swarms were seen in areas bordering Amravati and Wardha district, said an agriculture department source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locust-swarms-smaller-but-still-persist-in-region/articleshow/76049671.cms||Shishir Arya
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to prepare health plan for citizens||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to accord top priority to the health sector and plans are afoot to prepare a detailed health plan for providing better healthcare facilities to citizens. Civic officials said that health teams will carry out a a survey of all city residents and will prepare a detailed list of those suffering from diseases. They will also make a list of the number of people belonging to different age groups, including the number of pregnant women and children below the age group of two in the city. The list will then help the civic body to draft a comprehensive health plan for the city. To begin with, the civic body’s health teams have started conducting the survey in 25 containment zones and slums in the city. There are about 159 slums in the city with over three lakh population. Once these areas are covered, the health teams will move on to other areas of the city. “We are already conducting door-to-door surveys in containment zones across the city to find out Covid-19 suspects. Earlier, we would only consider Covid related aspects while conducting survey. Now, we have changed our format of survey,” said NMC health officials. “Instructions have been given to the teams to collect details of people suffering from various critical diseases like cancer, blood pressure, diabetic, cardiac problems, etc.,” said NMC officials. “We will conduct re-survey in the areas which have already been covered. This is mainly because we want all the survey details to be in the new format. We have began collecting data in the new format since Wednesday,” NMC officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-prepare-health-plan-for-citizens/articleshow/76046600.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 28, 2020||Pune||Flight movement at Pune airport increases||PUNE: A total of 20 flight movements — inbound and outbound — were recorded at the city airport till 8.30pm on Wednesday — three more than that on entire Monday, the day the domestic plane services resumed after Covid-19 lockdown. The number is expected to go up significantly because the city airport is known for heavy traffic of red-eye flights, which operate late in the night. On Tuesday, as many as 28 flight operations were recorded at the Lohegaon facility — almost double in comparison to Monday’s 17. “There was no flight cancellation on Tuesday unlike Monday. Though the schedule isn’t final for Thursday, we are expecting an addition of some more flights,” an airport official said. On Monday, a total of 1,657 flyers travelled to and from the airport and 2,153 on Tuesday. “Till 8.30pm on Wednesday, a total of 1,618 passengers have flown in and out of the airport. As many as 1,208 passengers flew out and 410 arrived,” the official added. The city traffic police said over 60 private cab drivers had been given permission to ferry passengers from the airport. “We have been running the ‘Dial an Autorickshaw’ service, which is concentrating on the airport rides. Around 60-70 cabs have been given permission to ply exclusively for passengers arriving at the airport. The passengers can book them on way home from the airport. These cabs are, however, not for passengers coming to the airport. Those coming to the airport can travel in their personal vehicles or autorickshaws,” Surendra Deshmukh, the assistant commissioner of police (traffic), told TOI. At present, a total of 350 autorickshaws are plying as a part of the airport service. “If we feel that there is a need to increase the number of autorickshaws, we shall do so,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flight-movement-at-airport-increases/articleshow/76049632.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 19,000 beds available, 2,000 more on cards||PUNE: The district administration will add 2,000 more beds for coronavirus patients from the private sector to its tally of 19,863 in the coming days. Sharing this information, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday said 3,000 beds were currently occupied by Covid-19 patients. “As of now, we have enough facilities and with additional facilities from private sector our beds will increase and we should be comfortable for the next two months,” the collector said. Currently, the administration has readied 698 ICU beds, 300 ventilator beds, 265 oxygen supply beds and 144 ambulances have been added for the district with two ambulances attached to all the Covid care units, he added. A total of 5,135 beds have been made available in Pune city, 3,205 beds in the PCMC areas and 11,523 in the rural areas of the district, data provided by the district administration stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-19k-beds-available-2k-more-on-cards/articleshow/76049647.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 28, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: With first case in Bundi, all 33 districts in Rajasthan affected||JAIPUR/KOTA: All districts of the state now have Covid-19 cases with Bundi being the latest addition where a person was found infected. As on Wednesday, 280 cases were reported across the state in addition to three deaths. The death toll now stands at 173 and the infected count at 7,816. A 22-year-old woman, who recently returned from Mumbai, tested positive in Bundi. “The woman is a resident of Shankarpura village. She returned from Mumbai along with her two children on Monday night and was put in institutional quarantine facility. Her samples were taken on Tuesday. She was found infected with the virus though her two children tested negative,” said Bundi collector Antar Singh Nehra. Among the casualties are a 78-year-old man, resident of Bagru Walon Ka Rasta of Chandpole area in the Walled City. He was admitted to SMS Hospital on Tuesday and he died on the same day. He had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease. A 35-year-old woman, who failed to reach hospital on time, was declared brought dead at SMS Hospital on Tuesday. Her samples were taken after her death and she was found infected on Wednesday. She was a resident of Handipura Katla in Kishanpole Bazaar. There was one more casualty who is yet to be identified. Districts which reported cases are Jhalawar (64), Jaipur (42), Jodhpur (33), Pali (21), Kota (18), Sikar (13), Nagaur (12), Bharatpur (10), Rajsamand (9), Bikaner (9), Hanumangarh (7), Bhilwara (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Udaipur (6), Tonk (4), Baran (3), Sriganganagar (3), Sirohi (2), Dholpur (2), Karauli (2), Bundi (1), Chittorgarh (1), Dausa (1), Barmer(1), Dungarpur (1) Ajmer (1) and and one from other state. In Jaipur, five persons each were found infected in Tilak Nagar and Central jail, four from Shastri Nagar, three from police lines and two from Chandpole area, while one each tested positive from Sanganer, Shivdaspura, Jhotwara, Sanwalia, Ramganj, Mansarovar, Kartarpura, Mahesh Nagar, MD Road, Phagi, Van Vihar housing colony, Kanshali, Hingonia, Harsoli, Sunderpura, Itawa, Luniyawas, Lalasar, Gadri, Badhal, Jyoti Nagar, Jawahar Nagar and Sirsi Road. The number of migrants who tested positive since May 1 has increased to 2,114 and out of those, 103 were found infected with the virus on Wednesday. As many as 288 more have been cured 19 bringing the tally of such patients to 4,562.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-33-districts-have-covid-cases-bundi-latest-addition/articleshow/76049678.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Stress on planned start of public transport||PUNE: Transport activists and experts have called for careful and planned resumption of public transport in Pune Municipal Corporation limits. "For a certain section of people, public transport is very important and livelihoods are linked to it directly or indirectly. There can be restrictions and regulations, but public transport needs to start in a phased manner," Sanjay Shitole, a senior member of the PMP Pravasi Manch, said. Sujit Patwardhan of Parisar, a non-governmental organisation, said that increasing the number of public transport options is the need of the hour. "The new normal cannot be like the old normal. Paris, for instance, has decided to stop movement of private vehicles in its central area. Public transport is very important for a lot of people who don’t have vehicles, but have to attend work. If buses or autorickshaws don’t start, many jobs will be lost. The same can be said about those plying these vehicles. The need of the hour is to slowly start and increase public transport options," he said. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited started bus services in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areasfrom Tuesday. "We are ready to start the service in PMC limits, but for that we need to get permission from the state government," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stress-on-planned-start-of-public-transport/articleshow/76049656.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Narayanpet district gets 15 public toilets||Hyderabad: Narayanpet district authorities have constructed 15 public toilets at a cost of Rs 10,000 in the rural areas of the district. “The toilets were built near public institutions like area hospitals, bus stops and municipal offices,” said Hari Chandana Dasari, Narayanpet collector. Construction of each public toilet and its intallation takes around two days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/narayanpet-district-gets-15-public-toilets/articleshow/76049685.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||WB: Nor’wester adds to power jitters, hits last leg of restoration work||KOLKATA: The Wednesday evening Nor’wester, exactly a week after the devastating Amphan that had played havoc with electricity lines and left lakhs of homes without power for days, triggered a fresh round of faults in some pockets and disrupted the restoration work that was on its final leg. The thunderstorm also led to power connection being hastily switched off for an hour in Salt Lake and other areas served by state-owned utility WBSEDCL. In Naktala, the storm led to a power outage in some pockets, the second in seven days. While residents were fortunate to get power back within a few hours of cyclone Amphan even as large swathes in the belt remained without electricity for days, they are wary of how long it will take to connect this time as 35,000-40,000 homes are still without power after suffering a blackout a week ago. Large parts of Kestopur-Baguiati area plunged into darkness after power got disconnected during Wednesday’s storm. A CESC official admitted any disruption caused by the Nor’wester would be an added task for the weary teams that have been working overtime to restore connections. “We have targeted 99% restoration by end of Wednesday and will be close to achieving that figure if the fresh disruptions are stray pockets. From Thursday, work will begin on the final stretch of restoration,” the official said. The 96km/hr gale that felled several trees in Kolkata again was a cause for anxiety among officials at the utility. “Ampan felled many trees but it also left a number of trees weak and vulnerable. These trees may not survive the Nor’wester. The trees that toppled on Wednesday were mostly in Kolkata proper where the network is underground. But if trees fall in areas where there is overhead network, it will cause another disruption. Only, it won’t be as widespread as it was last Wednesday,” he said. The official also pointed out that the teams engaged in restoration would switch to repair mode immediately thereafter. “Nor’wester like the one that hit the city on Wednesday evening can cause a lot of damage to the overhead network that is currently vulnerable as a lot of work that has been done is temporary in nature to restore power. We need to quickly take up repair work so that the distribution network is again robust,” the official explained. There is another reason why the repair work has to be carried out at the earliest. In several homes that have been provided connection, only use of lights and fans has been advised. Officials fear use of appliances and white goods that require more power could cause the system to trip, again plunging localities in darkness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/99-homes-connected-but-fresh-outage-a-worry/articleshow/76048428.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||With scam exposed, BVG’s garbage collection drops by 250 tonnes/day||Nagpur: With the expose of alleged scam in door-to-door garbage collection by BVG India, the total collection from Zones 6 to 10 has reduced significantly. From an average lifting of 600 tonnes garbage per day, on Wednesday the firm dumped only around 365 tonnes, or a reduction of 250 tonnes, data from NMC’s solid waste management department revealed. Shiv Sena, which had exposed the scam of artificially increasing garbage quantity by mixing mud in it, on Wednesday approached deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Vikram Sali with another complaint that BVG India has also been using private trucks to transport waste to Bhandewadi dumping area. The party said despite being prohibited in the contract agreement, the firm was using private vehicles and machines for garbage collection. It claimed to have lists of vehicles being used. On May 24, Shiv Sena city coordinator Nitin Tiwari had exposed mixing of mud in garbage by the BVG India. Following his complaint, NMC’s solid waste management department initiated an inquiry into the alleged scam. Revenue department officials had also conducted spot a panchnama and found 1,800 cubic metres of mud excavated from a piece of land. On Tuesday, Tiwari met additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and demanded action against BVG India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-scam-exposed-bvgs-garbage-collection-drops-by-250-tonnes/day/articleshow/76049718.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 28, 2020||Bengaluru||One in three homes in Karnataka vulnerable to Covid-19 virus||BENGALURU: At least one in every three households in Karnataka is vulnerable to Covid-19, an analysis of data obtained from an ongoing door-to-door survey conducted by the state government shows. The data also shows one in every 34 vulnerable homes has a person with at least one comorbidity. The survey is being conducted to build a database on the population vulnerable to infection. This data will help evolve strategies to curb the spread of infection even as both the Centre and state relax lockdown norms. As TOI reported earlier, experts working with the government have been stressing on the need to change strategy especially given the high recovery rate seen among healthy adults in the state. They say the focus should be on vulnerable populations. As per the government, all households with people above 60 years of age, those with comorbidities, senior citizens with BP, diabetes and heart problems, pregnant or lactating women and those with breathlessness, cough and fever are considered vulnerable. Government estimates show there are about 1.7 crore households in the state, and as on Tuesday night, 50.7 lakh of them have been put under the Covid-19 health watch as they have at least one vulnerable person. Further, in the 50.7 lakh households, there are 1.5 lakh persons with comorbidity, including 13,341 people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza like illness (ILI). “Once vulnerable households are identified, the plan is to give them more support and keep a track of them through Asha and anganwadi workers. After the first round, follow-up rounds will be done on vulnerable households,” a senior government official said. As of Tuesday night, the government had completed surveying about 1.1 crore households. The survey has identified 48.3 lakh people above the age of 60 and more than 4.1 lakh women who are pregnant or lactating. So far, of the 45 Covid-19 deaths recorded in the state, all have had comorbidities and at least 16 have had SARI/ILI. Of the 45 deaths, 28 or 62% are people aged above 60 years, while another 12 (27%) are between 50 years and 60 years. Dr MK Sudharshan, a public health expert and member of Karnataka’s special Covid-19 committee, while suggesting that a high number of asymptomatic cases is a good thing for the state, said: “A high percentage of asymptomatic cases shows that the immune system of the majority, especially healthy, young adults, is robust enough to overcome the virus. This means that we can now focus more on the vulnerable population.” Further, he had said that those (high-risk) with respiratory disorders or influenza among other illnesses will need to be the priority besides senior citizens and pregnant women, if the state wants to continue maintaining a low fatality rate. As of Wednesday evening, the fatality rate in Karnataka was under 2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/1-in-3-homes-in-karnataka-vulnerable-to-covid-19-virus/articleshow/76048440.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Red-zone tag limits RTO’s vehicle registration work||PUNE: With the city classified as a red zone, the Regional Transport Office (RTO), Pune, will confine its work to registration of new vehicles for some time now. However, the RTO in Pimpri Chinchwad, which has come out of the red zone, will carry out other works, such as issuance of permits, duplicate licences, change in details of vehicle owner etc. A senior Pune RTO officer said, “We received a letter on Tuesday from the transport commissioner stating that RTOs in red zones won’t conduct any other work apart from registration of new vehicles.” Vinod Sagare, deputy RTO, Pimpri Chinchwad, told TOI, “Work pertaining to vehicle registration, renewal of permits, fitness certificates, transfer of ownership etc will be carried out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/red-zone-tag-limits-rtos-vehicle-registration-work/articleshow/76049658.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 28, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan orders database on 13 lakh migrants to re-employ them in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday rolled out a massive exercise to create a database on migrant labourers who have returned in the lockdown period so that the government can re-employ them in the state and help them wherever they go in search of work. “If any labourer goes to earn livelihood in some other state, then their record must be maintained so that we can take care of them there, too,” Chouhan told ANI, ordering district collectors to gather information on every labourer who leaves MP to work elsewhere. Some 6.5 lakh migrants have returned to the state during the Covid-19 lockdown, many having walked hundreds of kilometres in utter misery. The migrant survey started on Wednesday at the panchayat level. With this ‘skill register’, the MP government proposes to develop a two-way portal -- information about the workers on one and prospective employers who could give them jobs on the other – and bridge the two with ‘Rozgar Setu’ (employment bridge) scheme. “Rozgar Setu will provide jobs to skilled workers. For this, skilled workers and employers should be brought together on a portal. Shram Siddhi Abhiyan has been launched to provide work to unskilled labourers,” the CM said at a meeting, adding that 10-13 lakh workers are expected to return to MP because of reverse migration due to the Coronavirus crisis. Chouhan asked officials to work out a short-term plan to provide immediate work to skilled migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-orders-database-on-13-lakh-migrants-to-re-employ-them-in-mp/articleshow/76049684.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Old issues of food quality crop up with new caterer at Q centres||Nagpur: In a late night drama on Tuesday, a fight broke out between several inmates and an NMC official after they complained to him about alleged poor quality food and contaminated water served at Pachpaoli police quarantine centre. Though Pachpaoli police officials denied having received any complaint, the inmates accused an NMC official of misbehaving with them under the influence of alcohol. In a video they posted on social media, the inmates are seen mobbing the official and animatedly complaining that they have gone hungry for entire day. Some inmates also threw steel buckets from the upper floors of a wing near the mob. The cops intervened and took the official with them before arranging some fruits and biscuits for the inmates who refused to eat the food provided to them. At the same time, similar complaints over food and water were reported from quarantine centres at MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati, Symbiosis and VNIT too. Such confrontations have been happening since past few weeks when Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) took over food arrangements and frequently changed contractors. On Tuesday too, services of the private caterers were stopped and the NMC roped in Radha Saomi Satsang which is reportedly providing the food for free. The religious group has also provided its sprawling 190-acre campus for setting up a 500-bed Covid Care Centre (CCC) near Kalmeshwar. At its campus, the group had assured to provide free food from its kitchen. In the run-up to starting the CCC, the NMC decided to start its service at existing quarantine centres. NMC additional commissioner Ram Joshi said the quality of food provided by Radha Saomi Satsang had been approved by top authorities, including himself. “They are offering it as a community service. They follow best hygiene practices. Being a religious group, they are using less spices and oil. It is kind of satvik food having plain dal and grams. May be the inmates didn’t like it though it is healthy food,” he said. Joshi said around 50 inmates didn’t eat. “We asked the volunteers to make it more spicy after which no problem was reported on Wednesday,” he said. A contractor has been hired to provide water, tea, coffee, biscuit and milk beside transporting the breakfast, lunch and dinner from the Satsang’s Kalmeshwar kitchen to the centres. NMC is paying Rs52 per person to this contractor. Pachpaoli senior PI Kishor Nagrale said water problem was reported and 100 cans were brought after which situation came under control. “The inmates complained the food was stale,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/old-issues-of-food-quality-crop-up-with-new-caterer-at-q-centres/articleshow/76049709.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Nepalese head home amid uncertainty over lockdown||Shimla: Amid uncertainty over the extension of lockdown and curfew in Himachal Pradesh, migrant workers from Nepal have started heading back home from Shimla. On Wednesday, 53 Nepalese packed in two buses left for Rupaidiha, a village in Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh near the India-Nepal border across from Nepalgunj. People from the neighbouring country, who had come here in search of livelihood, were finding it difficult to survive without work during the lockdown since March 23. Return of these workers is a going to raise further problems as it will not only affect construction activities in Shimla but also the coming apple season starting from June 15. Farmers are worried how to arrange workers during the season. As per estimates, around 4-5 lakh labourers are engaged during the apple season, out of which 75% are from Nepal. A large number of them are also engaged in construction activities by private contractors. Dorna Lal, one of the Nepalese residents going home, said due to the lockdown, survival had become difficult. “And worried about our well-being and livelihood, our family members wanted us to return,” he added. Kalawati, who also decided to return along with her husband, said it was difficult to survive without an earning. Her husband said if the lockdown is lifted later, they will think of returning, provided they get permission for the same. Tikender Khadga said without work, they could not stay in Shimla for long as arranging for ration was also becoming a tough task. He said 53 people paid Rs 3,000 each for bus journey to reach Rupaidiha border between India and Nepal. Surender Kumar Thakur, owner of Prabhat Bus Service from Totu in Shimla, whose buses will ferry these migrant workers to Rupaidha, said as these migrants worked as labourers in Ghanahatti and Totu, they knew about his bus service and approached him to drop them till Nepal border. He said total journey is around 900 kms from Shimla and he expects to return by Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nepalese-head-home-amid-uncertainty-over-lockdown/articleshow/76050716.cms||Anand Bodh
May 28, 2020||Hyderabad||New flyover and underpass ready||Hyderabad: A flyover and underpass in LB Nagar will be opened to public from Thursday. The 940-meter flyover at Kamineni junction and a vehicle underpass have been built under SRDP. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-flyover-and-underpass-ready/articleshow/76049693.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Residents keep gap as local markets open up in Pune||PUNE: The residents of Vimannagar, Kalyaninagar and parts of Kharadi observed absolute social distancing norms as they stepped out to visit grocery, stationery and toy shops as well as to repair bikes and four-wheelers at garages. The markets in these areas have opened up in keeping with the latest guidelines. Shop owners have also placed innovative barricades as entry into stores is restricted and customers may only make purchases over the counter. A bottle of sanitizer is seen placed at the entrance of almost every shop in the area. Ravi Sharma, owner of a mobile repair shop in Vimannagar, said, “We are asking each customer to stop at the entrance and handover the cellphone for repair. Nobody is allowed inside the shop. We have safe distance marks outside the store and customers diligently follow the rules.” Geeta Jeswani, who lives in Neco Gardens Society in Vimannagar, said, “Many shops in the area have tied ropes at the entrance so that nobody enters the premises. It is a good thing as customers do not end up touching items inside the shop. This should help keep the spread of infection at bay to some extent.” In Kharadi, supermarkets are ensuring that customers are given tokens with date and time to avoid overcrowding. Roshan Aggrawal, manager at a supermarket, said, “We allow only 10 customers at a time. So we decided to issue coupons on daily basis. Customers can collect the coupons a day in advance.” In Kalyaninagar, a toy shop has set up a new safety grill. Shop owner Bhavesh Jain said, “Along with customers, our own safety is equally important. So we installed the iron grill at the counter and employed an extra worker to get the required items from within the shop to the customer. The system helps keep everyone safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-keep-gap-as-local-markets-open-up/articleshow/76049675.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||SOMA seeks cash doles for poor to push demand in market||RAJKOT: Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA) has urged the central government to give cash doles to poor and other vulnerable groups to increase demand in domestic market. The largest groundnut oil producers’ organization in a letter to union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman stated, “We request you to disburse significant amount as cash doles in the account of poor, farmers, labourers and middle class. This will increase the demand in the market. This is the only solution and most of the countries have done so and renowned economists are also suggesting the same.” SOMA’s representation also highlighted that government’s decision to provide collateral free loans worth Rs 3 lakh to MSMEs may not work. According to SOMA in the current situation banks are not willing to disburse collateral free loans and without demand industry people are not willing to borrow the money from the banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/soma-seeks-cash-doles-for-poor-to-push-demand-in-market/articleshow/76046646.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Kolkata||96kmph gale uproots more trees across Kolkata||KOLKATA: Exactly a week after cyclone Amphan had roared through Kolkata, a 96km/hr Nor’wester swept through the city on Wednesday evening, accompanied by a spell of blinding rain. It uprooted trees and left roads waterlogged at parts of north and south Kolkata, hampering power restoration and road-clearance efforts across the city. The Met office has predicted more such thunderstorms between Friday and Sunday under the impact of a low-pressure trough that will sail across south Bengal. The city received 33mm rain on Wednesday. The Nor’wester struck at 6.23pm on Wednesday following a humid afternoon. It led to uprooting of trees at Jadavpur University, Rashbehari Avenue, Behala, SC Mullick Road, Sarat Bose Road, Belgachhia and Beadon Street. Trees also toppled on Northern Avenue and Gorabagan Street. A house at Telengabagan in north Kolkata was damaged. A low-pressure trough across Uttar Pradesh and Assam, which had been triggering thunderstorms across north Bengal since Monday, slid southward, leading to the Nor’wester. “It was aided by heating across the plains of Bihar and Jharkhand that drew moisture from a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal. We expect more thunderstorms across south Bengal from Friday to Sunday. There could be sporadic heavy showers as the low-pressure trough moves south and travels toward north Bay of Bengal,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. The trough between Uttar Pradesh and Assam triggered thundershowers across north Bengal. It was aided by a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal which supplied moisture and led to a strong breeze in Kolkata. “The wind from the sea travelled from south to north across Kolkata. It continued till the low-pressure in north Bengal existed. It is now travelling towards south Bengal, which has led to thunderstorms across Gangetic Bengal. These troughs are common in the pre-monsoon period,” said a weather scientist. Kolkata had remained windy and cloudy under the impact of the trough since Monday. On Wednesday, though, Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram, West Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas were lashed by thunderstorms. “The entire region could receive more storms,” added Das. Several roads were waterlogged at Dum Dum and Belgachhia. MG Road, Muktarambabu Street, Sukeas Street, Amherst Street, Camac Street, Ekbalpore and Behala were flooded as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/96kmph-gale-uproots-more-trees-across-city/articleshow/76048438.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay to students: Come to campus at your own risk||MUMBAI: In a career-impacting decision, the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay has informed its students and parents about maintaining caution while returning to campus for the ensuing term in wake of the Covid-19 crisis. In a circular released on Wednesday, the institute has expressed its limitations in providing medical treatment to campus residents. It has informed students that they may choose to not return to campus for the coming term on medical grounds. As step two, the college senate will take a call on whether classes will take place on campus or virtually. A term at IIT-B starts in the last week of July and lasts till November-end. The faculty are wondering if the institute can start online classes and are awaiting clarity from senior deans. In the circular, registrar Prem Kumar stated over the past two months, most references from the IIT-B hospital, largely consultative in nature, were to medical facilities not empanelled by the institute. In the circular titled ‘Change in rule governing students on return to campus following Covid-19 lockdown,’ Kumar said tertiary care hospitals in Mumbai were converted into Covid centres, causing a significant reduction in bed availability for other ailments. That, he added, would have a bearing on providing healthcare assistance to students too. He stated students ought to be apprised of the institute’s limitations in this advisory. “It has always been our endeavour to get the students treated in a most suitable way. However, due to most medical resources occupied with Covid-19 patient care, the institute will have limitations in getting students treated. In the interest of students, this information is communicated beforehand as a caution,” the letter read. Students opting to not return must send in an application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-b-to-students-come-to-campus-at-your-own-risk/articleshow/76049727.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: 82-year-old rammed by SUV||RAJKOT: An 82-year-old man was rammed by an SUV allegedly by two assailants in Kukama village of Bhuj taluka in Kutch district on Tuesday evening. Police said after Kuldeepsinh Rathod and Ajitsinh Jadeja hit Juvansinh Sodha with the vehicle, Sodha’s one leg had to be amputated and the other leg was fractured. According to the police, the attack was the result of an old enmity between the accused and Sodha’s son Savaisinh Sodha. Ten days ago, Rathod, his brother Ajaysinh Rathod and Jadeja were sitting on Sodha’s verandah and used foul language. Savaisinh asked them to go away. Next day, when Savaisinh took up the issue with the Rathod’s father Hanubha, an altercation broke out between them, in which Savaisinh allegedly slapped Hanubha. Nursing a grudge against Savaisinh and his family, the accused decided to teach him a lesson and committed the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/82-year-old-rammed-by-suv/articleshow/76046663.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nashik||Audio clip to woo prospective gold buyers goes viral on social media||Nashik: A two-minute audio clip made by Nashik Jewellers’ Association to boost the sale of gold and silver ornaments in doing rounds on the internet. The clip has been shared across various social media platforms, including WhatsApp. The audio clip begins with the members of the association informing people about the right time to invest in gold. In the clip, they share their views about the current Covid-19 situation and its impact on the economy as well as the gold rate. The association has directed its over 1,200 members in the city to make the clip viral so that it reaches maximum number of people. With the auspicious occasion of Gurupushyamrut falling on May 28, the association is optimistic that the sale of gold ornaments would go up. “While all sectors in the country have been affected due to Covid-19, it is only gold that has fetched around 15% returns during the lockdown period. Gold prices have shot up from Rs 46,800 (excluding GST) before lockdown to Rs 48,200 per 10 gram so far,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president of the Nashik Jewellers Association. “We have made an audio clip to create positivity among gold buyers advising them that gold is a safe mode of investment. Even some economists have also projected that gold prices will increase further,” said Rajapurkar. Rajapurkar said that many people have contacted jewellers asking for gold coins, bars and biscuits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/audio-clip-to-woo-prospective-gold-buyers-goes-viral-on-social-media/articleshow/76046654.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Social media helps eateries to connect||By: Anjali.Jhangiani PUNE: Restaurants, cafes and bars across the city have found ways to stay connected with their clientele during the lockdown, thanks to social media platforms.  Sandy Singh, partner, Swig and Euriska, said, "Even though we are closed now, we wanted to continue with crowd engagement through our social media channels. People can grab a drink in the comfort of their homes and tune into our handle on Fridays when we feature techno music." Another venue providing a platform to budding artists is High Spirits Cafe. “We started by reaching out to artists we have worked with in the past and asked them if they would do a live performance for our social media handles. Artists then started reaching out to us, asking to be featured on our pages," said Somesh Narwani, F&B and marketing manager, High Spirits Cafe. Performances are broadcast every Friday and Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon. Nukkad Cafe has also been providing an online platform to poets and writers in the city. "We have started an initiative called native music on Wednesday nights where we feature an hour-long performance by an artist playing traditional instruments," said Vaibhav Paliwal, owner, Nukkad Cafe. "We have also compiled some of the best work by aspiring writers who regularly attended these events, and published it as a Kindle book," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-media-helps-eateries-to-connect/articleshow/76049713.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: HC seeks details of maintenance staff at LGP||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday directed the state government and LG Polymers to submit details of employees who will enter the plant for regular maintenance. The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, allowed 30 employees to enter the plant for maintenance and ordered that the list of such employees be submitted to district collector. The LG Polymers management moved an interim application in the high court subsequent to the apex court order as they did not receive requisite permission from the state government to send their employees to the plant.  The state government told the high court they will comply with the order of the apex court and requisite permissions would be given to the plant authorities once they receive the employees’ list. After the advocate for LG Polymers told the court that they have already submitted the details to the authorities concerned but are yet to receive the permission, the HC directed the state government as well as LG Polymers management to submit all details pertaining to the employees who would be on maintenance duty at the plant and the permission given to them by the authorities. The court will hear the issue again on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-seeks-details-of-maintenance-staff-at-lgp/articleshow/76048458.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Pamper your palate with DIY packets||PUNE: Craving for some “pav bhaji”? Or your favourite pasta? Wistful about your favourite hangouts? You can satisfy your longing for yummy nibbles and reminisce about happier times, courtesy a few city restaurants which have come forward to help you make them at home with do-it-yourself (DIY) kits. According to Viraj Gosavi, owner of the pav bhaji outlet, the ready mix packets are a means to satisfy the yearnings of customers for pav bhaji. “We started promoting it on social media after the lockdown and the response has been phenomenal. For the last 10 days, we are delivering at least 15 to 20 packets every day within Sahakarnagar,” he said. The popular multi-location Italian restaurant chain, on the other hand, is helping patrons spend family time together with DIY pasta kits. “We wanted to provide people with the option of having delicious healthy food at home while also spending time together preparing it,” said Amrut Mehta from the restaurant. While some restaurants are engaging with customers over food, many are conducting workshops. Raja Bahadur Mills, owner Umang Pittie said, “We started with a virtual paint party even before the Janta Curfew. We wanted to engage with the community and bring joy to Pune.” Saba Poonawalla, a makeup artist from the city, said, “I conducted a 30-minute makeup tutorial and the response was amazing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pamper-your-palate-with-diy-packets/articleshow/76049720.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC stickers on houses of arriving travellers to enforce home quarantine||Nagpur: With domestic flights resuming, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has come up with a new strategy to display stickers on the houses of air passengers, to ensure compulsory home quarantine of 14 days. The same is likely to be implemented soon for those coming by road and railways to the city. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane has been appointed nodal officer for immigrants. A joint special team of NMC and police department has been constituted to paste the stickers as well as monitor air passengers for 14 days. Stringent action will be taken against violators.” Mundhe added similar strategy will be implemented for people coming from other parts of the state or country by road and railways. “Our team will obtain list of people from the police department. Teams will go to each and every household and check their health status and display stickers of home quarantine,” he said. Mundhe said much depends upon the support from people. “All have to take care of themselves and their society. In case of any type of symptoms, they should call NMC’s control room or get tested for Covid-19. We are also appealing to the people to inform us in case anyone in their area comes from outside and violates home quarantine norm,” he said. Mundhe said, “It has been made mandatory for all private doctors and hospitals to test patients of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and fever for Covid-19, especially those having travel history. Also, private doctors and hospitals have to inform us immediately about such patients.” Already, NMC has started testing all suspicious home deaths for Covid-19 in containment zones and likely to extend it to non-containment zones in coming days. Mundhe said all these measures will help identify corona positive patients, trace contacts, end chains and contain spread of Covid-19. In Nagpur Rural, teams of health and revenue department are taking swab samples of people who came from other states, districts or those who have any symptoms. It helped in detection of some Covid-19 cases in last five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-stickers-on-houses-of-arriving-travellers-to-enforce-home-quarantine/articleshow/76049846.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 28, 2020||Nashik||1 more death, 48 new cases in Nashik district||Nashik: One more Covid-19 patient died late on Tuesday night, while 48 new patients were tested positive in Nashik district on Wednesday. Of them, 10 are from Nashik city. With addition of these new cases, the district’s tally has touched 1,058, including 138 positive cases in the city. A 73-year-old Covid-19 positive patient from Pakhal Road area of the city, who was undergoing treatment Nashik district civil hospital, succumbed to the infection on Tuesday night. So far, the city has had 8 Covid-related deaths. A youth from the Mahalaxmi theatre area and one of his high-risk contacts tested positive on Wednesday. A high-risk contact of a patient from Ramnagar area also was infected. Two from Datta Mandir area of Nashik Road, who have Mumbai travel history of Mumbai, were also positive. Moreover, a resident of Dipali Nagar area, who has a business of selling PPE kits and a travel history to Mumbai, was also positive. Four more city residents from IT Park in Wadala, Dindori Naka and Rasbihari School area have tested Covid-19 positive. After few good days, Malegaon again reports 25 cases Twenty-five fresh cases, including 16 males, have been tested positive in Malegaon as the lab reports arrived on Wednesday. Five of the male patients are policemen who are posted at Malegaon. In the last two days, there were no positive cases in Malegaon. Jalgaon crosses 500 markIn Jalgaon, the number of cases has crossed the 500-mark with 16 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. At present, the number of cases in Jalgaon stands at 508. Of them, 209 people have recovered. Talking to TOI, Jalgaon district guardian minister Gulabrao Patil said that Bhusawal and Jalgaon are the most vulnerable zones in the district. “Bhusawal has a big railway station which witnesses the movement of migrant workers. I fear this could be the reason for Covid-19 infection spreading in Bhusawal,” Patil said. He was critical of the police for not enforcing the lockdown properly. However, he said the situation in the district is under control. “The recovery rate in about 40% in our district, which should be considered satisfactory,” he said. According to him, about a fortnight back, the Amalner taluka was a hotspot in the district which, at that time, had 103 patients. But currently, there are no fresh cases there. Sources in the government medical college hospital at Jalgaon said that most of the patients who have died due to the infection were brought to the hospital at the last stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1-more-death-48-new-cases-in-nashik-district/articleshow/76046674.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Water, power cuts bug PCMC area residents||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: As the maximum temperature rises, citizens in many parts of Pimpri Chinchwad are forced to reel under the double whammy of electricity and water cuts. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has announced water closure for Thursday and possible disturbances in supply on Friday. This is just an addition to the severe water cuts that citizens have been forced to put up with over the past one week. “The population (in the twin cities) has increased but we are still drawing as much raw water as we drew three years ago. Steps to cut down on non-revenue water is still under way and is likely to be delayed by six months due to lockdown and consequent shortage of labour,” executive engineer Ramdas Tambe said. This even as Pavana dam — the main source of water supply to the twin township — was about 33% full as on May 27 against 19% on the same date of 2019. He said the projects to bring more water from Bhama-Askhed and Andra dams was still a work in progress. “Space to hold water is not a problem. The problem is about supply,” Manohar Reddy, a Pimpri Chinchwad resident, said. Since PCMC has also undertaken pre-monsoon works, there is also supply disturbances of electricity. An MSEDCL official said Wednesday’s disruption was caused by road digging as some cables snapped during the road laying work in Pimple Saudagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-power-cuts-bug-pcmc-area-residents/articleshow/76049721.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Paedophiles ‘cyber grooming’ children for pornography||Nagpur: Maharashtra cyber intelligence and analytical cell has issued an advisory, warning parents regarding paedophiles ‘cyber grooming’ children for pornographic posts by luring them with various incentives and offers. The government of Maharashtra has launched ‘Operation Blackface’ to tackle such child pornography. A steep rise in browsing of pornographic posts during lockdown following Covid outbreak has brought with it the peril of vulnerable children falling prey to paedophiles. The criminals generally lure children with various incentives like free recharge, gift hampers, branded materials at cheapest rates and so on. Earlier, state home minister Anil Deshmukh too had released a video warning netizens of stringent action, especially if children are victimized through rackets operating online. He had also appealed to the masses to refrain from indulging in such activities involving children or women. IGP, Maharashtra cyber security cell, Yashasvi Yadav said around 146 offences were registered and 46 people arrested under ‘Operation Blackface’ across the state. “Maharashtra cyber cell has taken the highest number of actions against child pornographic site viewers and users,” he said. Explaining the modus operandi, Yadav said paedophiles and their rackets are ‘cyber grooming’ children. “The racketeers first befriend the children as gaming partners or chat friends, and then strengthen the bonding by buying them internet connections or data recharges,” he said. “After gaining their confidence, the paedophiles extend their friendship to the extent that they get the children involved in the pornographic activities and later start blackmailing them,” said Yadav. He said his unit is working on a number of projects but the actions under Operation Blackface have been stepped up. Yadav, who issued the advisory, said parents have been alerted now regarding the use of internet by their children unsupervised. “Viewing pornography is banned in India but people are using Virtual Private Networks (VPN) .These VPNs are used for child pornography too and hence we are after it,” he said. Yadav said the ‘dark net’ is also used to sell, promote and propagate child pornography, which is a challenge. “The dark nets are not easy to trace but Maharashtra cyber cell is equipped with the best of the equipment and we have six topmost experts to deal with such critical problems too,” said the IGP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/paedophiles-cyber-grooming-children-for-pornography/articleshow/76049729.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Man murders friend following drunken brawl||Nagpur: Sonegaon police have arrested a man for allegedly stoning his friend to death following a drunken brawl on Wednesday at Khapri. The accused, identified as Shashank Mahurle, was nabbed by Sonegaon police within hours of the murder coming to fore. Police said Mahurle and Sunil Yadav knew each other from several years. On Wednesday, the duo had drinks and were sitting at a roadside kiosk when they got into a quarrel over a petty old issue. The quarrel soon turned violent and the duo started fighting. Mahurle stoned Yadav to death before fleeing the spot. A passer-by witnessed the incident and soon informed police control room. A message was conveyed to Sonegaon police who rushed to the spot. Cops sent the body to GMCH and arrested Mahurle from the area. The accused will be produced before court on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-murders-friend-following-drunken-brawl/articleshow/76049735.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Mumbai-returned man dies of Covid-19||RAJKOT: A 69-year-old man, who had returned from Mumbai, died within 24 hours of testing positive on Wednesday. Official sources Dilip Sanghani and his wife Vasanti had returned from Matunga in Mumbai and were quarantined at a hotel. The couple tested positive on Tuesday night and shifted to a private hospital. Sanghani died during the treatment. A two-month-old girl from Kharachiya village in Rajkot taluka also tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 99.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mumbai-returned-man-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76046702.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru has just 1 active case||Mysuru: With the discharge of a patient, active cases in Mysuru dropped to one on Wednesday. Mysuru has not reported a single case since a week. The district had reported 92 cases. As on date 8,500 samples have been tested of which 92 were postive. So far 91 have been discharged. District authorities said 350 who have returned from various states are under facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-has-just-1-active-case/articleshow/76044900.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Migrant workers reach home, send thanks||AURANGABAD: Migrant workers, who have reached their hometowns in other states and within Maharashtra, have sent their gratitude to the volunteers in Aurangabad who had helped arrange for food, temporary shelter and transportation for them when they were stranded here. In the second week of May, when the migrant crisis was at its peak, a group of volunteers, including Vivek Dhanuka, Yatin Jain, Prasuk Jain, Rajesh Tipsetwar, Sagar Rasal, Prakash Gaikwad, Magan Khare, Chetan Rajput and Shubham Rajput, started helping the workers walking to their homes from Aurangabad and other parts of Maharashtra. Lions Club of Aurangabad Midtown and Aurangabad Vyapari Mahasangh provided temporary accommodation to the workers. “At first, we just distributed food and water to the workers who were walking in the sun. But later, we realised that it is not enough as they were determined to cover hundreds of kilometre on foot to their homes,” said Vivek Dhanuka, a businessman. Centre for Applied Research and People’s Engagement (Carpe) founder Natasha Zarine and Rukmani Kapoor joined the cause to ensure that the workers and their families are transported home. In coordination with district collector Uday Chaudhari, police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad and Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, the group of volunteers have so far been successful in ensuring that more than 2,500 workers get home safely. They arranged and pooled in money for 17 trips of private buses to send the workers to their homes in Chandrapur, Akola, Nagpur, Parbhani, Osmanabad and other districts within Maharashtra. Carpe also used crowdfunding to sponsor seven bus trips to send workers to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Until Tuesday, Aurangabad had sent 15 trains to send migrant workers to UP, MP, Bihar and Jharkhand. The volunteers also coordinated with the workers and the administration to help them board the trains. However, the most rewarding moment for them came when they heard back from the workers after they reached home. Shivaji Yadav sent a picture of his family and said: “Amhi khup abhari aahot (we are very thankful)”. Rarajah Haridih from Odisha told volunteers, “God will reward them for the kind work.” The volunteers said that almost 99% of the migrant workers have said that they will return to work in Maharashtra once things normalise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrant-workers-reach-home-send-thanks/articleshow/76046700.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 28, 2020||Rajkot||Uprooted tree injures 2 bikers||Rajkot: Two riding on bike got crushed under a tree in Chamardi village of Babra taluka of Amreli district on Wednesday. According to the police, an old tree uprooted because of heavy wind in the coastal area and fell on the bike carrying a man and a woman. Daya Monpara (35) and Nanduben Koladia (70) received severe injuries and were referred to Rajkot from a government hospital in Babra. A car parked near the tree also got crushed under the weight of the tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/uprooted-tree-injures-2-bikers/articleshow/76046721.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Chorus grows for electricity bill waiver||Aurangabad: The demand for waving the monthly electricity bill of all the consumers is gathering momentum with Aurangabad-based citizen group submitting a memorandum to the state government, claiming that income of many families has taken a hit due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The monthly bills corresponding to the period of lockdown must be waived completely. It will offer some relief to families under financial stress due to the lockdown. The government should take a decision to this effect at the earliest,” civic activist Rajendra Datey Patil said. “Salaried employees from the private sector, dailywage workers and farmers are among the worst-hit due to the outbreak of Covid 19, as their income has taken a massive beating,” he added. Meanwhile, amid the strained financial conditions due to non-recovery of bills during the current lockdown, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has appealed to consumers to pay monthly bills using online payment facilities. The state power utility has already announced that it would not levy delayed-payment charges on consumers during the lockdown. Notably, citing poor recovery of monthly bills from consumers during the current lockdown, state energy minister Nitin Raut has already sought financial help worth Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre for the benefit of the state power utility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chorus-grows-for-electricity-bill-waiver/articleshow/76046715.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur getting 40MLD more water to meet summer demand||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation has increased water supply to Nagpur city by almost 40MLD (million litres per day). Water works committee chairman Vijay Zalke told TOI, “With the temperature touching 47 degree Celsius, the demand for water in Nagpur city too has increased. So NMC’s water works department has increased city’s water supply by 40 MLD.”On average the NMC used to supply around 640MLD water. Of this, 220MLD was from Kanhan river, while the rest was pumped from Pench, he said.“Since April, NMC had increased the water supply by around 30MLD and was supplying 670MLD. Now, as mercury soared, consumption too has increased with water being used in coolers. So, we are supplying around 710MLD water now,” said Zalke.“Besides this, NMC is also supplying water through 302 tankers,” he said. NMC has deployed 226 tankers for non-network areas, while Orange City Water, the private firm handling city water supply, has deployed 82. These tankers are making around 2,400 trips a day.Mayor Sandip Joshi held a meeting of office-bearers and officials from NMC’s Water Works Department and Orange City Water over water situation in the city on Wednesday. Former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke, senior BJP corporators Dayashankar Tiwari, leader of opposition and Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve, health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja, superintending engineer (water works) Shweta Banerjee, executive engineer Milind Ganvir, OCW CEO Sanjoy Roy, OCW director Singh were among those present. “Most elected representatives mentioned low pressure supply due to rampant usage of ‘Tullu’ pumps,” Zalke said. According to him, the situation was grave in areas like Satranjipura, Ashi Nagar, Lakadganj and Nehru Nagar zones. “Almost every other house in these zones uses Tullu pumps,” he claimed.To overcome this, Zalke release of water in these zones twice a day. “I did that in my prabhag in east Nagpur,” he said adding it not only reduced number of water tankers trips from 80 to 16 but usage of Tullu pumps too stopped.Meanwhile, following mayor’s directives, Zalke will be organising review meetings on city’s water availability zone-wise from Thursday. On Thursday, he will be holding meetings of Nehru Nagar, Hanuman Nagar and Dhantoli zones. On Friday, the meetings of Gandhibagh, Satranjipura and Lakadganj zones will be held. Meetings of Ashi Nagar, Mangalwari, Laxmi Nagar and Dharampeth zones will be held on May 30. Corporators from all zones can attend the meetings, said Zalke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-getting-40mld-more-water-to-meet-summer-demand/articleshow/76049740.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 28, 2020||Goa||Now, charter with 280 Goan seafarers to arrive tomorrow||Panaji: A flight carrying 280 seafarers from Italy to Goa has been postponed by a day and is expected to reach Goa International Airport on Friday. The Al Italia flight chartered by MSC Cruises is bringing back seafarers from cruise liner MSC Splendida. “The charter is expected to arrive on Friday morning from Rome. Around 99% of them are seafarers from Goa and a few from neighbouring states may be there,” nodal officer for stranded seafarers and ports secretary P S Reddy told TOI on Wednesday. “We will decide on their quarantine centres on Thursday,” he added. Cruise companies are in talks with the Goa and Indian governments to bring back more Goan seafarers on three charters from Europe and South America, he said. “We are expecting three charters from Lisbon (Portugal), UK and Brazil with Goan seafarers shortly,” Reddy said. Four charters with seafarers are expected to arrive from Sri Lanka on four consecutive days but the government is yet to receive confirmation. A large number of seafarers are also on their way home via the sea route. Five ships are expected to bring in almost 2,000 Goan seafarers after June 5.  “We are convincing them to disembark the Goan seafarers at MPT itself instead of taking them to Cochin or Mumbai. We are yet to receive confirmation that they will come to Goa,” he said. The Goa government, he said, is working to ensure that stranded Goan seafarers arriving by air or sea route are brought directly to Goa and don’t have to pass through red zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-charter-with-280-goan-seafarers-to-arrive-tomorrow/articleshow/76049757.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Gumla man dies of thirst, heat on Shramik rain from Goa||RANCHI: A 19-year-old migrant worker died while returning home in Gumla district on a Karmali (Goa)-Hatia (Ranchi) Shramik special train on Wednesday. The migrants were without food, water on the train which was delayed by five hours. While sources said the man died because of thirst, dehydration and exhaustion caused by the searing heat in central India, officials said the body has been sent for autopsy to ascertain the cause of death. Ashok Gope, a resident of Gumla's Sisai block who worked at a hotel in Goa, had no symptoms of any ailment when he boarded the train at Karmali station in Goa on Monday. When the train arrived at Bilaspur railway station in Madhya Pradesh around 1am on Wednesday, Gope complained of dizziness and collapsed on his berth, his co-passengers said. Another passenger said no food or water was served on the train, which was scheduled to reach Ranchi on around 5am Wednesday, but was delayed by more than five hours. Subhash Chandra Vasavan, officer in-charge of railway police station in Hatia, said, “The body was taken to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi for autopsy after the train reached Hatia around 10:30 am.” However, the post-mortem cannot take place before Gope's samples are tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-man-dies-of-thirst-heat-on-shramik-rain-from-goa/articleshow/76048474.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Farmers take to streets, demand loan waivers||RANCHI: Farmers’ bodies across the state on Wednesday staged a protest to highlight the plight of the agriculture community during the lockdown and demanded the government to waive off their loans and take other measures for their survival. State general secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) Mahendra Pathak said the protests were held at several places in the state including Kanke, Rahe, Maheshpur Chirudih and Silli under the banner of Kisan Samanvyay Sangharsh Samiti. Apart from ABKS, farmers’ bodies such as Kisan Sangram Samiti and Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha took part in the protest. Pathak said, “While the entire country is under lockdown, farmers are working hard in the fields, but are getting extremely low prices for their produce. At several places, farmers are finding it hard to get buyers.” He added, “During the demonstrations, protesters raised slogans against the central government and demanded an allowance of Rs 10,000 per month for farmers, universalisation of the public distribution system (PDS), reduction of working hours from eight to six and 365-day work guarantee under MNREGA.” “While the Centre is writing off loans taken by capitalists, debt-ridden farmers are committing suicides. With migrants returning to the state, the agriculture sector must be promoted to provide them employment,” Pathak added. While addressing a gathering of farmers at Manha village in Ranchi, CPI district secretary Ajay Singh said the Centre has given nothing to the farmers in the economic package so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/farmers-take-to-streets-demand-loan-waivers/articleshow/76048385.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Man killed in Dumka land dispute, three held||DUMKA: A person died while several others were critically injured in a fight over a land dispute among the members of a family in Mahubana village under Ramgarh police station on Tuesday night. According to police, Suresh Mandal was killed by his father Sukhdeo, elder brother Hiralal and his sons Niranjan and Sumit with swords and iron rods around 11pm on Tuesday. An FIR was lodged against the four by Suresh’s widow Mina Devi, following which, police arrested Sukhdeo, Niranjan and Sumit, while Hiralal is absconding. In a counter FIR, Sumit claimed Suresh had forcibly started construction on a piece of land owned by Sukhdeo. “When we objected to the ongoing construction work, Suresh, his wife and son attacked us with lethal weapons causing injuries to my father, grandfather, mother and elder brother,” Sumit’s FIR read. Ramgarh police station in-charge Ravindra Kumar Singh said, “The incident happened after a dispute over the ownership of a piece of land purchased jointly by Suresh and Sukhdeo. The matter is being investigated,” Meanwhile, Mina and her son, who were left injured in the scuffle, are undergoing treatment at the sadar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-killed-in-dumka-land-dispute-three-held/articleshow/76048322.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand Covid-19 count at 458 as 21 migrants test positive; 16 recover||RANCHI/HAZARIBAG/JAMSHEDPUR: Jharkhand on Wednesday detected 21 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of cases in state to 458. All 21 are migrants and have a travel history to Maharashtra and other south Indian states. The state also recorded 16 recoveries on Wednesday —five in Bokaro, four each in Hazaribag and Latehar, two in Dhanbad and one in East Singhbhum. The state now has 458 cases, of which 262 are active, 192 have recovered and four have died. Of the fresh cases, Hazaribag recorded seven, East Singhbhum and Ramgarh four each, Koderma three fresh cases and Ranchi, West Singhbhum and Latehar added one each to their tally. All seven patients in Hazaribag are migrant workers and are residents of Barkathha, Sadar and Katkamsandi blocks. The four patients in Ramgarh are from Mandu block and had rached home three days ago. In Ranchi, a 25-year-old Bengal woman admitted at Rims isolation tested positive. “Her hand got severed when a bus carrying 77 migrants from Mumbai to Kolkata met with an accident in Sikidiri valley on Ormanjhi-Gola road on Monday. The patient is currently stable and is admitted at our isolation ward,” said an official at Rims. Kolhan detected four more cases on Wednesday and all of them are migrants with travel history to Mumbai which include three from East Singhbhum and one from West Singhbhum. “All three are from different areas of Jamshedpur and have arrived on May 22,” confirmed East Singhbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla “The lone case from West Singhbhum is a resident of Toklo block and had arrived on May 17,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-covid-count-at-458-as-21-migrants-test-ve-16-recover/articleshow/76062697.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Sweet shops open to dismal response as buyers stay away while owners face staff crunch||JAMSHEDPUR: After nearly two months of closure, sweet shops in Steel City on Wednesday opened shutters to a dismal response as customers, fearing lack of sanitation, refrained from buying their favourite sweetmeats and the owners struggled to run their establishments with limited staff owing to the ongoing lockdown. Swapan Mukherjee, a state health department official with a sweet tooth, said, “Earlier, sweets used to be a part of my daily menu but ever since the outbreak of the virus, I am a little sceptical of buying sweets from the shops because I am not sure how hygienic they are.” Another sweet lover Manju Kar said it is very risky now to eat sweets and samosas from any shop in view of the pandemic, “My daughter, who lives in Australia, has asked me not to eat anything from outside now.” Meanwhile, faced with lack of demand and staff crunch, the shop owners are at their wit’s end at the moment. The workers, who are mostly from Midnapore in the neighbouring state of West Bengal, have gone back to their native place when their employers refused to pay their salaries or give them food and shelter ever since the lockdown came into force. Now the employees are not willing to come back despite the owners pleading with them to do so, said the shop owners. Kailash Gupta cannot open his shop in Kagalnagar market till his workers get back. “I tried contacting my staff but they are not willing to come back during the lockdown,” Gupta added. Echoing similar views, a shop owner in Sakchi market said that though he has prepared a few sweets, the best-selling items are missing from his shop due to the unavailability of his best cooks. Similarly, Sree Ram Sweets in Sonari market could only sell curd as no worker was available to make the sweets. Earlier, representatives from around 250 sweet shops here had met East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla with a demand to allow them to resume business as they were facing huge losses. The DC had directed the delegation that when the shops are allowed to re-open, it will be the owner’s responsibility to ensure social distancing at the shops and not to allow the customers to sit or eat at the shops. In addition, only takeaway counters will be allowed to function and sanitisers must be kept at the shops, besides making it mandatory for the customers and the staff to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/sweet-shops-open-to-dismal-response-as-buyers-stay-away-while-owners-face-staff-crunch/articleshow/76062726.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Sweet shops open to dismal response as buyers stay away while owners face staff crunch||JAMSHEDPUR: After nearly two months of closure, sweet shops in Steel City on Wednesday opened shutters to a dismal response as customers, fearing lack of sanitation, refrained from buying their favourite sweetmeats and the owners struggled to run their establishments with limited staff owing to the ongoing lockdown. Swapan Mukherjee, a state health department official with a sweet tooth, said, “Earlier, sweets used to be a part of my daily menu but ever since the outbreak of the virus, I am a little sceptical of buying sweets from the shops because I am not sure how hygienic they are.” Another sweet lover Manju Kar said it is very risky now to eat sweets and samosas from any shop in view of the pandemic, “My daughter, who lives in Australia, has asked me not to eat anything from outside now.” Meanwhile, faced with lack of demand and staff crunch, the shop owners are at their wit’s end at the moment. The workers, who are mostly from Midnapore in the neighbouring state of West Bengal, have gone back to their native place when their employers refused to pay their salaries or give them food and shelter ever since the lockdown came into force. Now the employees are not willing to come back despite the owners pleading with them to do so, said the shop owners. Kailash Gupta cannot open his shop in Kagalnagar market till his workers get back. “I tried contacting my staff but they are not willing to come back during the lockdown,” Gupta added. Echoing similar views, a shop owner in Sakchi market said that though he has prepared a few sweets, the best-selling items are missing from his shop due to the unavailability of his best cooks. Similarly, Sree Ram Sweets in Sonari market could only sell curd as no worker was available to make the sweets. Earlier, representatives from around 250 sweet shops here had met East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla with a demand to allow them to resume business as they were facing huge losses. The DC had directed the delegation that when the shops are allowed to re-open, it will be the owner’s responsibility to ensure social distancing at the shops and not to allow the customers to sit or eat at the shops. In addition, only takeaway counters will be allowed to function and sanitisers must be kept at the shops, besides making it mandatory for the customers and the staff to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sweet-shops-open-to-dismal-response-as-buyers-stay-away-while-owners-face-staff-crunch/articleshow/76048318.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Violence stalls plan to limit Hindpiri containment||RANCHI: The district administration’s plan to reduce the containment zone in Hindpiri came to a halt on Wednesday, after more than 1,000 people assembled near the Control and Command Centre located on the campus of the Gurunanak School here and demanded that the entire Hindpiri area be opened up. Stones were also pelted at a team of the district authorities on Wednesday afternoon. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DDC Ananya Mittal said: “We have completed a survey of around 3,000 households in the area and will put up barricades as per the new containment map.” On being asked whether the authorities plan to open up the entire Hindpiri neighbourhood, Mittal said that they have extended the health survey to several other areas and they will take a call based on the findings of the survey. “Areas in which no positive cases have been detected in the last 28 days will be opened up,” she added. As per reports, the administration has decided to open up Noor Nagar, Nizam Nagar, Purani Ranchi, Mujahid Nagar, Kohinoor Gali, Lake Road and parts of Khet Muhhalla. Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said: “We will take strict action against anyone trying to create a law and order issue. We have already identified a few people.” “When other parts of the city reports a Covid-19 case, the whole area isn’t sealed but Hindpiri was completely sealed soon after positive cases were detected in a specific area,” said Obaidullah Qasmi, a resident of Hindpiri. Opposition parties blamed the state government for Wednesday’s event and termed that the latter has failed on the law and order front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/violence-stalls-plan-to-limit-hindpiri-containment/articleshow/76048357.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Ensure uninterrupted supply of power, Banna tells JBVNL||RANCHI: Following complaints of frequent power cuts from various parts of the state, including Jamshedpur, state disaster management minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday held a meeting with the executive director of Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL) K K Verma and other officials and directed them to ensure round-the-clock supply. For Jamshedpur, Gupta said he will hold a meeting with the officials of the power department of East Singhbhum district on Thursday to find out the reasons behind frequent power outages. Interestingly, figures released by the state load despatch centre (SLDC), Ranchi, reveal that with most businesses, commercial establishments and industrial units remaining shut due to the lockdown, the total power supply in Jharkhand has been more than its daily demand. The figures revealed that on May 26, against its average peak time power demand of 1,107MW, power availability from internal generation from Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Ltd, Adhunik Power at Seraikela-Kharsawan, Inland Power at Gola in Ramgarh district, along with supplies from Damodar Valley Corporation and the central power pool grossed at 1,145MW, resulting in a surplus of 38MW. The excess power was surrendered to the central power pool. Similarly on May 25, Jharkhand received around 1,032MW power from both internal generation and supplies from outside against its requirement of 997MW, resulting in a surplus power of 35MW, the SLDC figures said. However, despite surplus power, complaints of outages came in from various parts of the state. JBVNL officials said that with no shortage of power, all out efforts are being made to ensure uninterrupted supply to all parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ensure-uninterrupted-supply-of-power-banna-tells-jbvnl/articleshow/76048441.cms||Tapas Biswas
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Law grads raise funds to charter Mumbai-Ranchi flight for migrants||RANCHI: While many migrants continue to cycle or walk to their homes from cities across the country, a group of 180 workers from Jharkhand will board an aircraft for the first time in their lives on Thursday morning as they make their way back home. Alumni of the National Law School, Bangalore, has raised enough funds in less than half a day and obtained necessary permissions to charter an A320 aircraft that belongs to AirAsia and fly 180 migrants from Mumbai to Ranchi in a flight scheduled to land at Birsa Munda international airport in the city around 8:15am on Thursday. This will be the first time in the history of Indian aviation that a group of private individuals has planned to evacuate stranded migrants by a flight. Speaking to TOI, state transport secretary K Ravikumar said: “A no-objection certificate has been granted for the flight’s arrival at Ranchi airport. There will be 180 passengers on board.” A member of the alumni requesting anonymity said “We have a commitment from the Jharkhand government they will take care of the migrants once they reach Ranchi.” The organizers of the plan said it is the first exercise to send stranded migrants home in a chartered flight. Talking to the TOI from New Delhi, project coordinator Suhani Mukherji said Rs 12 lakh was raised through crowdfunding to pay the airfare for the migrants. “Permissions have been obtained from the Maharashtra government, Mumbai Police and the CISF for allowing the movement of migrants to the airport for boarding the flight,” Mukherji said. To be brought by NGOs and private taxi operators, the migrants are to report at Mumbai airport at 3 am. The group, which was engaged in relief works during the lockdown, first thought of sending 45 migrants stranded near IIT-Mumbai by a hired bus. “The bus was charging Rs 5,900 per passenger while air tickets for the Mumbai-Ranchi cost Rs 5,100 per ticket. We decided to send them home by air,” Mukherji said. The migrants were first booked on an AirAsia flight to Ranchi via New Delhi on Wednesday, but the flight was cancelled at the last moment. The group then chartered a passenger aircraft and zeroed in on those who needed to be sent back urgently through NGOs, alumni groups and peers, Mukherji added. Funds were collected by former students across batches. “The whole exercise was planned and executed within three days,” another alumni member added. Shyel Trehaan from the batch of 2000 at the law school said her batchmates were discussing a way to help migrants. They first thought of chartering a bus, but soon found the per person cost was just marginally lower than that for a flight, as more people can be fitted. “The whole idea and its execution is a joint effort, helped by Tata group, the airline and Priya Sharma, research scholar, social sciences, IIT-Bombay,” said Trehaan. They have raised Rs 11 lakh via crowd-funding so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/law-grads-raise-funds-to-charter-mum-ranchi-flight-for-migrants/articleshow/76048505.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Covid-19 count at 458 as 21 migrants test positive; 16 recover||RANCHI/HAZARIBAG/JAMSHEDPUR: Jharkhand on Wednesday detected 21 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of cases in state to 458. All 21 are migrants and have a travel history to Maharashtra and other south Indian states. The state also recorded 16 recoveries on Wednesday —five in Bokaro, four each in Hazaribag and Latehar, two in Dhanbad and one in East Singhbhum. The state now has 458 cases, of which 262 are active, 192 have recovered and four have died. Of the fresh cases, Hazaribag recorded seven, East Singhbhum and Ramgarh four each, Koderma three fresh cases and Ranchi, West Singhbhum and Latehar added one each to their tally. All seven patients in Hazaribag are migrant workers and are residents of Barkathha, Sadar and Katkamsandi blocks. The four patients in Ramgarh are from Mandu block and had rached home three days ago. In Ranchi, a 25-year-old Bengal woman admitted at Rims isolation tested positive. “Her hand got severed when a bus carrying 77 migrants from Mumbai to Kolkata met with an accident in Sikidiri valley on Ormanjhi-Gola road on Monday. The patient is currently stable and is admitted at our isolation ward,” said an official at Rims. Kolhan detected four more cases on Wednesday and all of them are migrants with travel history to Mumbai which include three from East Singhbhum and one from West Singhbhum. “All three are from different areas of Jamshedpur and have arrived on May 22,” confirmed East Singhbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla “The lone case from West Singhbhum is a resident of Toklo block and had arrived on May 17,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-covid-count-at-458-as-21-migrants-test-ve-16-recover/articleshow/76048292.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Private taxi owners meet CM Pramod Sawant, ask for relaxation on taxes||PANAJI: Private taxi owners on Wednesday appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant to relieve them of certain taxes in light of lack of business due to the covid-19 lockdown. Last month, the taxi owners had written to Sawant demanding relaxation of certain taxes until tourism in the state resumes. They had sought relief from road tax, passenger tax, renewal of vehicle permit, renewal of authorisations, renewal of driving license, fitness certificate and PUC certificate among others. “Due to lockdown restrictions, many taxi drivers were forced to restrict their vehicular movement. But we have been slapped with late fee on renewals of our documents. We don’t want to be penalized,” North Goa Tourist Taxi Association vice-president, Ravindra Vengurlekar said. “We have spoken to the director of transport and he has asked us to wait until changes are made in the internal software of the National Informatics Centre (NIC).” Taxi owners have also demanded an interest exemption on installments of existing vehicle loans. They also lamented that it is now impossible for them to replace old vehicles with new ones due to such a severe dent in their earnings. “We hope the government sees our plight and provides us with a financial relief package,” Vengurlekar said. The association had earlier given a representation to the transport department demanding that they be paid a monthly allowance of Rs 12,000 till business resumes full-fledged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-taxi-owners-meet-cm-ask-for-relaxation-on-taxes/articleshow/76049791.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: No train to Jharkhand leaves workers worried||PANAJI: Mahesh Rai, a young man in his twenties, had come to Goa a year ago in search of a better life. He was employed at a private company as an office boy, but the lockdown and subsequent uncertainty of his fate here has crushed his dreams, and those of many others like him. “I can still find odd jobs and survive on the little money they bring my way. But my family back home is extremely anxious about me. I am returning so that they can be at peace,” he said. Some others from his state missed the train home on Tuesday and were hopeful of boarding another the next day. But no trains departed for Jharkhand on Wednesday, leaving them worried. “The only stress right now is to get on a train. Until then, we will have to find some ‘jugaad’ (innovative solution) to survive on the streets,” one of them said. He held up his phone to show text message updates in Hindi. “These are from our state government. We have faith that it will rescue us,” he said. Many of these stranded workers camped near the athletic stadium at Bambolim on Tuesday after missing their train. Food is scarce, there is not enough money and they have been left without shelter as they figure out their way home. “There are 14 of us who were working as labourers at a construction site. Our contractor had given some food before we left to last us during the journey. After we missed the train, we have been eating it while camping here. If the food is exhausted before we find a train, we will have to starve through the journey,” Sanjay Suran, a daily wage labourer said. Sources said the stranded people were later picked up from the stadium and taken to government shelter homes. “The police have been informed that people of Jharkhand must be let inside upon producing IDs. As of Wednesday, there 870 people have been brought to the shelters. We are arranging for a train to take them home,” a government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-train-to-jharkhand-leaves-workers-worried/articleshow/76049852.cms||Nida Sayed
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Panaji’s Purumentachem Fest a damp squib this year||PANAJI: Designated spots for vendors, circular markings to discourage crowding and a strict eye on people’s interactions by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) saw this year’s Purumentachem Fest in the heart of the state capital being devoid of its usual hustle and bustle. The fair, which represents the age-old tradition of stocking up on food items ahead of the monsoon, has been a let-down for both vendors and buyers. While sellers complained of poor footfalls owing to the Covid-19 scare, the lack of local items available for purchase left customers unimpressed. “We sourced various items from different parts of Ponda only for this fair. But the response this year is incomparable due to lockdown restrictions,” Javed Shaikh, a vendor, said. The vendors are going to be stationed at the fair till May 30 and hope that people will turn up to purchase items at least towards the end. For Krishna Naik, it was the first time he had set up a stall at the fair in Panaji. “I have a masala store in the Panaji municipal market complex, but it was closed for six weeks due to the lockdown. When we were asked to set up a stall here, I was hoping to recover that loss by selling masalas, dried chillies and pickles, but not enough people have been visiting,” he said. Priyanka Malik drove all the way from Sakhali with her mother to purchase ‘kharrem’ (dry fish) while Doris Dias, a resident of Panaji, said the Goan onions, which are smaller variant compared to the ones sourced from Belagavi, were not available when she arrived in the market. Senior citizen Francisco Aguiar said he looks forward to the fair to purchase indigenous goods to last him through the monsoon. “The whole point of this event is that we get all our favourite local produce in one place. However, here I couldn’t find my preferred variety of chillies. This has been a waste of my time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panajis-purumentachem-fest-a-damp-squib-this-year/articleshow/76049913.cms||Nida Sayed
May 28, 2020||Goa||Mauvin: Sancoale will get panchayat ghar soon||Vasco: Panchayats minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho announced on Wednesday that the Sancoale panchayat will soon get it’s own modern panchayat ghar as businessman Anand Bose has donated 1,577sqm of land, worth Rs 65 lakh, to them under corporate social responsibility (CSR). “The panchayat will initiate the process for the required permissions and I will soon clear the file and put it on the fast track,” said Godinho, while also stating that the government will provide Rs 3.5 crore for infrastructural development. Godinho said that on Tuesday the government opened tenders which were floated for the proposed garbage treatment plant at Chicalim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvin-sancoale-will-get-panchayat-ghar-soon/articleshow/76049957.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: As thousands leave, shelter home to be empty by Saturday||MARGAO: Two Shramik Special trains carrying over 3,000 migrant workers left from Margao railway station for Basti in UP on Wednesday. With several thousand migrants having left for their native places over the last few days, the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium at Navelim that was bursting at the seams is now left with just a few hundred migrants. The district administration is now mulling closing down the shelter home by Saturday as it expects the rest of the inmates to vacate the premises by then. “Less than 300 people are currently staying at the shelter home. They are mostly from Bihar and MP. We expect them to leave by trains that will depart from Margao in the next two days. By Saturday, all are likely to have vacated the shelter home,” incident commander Margao of covid task force Ajit Panchwadkar told TOI. With the number of inmates having reduced drastically, the pressure on the authorities in supplying them meals has been eased. The Navelim shelter was initially intended to accommodate around 250-300 migrants who had registered to go to their native places. Since the Shramik Special trains commenced, thousands had to be accommodated in it. Meanwhile, altogether 33 people alighted from two transit Rajdhani trains at Margao railway station on Wednesday. Of the 10 passengers who got down from the New Delhi-Nizamuddin train, three opted for covid tests, while 11 of the 23 passengers who alighted from the Nizamuddin-Ernakulam train underwent the tests. The rest were sent for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-thousands-leave-shelter-home-to-be-empty-by-sat/articleshow/76050021.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||Cabinet clears Rs 23cr bills for covid material||Panaji: Goa cabinet on Wednesday approved Goa Medical College’s (GMC) proposal for purchase of various materials worth around Rs 23 crore related to the pandemic, with retrospective effect. The bills include the cost of the 200 ventilators that are being procured for GMC, chief minister Pramod Pramod said. The appointment of two specialists Dr Sanjay Altekar and Dr Harish Peshwe as consultants in medical gastroenterology and GI at GMC’s oncology department on contract basis was also approved by the state cabinet on Wednesday. The contract will be for an initial period of one year for a remuneration of Rs 1.25 lakh per month, the chief minister said, following the cabinet meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-clears-rs-23cr-bills-for-covid-material/articleshow/76050049.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||State amends FRA to clear more claims on forest land||Nagpur: The Maharashtra government has modified the Scheduled Tribes & Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, also called as Forest Rights Act (FRA) to constitute divisional level committees (DLCs) over district level committees now.The notification issued on May 18 by governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari states that these DLCs under chairmanship of divisional commissioners will hear appeals against the decision of the district committees headed by collector. In Maharashtra, 2,54,042 claims have been filed by STs and 1,05,681 claims by other tribal forest dwellers. Of these, 13,712 claims of STs and 8,797 claims of others have been rejected.The notification states governor took the decision in exercise of powers conferred on him by Schedule V of the Constitution. He modified Section 6 of the FRA 2006, in its application to scheduled area of Maharashtra. With latest decision, the government plans to give justice to the tribals whose individual or community forest rights have been rejected.“Whether the divisional committees will be able to give justice to the tribals cannot be commented upon at this juncture. But the legal issue is that state cannot make any modifications to the FRA as this Act has been enacted by Parliament. Forest being state subject doesn’t mean state has right to amend the Act,” said leading FRA activist Mohan Hirabai Hiralal. “The more the process of rights is decentralised the better,” he added.The new notification allows appeal provision against the decisions of the district level committees. A provision has been incorporated enabling rightful claimants of the forest rights to appeal against the order of the district committee.The notification specifies that in case of order passed by district committees before the commencement of the notification, the application for appeal shall be made within six months from the date of issue of notification.In case of order passed after notification, application of appeal shall be made within a period of 90 days from the date of communication of order of the District Level Committee.Tribal department officials said new notification was brought as it was observed a large number of applications were rejected by the district committees. “There was no provision in FRA for appeal against the decision of district committees. Hence, to benefit thousands of tribals, this notification was issued,” they said.Tribal ministry data revealed a total of 18,89,835 titles have been granted and a massive 72,23,132 ha (72,000 sqkm) of public forest land (almost the size of Assam) have been granted and converted to individual and community ownership in bits and pieces across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-amends-fra-to-clear-more-claims-on-forest-land/articleshow/76048830.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Amrapali flats: SBI Capital told to give funds||NEW DELHI: As NBCC faces a cash crunch in completing the construction of Amrapali's unfinished housing projects, the Supreme Court on Wednesday asked SBI Capital, which manages the Centre's real estate stress fund, to relax the norms for releasing funds for the projects.  The bench said it is the court which has taken on the task to complete the projects, which precludes any chance of misuse of funds. It said guidelines could be relaxed in Amrapali's case as the construction work is "court-sponsored" and being monitored by it. SC’s Amrapali order to bring relief for 46,000 homebuyersThe court’s directions will spell relief to around 46,000 homebuyers who had invested in Amrapali’s various projects more than a decade ago. Most of them have not been given possession of the flats as the projects could not be completed due to alleged diversion of money by the real estate firm and its directors. Additional solicitor general Vikramajit Banerjee, appearing for the Centre, told the bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit that officials of the finance ministry had taken up the issue with SBI Capital and it was for the bank to take a call on release of funds as per the guidelines. The bench, however, stressed that guidelines need not be complied with strictly in the Amrapali case as there was no private builder involved and construction was to be done by state-owned NBCC (India) Limited. The court had, on the last date of hearing, asked the Centre to consider releasing Rs 500 crore for the projects. Banerjee said banks could also release money due to homebuyers as they have been given the flexibility to restructure home loans. Referring to banks declaring home loans as NPA, the ASG said banks have discretion to release money as NPA is not binding. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for SBI Capital, assured the court that he will “try his best to convince” the bank to release the amount and pleaded the court not to pass any order. Salve said he would take instructions and brief the court on the next date of hearing on June 3. “The money could be released in instalments. It will be a safe investment and the amount will not go into unsafe hands as there is no private builder involved in the projects,” the bench said. The estimated cost for construction of all the housing projects is Rs 8,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amrapali-flats-sbi-capital-told-to-give-funds/articleshow/76053418.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
May 28, 2020||Goa||Rs 25k for weak p’yats from CM’s fund||Panaji: The state cabinet has sanctioned a sum of Rs 26.25 lakh for disbursement to 105 financially weak panchayats for lockdown-related expenses incurred by them. Each will be given a maximum of Rs 25,000 upon submission of actual bills of expenditure, panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho said. The amount is being sanctioned from the CM’s covid-19 relief fund, he said. Panchayats had been asked to carry out expenditure to assist stranded migrant workers in their jurisdiction and told that the same would be reimbursed by the state. Local bodies with an annual income of Rs 8.5 lakh or lower, will be eligible, Godinho said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-25k-for-weak-pyats-from-cms-fund/articleshow/76050063.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||5kg rice for those without ration cards||Panaji: Migrant workers stranded in Goa, who do not possess ration cards, will be provided with 5kg of rice per head soon. To avail the benefit of this central government scheme, workers will have to register with the deputy collector, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. “The DC and mamlatdar will ensure that five kilos of rice is distributed to them. It is a central government scheme under which it is being ensured that migrant labourers do not face difficulties,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5kg-rice-for-those-without-ration-cards/articleshow/76050076.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Nagpur||VNIT students develop robot to fight Covid-19||Students of Visvesvaraya National Institute Of Technology (VNIT) have developed a robot named ‘Sahayak’ to help fight the coronavirus pandemic. To protect the frontline workers, the students working at ‘IvLabs’, the robotics lab of VNIT, converted a hospital trolley into an automated robot that can be wirelessly controlled. Such a robot can be used by the hospital staff to deliver food packets and medicines to the Covid-19 patients and maintain a safe distance. Director of AIIMS first approached prof Pramod Padole, director of VNIT, with the idea to develop such a robot. Dr Shital Chiddarwar, associate professor at the mechanical department, took charge of the project. The current prototype was built by students Harshad Zade, Mohammad Saad, Uddesh Tople, and Unmesh Patil. The robot was handed over to Dr Mrunal Phatak, professor at department of physiology, AIIMS Nagpur, by Padole. Dr Saniv Chaudhary and Dr Prathamesh Kamble from AIIMS Nagpur and Dr Ajay Likhite and Dr Chiddarwar from VNIT Nagpur were present during handing over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vnit-students-develop-robot-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/76047369.cms||---
May 28, 2020||India||In a first, drone used to clear locust swarms in Chomu||JAIPUR: In a first, the state agriculture department is using a drone to clear locusts in the state. The first batch of tailor-made drones given by the Union ministry of agriculture was handed over to the state agriculture department on Tuesday. Its operation started on Wednesday morning at Samod village in Chomu tehsil of Jaipur to clear a big swarm of locusts which arrived in the area a day ago. These are designed to spray 10-litre of chemicals, along with creating a sound that would disperse the locusts into different areas. “It has successfully contained the movement of locusts in an open area and on the foothills where it was not possible for the usual tractors to make it reach. A detailed assessment of its impact is being studied by the field officers,” said Om Prakash, commissioner, state agriculture department. An official at the agriculture department says that they are soon rolling a tender for engaging 30 drones for the said purpose. The spray tank attached with a drone is exhausted within 10 minutes of its flight. Thereafter, it gets refilled by the handler through a tractor. It is a cost-effective measure for the state agriculture department and the Locust Warning Organization (LWO). “The biggest advantage of the drone is that it can fly above the flying zone of the locusts giving the flexibility to the officials to carry out combat operation while they are flying. Earlier, the operations were restricted to when they resting on a tree or on a crop,” said Prakash. Their demand for drones is in the hundreds but due to the lockdown, it is not being made available by the state. “In fact, the state is running short of drones as they are being used in surveillance of areas under the curfew of the local administrations,” said an official. Meanwhile, the agriculture department has demanded personal protection equipment’s (PPE) For their field officers as they have to run from one place to another following the movement of locust. Watch Jaipur: In a first, drone used to clear locust swarms in Chomu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-drone-used-to-clear-locust-swarms-in-chomu/articleshow/76053417.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Goa||42 passengers of Rajdhani Express test negative in second check||Edited_290 words Panaji: All contacts of the 11 positive train passengers who were retested have been confirmed to be negative. Swab samples of 42 passengers of the Rajdhani Express, that arrived on Saturday, were retaken, 72 hours later on Tuesday. One close contact is likely to be tested again after a week. These 11 include three families from Mumbai. A total of 281 people mostly from Maharashtra arrived by this Rajdhani Express. The health workers traced those who travelled in the same train compartments as the 11 positive patients and their swab samples were taken from the four hotels they have been quarantined in. The contact tracing exercise has helped in identifying more positive cases of those travelled by both trains and buses. However, where trains are concerned, the health department had to retest around 300 train passengers on three trains. When nine of the 350-odd passengers tested positive on arrival from the Rajdhani Express on May 16, contact tracing was carried out and over 100 passengers retested. Of these, two were found positive. The next day, May 17, when another special Rajdhani Express from Delhi carrying 350-odd passengers arrived at Margao railway station, nine passengers tested positive. Around 150-odd passengers were contact traced and retested on May 21 and all tested negative. The last case to have tested positive on Monday, travelled in the same bus from Maharashtra as another who tested positive on arrival a few days ago, health secretary Nila Mohanan said. The district authorities have been ensuring that the passengers are made to alight compartment wise. They are also transported to the South Goa district hospital for testing in KTC buses in the same manner and quarantined to facilitate contact tracing and ensure that the passengers aren’t mixed up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/42-passengers-of-rajdhani-express-test-negative-in-second-check/articleshow/76050124.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Mumbai||Rahul Gandhi talks to Aaditya Thackeray, praises Maharashtra's efforts||MUMBAI: A day after his statement that the Congress was "only supporting" and "not running" the Maharashtra government sparked talk of a rift in the Maha Vikas Aghadi, Rahul Gandhi spoke to state environment minister and CM Uddhav Thackeray's son Aaditya, saying "Maharashtra is doing good work on tackling Covid-19". He called for a further increase in testing. Some reports said Rahul also spoke to the CM on the political situation, but there was no confirmation of that. Sources said Rahul sought information from Aaditya on the enforcement of lockdown 4.0 and measures to be taken for battling Covid-19. He reportedly suggested to Aaditya that in view of the huge population in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, there was a need to scale up testing. "Certainly, the increased number of cases is a cause for concern, but we should increase screening and testing. Maharashtra is doing good work," he told Aaditya. Comments on Maharashtra twisted for political reasons: RahulRahul had said late on Tuesday that his statement in the morning had been twisted for political reasons. State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik too claimed Rahul had been quoted out of context and said there was no threat to the MVA government. “We must hear Rahul Gandhi’s entire statement, it appears it was twisted. Three parties, the Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP are united and firmly in the saddle,” Thorat said. Rahul had on Tuesday morning said Congress was “not the key decision-maker in Maharashtra” but was only supporting the government. He had said that there was a difference in running a government and only backing it. The statement, which came on the back of Sharad Pawar’s meetings with Governor B S Koshyari and CM Thackeray, had led to speculation about whether the stability of the state government was under threat. Pawar, however, clarified on Tuesday that there was no threat and the government was stable. According to reports, Pawar’s discussion with the CM was about relaxing of lockdown curbs .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rahul-gandhi-talks-to-aaditya-thackeray-praises-maharashtras-efforts/articleshow/76053647.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
May 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Traces of ‘dead’ virus stretch 28 patients’ hospital stay||BENGALURU: Despite clear signs of recovery, 28 patients stayed in a Covid-19 hospital for up to four weeks as their test reports kept turning up positive. Experts now believe that traces of inactive virus in the body might have led to a false positive. Barring the reports, there was nothing to suggest that the patients were still infected; they appeared healthy and eligible for discharge. “I have heard that 28 patients at the Trauma Care Centre [on the campus of Victoria Hospital] stayed for over 25 days. It’s possible that the replica of RNA of the ‘dead’ virus reflected in these patients’ tests, leading to positive results,” said Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing, Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force. RNA is short for ribonucleic acid. Coronavirus has RNA as its genetic material. The 28 patients include a 50-year-old woman and her daughter-in-law, who completed their 28th day in hospital on Wednesday. The two continued to test positive even after 14 days, the period in which coronavirus cases generally recover. Prolonged hospitalisation, especially in the isolation ward, can add to the stress and anxiety one may be experiencing after the diagnosis. “It’s difficult. Patients break down, get irritated and slide into depression as they see other people recover and go home,” Dr Manjunath said. It is not clear how many of the said patients, excluding the two women, are still under observation at the Trauma Care Centre. Two similar cases were seen at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases. A 13-year-old girl and another patient tested positve on the 17th and 18th day of their hospital stay, respectively. The girl, who was asymptomatic, was Karnataka’s first Covid-19 case of lengthy hospitalisation. Later tests cleared her and she was discharged. “There could be more such cases across the state, affecting the recovery rate. As per the government’s policy, a patient cannot be discharged unless they test negative,” said a doctor treating Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru. Experts on a Covid-19 committee have suggested discharge of asymptomatic patients irrespective of the test results after seven days. Earlier, tests on 14th day of hospital stay was the norm. Guidelines issued on Tuesday reduced this to seven days for asymptomatic patients and 10 days for symptomatic patients. Dr V Ravi, a senior professor and member of the state Covid-19 expert committee, said the central government’s guidelines were clear that there was no need to test a patient if they showed no symptoms for three consecutive days. Such patients can be discharged. “It’s true that in many cases, the RNA of dead virus is leading to positive test results. The state government will comment on the testing and discharge policy soon,” Dr Ravi said. A 20-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 8 and delivered twins the next day, is still under observation at Trauma Care Centre as she continues to test positive for coronavirus. She is asymptomatic. Her husband, who was also diagnosed with Covid-19, has been discharged after testing negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/traces-of-dead-virus-stretch-28-patients-hospital-stay/articleshow/76051419.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 28, 2020||Business||Faces masked, lipstick sales take a hit; focus shifts to eye makeup||MUMBAI: The "lipstick index", which usually rises during an economic downturn, appears to have lost a bit of its shine with the Covid-led lockdown. Lipstick sales have taken a hit with people staying indoors and the consumer’s makeup usage behaviour changing in a dramatic way. With masks becoming a must-have accessory and no occasion for socialising, the consumer’s focus appears to have shifted more towards eye makeup from wearing lipsticks. This could be a trend going forward as well because several organisations, in their post-lockdown workplace policies, are making masks mandatory on the office premises. Looking at this shift in consumer behaviour, colour cosmetics companies are drawing up strategies to push products in eye segments such as eyeliners, mascaras and eyeshadows. L’Oreal India director (consumer and market insights & media) Kavita Angre told TOI, "Usage of lipsticks has got impacted with a reduction in out-of-home socialising occasions. People are not using lipsticks while working from home. They do wear a lipstick when they have to make an official presentation on a video call where they’ll be visible. We foresee a shift more towards eye makeup." A spokesperson from beauty retailer Nykaa said, "It’s interesting to note that the sale of eyeshadows has pushed it as a category from top 5 to top 3." Industry sources said India has always been an eye market. That’s because eye makeup accounts for approximately 36% of the size of the market, and lip makeup 32%. According to Nykaa, however, lips continue to be a segment leader in makeup. The colour cosmetics category has performed well during previous recessionary times. Women have a special relationship with their makeup regimen and it plays not just a functional role, but also a strong emotional one. A Hindustan Unilever spokesperson said, "In the immediate term, purchase has slowed down due to the lockdown. Our consumer work indicates they are keen to replenish at the earliest, and we expect a step-up as markets reopen fully." On the other hand, with increased stress on hygiene and care, companies expect that consumers would spend more on lip-care products such as lip balms and face creams. Companies believe the dip in lipstick use is a phase that will soon pass. "Fundamentally, we are social animals. Socialising is not going to die. We will find new ways of socialising in the new normal. Eventually, lipsticks would make a comeback. The fact that lipsticks are mood enhancers still holds good," said Angre. The accessibility of a product would, however, be the key, given the slowdown and consumers tightening their fists to conserve cash in these uncertain times. Industry experts said digital and e-commerce, which are significant for this category, would continue to accelerate. "We are seeing sales reach pre-Covid numbers, which suggest a significant pent-up demand. Skin and hair care sales have seen an increased share of voice through the lockdown, and will be important beauty focuses this year," said the Nykaa spokesperson. Watch Covid-19: Faces masked, lipstick sales take a hit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/faces-masked-lipstick-sales-take-a-hit-focus-shifts-to-eye-makeup/articleshow/76053662.cms||Namrata Singh
May 28, 2020||World||US bill to pressure China over Uighur rights goes to Trump for decision||WASHINGTON: The U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved legislation on Wednesday calling for sanctions on Chinese officials responsible for oppression of Uighur Muslims, sending the bill to the White House for President Donald Trump to veto or sign into law. The tally was 413-1. The near-unanimous support in Congress - the Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent - puts pressure on Trump to impose human rights sanctions on China. Although Trump's fellow Republicans in Congress said they expected he would sign the bill, the White House has not yet indicated whether he will do so. Aides did not respond to requests for comment. The bill calls for sanctions against those responsible for repression of Uighurs and other Muslim groups in China's Xinjiang province, where the United Nations estimates that more than a million Muslims have been detained in camps. It singles out the region's Communist Party secretary, Chen Quanguo, a member of China's powerful Politburo, as responsible for "gross human rights violations" against them. "Congress sent a clear message that the Chinese government cannot act with impunity," said Republican Senator Marco Rubio, who led the push for the legislation. Relations between Trump and China's government have become increasingly tense in recent weeks as Trump has blamed Beijing for worsening the coronavirus pandemic. The bill also calls on U.S. companies or individuals operating in the Xinjiang region to take steps to ensure their products do not include parts using forced labor. "Today, with this overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation, the United States Congress is taking a firm step to counter Beijing's horrific human rights abuses against the Uighurs," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement. China denies mistreatment and says the camps provide vocational training. The vote on Wednesday was historic, the first use of proxy voting because of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-bill-to-pressure-china-over-uighur-rights-goes-to-trump-for-decision/articleshow/76053675.cms||---
May 28, 2020||World||US bill to pressure China over Uighur rights goes to Trump for decision||WASHINGTON: The U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved legislation on Wednesday calling for sanctions on Chinese officials responsible for oppression of Uighur Muslims, sending the bill to the White House for President Donald Trump to veto or sign into law. The tally was 413-1. The near-unanimous support in Congress - the Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent - puts pressure on Trump to impose human rights sanctions on China. Although Trump's fellow Republicans in Congress said they expected he would sign the bill, the White House has not yet indicated whether he will do so. Aides did not respond to requests for comment. The bill calls for sanctions against those responsible for repression of Uighurs and other Muslim groups in China's Xinjiang province, where the United Nations estimates that more than a million Muslims have been detained in camps. It singles out the region's Communist Party secretary, Chen Quanguo, a member of China's powerful Politburo, as responsible for "gross human rights violations" against them. "Congress sent a clear message that the Chinese government cannot act with impunity," said Republican Senator Marco Rubio, who led the push for the legislation. Relations between Trump and China's government have become increasingly tense in recent weeks as Trump has blamed Beijing for worsening the coronavirus pandemic. The bill also calls on U.S. companies or individuals operating in the Xinjiang region to take steps to ensure their products do not include parts using forced labor. "Today, with this overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation, the United States Congress is taking a firm step to counter Beijing's horrific human rights abuses against the Uighurs," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement. China denies mistreatment and says the camps provide vocational training. The vote on Wednesday was historic, the first use of proxy voting because of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/us-bill-to-pressure-china-over-uighur-rights-goes-to-trump-for-decision/articleshow/76053676.cms||---
May 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi sees another big spike with 792 new Covid-19 cases, 15 deaths||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 crisis in Delhi turned more serious on Wednesday with the state recording 792 new cases in a single day — the highest so far. More than a dozen staff of AIIMS have also tested positive, sources said. With this, the state’s total tally has crossed the 15k mark to reach 15,257. The previous highest spike in fresh cases in Delhi, 660, was on May 22. The city also reported 15 more Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 303. As per the government data, of the total number of cases found positive, only 7,690 are active cases. Of this, 50% are under home quarantine. “A total of 2,118 patients are admitted in various Covid hospitals,” an official said. 50% active cases in home isolationMost of the private hospitals that are offering Covid-19 treatment are running full. However, most government hospitals have vacant beds, including ICUs. Lok Nayak Hospital, for example, has 2,000 beds for the novel coronavirus patients of which only 602 (30%) are occupied. Even in AIIMS Jhajjar, sources said, there are enough beds available at present in the hospital. “Most people who have insurance coverage or those who can afford want to get admission in private hospitals. That’s why there is more rush in them,” said a senior doctor at LNJP Hospital . Recently, the Delhi government issued orders directing private hospitals and nursing homes with more than 50 beds to reserve 20% of beds for Covid-19 patients. However, the hospitals say mixing non-Covid patients with Covid-19 cases may cause more problems. “It will run the danger of hospital itself becoming a hub for transmitting the disease,” Dr Chander Prakash, president of the Delhi Voluntary Hospital Forum, said. He added that the government should choose select government and private hospitals instead and make them exclusively available for Covid-19 patients. The Delhi government is currently running two hospitals for Covid-19 treatment — Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty. A 1,500-bed facility at the state-run Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in east Delhi has also been set up. On Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Delhi government had expected a sudden rise in the number of positive cases with the announcement of more relaxations in the lockdown to restart economic activities on May 17. According to government functionaries, there are over 3,800 beds (about 3,180 with oxygen) currently available in five government facilities — both state-run and Centre’s combined — and nearly 670 in private health facilities in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-sees-another-big-spike-with-792-new-covid-19-cases-15-deaths/articleshow/76053429.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
