May 29, 2020||Bengaluru||No more ‘Kannad gothilla’, as Bengalureans pick up the language during the lockdown||One of the biggest grouses that Kannadigas had about migrant settlers in Karnataka, especially in urban settings like Bengaluru, was their steadfast refusal to learn Kannada and truly be part of their adoptive state. Interestingly, enough, there’s been a massive shift in that dynamic in recent times, with an increasing number of people showing interest in learning Kannada on platforms like Kannada Gothide and Kannada Gottilla, apart from other dedicated on WhatsApp groups during the lockdown period. '10 minutes a day is all it takes to learn Kannada’Deepak N started the group Kannada Gothide group last number with 70 members, which has now grown close to 1,000 strong. “During the lockdown, people began spending a lot more on screen time, and perhaps realised that all they needed is 10-15 minutes a day to learn the basics of the language. The benefit of learning on our group is that they can drop a message whenever they are free. We have no fixed timings to learn the language and members don’t have to log in to the website to find specific words that they want to learn ,” he says. ‘Not just basic spoken Kannada, people want to read and write as well’Anup Maiya, one of the admins of the six-year-old WhatsApp group Kannada Gottila, says, “When we began, members only wanted to learn basic spoken Kannada to get by, but in the last two months many said they want to read and write it as well. The objective of our group has been to get Bengaluru’s migrant population to know the language and respect the local culture. Admins in the group are teachers and we follow a set format -we send audio files and notes and members can revert in case of doubts.” ‘Iconic songs can teach people simple words’Pranjal Ranka initiated the page Chumma Talks on Instagram to make learning Kannada fun. “Everyone appreciated a good song, irrespective of the language, so, I decided to work with music. I edited and released iconic Kannada songs like Naane Veene Neene Tanthi to teach simple words like Naane, Neene and Avanee. Since the lockdown, there has been a lot more engagement to my posts. I also post videos with pictures to make people understand the meaning of simple everyday words like Mancha (cot), Kurchi (chair) and Gudugu (thunder).” ‘Learning Kannada lets you connect with people’Deepak V Lambe, who is originally from Maharashatra and made Bengaluru his home a few years ago, has begun learning Kannada now. He says, “It is imperative to learn the language of the place you choose to make home. Speaking in Kannada helps to connect with people. It is amazing how people warm up to you when you talk to them in Kannada, however broken it might be. They appreciate the effort.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-more-kannad-gothilla-as-bengalureans-pick-up-the-language-during-the-lockdown/articleshow/76074534.cms||Vinay Lokesh
May 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Rajya Sabha MP and media baron MP Veerendra Kumar passes away||KOCHI: Former Union minister, author and media baron MP Veerendra Kumar passed away late on Thursday at a private hospital in Kozhikode. He was 84. A member of current Rajya Sabha, Veerendra Kumar was also the chairman and managing director of Mathrubhumi Printing and Publishing company, a position he held since 1979. Kumar was born on July 22, 1936 as the son of MK Pathmaprabha Gounder and Marudevi Avva at Kalpetta in Wayanad. An author of several books, he also assumed leadership positions in political parties like Janata Dal (S), Socialist Janata (Democratic), Loktantrik Janata Dal and Janatadal (United). He was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1996 and 2004 from the Kozhikode constituency. During his first tenure, he served as the minister of state for finance and later as labour minister with independent charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-rajya-sabha-mp-and-media-baron-mp-veerendra-kumar-passes-away/articleshow/76078905.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 29, 2020||India||No advisory to pilots, airlines yet on flight ops in regions under locust attack||MUMBAI: While parts of western and northern Indian have come under locusts invasion in the past few days, there is yet no circular from the Indian civil aviation regulator on the safety aspects of operating an aircraft in regions that are under attack by these flying mob of grasshoppers. For an aircraft on approach to land or one on a climb post take off, flying into a swarm of locusts could be dangerous as these insects could get sucked, by thousands, into the aircraft engines damaging them, they could smash onto the cockpit windscreen blurring visibility, get sucked into the open probes like pitot or static tubes that should remain open if an aircraft has to gauge its airspeed accurately.  ``Locusts swarms can be worst than volcanic ash. If they clog the pitot and static tubes, for instance, the cockpit instruments would give erroneous airspeed readings to pilots who are already impaired due to poor visibility from a locust-damaged windscreen,’’ said an air safety expert. An erroneous airspeed indication in the cockpit coupled with a carcass-mottled windscreen during an approach to land could be potentially hazardous to aircraft safety. Early this year, a swarm forced an Ethiopian Airlines flight flying from Djibouti to Dire Dawa to divert to Addis Ababa after locusts crashed into the aircraft’s windshield affecting visibility. In December last year, a Pakistan International Airlines aircraft flew into a swarm while landing at Quetta, but the pilot managed to land the aircraft safely though the swarm of insects had smashed onto the windscreen and aircraft nose. Said a senior Air India commander: ``No guidelines or advisory has been issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) yet on flight operations in regions under locusts attack. We haven’t received anything as of May 28, 11 pm.”  On Thursday, the Delhi government issued an advisory on preventive measures to be taken in case of a locust attack in the national capital territory (NCT) of Delhi. Said an A320 instructor: ``The DGCA too should have issued an advisory today. There are not many flight movements in the night as only a fraction of domestic flights are being operated but early on Friday morning, aircraft will take off and land in Gujarat, regions of Maharashtra and MP that are under locust attack,’’ he added. Air travel which was banned for the past two months in India, was restarted on May 25 with airlines currently flying less than one-third of their schedule. However even a single incident of an aircraft flying into a swarm during critical stages of take off or landing could lead to an emergency. India is currently facing the worst locust attack in close to three decades. Early this week, the locust swarms entered into Rajasthan and now have migrated to Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and up north to Punjab. In Maharashtra, a locust warning has been issued by the state agriculture department in Vidarbha. TOI spoke to the Mumbai air traffic control on Thursday afternoon after unverified reports of possible locusts attack on Mumbai spread through social media. ``Currently, we don’t find any such visible group of locusts in our area,’’ said Rajeev Mehta, general manager, Mumbai air traffic control. ``We have alerted our controllers though to keep a watch for these swarms. In case if there is anything, we will take caution,’’ he said. Responding to the unverified images and clips doing rounds on whtsapp about locusts sightings in Mumbai, Mehta said that ``it might be a small bunch of locusts which has entered Mumbai’’. He added: ``If they come in aircraft path, when descending or take-off, they are too small to cause significant impact to engines, their mass is significantly smaller than that of birds. In Mumbai, we haven’t seen any big swarm of locusts. If it’s not a big swarm, it’s not likely to cause any significant impact on aircraft operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-advisory-to-pilots-airlines-yet-on-flight-ops-in-regions-under-locust-attack/articleshow/76078175.cms||Manju V
May 29, 2020||Business||Housing ministry pitches for automatic 9-month extension for validity of approvals for real estate projects||NEW DELHI: The housing and urban affairs ministry has issued an advisory to state governments, civic bodies and development authorities to consider extending the validity of various approvals for real estate projects automatically for nine months which have expired on or after March 25. The advisory issued on Friday also urged over half a dozen ministries and Central agencies such as road, rail, environment, defence, culture and civil aviation ministries to consider issuing similar directions to the agencies that issue no objection certificates (NOCs) for such projects. The advisory said, “States may issue necessary directives to municipal corporations, urban development authorities and urban local bodies so that various approvals, payment of charges and compliance of building proponents may be rescheduled without any requirement of individual application from building proponent in this regard. This is in lines with promoting Ease of Doing Business.” This was issued after holding a consultation with the real estate industry representatives. The ministry said the Covid pandemic followed by reverse migration of labourers to their native places, break in supply chain of construction material have adversely impacted the construction activities of real estate projects. Earlier the ministry had issued advisory to states and real estate regulators to treat the health crisis as a “force majeure” event and give automatic extension of registration to real estate projects by six months. The regulators or RERAs are allowed to give another three months after recording a valid reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/housing-ministry-pitches-for-automatic-9-month-extension-for-validity-of-approvals-for-real-estate-projects/articleshow/76079680.cms||Dipak Kumar Dash
May 29, 2020||India||Housing ministry pitches for automatic 9-month extension for validity of approvals for real estate projects||NEW DELHI: The housing and urban affairs ministry has issued an advisory to state governments, civic bodies and development authorities to consider extending the validity of various approvals for real estate projects automatically for nine months which have expired on or after March 25. The advisory issued on Friday also urged over half a dozen ministries and Central agencies such as road, rail, environment, defence, culture and civil aviation ministries to consider issuing similar directions to the agencies that issue no objection certificates (NOCs) for such projects. The advisory said, “States may issue necessary directives to municipal corporations, urban development authorities and urban local bodies so that various approvals, payment of charges and compliance of building proponents may be rescheduled without any requirement of individual application from building proponent in this regard. This is in lines with promoting Ease of Doing Business.” This was issued after holding a consultation with the real estate industry representatives. The ministry said the Covid pandemic followed by reverse migration of labourers to their native places, break in supply chain of construction material have adversely impacted the construction activities of real estate projects. Earlier the ministry had issued advisory to states and real estate regulators to treat the health crisis as a “force majeure” event and give automatic extension of registration to real estate projects by six months. The regulators or RERAs are allowed to give another three months after recording a valid reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/housing-ministry-pitches-for-automatic-9-month-extension-for-validity-of-approvals-for-real-estate-projects/articleshow/76079403.cms||Dipak Kumar Dash
May 29, 2020||Business||EESL joint venture is fastest growing Indian company in UK||NEW DELHI: An overseas joint venture of Energy Efficiency Services Ltd, an energy efficiency company under the power ministry, has emerged as the fastest-growing Indian company in the UK, according to the ‘India meets Britain Tracker 2020’ developed by industry body CII and Grant Thornton. EESL kicked off the Narendra Modi government’s energy efficiency drive with UJALA scheme to replace all incandescent and CFL bulbs with LED lamps. The scheme speeded up the adoption of LED by drastically reducing the cost of bulbs. The company is now expanding into India’s energy efficiency services market, pegged at Rs 1.6 lakh crore by the World Bank in 2016, with energy-efficient fans, air-conditioners. The rapid growth of EPAL, EESL’s joint venture with British impact-focused energy efficiency firm EnergyPro Asset Management (EPAM), reaffirms India’s role as a global pioneer in energy efficiency. EPAL was at the top of the list of 842 fastest-growing Indian-UK companies in the CII-Grant Thornton tracker. “Through EPAL, we have crafted a global brand that conforms to the PM’s appeal for fostering local businesses. It is another testament to our vision of building a world-class energy service business that delivers economic, environmental and social benefits locally. The success of EPAL also marks a significant stride towards achieving India’s overall energy transition, aided by the exchange of technology and best practices between India and the UK,” a company statement quoted EESL MD Saurabh Kumar as saying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eesl-joint-venture-is-fastest-growing-indian-company-in-uk/articleshow/76079885.cms||---
May 29, 2020||World||US President Donald Trump will hold news conference on Friday on China||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Thursday said he will give a news conference on China on Friday, as his administration moves to pressure Beijing over its treatment of Hong Kong. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told Congress on Wednesday that China has undermined Hong Kong's autonomy so fundamentally that the Asian financial center no longer qualifies for its special status under US law. Trump could take a variety of punishing measures, including imposing tariffs, limiting visas and other economic penalties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-president-donald-trump-will-hold-news-conference-on-friday-on-china/articleshow/76080271.cms||---
May 29, 2020||World||US President Donald Trump will hold news conference on Friday on China||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Thursday said he will give a news conference on China on Friday, as his administration moves to pressure Beijing over its treatment of Hong Kong. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told Congress on Wednesday that China has undermined Hong Kong's autonomy so fundamentally that the Asian financial center no longer qualifies for its special status under US law. Trump could take a variety of punishing measures, including imposing tariffs, limiting visas and other economic penalties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/us-president-donald-trump-will-hold-news-conference-on-friday-on-china/articleshow/76080273.cms||---
May 29, 2020||World||Nepal pushes for talks, India says need to create trust first||NEW DELHI: With Nepal insisting on foreign secretary-level talks to address the Kalapani border issue, even while simultaneously pushing through a constitutional amendment to validate its new map, India said on Thursday it was important to create an environment of trust and confidence for dialogue. After the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, sought more time and the Madhesis demanded that the proposed amendment also address their concerns, the K P Oli government hasn’t been able to table the bill in parliament yet. India said it had noted that this matter was receiving “careful consideration” in Nepal, taking into account its seriousness. “India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an en vironment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” said MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava, replying to a question on Nepal’s plea for talks. India believes there has been no lack of engagement between the two countries in any case. Read AlsoIndia indicates readiness to engage with Nepal to resolve border rowIndia on Thursday indicated its readiness to engage with Nepal to resolve the festering border row on the basis of mutual sensitivity and respect. In the midst of a border dispute with India, Nepal last week released a revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over theForeign secretary Harsh Shringla has already met Nepal ambassador Nilambar Acharya twice. MEA joint secretary (north) Piyush Srivastava, who handles Nepal, has also met the ambassador several times and remained in regular contact with him, sources said. The Nepal media had earlier reported that the ambassador had been trying unsuccessfully to meet senior Indian officials. Nepal has been asking for talks on Kalapani since November last year, after India released its new map following the reorganisation of J&K. It wants to activate the foreign secretary-level mechanism between the two countries to resolve issues related to outstanding border disputes. The central working committee of Nepali Congress will now meet on Saturday to discuss the proposal for revising the map in the national emblem, according to Nepal media reports. The party, though, had supported the decision for a new map earlier. The MEA said it attached great importance to the deeprooted historical, cultural and friendly relations with Nepal. “Even in these challenging times of Covid-19 pandemic, India has ensured unimpeded trade and supply of essentials including medicines to Nepal, besides providing assistance in terms of medical supplies and other facilitation,” Srivastava added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/nepal-pushes-for-talks-india-says-need-to-create-trust-first/articleshow/76080770.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 29, 2020||India||Nepal pushes for talks, India says need to create trust first||NEW DELHI: With Nepal insisting on foreign secretary-level talks to address the Kalapani border issue, even while simultaneously pushing through a constitutional amendment to validate its new map, India said on Thursday it was important to create an environment of trust and confidence for dialogue. After the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, sought more time and the Madhesis demanded that the proposed amendment also address their concerns, the K P Oli government hasn’t been able to table the bill in parliament yet. India said it had noted that this matter was receiving “careful consideration” in Nepal, taking into account its seriousness. “India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an en vironment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” said MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava, replying to a question on Nepal’s plea for talks. India believes there has been no lack of engagement between the two countries in any case. Read AlsoIndia indicates readiness to engage with Nepal to resolve border rowIndia on Thursday indicated its readiness to engage with Nepal to resolve the festering border row on the basis of mutual sensitivity and respect. In the midst of a border dispute with India, Nepal last week released a revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over theForeign secretary Harsh Shringla has already met Nepal ambassador Nilambar Acharya twice. MEA joint secretary (north) Piyush Srivastava, who handles Nepal, has also met the ambassador several times and remained in regular contact with him, sources said. The Nepal media had earlier reported that the ambassador had been trying unsuccessfully to meet senior Indian officials. Nepal has been asking for talks on Kalapani since November last year, after India released its new map following the reorganisation of J&K. It wants to activate the foreign secretary-level mechanism between the two countries to resolve issues related to outstanding border disputes. The central working committee of Nepali Congress will now meet on Saturday to discuss the proposal for revising the map in the national emblem, according to Nepal media reports. The party, though, had supported the decision for a new map earlier. The MEA said it attached great importance to the deeprooted historical, cultural and friendly relations with Nepal. “Even in these challenging times of Covid-19 pandemic, India has ensured unimpeded trade and supply of essentials including medicines to Nepal, besides providing assistance in terms of medical supplies and other facilitation,” Srivastava added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-pushes-for-talks-india-says-need-to-create-trust-first/articleshow/76080457.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 29, 2020||World||Trump signs order targeting social media giants' legal protections||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump issued an executive order Thursday seeking to strip social media giants like Twitter of legal immunity for content posted by users. If this was enacted, the likes of Twitter and Facebook would become open to lawsuits and greatly increased government regulation. Trump -- angered this week after Twitter tagged one of his tweets for the first time with a fact-check notice -- said regulation was needed because the companies are no longer neutral forums but engaging in "political activism." According to Trump, such platforms have "unchecked power to censor, restrict... virtually any form of communication between private citizens." "We can't let that happen," he said, "especially when they go about doing what they're doing because they're doing things incorrectly, they have points of view." The president's ire appeared especially focused on fact-checking services that big social media platforms have added in an effort to weed out rampant disinformation and so-called "fake news." This, he said, made the companies into traditional publishers, therefore liable for whatever material they host. "The choices that Twitter makes when it chooses to suppress... editorial decisions pure and simple," he said. "In those moments, Twitter ceases to be a neutral public platform and they become an editor with a viewpoint and I think we can say that about others also, whether you're looking at Google, whether you're looking at Facebook, perhaps others." According to Trump, his executive order aims to "uphold the free speech and rights of the American people." However, before this could go into effect it will face strong political opposition and Trump conceded it would get challenged in court. Opponents say Trump's aim is to tame the same social media platforms on which he is easily the biggest political presence in the country, cowing their attempts to reduce misinformation. While Trump complains that social media leaders are liberal-leaning, he enjoys an overwhelming presence on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook and other outlets for his streams of often factually incorrect posts and crude insults against opponents. Asked why he wouldn't just walk away from Twitter, where he has 80 million followers, Trump said he would, except that he relies on the platform to bypass the traditional media, which he complained is unfair. "There's so much fake news, it's disgraceful," he told the journalists covering him in the Oval Office. Trump even mused about his desire to see Twitter disappear altogether -- if he had any way to make this happen. "If it were able to be legally shut down, I'd do it," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-signs-order-targeting-social-media-giants-legal-protections/articleshow/76081050.cms||---
May 29, 2020||India||India now No. 9 among Covid-hit countries as cases cross 1.6 lakh||NEW DELHI: The country’s Covid-19 count crossed the 1.6 lakh mark, with fresh cases surging to another single-day high of 6,926 on Thursday. The death toll continued to rise, as 177 fatalities were reported during the day, the third highest number so far. India climbed to the ninth spot among countries with the highest Covid-19 caseloads, overtaking Turkey (1,60,979 cases), according to the Johns Hopkins Hospital website. India’s case count stood at 1,61,067, with 4,708 deaths and 70,900 people recovered from the infection, as per data from state governments. While Maharashtra continued to contribute the highest number of cases — 2,598 on Thursday with Mumbai alone recording 1,467 — several other states reported a big spike in cases. Among the states that reported their highest single-day count of cases were Delhi (1,024), Ben gal (344), Telangana (158), Haryana (123) and Kerala (84). Besides, Tamil Nadu (827), Gujarat (367), Andhra Pradesh (128), J&K (115) and Assam (82) were among several other states where the surge in infections was continuing. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally has now risen to 59,546 and thus inching close to the 60,000 mark. Also, the state continued to add a significant number of Covid-19 deaths with 85 recorded on Thursday, its third highest count for a day so far. With this, the total deaths in Maharashtra as on Thursday were 1,982, very close to the 2,000 mark. Tamil Nadu recorded 12 deaths on Thursday, its highest single-day toll, and the number of fresh cases continued to rise with 827 reported — 117 of them migrants coming by air and rail — taking the tally to 19,372. The number of active cases in UP on Thursday was 2,758 while it was 2,173 on May 21 — an increase of 21.2% in 7 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-now-no-9-among-covid-hit-countries-as-cases-cross-1-6-lakh/articleshow/76081096.cms||---
May 29, 2020||World||No room for third party in India-China issues, says govt||NEW DELHI: A day after US President Donald Trump made an unsolicited offer to mediate, India made it clear there was no room for any third party in bilateral issues with China and stressed that it was “fully engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve the issue” of Chinese incursions in Ladakh. Coming after Trump said the US had “informed” China that it was “ready, willing and able” to mediate to resolve tensions over the troop standoff in east Ladakh, the Indian statement was the closest to fobbing off the US president without referring directly to him. “As conveyed last week, Indian troops take a very responsible approach towards border management and strictly follow the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that may arise in the border areas. The two sides have established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels to resolve situations which may arise in border areas peacefully through dialogue and continue to remain engaged through these channels,” the ministry of external affairs said. As it has done on earlier occasions, India said while it was committed to maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas with China, it remained firm in ensuring India’s sovereignty and national security, an indication that Army units in forward positions will not stand down unless Chinese intrusions across the Line of Actual Control are vacated. The MEA listed five agreements between India and China on maintaining peace along the border inked from 1993 onwards, with the latest in 2013, which even sets out procedures if troops come face to face. As the situation on the ground remains a stalemate, both New Delhi and Beijing have ramped up diplomatic exchanges to push a de-escalation through the mechanisms referred to in the MEA statement. The Indian response has been consistent since last week, indicating that the government does not want to add to the rhetoric, which it believes gives it more space to negotiate off-line with the Chinese side. After a couple of weeks of trademark aggressive rhetoric by some sections in China, the foreign ministry in Beijing also dialled down its own verbal aggression. Trump’s offer to mediate threw everybody off balance, but sources here said it may have unnerved Beijing much more. Before Trump’s tweet, the Ladakh face-off between India and China was a bilateral issue, that could be addressed locally. Now the international headlines put greater pressure on India and China to resolve the issue, it is felt. India, inured to years of international offers of mediation with Pakistan, is clear on its position that bilateral is the way to go. But for China, this is a novel experience — to have its strategic opponent offer to mediate between it and a lesser power will not go down well in Beijing. Trump’s tweet showed he hasn’t given up his belief that he can be an international player, mediating and resolving the world’s tough questions. This lay behind his several attempts to mediate between India and Pakistan. The India-China dispute is obviously more consequential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/no-room-for-third-party-in-india-china-issues-says-govt/articleshow/76081235.cms||Indrani Bagchi
May 29, 2020||India||No room for third party in India-China issues, says govt||NEW DELHI: A day after US President Donald Trump made an unsolicited offer to mediate, India made it clear there was no room for any third party in bilateral issues with China and stressed that it was “fully engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve the issue” of Chinese incursions in Ladakh. Coming after Trump said the US had “informed” China that it was “ready, willing and able” to mediate to resolve tensions over the troop standoff in east Ladakh, the Indian statement was the closest to fobbing off the US president without referring directly to him. “As conveyed last week, Indian troops take a very responsible approach towards border management and strictly follow the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that may arise in the border areas. The two sides have established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels to resolve situations which may arise in border areas peacefully through dialogue and continue to remain engaged through these channels,” the ministry of external affairs said. As it has done on earlier occasions, India said while it was committed to maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas with China, it remained firm in ensuring India’s sovereignty and national security, an indication that Army units in forward positions will not stand down unless Chinese intrusions across the Line of Actual Control are vacated. The MEA listed five agreements between India and China on maintaining peace along the border inked from 1993 onwards, with the latest in 2013, which even sets out procedures if troops come face to face. As the situation on the ground remains a stalemate, both New Delhi and Beijing have ramped up diplomatic exchanges to push a de-escalation through the mechanisms referred to in the MEA statement. The Indian response has been consistent since last week, indicating that the government does not want to add to the rhetoric, which it believes gives it more space to negotiate off-line with the Chinese side. After a couple of weeks of trademark aggressive rhetoric by some sections in China, the foreign ministry in Beijing also dialled down its own verbal aggression. Trump’s offer to mediate threw everybody off balance, but sources here said it may have unnerved Beijing much more. Before Trump’s tweet, the Ladakh face-off between India and China was a bilateral issue, that could be addressed locally. Now the international headlines put greater pressure on India and China to resolve the issue, it is felt. India, inured to years of international offers of mediation with Pakistan, is clear on its position that bilateral is the way to go. But for China, this is a novel experience — to have its strategic opponent offer to mediate between it and a lesser power will not go down well in Beijing. Trump’s tweet showed he hasn’t given up his belief that he can be an international player, mediating and resolving the world’s tough questions. This lay behind his several attempts to mediate between India and Pakistan. The India-China dispute is obviously more consequential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-room-for-third-party-in-india-china-issues-says-govt/articleshow/76081225.cms||Indrani Bagchi
May 29, 2020||World||PM Modi not in 'good mood' over border row with China: Trump||WASHINGTON: Reiterating his offer to mediate on the border dispute between India and China, US President Donald Trump has said that he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is not in a "good mood" over the "big conflict" between the two countries. Interacting with journalists in the Oval Office of the White House on Thursday, Trump said a "big conflict" was going on between India and China. "They like me in India. I think they like me in India more than the media likes me in this country. And, I like Modi. I like your prime minister a lot. He is a great gentleman," he said. Read AlsoNo room for third party in India-China issues, says govtA day after US President Donald Trump made an unsolicited offer to mediate, India made it clear there was no room for any third party in bilateral issues with China and stressed that it was “fully engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve the issue” of Chinese incursions in Ladakh."They have a big conflict …India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people (each). Two countries with very powerful militaries. India is not happy and probably China is not happy," the president said when asked if he was worried about the border situation between India and China. "I can tell you; I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He is not in a good mood about what is going on with China," Trump said. A day earlier, the president offered to mediate between India and China. Trump on Wednesday said in a tweet that he was "ready, willing and able to mediate" between the two countries. Read AlsoUS President Donald Trump will hold news conference on Friday on ChinaWASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Thursday said he will give a news conference on China on Friday, as his administration moves to pressure Beijing over its treatment of Hong Kong. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told Congress on Wednesday that China has undermined Hong Kong's autonomy soResponding to a question on his tweet, Trump reiterated his offer, saying if called for help, "I would do that (mediate). If they thought it would help" about "mediate or arbitrate, I would do that," he said. India on Wednesday said it was engaged with China to peacefully resolve the border row, in a carefully crafted reaction to Trump's offer to arbitrate between the two Asian giants to settle their decades-old dispute. "We are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve it," external affairs ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, replying to a volley of questions at an online media briefing. "The two sides have established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels to resolve situations which may arise in border areas peacefully through dialogue and continue to remain engaged through these channels," he said. While the Chinese foreign ministry is yet to react to Trump's tweet which appears to have caught Beijing by surprise, an op-ed in the state-run Global Times said both countries did not need such help from the US president. "The latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India. The two countries should keep alert on the US, which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardise regional peace and order," it said. Trump's unexpected offer came on a day when China took an apparently conciliatory tone by saying that the situation at the border with India is "overall stable and controllable." In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday that both China and India have proper mechanisms and communication channels to resolve the issues through dialogue and consultations. Trump previously offered to mediate between India and Pakistan on the Kashmir issue, a proposal that was rejected by New Delhi. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9. On May 5, the Indian and the Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Watch PM Narendra Modi not in 'good mood' over border row with China, says Donald Trump||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pm-modi-not-in-good-mood-over-border-row-with-china-trump/articleshow/76081248.cms||---
May 29, 2020||India||PM Modi not in 'good mood' over border row with China: Trump||WASHINGTON: Reiterating his offer to mediate on the border dispute between India and China, US President Donald Trump has said that he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is not in a "good mood" over the "big conflict" between the two countries. Interacting with journalists in the Oval Office of the White House on Thursday, Trump said a "big conflict" was going on between India and China. "They like me in India. I think they like me in India more than the media likes me in this country. And, I like Modi. I like your prime minister a lot. He is a great gentleman," he said. Read AlsoNo room for third party in India-China issues, says govtA day after US President Donald Trump made an unsolicited offer to mediate, India made it clear there was no room for any third party in bilateral issues with China and stressed that it was “fully engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve the issue” of Chinese incursions in Ladakh."They have a big conflict …India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people (each). Two countries with very powerful militaries. India is not happy and probably China is not happy," the president said when asked if he was worried about the border situation between India and China. "I can tell you; I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He is not in a good mood about what is going on with China," Trump said. A day earlier, the president offered to mediate between India and China. Trump on Wednesday said in a tweet that he was "ready, willing and able to mediate" between the two countries. Read AlsoUS President Donald Trump will hold news conference on Friday on ChinaWASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Thursday said he will give a news conference on China on Friday, as his administration moves to pressure Beijing over its treatment of Hong Kong. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told Congress on Wednesday that China has undermined Hong Kong's autonomy soResponding to a question on his tweet, Trump reiterated his offer, saying if called for help, "I would do that (mediate). If they thought it would help" about "mediate or arbitrate, I would do that," he said. India on Wednesday said it was engaged with China to peacefully resolve the border row, in a carefully crafted reaction to Trump's offer to arbitrate between the two Asian giants to settle their decades-old dispute. "We are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve it," external affairs ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, replying to a volley of questions at an online media briefing. "The two sides have established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels to resolve situations which may arise in border areas peacefully through dialogue and continue to remain engaged through these channels," he said. While the Chinese foreign ministry is yet to react to Trump's tweet which appears to have caught Beijing by surprise, an op-ed in the state-run Global Times said both countries did not need such help from the US president. "The latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India. The two countries should keep alert on the US, which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardise regional peace and order," it said. Trump's unexpected offer came on a day when China took an apparently conciliatory tone by saying that the situation at the border with India is "overall stable and controllable." In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday that both China and India have proper mechanisms and communication channels to resolve the issues through dialogue and consultations. Trump previously offered to mediate between India and Pakistan on the Kashmir issue, a proposal that was rejected by New Delhi. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9. On May 5, the Indian and the Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Watch PM Narendra Modi not in 'good mood' over border row with China, says Donald Trump||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-not-in-good-mood-over-border-row-with-china-trump/articleshow/76081246.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar agriculture department braces for locust attack||PATNA/BHAGALPUR: The state agriculture department on Thursday issued an advisory for locust invasion expected in the state in a day or two following largescale crop damages in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and other parts of north India. The advisory stated that several states have witnessed massive damages to crops and fruits due to desert locust invasion. The swarm of locusts is now moving from the western region towards east and is now seen in the lower areas of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. “If the locusts move further east then there is a possibility of them entering Bihar through east Uttar Pradesh and cause largescale damages to vegetables, trees, crops and fruits. Accordingly, steps are required on a war footing,” the advisory stated. As per the Food and Agriculture Organisation of United Nations (FAOUN), an adult desert locust can consume roughly its own weight, about 2 gram food every day. A 1sqkm swarm of 40 million locusts could eat the same amount of food in one day as about 35,000 people. This is based on a person eating an average of 2.3 kg of food per day. A high level meeting chaired by agriculture minister Prem Kumar was held on Thursday on this issue. The minister told TOI that districts bordering east UP, including Gopalganj and Kaimur, have been put on alert for a possible locust attack. “All district agriculture officers have been asked to ensure sufficient availability of agriculture protection chemicals, sprayers and tractors. List should also be prepared for availability of tractor-mounted sprayers, tractors and fire tenders. The ideal time for spraying recommended agricultural chemicals is from 11am to sunrise,” the minister said. As per the advisory issued by the agriculture department, the group of locusts take shelter on trees or plants after sunset. Such shelters are to be identified and villagers have been asked to make noise using drums, utensils or boxes made of steel of other metals, which will scare the locusts and drive them away from the villages. Some chemicals have also been suggested for farmers to spray on standing crops or plants in case they witness locust infestation. Besides, the farmers can call at the toll- ree number of agriculture department- 18001801551. The advisory has directed the formation of locust control committees at all levels of state administration. Agriculture department officials have been asked to seek assistance from universities and agriculture science centres and other insect management centres. “If needed, drones should be used for spraying pesticides. Another conventional method, like the use of noise making instruments and creating deafening sounds can also be useful in preventing locust attack,” said professor S N Ray, scientist and chairperson in the department of entomology (scientific study of insects) at Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) at Bhagalapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/agri-dept-braces-for-locust-attack/articleshow/76077294.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 29, 2020||Patna||Committee to probe Bailey Road accident||PATNA: Road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav on Thursday said a committee has been formed under managing director (MD) of Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Ltd (BRPNN) to inquire into Wednesday’s incident in which three children died when a prefabricated heavy concrete slab on which they were playing fell on them near Lalit Bhawan on Bailey Road here. The minister said it was a shocking and unfortunate incident. “If any slackness is found on the part of officials or the private firm engaged in construction work in the area, stern action will be taken against them. It seems the incident has no connection with the construction work on Lohia Path Chakra project,” the minister added. The minister said construction firms in the state have been asked to ensure that the sites are sealed properly. “They have also been asked to depute guards at the construction sites to take care of movement of vehicles and passers-by,” the minister said. BRPNN managing director Surendra Yadav said he visited the site for inspection on Thursday. “The workers told me that around 12 kids were playing along the Bailey Road near the construction site. Three kids were standing on the concrete slab when it tumbled and fell on them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/committee-to-probe-bailey-road-accident/articleshow/76077625.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 29, 2020||Patna||Congress seeks Rs 10,000 dole for migrants, farmers||PATNA: Congress national spokesperson and Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil has demanded that Rs 10,000 be put in the accounts of migrant labourers, daily wage earners and all those who have lost their source of income due to the lockdown. During a live session on social media on Thursday, Gohil accused the Centre of ignoring the advice of opposition leaders on tackling coronavirus. He said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had given an early warning on the impending coronavirus crisis on April 12, he was not only ignored, but also trolled on social media. “When we should have prepared to fight coronavirus, BJP leaders were busy pulling down the government in Madhya Pradesh to increase their Raj Sabha seat. Then they held ‘Namaste Trump’. In any democracy, a government listens to its opposition, but here spokespersons of ruling party start abusing if we give any suggestion,” Gohil said. Attributing the migrant crisis to bad planning, Gohil said, “There are 12,617 trains and in a day 2.40 crore people can be ferried. Approximately 12 crore people are working outside their states, out of which around six crore wanted to returnhome. If these trains were used on time, migrants would have reached home in three days. Also experts have calculated that Rs 800 crore would have been spent on it, which is not even a half per cent of the Rs 20 lakh crore package.” Bihar state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha along with Congress leaders sat on a dharna outside their party office against the plight faced by migrant labourers, daily wage earners, farmers and businessmen. Jha said, “Many migrants have died on way to their home. Who will take responsibility of their death and what about compensation?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-seeks-rs-10000-dole-for-migrants-farmers/articleshow/76077319.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||SCCL coalmen warn stir over privatisation||HYDERABAD: All trade unions, including the recognised union, of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) are opposing the Union government’s decision to open up coal mines to private sector and allow commercial mining. They have threatened to launch agitations and bring coal production to a halt if the government does not withdraw its decision. The unions have also formed a joint action committee, comprising INTUC, AITUC, HMS and CITU. Even the recognized trade union and TRS-affiliate Telangana Boggu Gani Karimika Sangham (TBGKS) are also opposing the privatization move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sccl-coalmen-warn-stir-over-privatisation/articleshow/76079988.cms||Roushan Ali
May 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Pantry car of AC special train sanitised as employee shows Covid symptoms||PATNA: The pantry car and brake van of the New Delhi-Agartala AC special train (02502) were fully sanitised at the Danapur railway station on Thursday after one of the pantry car staff showed Covid-19 symptoms. According to sources, the pantry car employee complained of fever and acute body ache after boarding the special train in New Delhi on Wednesday. At Kanpur, he was medically examined by railway doctors and taken to a hospital for Covid-19 test. Other staff then wanted a thorough sanitization of the pantry car and their medical check-up as well. Danapur control room then received a message from the train superintendent and station officials of Pt Deen Dayal Upadhaya Junction about immediate need of sanitization of the pantry car of the special train. Thus, the special train which had stoppage at Patliputra Junction only, made an unscheduled stoppage at the Danapur station where its pantry car and brake van were fully sanitised. Danapur chief medical superintendent (CMS) R K Verma said the pantry car was full sanitised and all staff were screened after the train reached the railway station. Meanwhile, ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar has contradicted a news report published in a vernacular daily regarding deaths of passengers on board the Shramik Special trains due to the negligence of the railways. He said in some cases, only critically ill passengers died on board trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pantry-car-of-ac-spl-train-sanitised-as-employee-shows-covid-symptoms/articleshow/76076163.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Patna||Triple murder: RJD netas to march to Gopalganj on Friday||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday asked the RJD legislators to assemble at 10, Circular Road bungalow of former CM Rabri Devi on Friday for the party’s march to Gopalganj. Tejashwi had earlier said that if Kochaikot MLA Amrendra Pandey alias Munna Pandey, who had been named in a triple murder case, was not arrested within two days, the party legislators will march from Patna to Gopalganj. Tejashwi also met party’s state president Jagdanand Singh on Thursday to discuss the protest plans. “It is our responsibility to stand for common people. This government should feel ashamed that it is not arresting a named accused. As the government has forgotten its duty, the opposition stands with the people,” Singh said. Asked if the party has sought permission for the march amid lockdown, Singh said, “Permission for what? Did the people who had openly protested in front of police in Gopalganj on Wednesday, take permission? There is no government in the state to give permission. All we can say is that social distancing will be maintained during the ,arch.” Meanwhile, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said there was no further development in the Gopalganj triple murder case. “We are taking help of Criminal Investigation Department to crack the case,” he said. Police had earlier arrested district board chairman Satish Pandey and Mukesh Pandey in connection with the case. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari said the situation at Hathua sub-division was under control and STF commandos were still deployed there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/triple-murder-rjd-netas-to-march-to-gopalganj-today/articleshow/76077688.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Better immunity helps Indians resist Covid-19, says expert||PATNA: Covid-19 infection and fatality rates in India are much less than those in the USA because of the better immune system of Indians and strict enforcement of lockdown in the country, said Dr Amarendra Kumar Ajay, professor at Harvard Medical School and principal investigator, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Boston, USA on Thursday. Dr Ajay was addressing a webinar on ‘Therapeutics, vaccination and new normal’, organised by A N College, Patna. He said 296 trials were underway across the world for developing Covid-19 vaccine. Interacting with the teachers and researchers of the college, Dr Ajay admitted that food habits, regular use of spices and turmeric and lesser luxurious life contributed to keep the immunity of Indians at a level higher than many western countries. He said while vaccines against bird flu, swine flu and Ebola virus have already been developed, those against SARS (severe acute respiratory system), MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome), H7N9 and Zika viruses were yet to come up. A N College principal S P Shahi said Covid-19 has ushered in a ‘new normal life’ characterised by lockdown, social distancing, home delivery of essential items, online classes and changed lifestyle with masks covering half of the faces. Several teachers interacted with the US expert. While Ratna Amrit coordinated the webinar, prominent among those participating in the interaction included Preety Sinha, Tripti Gangwar, Shailesh Singh and Nupur Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/better-immunity-helps-indians-resist-covid-19-says-expert/articleshow/76076129.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Patna||‘Provide agri input subsidy to farmers’||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Thursday asked the disaster management department (DMD) to expeditiously transfer Rs 1,000 each from CM Relief Fund into the personal bank accounts of migrant workers who have completed their mandatory stay at the quarantine centres. He also asked the DMD to open the bank accounts of those trapped migrant workers who have returned to the state but had not been paid Rs 1,000 each because they did not have their bank accounts there. He said their bank accounts be opened in the state, and the money should accordingly be transferred into the accounts. The CM said the process should be started for payment of agriculture input subsidy to the farmers who had suffered crop damage in April. For this, applications should be invited from farmers, he said. The CM also made an appeal to the people of the state to show their patience and care towards those people who have recovered from coronavirus and returned to their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/provide-agri-input-subsidy-to-farmers/articleshow/76076224.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Surat||Surat textile traders included in Rs 3L cr MSME credit scheme||Surat: Textile traders in Surat, country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market, are hoping to cope with the liquidity crisis, with the central government including them under the Rs 3 lakh crore MSME credit package. Industry sources said that following the representation by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), the central government has decided to include the traders under the automatic loan facility. However, only the existing borrowers of the banks will be able to take benefit of the scheme. It was a long pending demand of the textile traders to include them in the MSME category to get the benefits of the government schemes. According to the traders, they are merchant-manufacturers as they purchase grey fabric from weavers and get it processed from the textile mills on job work. Manoj Agarwal, president of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) told TOI, “There has been zero business in the textile markets for over two months. Payments to the tune of over Rs 5,000 crore is stuck in the pipeline. Traders do not have liquidity to operate the business smoothly.” Agarwal added, “It is a timely decision taken by the central government to include traders in the MSME credit package. Barring small traders, other big traders having bank loan facilities could easily avail the benefit of the automatic loans. Traders who are non-borrowers could also be included in the scheme.” FOSTTA office-bearers said that over the past 60 days, the losses in the textile sector has piled up to Rs 15,000 crore, which includes textile processors, traders and powerloom weavers. Devkishan Manghani, chairman of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (SGCCI) textile committee told TOI, “The government must remove the rule of borrowers and non-borrowers and make the automatic loans available to all the traders. The borrowing limits should be fixed for each trader depending on the annual turnover. Majority of the traders in Surat’s textile market are non-borrowers and they depend on the private financers for doing business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-textile-traders-included-in-rs-3l-cr-msme-credit-scheme/articleshow/76078420.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Varanasi||Two new Covid cases surface in Varanasi||Varanasi: Two new Covid positive cases took Varanasi’s tally to 162 on Thursday. Besides, 10 new Covid infected persons were detected in Azamgrh, four in Ghazipur and Ballia each, three in Jaunpur, two in Mau and one in Sonbhadra. Varanasi DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Of the 55 test reports received from BHU laboratory two persons were found Covid positive—an 18-year-old boy of Chhitauna village of Chaubeypur area and another boy of the same age in Daniyalpur in Sarnath area, who had returned home from Mumbai by truck and train. Now, the total number of Covid positve cases in Varanasi has reached 162. Out of 162, as many as 90 had recovered while four had died. Number of active patients in the district is 68 now. There are 58 active hotspots in Varanasi now. In Azamgarh 10 new COVID-19 positive cases came to light, said DM NP Singh adding, the total number of cases in the district has reached to 65. Among the newly detected patients, three are from Kharauti, Mohammadpur who had returned home from Mumbai in truck, while three youths of Mehnagar, Rani ki Sarai and Shivpur Maharjganj who had returned to their homes from Mumbai by motorcycles. In Mau, DM Gyan Prakash Tripathi informed that two youths of Dharmpur village and Madao Fatehpur, who had also returned from Mumbai, tested positive. Now, total number of positive cases in the district has reached to 22. In Ballia, DM Hari Pratap Shahi confirmed four new infected persons. A woman (50) of Pakadi block, 23-year-old man from Shobha Chhapara Muralichhapara, 40-year-old man from Hridayapur Muralichhapara and a 45-year-old man from Chiranjiv Chhapara were shifted to Azamgarh hospital after they tested positive. Now, total Covid count of Ballia has reached to 35. One youth of Khempur village in Sonbhadra, who had returned home from Surat by truck on May 14, tested positive. Sonbhadra CMO said that the total number of Covid cases have now reached to seven. In Ghazipur, the total Covid count reached to 97 with the detection of four new cases including two youths who returned to Nandganj from Mumbai, confirmed DM Omprakash Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-new-covid-cases-surface-in-varanasi/articleshow/76078563.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Business||SIPs save the day after FPIs sell big||TNN Mumbai: As foreign funds took out over $6.6 billion (Rs 48,000 crore) from the Indian market during January-March, domestic funds — which saw Rs 8,500 crore coming in through the systematic investment plan (SIP) route every month — cushioned that selling to a large extent. With net buying of over $10 billion (Rs 73,500 crore), the domestic funds countered the outflow by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs), but the leading indices closed about 29% lower, a report by Motilal Oswal Financial Services noted. As a result of this divergent trend in institutional trading, FPI holding in the NSE 500 companies during the quarter fell to a five-year low of 21%, while domestic holding in these companies rose sharply to 14.8% — a nearly four-year high. With domestic savings being channelised more towards financial savings in recent years, the FPI-DII holding ratio has also fallen to a multi-year low of 1.4%, the report said. Total domestic holding in the NSE 500 companies got a further boost as promoters took advantage of the sharp slide in stock prices to hike their stakes. According to a top institutional dealer, one of the main reasons for this sharp dip in foreign holding was India’s weak economic fundamentals for over two years, which had initiated “risk-off trades” for FPI fund managers. Then Covid-19 issues “threw everything out of gear”. “Partially, the selling in January-February (2020) was India-specific and, to some extent, it was an emerging market issue,” the institutional dealer said. “It was a global call then, since India was not doing well on the economic front.” Just a day before India entered its first lockdown on March 25, both the sensex and the Nifty fell to multi-year lows as foreign funds continued their selling of risky emerging market stocks, including those of Indian companies. However, at the same time, domestic funds — led by strong inflows through the SIP route in mutual funds — bought stocks at beaten-down prices to partially cushion the foreign fund selling. “Over the last five years, the incremental dominance of domestic capital savings has gone up with consistent and rising SIP investments along with a shift toward financial savings. Consequently, the FII-DII ownership ratio in the Nifty 500 is at a new low and has declined to 1.4 from 2.2 in the last five years,” the report pointed out. “In the last one year, an increase in the FPI-DII ratio was recorded in the insurance sector. Telecom, real estate, private banks, cement, healthcare, automobiles, retail and technology were the key sectors to see a decline,” the report added. The report also pointed out that in India’s top 500 companies, foreign funds have the highest ownership in private banks (at 44.6%), followed by NBFCs (35.6%), telecom (21.7%), oil & gas (21.3%) and real estate (20.4%). On the other hand, domestic funds have the highest ownership in capital goods (23.9%), metals (21.2%), private banks (20.3%), utilities (19.5%) and PSU banks (17.8%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sips-save-the-day-after-fpis-sell-big/articleshow/76079373.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Business||BookMyShow fires, furloughs 19% staff||Bengaluru: Movie ticketing and events player BookMyShow has said it is laying off and furloughing (leave without pay) 270 of its 1,450 employees, which comes to about 19% of its total staff. The Mumbai-based company is expected to split the number of employees that are being laid off and those who are being furloughed as large gatherings have come to a pause due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Today, we are at the stage where I have to share with you, the uncomfortable, unfortunate yet inevitable downsizing exercise that we have to take due to the unfavourable environment,” said BookMyShow co-founder & CEO Ashish Hemrajani in an email to staff on Thursday. Employees who are being laid off will get a minimum of two months of salary, insurance till September 30, besides placement services. Those on furlough will continue to get medical insurance, gratuity, and other benefits. The development comes as revenues for BookMyShow have hit near zero with the closure of movie halls and large gatherings like music concerts and sports, which is its target market. Though the company has started offering digital content to keep customers engaged, those are not significant sources of monetisation. “At BookMyShow, we have lived through the dot.com bust of the early 2000s and the Global Financial Crisis of 2008 to know that this is going to run deep and long.....From day 2 of the lockdown, BookMyShow started offering digital content and most of it for free,” said the mail from Hemrajani. The company was founded in 1999 as BigTree Entertainment by Ashish Hemrajani, Parikshit Dhar, and Rajesh Balpande with an initial focus on helping theatres manage their inventory and then started selling tickets online with the launch of BookMyShow. Since then, the company has significantly scaled up the business and was selling 18-20 million tickets a month last year. The company was valued over $800 million when it last raised capital in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bookmyshow-fires-furloughs-19-staff/articleshow/76079201.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Business||Bank of India fined for NPA violations||TNN Mumbai: The RBI has penalised Bank of India, Karnataka Bank and Saraswat Cooperative Bank for violating norms with respect to classification of bad loans. In recent years, the RBI has fined several banks for differences in the level of non-performing assets (NPAs) reported by the lenders and those identified by the central bank during its inspection. Bank of India has been fined Rs 5 crore, Karnataka Bank Rs 1.2 crore and Saraswat Cooperative Bank Rs 30 lakh. In the case of Bank of India and Karnataka Bank, the penalties follow inspections of the banks’ books for the years ended March 2017 and March 2018. While for Saraswat Bank, the inspections pertain to the year ended March 2018. In terms of RBI rules, if any divergences are detected by the central bank during its inspections, the banks need to recognise the defaults and make adequate provisions in their subsequent year’s accounts. Bank of India has been penalised a higher amount because, besides divergences, the central bank had issues with the lender’s opening of current accounts and classification and reporting of frauds. “All the penalties have been imposed in exercise of powers vested in the RBI under the provisions of section 47A (1) (c) with sections 46 (4) (i) and 51 (1) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. This action is based on the deficiencies in regulatory compliance and is not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any transaction or agreement entered into by the bank with its customers,” the RBI said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-of-india-fined-for-npa-violations/articleshow/76079277.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Delhi||Food helpline a disaster, plug ration deficit for 17 lakh people: HC||NEW DELHI: There is still a ration deficit for 17 lakh non-PDS people in Delhi, the high court noted on Thursday while calling a state food helpline number a “disaster”. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad scrutinised the government’s food distribution system for the needy during the Covid-19 crisis and found gaps, issuing a slew of directives to plug them immediately. The court asked the government to move fast in various areas, including improving access to food helplines, assistance in getting flour from atta chakkis at the government’s expense, and making arrangements for those not registered under the public distribution system. During the hearing, the judges tried to reach the government’s food helpline number 1967 and 1301 manned by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority several times but failed. “To satisfy ourselves as to whether the said helpline is actually functioning, repeated calls have been made by us on this number from our mobile phones but the said number cannot be reached at all,” they said. “The said helpline number itself is a disaster that needs to be addressed immediately by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. It shall be made functional by the end of this day,” the bench ordered, warning the authorities that it would randomly call and test the helplines. It also directed them to increase the number of persons manning these numbers. On those left out of the free ration net, the court pointed out that the government records showed 33.3 lakh e-coupons had been processed while Delhi had 54 lakh non-PDS residents. While another six lakh have been covered under the Centre’s food schemes, food needs of 17 lakh people “must be met by the state without any further loss of time”, the bench said. The “beneficiaries belong to the economically distressed section of the society”, it pointed out. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for the AAP government, said they could apply for e-coupons at the links provided online. But the court found the process difficult for the poor and noted how they “would still end up running from pillar to post for generation of e-coupons, which is most unacceptable in the present situation”. It asked the government to set up helpdesks at each of the 588 non-PDS centres over the next five days to guide the beneficiaries. The government has been told to issue an advisory to all MPs and MLAs to identify particular locations where the helpdesks will be set up for the purpose. “The details of the locations shall be uploaded on the website of Delhi government within five working days,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/food-helpline-a-disaster-plug-ration-deficit-for-17l-people-hc/articleshow/76079977.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 29, 2020||Patna||Patna HC dubs child’s viral video ‘shocking, unfortunate’||PATNA: The Patna high court on Thursday took suo motu cognizance of a video which had gone viral on social media showing a toddler purportedly trying to wake up his dead mother at Muzaffarpur railway junction. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar sought “complete facts” from principal secretaries of the departments concerned. The court took cognizance of a report published in TOI on Thursday. It termed the incident “shocking and unfortunate”. The matter has been posted for hearing on June 3. The high court held two back-to-back hearings on the matter directing additional advocate general SD Yadav to get instructions from the government on the issue. It also appointed Ashish Giri as amicus curie in the case and asked the additional advocate general to ascertain if the apex court had taken cognizance of the matter. The court asked the AAG if an autopsy was performed to ascertain if the woman had actually died of hunger, what actions were taken by law enforcing agencies, if the last rites were performed as per instruction issued by the government and who was taking care of the children. But the court refrained from issuing any directions as instructions from the state government’s standing council in Supreme Court were awaited. The AAG appraised court that the news report was “partially incorrect”. He submitted that the woman was mentally unstable and had died a natural death during the journey from Surat and her family members travelling along had informed the railway authorities. Court was told that the body was allowed to be taken home after her brother-in-law’s statement was recorded. The court was informed that no FIR was lodged nor any post-mortem was conducted, but the district administration had provided ambulance and child was under the guardianship of the deceased’s sister. The court then directed that all these submission of AAG along with other facts be filed in personal affidavits by the departments concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-hc-dubs-childs-viral-video-shocking-unfortunate/articleshow/76077472.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 29, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: ‘Tele eye care’ unlocks ‘vision’ in remote villages amid lockdown||SURAT: Unlike many places in the state, non-Covid tribal patients in remote villages of eastern belt of Tapi, Narmada, Surat and even Maharashtra, like 52-year-old farm labourer Mangesh Tadvi from Maharashtra’s Korai village, aren’t facing any difficulties in getting access to health care services, including eye care. Thanks to the teleconsultation and telemedicine facilties provided by the Divyajyoti Trust, run by Mandvi-based Tejas Eye Hospital, health concerns have been minimised to a great extent. Tadvi had been suffering from eye problems for the few days, which only got aggravated due to the lockdown restrictions. On Monday, he approached the trust’s Vision Centre at Khapar village in Maharashtra where an ophthalmologist in Mandvi checked his eyes through Non Myriatic Fundus Camara and gave him advice via telemedicine. “I was slightly apprehensive about the expert advice from a doctor sitting humdreds of kilometres away in Mandvi town. But after checking, the expert advised me that I need to wear glasses now, which they will send me in the next four days,” Tadvi, told TOI over phone from Maharashtra. Divyajyoti Trust runs 11 vision centres in the remote villages like Natrang, Zankhvav, Dediyapada, Sagbara, Vyara, Bardoli, Kim Uchchal, Kosmba and in Maharashtra's Khapar village where on an average 15 patients visit these centres daily. “Teleconsultation saves poor people of approximately Rs 1 crore annually on health services. All the vision centres are equipped with telemedicine facility. Such facility is available in only two places in Gujarat, which includes and Divyajyoti Trust. We have internet facilities at all our centres,” said Dr Uday Gajiwala, ophthalmologist and superintendent of Tejas Eye Hospital, while talking to TOI. "Teleconsultation makes eye care available to rural masses as almost 80 percent of ophthalmologists are clustered in cities only. The trust provides eye care for about 2.5 million population in approximately 2,000 villages. This is our venture to eliminate avoidable blindness by providing services close to the doorsteps of the rural community,” Dr Gajiwala added. “This has also helped people avoid the risk of infection from travelling to our hospital in Mandvi. Those patients who need further examinations or surgery are referred to hospital in Mandvi for further treatment,” he said , adding that the eye hospital has 100 bed facility and conducts over 13,000 eye surgeries every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tele-eye-care-unlocks-vision-in-remote-villages-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76078552.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 29, 2020||Surat||SVNIT students oppose online exams, VNSGU fake circular goes viral||SURAT: Confusion prevailed over annual exams at two major educational institutes of south Guajarat — the Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) and the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) on Thursday. Students of SVNIT have been opposing online exam proposed by the authorities. On Thursday, the SVNIT cancelled an online meeting scheduled with students of the institute opposing the online exam scheduled in June. The BTech students are demanding that they should be given marks as per formula which is being adopted in some other top engineering institutes of the country. The students are claiming that they were unable to appear in online exams under the current situation. Meanwhile, a circular on annual exams at VNSGU went viral on social media. However, the circular turned out to be a fake one. VNSGU is yet to take decision on holding exams. The fake circular created lot of excitement since students and teachers were eagerly waiting for the decision on exams. According to the circular, second and fourth semester students were exempted from exam and it was declared that they will be given result as per their average marks in previous exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/svnit-students-oppose-online-exams-vnsgu-fake-circular-goes-viral/articleshow/76078470.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Surat||Sharp rise in Covid cases as 44 test positive||SURAT: Thursday witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in Surat after the city recorded 44 new cases taking the total of positive cases to 1,424. According to Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, Limbayat zone continues to report highest numbers of cases daily. On Thursday, the zone reported 14 more cases followed by Udhana with nine cases. “I request private medical practitioners to give symptomatic treatment if they suspect any symptoms of Covid-19 and start early treatment of such patients,” said Pani. A 70-year-old resident of Limbayat zone, Dawood Patel, succumbed to the virus taking the death toll from the infection to 65 in the city. SMC officials said that 106 passengers through two domestic flights — one from Delhi and another from Hyderabad — arrived in Surat city while all the flyers have been told to self isolate compulsorily for 14 days. Meanwhile, the civic body on Thursday surveyed 2,040 more salons and paan parlours in the city to maintain social distancing norms. “We have shut 138 paan parlours and 127 salons which were found to be violating the norms,” Pani said, adding that senior citizen must stay indoors unless very essential. “I would urge senior citizen to not venture out from home and instead young members of their families should go out for necessary purchase. But if they need to go out of home, keep sanitizer with them to sanitize their hands whenever they touch any objects,” Pani said. On Thursday, 25 patients were discharged in Surat which included seven from Covid Care Centre and 18 from the New Civil hospital. So far, 985 patients have been discharged in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sharp-rise-in-covid-cases-as-44-test-positive/articleshow/76078455.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Business||Online food orders still down 60% from pre-Covid||BENGALURU: India’s online food delivery order volumes continue to remain down by over 60% from the peak reached in the first two weeks of March, according to data from Israel’s Superfly Insights, which collated it through anonymised billing information. The data shows that Zomato and Swiggy order volumes crashed to their lowest during the week of March 22-28. In the first two weeks of March, before the crisis, the two companies were together doing 2.5-3 million orders a day, according to industry executives TOI spoke to. The data from Superfly, which has tracked a subset of the total orders, showed order volumes tanked by almost 90% just before the lockdown started. While platforms faced difficulties at the local level in most cities to operate during a lockdown, consumers also ordered less online as a precautionary move amid the virus outbreak. Then in April, orders started making slow and steady progress. But they took another beating in the middle of April for two weeks due to reports of a pizza delivery boy being Covid-19 positive. Orders since then have been staging a comeback, albeit slower than usual as volatility continues. “We are seeing some growth coming back, but still not at a pre-Covid level and it’s so volatile that every day there is a new surprise. Consumer behaviour is also changing, some of it will be irreversible,” said Jaydeep Barman, CEO of cloud kitchen player Rebel Foods. He added that his company has launched ready-to-cook meals and marinades as customers increasingly look to cook at home. The volatility is being driven more by the spikes in shutdowns of deliveries in containment zones and cities. According to Barman, demand is recovering faster in smaller towns like Lucknow, Bhopal, Vijaywada and Coimbatore, which have not been impacted as much as the metros. Emphasis on safety has been another area of focus for platforms like Zomato and Swiggy besides restaurants. Rebel Foods, which runs cloud kitchens like Behrouz Biryani, OvenStory and Faasos, has seen 75% of consumers who order on the platform scan the QR code to check on temperatures and medical check-up certificates of those involved in cooking the meal. Aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato have already cut 13-15% of their corporate staff (not delivery executives), pulled back on discounts, and aggressively expanded into grocery since the crisis started in March. According to Zomato co-founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal’s email to his staff earlier this month, the company expects this situation to continue for another 6 months at least. “Our order volumes are down, but we have witnessed a strong recovery in these last two weeks,” a Zomato spokesperson said, attributing it to safety measures taken by the company. Currently, 15% of its order volume comes from grocery, which has been steadily growing week-on-week, the company added. An emailed query to Swiggy did not elicit a response till the time of going to the press. Even while platforms like Zomato and Swiggy have been operational, the number of restaurants open for delivery is less than a third of those registered — another factor leading to the fall in demand. Industry body National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) has estimated that 50% of the restaurants in the country may shut down because of the Covid-19 crisis. Incidentally, on Wednesday, the NRAI sent out letters to leading mall owners in India, seeking urgent changes in rent arrangements for restaurants in their premises. While at a standalone level restaurants have managed to work out new arrangements with landlords, leading malls are yet to commit to rejigged rent structures. The association is suggesting options such as revenue-share, where one would pay a percentage of the monthly sales as rent, instead of a fixed component. “There is already immense stress in the sector and we will be lucky to get 25-40% of the old business volumes back once we restart,” said one of the letters sent by NRAI to a leading mall in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/online-food-orders-still-down-60-from-pre-covid/articleshow/76079103.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 29, 2020||Patna||‘Indebted to our boss, will go back to Delhi after lockdown’||PATNA: A group of 10 migrant workers landed at Patna airport on an IndiGo flight from Delhi at 7.20am on Thursday. Unlike thousands of their fellow migrants from Bihar, they did not have to cycle or walk hundreds of kilometers in scorching heat. These lucky men got to take a flight home courtesy their generous employer. Pappan Singh Gehlot, a mushroom farmer in Delhi, not only took care of his employees during lockdown, he bought their tickets on an IndiGo flight to Patna and even gave them some money to take home. Naveen Ram, who has been working for the mushroom cultivator for a decade, said, “Our boss not only booked our flight ticket but also gave Rs 7,000 to hire a private cab to our village in Samastipur. Above all, he provided financial assistance to support our family in this situation.” “I got to see my one-and-half-year-old son Aditya after eight months. I had left for Delhi in August when my son was only three months old. All thanks to him,” he added. All 10 workers said after the lockdown ends, they would return to resume their work. Mahesh Ram, who hails from Sheerpur Gahar village under Khanpur block in Samastipur, said, “We were provided food and shelter during the two months of lockdown. We did not even realize that we are living amid lockdown. Because of him, our families did not suffer for money or food. Money was sent to their bank accounts.” Full of praise for his boss, another employee Jeevak Ram, who is from Sakipur village in Khanpur block, said five of them got Rs 5,000 each from Gehlot. “He promised that he would transfer the money to other five as well. He also asked us to inform him if we need more money. Where would you find such a good boss in this world,” he said. After landing in Patna they spent a few hours at the airport premises trying to book cabs. They finally had to hire three cabs to Samastipur because of the restriction on the number of riders per cab. “As the buses are not running, it is quite difficult to get a cab. We walked 1-km after that we got a private taxi. Thanks to Gehlot sir, we reached our homes comfortably,” said Lakhinder Ram over phone from his village. Their boss told TOI over the phone that around 48 workers from Samastipur have been working at his farm for the past 20 years. “They are my responsibility. They worked for me between August and March. Other workers left during Holi. These 10 were supposed to leave in the first week of April but got stuck due to lockdown,” Gehlot said. He added: “I tried to book tickets in AC coaches, but the seats were not available till June 15. It is difficult to get a seat in the Shramik special trains. Though they had no problems staying in Delhi, they were eager to see their family. So, I finally decided to book their flight tickets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indebted-to-our-boss-will-go-back-to-delhi-after-lockdown/articleshow/76077356.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 29, 2020||Surat||Cops raid paddy field, dig out booze worth Rs 7 lakh||SURAT: While many of you must be familiar with the sixties blockbuster number, “Mere Desh Ki Dharti Sona Ugle...” sung by the yesteryear legend Mahendra Kapoor, state’s Jhagadiya taluka added a new twist to the soil’s rich yield — Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL)! This interesting chapter happened in Nava Maljipura village in Bharuch’s Rajpardi area, located 90kms off Surat towards Vadodara in Jhagadiya taluka where the a paddy field yielded cops a caché of booze, worth Rs 7 lakh. Excited by the hidden treasure, cops dug up some 10 bighas of land for more, but in vain. According to police, based on a tip off, Rajpardi police conducted a raid in a farm located on the state highway connecting Rajpardi and Netrang village in Jhagadiya taluka. As the harvesting season was over, the paddy farm was already levelled and cops learnt that the bootleggers had used the opportunity to hide their contraband. Interestingly, the farm is owned by one of the bootlegger Vijay Vasava, while cops identified the other accused as Ashok alias Pintoo Vasava, both residents of Shreeji Nagar in Rajpardi besides Amit alias Dollal Thakore Vasava, a resident of Karjan colony in Jhaghadiya taluka. The accused, cops claim, are still at large. Explaining the modus operandi, cops said that the bootleggers had buried cartons containing 4,320 IMFL bottles of various brands in the field. This was their regular hideout from where theys delivered the booze to Bharuch and Ankleshwar towns. “The farm is located a few kilometres away from Rajpardi village on the Netrang-Rajpardi state highway. Due less movement of vehicles for the lockdown, the accused found their farm the best hideout for their illicit business,” said sub-inspector JB Jadav taking to TOI. Jadav added that after finding cache buried two-feet under at one spot, cops decided to dig up the entire farm, suspecting to find more buried at scattered spots. “We had to hire a JCB to dig up the entire 10 bighas, but it was a wild goose chase. The consignment may have been brought from Rajasthan,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cops-raid-paddy-field-dig-out-booze-worth-rs-7l/articleshow/76078771.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three men cut off eunuch’s braid||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old eunuch from the Shahpur area of city on Wednesday filed a complaint with police alleging that three men allegedly cut off the complainant’s braid and assaulted her over a money dispute. Neetu De Sonia De Paldiwala, who earns a livelihood by seeking alms from the people, in the FIR with Shahpur police stated that three men, the owner of a paan shop and his two aides, assaulted her and cut her hair. “I have been living with my mother for around two months as my work has been disturbed due to the lockdown and we are not allowed to roam and seek money,” Neetu De said. Elaborating De states, “My two aides and I had gone to our akhada near Delhi Darwaza. The accused, Rajuddin Qureshi, Zahid alias Chhota Zaheer and Junaid Qureshi, rushed to me and began asking for money which I owed Qureshi for some products that I bought from his shop.” Qureshi and two others first verbally abused Neetu and two other eunuchs. When Neetu De and two disciples objected to it, the accused persons took out iron rods and a pair of scissors. Qureshi and his aides held Neetu De and allegedly cut her braid. The three then assaulted Neetu De and her two disciples with iron rods Some local residents intervened, rescued the three and called and ambulance which took them to a nearby hospital. They later filed a complaint of assault, abusing and abetment against the three men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-men-cut-off-eunuchs-braid/articleshow/76079110.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sushil Kumar Modi for redefining term ‘migrant worker’||PATNA: Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday said the Interstate Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act 1979 needs to be replaced with a new one and implemented strictly. Migrant workers across the country had to face many hardships during the lockdown due to poor implementation of the four-decade-old Act, the deputy CM said. “The Migrant Workmen Act 1979 has provisions for payment of railway fare, treatment in case of being sick, expenses on medicines and residing space of 6.5 square metre for each person along with lavatories and washroom among other basic amenities. Besides, the Act envisages appointing inspectors for ensuring implementation of the various provisions. Had the Act been implemented strictly, workers would not have migrated out of desperation. Thus the need of the hour is to bring a new Act and implement it strictly,” SuMo said. Suggesting some new provisions, SuMo said, “ The term worker needs to be defined afresh. At present, only those who are brought by contractors are considered as migrant workers. However, today lakhs of people go to other states alone. Besides, migrants should be also covered under the Employees Provident Fund (EPF), Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and other welfare schemes. A nationwide database of all migrant workers needs to be prepared and each of them should be allotted a unique identification number.” More than 20 lakh migrant workers have arrived from different states across the country since May 2 in the state. As per figures available with the railways, around 17 lakh stranded persons, mostly migrant workers, have arrived by 1,300 Shramik special trains on Thursday. Incidentally, Bihar is facing several political issues from governments in non- BJP ruled states. “The Congress government in Rajasthan had demanded a reimbursement of Rs 1 crore from Bihar government for sending back students from Kota,” SuMo added. Responding to the charge, Congress national spokesperson and in-charge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil said, “Sushil Modi should see the footage of video conference of the PM with chief ministers of all states. In that, Bihar government had said students studying in Kota are from well to do families and can pay their own fare.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-for-redefining-term-migrant-worker/articleshow/76077265.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 29, 2020||Surat||Call from sex worker’s phone helped rescue the minor||Surat: Had it not been for this 20-year-old woman, who was herself forced into flesh trade, Surat’s 14-year-old girl could have ended up having her life ruining by the Jakir and his wife forever. On Thursday, when the Surat crime branch busted the flesh trade racket, they got to know that the girl from Puna area could make the distress call to her father only because of this woman. The woman, believed to be from Vadodora, could not resist helping this girl seeing that she was too young to be pushed into this illegal trade. “The 20-year-old woman was brought for prostitution and kept for a day with the rescued minor. She helped this girl by giving her the phone,” said a police officer in crime branch. Police are yet to identify this woman who helped the minor survivor. She was shifted out of the location by the couple before police raided the spot. “Her phone is also switched off since then. Without her call, the minor could not have been rescued,” said the official. It is suspected that the woman is a sex worker but she stopped the minor girl’s life from getting ruined. Police are awaiting final medical examination report of the 14-year-old to ascertain if she became pregnant and whether she was given any contraceptive tablets. The girl is so traumatized that she is finding it difficult to describe the crime. So far, she has told police that she was raped multiple times in a day by different persons, including old men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/call-from-sex-workers-phone-helped-rescue-the-minor/articleshow/76078676.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nashik||‘Will not allow shops to open if distancing is not followed’||Nashik: Taking serious cognisance of the shopkeepers which are failing to ensure social distancing among the customers, mayor Satish Kulkarni has warned to close their establishments and not allow them to do business.“Most of the shopkeepers are failing to ensure social distancing. It is mandatory for the shopkeepers to ensure customers maintain a distance of atleast one metre from each other. The shopkeepers are failing to observe this rule and it is very risky given the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases,” said Kulkarni. “We have decided to take strict action against the shops which fail to ensure social distancing among the customers,” said the mayor. Meanwhile, the municipal commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) held a meeting with the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) officials to discuss the measures to be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 ahead of the market reopening for auction on Friday. In the meeting, it was decided not to allow retail sale of vegetables and allow only wholesale transactions. Moreover, one personnel, along with a driver, will be allowed per vehicle.The civic administration has also decided to appoint teams of health officials to keep an eye on the movement of people at the APMC.The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Nashik, was closed from Tuesday to Thursday after workers at the wholesale market tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, ober 15 more people from a locality near APMC tested positive for the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/will-not-allow-shops-to-open-if-distancing-is-not-followed/articleshow/76077552.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 29, 2020||Patna||BJP’s outreach programme on Saturday||PATNA: The 80 lakh state BJP workers, including the party’s office-bearers, will play the role of postmen on Saturday when they will visit 2.6 crore households to present to people the letter signed by PM Narendra Modi, marking the celebration of the completion of six years of Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre. Modi had become the country’s PM the first time on May 30, 2014. He repeated the feat last year with bigger majority. As far as Bihar is concerned, the celebration will be a prelude to the PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, when the newly introduced booth-level ‘saptarishi’ workers numbering around 4.70 lakh will listen to it at the residence of the booth-level presidents. The state has slightly over 67,000 polling booths. Every ‘saptrishi’ unit has seven members with the task of taking PM Modi’s achievements to the people of the state. “The Saturday’s event is very significant when every party member will become a postman to carry the PM’s letter to each household,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-outreach-programme-tomorrow/articleshow/76077428.cms||Abhay Singh
May 29, 2020||Patna||1.9 lakh migrants reach Bihar by 73 special trains||PATNA: At least 1.9 lakh migrant workers and other stranded people reached different places in Bihar from 11 states by 73 Shramik Special trains on Thursday. With this, 17 lakh migrants have so far returned to the state by around 1,300 Shramik Special trains since May 2. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said special trains from Satara, Mumbai, Pune and Panvel in Maharashtra, carrying about 20,000 stranded people, reached Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Bairgania, Katihar, Patna, Motihari and Sitamarhi on Thursday, while two special trains from Nagaur and Jaipur in Rajasthan with 2,900 passengers reached Kishanganj and Purnia. Similarly, five special trains from Ludhiana, one each from Firozpur, Sirhind and Doraha in Punjab, carrying about 11,000 migrant workers, reached Gopalganj, Supaul, Kishanganj, Madhubani, Motihari, Muzaffarpur and Sitamarhi. Shramik Special trains from Chennai, Salem, Hosur, Tiruppur and Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu, carrying about 6,000 stranded people, reached Darbhanga, Barauni and Muzaffarpur. Special trains from Katra in Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka reached Araria and Darbhanga with the stranded migrants. Four special trains from Vapi and one from Udhna in Gujarat with 7,300 migrant workers reached Darbahanga, Barauni and Jehanabad, while four other special trains from Faridabad, Panipat, Hissar and Rohtak in Haryana, carrying nearly 5,800 passengers, reached Muzaffarpur, Begusarai and Katihar. One special train from Dehradun in Uttarakhand, carrying about 1,500 migrant workers and other stranded people, reached Kishanganj. Special trains from Uttar Pradesh, carrying about 10,500 migrant workers, reached Gaya, Khagaria, Katihar, Saharsa and Bhabua, while one special train from Jhansi in Madhya Pradesh reached Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction with migrant workers, who were later sent to Barauni, Goplaganj and Katihar in Bihar through special trains. “The ECR sent stranded migrant workers to Bettiah, Madhubani, Supaul, Buxar, Bhagalpur and Katihar from Danapur and other places by 22 additional special trains on Thursday,” the CPRO said. Meanwhile, ECR has set up food points at 21 railway stations falling under its jurisdiction to serve meals, snacks and water bottles to migrant workers travelling by Shramik Special trains. The food points have come up at Patna, Danapur, Patliputra, Gaya, Chopan, Dhanbad, Koderma, Barkakana, Renukut, Singhrauli, Daltonganj, Garhwa, Sonepur, Hajipur, Muzaffarpur, Barauni, Samastipur, Darbhanga, Motihari and Bettiah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-9-lakh-migrants-reach-bihar-by-73-special-trains/articleshow/76077382.cms||Kumod Verma
May 29, 2020||Patna||22 Myanmar nationals get notices||GAYA: Altogether 22 Myanmar nationals, who were not cleared by the immigration authorities to take the Bodh Gaya-Yangon special flight on Wednesday, were served digital notice issued by the Delhi police seeking their physical presence in Nizamuddin police station within seven days of receipt of the notice. The Yangon-bound Mynamar nationals are said to be Tablighi Jamaat members though Jamaat connections have not been officially confirmed. The notice period expires on June 3. The notice was served on the Myanmar nationals late on Wednesday evening at the airport departure lounge. Subsequently, the Myanmar nationals checked into a Bodh Gaya hotel for night stay. At the time of reporting, they were present in the hotel. The notice, according to sources, has been issued under Section 41 of the CrPC. As per the provisions of the said section, “Any police officer may, without an order from a magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person who has been concerned in any cognizable offence or against whom a reasonable complaint has been made or credible information has been received or a reasonable suspicion exists, of his having been so concerned.” Airport sources also say that some of the Myanmar nationals, who were denied permission to board the special flight have also over-stayed in the country and their Visa stands expired. Meanwhile, Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra made it clear that Myanmar nationals were neither detained nor arrested. “Only a lookout notice stands against them. The lookout notice prohibits international travel,” he said. Sources also say that a couple of officials of the Myanmar consulate in Kolkata have arrived to extend legal and other help to their nationals. The consulate officials are also likely to accompany the men to Delhi in compliance of the notice served on them. Sources said that 22 Burmese were stationed in Kolkata and they have reached Gaya by road. Meanwhile, an Air India Special flight from Dhaka landed at Gaya airport on Thursday evening with 170 Bihar natives, who were stranded in Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-myanmar-nationals-get-notices/articleshow/76077402.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Surat||Artists paint their respect for Covid warriors||SURAT: Fifty-two canvases speak volumes about the fight that the frontline warriors have been putting up against Covid-19 while trying to protect citizens. These art works also reflect the city-based painters’ respect and gratitude for the doctors, nurses and sanitation workers, bold brush strokes and colours adding vibrancy to the untold risks that these people have been undertaking daily in the time of pandemic. The unique initiative to pay respect to the frontline warriors through painting was started by city-based Kala Pratishan, a not-for-profit group, which works for painters, sculptures and photogramers. "We decided to honour these workers through art and also help the painters to express themselves with their brush during the lockdown. We provided 52 artists in the city with canvas and materials two weeks ago and asked them to paint on the theme of frontline warriors. We have also given the artists an honorarium for their work and we will put these paintings up for exhibition once things normalize. We will also share the amount we collect therein with the artists,” Ramnik Zapadiya, president of the pratishan, told TOI. Zapadiya added that while artists from across the state are associated with the pratisthan, it could not involve artists living outside Surat city owing to the lockdown rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/artists-paint-their-respect-for-covid-warriors/articleshow/76078507.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vadodara||At SOU Jungle Safari Park, exotic animals & birds have AC enclosures||Vadodara: Gujaratis are perspiring heavily as temperatures have soared in the state over last few weeks. But an alpaca and a llama are enjoying the cool environs at Jungle Park Safari near Statue of Unity in Narmada district. Safari authorities have installed airconditioners and air-coolers for animals and birds kept in the park. The idea is to ensure that exotic animals and birds don’t suffer heat stress in summers. “We have installed airconditioners in the enclosures of alpaca, llama, wallaby, patagonian mara and some other animals. Most of these animals can tolerate temperatures up to 38 degree Celsius but the temperature in our state is already touching 44 degree Celsius. So we have to keep them in controlled climate,” said Ram Ratan Nala, director of the park. For other animals like lions, leopards, capuchin monkeys and squirrel monkey and birds, air-coolers have been kept in the park. “In natural habitat, these animals find ways to keep themselves cool. Here we are ensuring that heat doesn’t bother them much. We have installed water foggers at many spots in the safari,” Nala told TOI. The authorities have also erected thatched roofs at several spots so that the animals find shade to rest. “We are adding electrolytes and ORS in the water fed to the animals and birds so that they can cope up with the heat,” Nala added. The sprawling park has 1,200 animals and birds of whom nearly 350 are exotic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/at-sou-jungle-safari-park-exotic-animals-birds-have-ac-enclosures/articleshow/76076820.cms||Tushar Tere
May 29, 2020||Surat||SMC to acquire private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients||Surat: After Ahmedabad civic body, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is preparing to acquire beds in private hospital for the treatment and isolation of the Covid-19 patients. This is being done in anticipation of spike in the coronavirus cases over the next few days. The civic body has intimated about 84 small and big private hospitals in the city, having total bed capacity of 6,300. The hospitals will be required to allot 50% of the beds for coronavirus patients. Talking with TOI, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “Spike in the coronavirus cases is anticipated and we may require more beds in the coming days. We plan to acquire 50% beds in the private hospitals across the city for the same.” Dr Naik added, “The current infrastructure to treat the Covid-19 patients is sufficient, but need may soon arise to acquire beds in the private hospitals. There are 84 big and small private hospitals and all have been intimated.” Asked about the rates in the hospital for Covid-19 patients, Dr Naik said, “Private hospitals have moved to the Gujarat High Court over the price cap. We are awaiting the HC order and take decision on the rates accordingly.” A SMC health official said that the Covid-19 cases are on the rise as people have started moving out due to the lockdown relaxations. “It is anticipated that the daily cases may increase to 50 in the next couple of days,” he added. Official sources said that the SMC-run SMIMER hospital, which is a non-Covid hospital, may be converted to the Covid hospital with 850 beds capacity. However, the total beds available with the civic body is about 2,200. Limbayat, Katargam, Central zone and Varachha have turned into the hotspots with high presence of Covid-19 cases. Limbayat alone accounts for about 45% of the Covid-19 cases in the city. Head: Surat’s Healthcare Stats Infra at private hospitals No. of hospitals: 84 No. of beds: 6,300 ICU beds: 685 Ventilators: 193. Infra in use for Covid-19 NCH: 670 beds Covid Care centre: 520 beds Seventh Day Mission hospital: 100 beds Tristar hospital: 80 beds *SMIMER (non-Covid hospital): 850 beds No. of beds : 2,200 * Will be used for covid patients soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-acquire-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76078338.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Business||GPay ties up with Dunzo for essentials||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Google Pay, the payments platform of Google India, has on-boarded hyperlocal delivery startup Dunzo on its platform as a storefront, at a time when demand for grocery and essentials remains high. This means one can run any task — grocery delivery, medicine delivery, pickup-and-drop — by using the Dunzo tab inside the payments app. Dunzo, where Google is also an investor, is believed to be clocking over 1 lakh orders a day amid high demand for essential needs. For Dunzo, this would mean getting access to a large set of new users. For Google Pay, which is seeing higher usage in areas like utility payments but fewer payment volumes overall amid the lockdown, more consumers would frequent its app to use services like Dunzo and pay digitally. In 2019, Google Pay had announced it has 67 million monthly active users (MAU) in India. Last month, TOI reported, quoting SimilarWeb data, that it had 115 million MAU in March, growing by 45% from February. As the number of Covid-19 positive cases are still rising in India, more consumers are going for online delivery of essentials.Last week, Reliance Industries’ JioMart, which is running a pilot with Facebook-owned messaging application WhatsApp, announced that it has opened services in 200 cities. Other platforms like Swiggy, Zomato, Amazon India and Bigbasket are also scaling up their grocery play, with many of them offering deliveries in 2-4 hours from kirana stores. “Consumables (grocery and other essentials) is now 75% of the total volumes for Dunzo, which was around 45% when the first lockdown was imposed in March. Fundamentally, it (shopping) has become need-based and there is no impulse that you can create as there is enough demand already. What this also does is you don’t have to discount,” Dunzo co-founder and CEO Kabeer Biswas told TOI last week. Biswas added that this had led to customer acquisition costs coming down to zero for the Bengaluru-based startup. While Dunzo is trying to service higher volumes, it also took a decision of pausing deliveries in select geographies in the outskirts of cities to serve higher demand coming from within the city. This would be 5-6% of its total geographical reach. It is present in eight cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai. A Google Pay spokesperson confirmed the Dunzo storefront on its platform. “The launch of the Dunzo Spot and the addition of LPG service providers are all examples of how we’re solving this (customer and business needs),” it added. Google Pay recently expanded the footprint of the Nearby Stores Spot to 35 cities, where users can find if nearby stores, selling essentials, are open and make digital payments if the store offers delivery. Google Pay rival PhonePe also has a similar offering on its platform named Stores. A Dunzo spokesperson did not respond to TOI’s emailed query till the time of going to the press. Some other storefronts, or ‘Spots’, on Google Pay include MakeMyTrip and Urban Company (formerly UrbanClap).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gpay-ties-up-with-dunzo-for-essentials/articleshow/76079163.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 29, 2020||Business||TVS to have virtual AGM on July 29||Chennai: In a nod to social distancing, two and three wheeler maker TVS Motor has announced that it will hold its annual general meeting of shareholders through video conferencing and other audio visual means on July 29. Infosys and TCS have also announced virtual AGMs. The company clocked a net profit of Rs 592.3 crore for the financial year ended March 31, 2020. Operating PAT for the year before one time additional discount and exceptional item was Rs 634.9 crore down 5.5% from Rs 670 crore in the year ago period. The company's revenue also shrank 9.6% to Rs 16,455.4 crore compared to Rs 18,217.5 crore in FY19. For Q4, the company saw its profit after tax shrink sharply to Rs 74 crore. Operating PAT for the quarter prior to one time additional discount and exceptional item was Rs 116.5 crore as compared to Rs 133.8 crore the quarter ago. The company announced a second interim dividend of Rs 1.4 per share (140%) for the year 2019-20. The total dividend paid for the year ended March 2020 aggregated to Rs 3.5 per share (350%) absorbing a sum of Rs 200.03 crore, the company said in a statement. TVS shares gained 3% on the BSE to close at Rs 332.95 on Thursday. “TVS Motor benefited from better product mix, higher export contribution and favourable exchange rate. Going forward, we expect rural revival and uptick in two wheeler sales due to social distancing in remote rural areas to support the 2W industry, which would benefit TVS Motor largely due to its rural focused products,” said Mitul Shah, VP (Research), Reliance Securities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-to-have-virtual-agm-on-july-29/articleshow/76079119.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Patna||Patna: Auto drivers struggle amid few customers, low income||PATNA: The movement of public transport may have resumed in the city as part of the relaxations given in the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown, but auto drivers are struggling to make ends meet. They have witnessed a sharp dip in the number of customers hiring their vehicles. 37-year-old Majister Singh, who has been riding an autorickshaw in Patna for the last 15 years, claimed that he had no other source of income. “I have to support a family of four. Since I am unable to earn more than Rs 100 every day, I have to use my savings to buy essential items,” he rued. Another auto driver, Satyendra Singh, pointed out, “Most of my passengers are students and office-goers. Since all schools and colleges and many offices are still shut, I earn only Rs 550 a week. Now, I have started riding my auto on a different route, but I do not see much difference in my income.” The situation of some drivers, who do not have their own autos, is more miserable. After working for an entire day, 33-year-old Sunil Kumar earns only Rs 180, which is not enough to sustain his family. “To make matters worse, I have to give Rs 250 to the owner of the auto and pay Rs 35 for parking the vehicle at the Patliputra station,” he said. Autorickshaws and e-rickshaws started running from May 20 on an odd-even basis with just two passengers. Bihar State Auto Chalak Sangh’s general secretary, Raj Kumar Jha, told this newspaper that traffic police personnel were troubling the drivers by imposing fines on them for not following the odd-even policy. “Less than 50% of the autos are plying on city roads. The government should give the drivers relaxations as they are uneducated and cannot understand what is odd or even,” Jha said. He alleged, “In tough times like these, some traffic cops are issuing challans for non-renewal of road tax and pollution under control certificates in Chitkohra and Rajendra Nagar area.” Patna Autorickshaw Association secretary, Ranjit Kumar Singh, urged the government to ensure that the drivers had a stable source of income. He said, “An auto wallah, Rajesh Pandey, committed suicide at his rented house in Khajekalan on May 25 because he had not earned a single penny in 57 days. He was under a lot of pressure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/auto-drivers-struggle-amid-few-customers-low-income/articleshow/76076202.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 29, 2020||Patna||Lockdown: Bihar CM to hold key meet on Friday||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar will hold a marathon meeting with DMs, SPs of all 38 districts, divisional commissioners, senior police officers and secretaries or principal secretaries of all departments on Friday to take feedback from them on lockdown and steps being taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. A minister in Nitish government said the CM had sought ministers’ views on the lockdown during the meeting of the state cabinet on Thursday. However, no minister came up with a concrete suggestion. Another minister said a videoconference between chief secretaries and Union home secretary or cabinet secretary would be held on Friday for taking feedback from all states regarding extension of lockdown. Nitish had suggested PM Narendra Modi in a videoconferencing with him on May 11 to extend the lockdown till the end of May, so that Bihar government could make arrangements to handle inflow of migrant workers. As per a statement issued by the state government on Thursday, altogether 2,168 migrant workers have tested positive for Covid-19 upon their return to the state. Sources said the state government is of the view that most migrant workers have already returned to Bihar. State information and public relations department secretary Anupam Kumar said in his daily online media briefing on Thursday that arrival of migrant workers to Bihar is in the final stages. “The number of people at the screening centres at the integrated check posts in bordering districts like Gopalganj and Rohtas is very low now as most migrant workers returning by road have already reached. The number of Shramik special trains coming to Bihar is also reducing with each passing day,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-nitish-to-hold-key-meet-today/articleshow/76076645.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 29, 2020||Surat||Surat: Couple arrested for pushing minor girls into flesh trade||SURAT: The rescue of an abducted 14-year-old girl from Ankleshwar on May 24 has blown the lid off a sinister flesh trade racket wherein tender-aged girls were pushed into prostitution by a husband-wife duo. On Thursday, Surat’s detection of crime branch (DCB) arrested Jaki Ahmed Ismail Tarki (30) and his wife Sana alias Sumaiya (27) from Roshan Society in Ankleshwar. Preliminary investigation revealed that the 14-year-old girl from Puna area of Surat was pushed into flesh trade around two months ago and was raped at least twice a day by clients of the couple. Investigation also revealed that the Jakir and his wife had pushed at least three other minor girls into prostitution in the past. Police are working to identify and rescue these girls. They ran the prostitution racket from a rented accomodiation in Panoli GIDC area where this Surat girl was also kept. The husband-wife duo used to contact the clients through Whatsapp by sending them photographs of the girls. They charged anything between Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 from the customers who were mostly from Bharuch and Vadodara districts. “Jakir shared photos of the minor girls with his regular customers and after negotiations, they finalised deal. His clients used to come to Panoli or in some cases the girls were sent to them,” said R R Sarvaiya, assistant commissioner of police, DCB. The 14-year-old girl, who was rescued on May 24 after she managed to make a call to her father, had gone missing around three months ago from Puna area. She had gone to Boisar to meet a boy in Maharashtra after escaped from home due to constant scolding by parents over various issues. The parents did not report her going missing to the police, believing that she may return. She knew the boy since her aunt’s home is in Boisar and he lived nearby. The boy convinced her to return to her parents after which she took a train to Surat but by mistake reached Bharuch. “One person named Ayyub noticed that the girl was alone and searching for help. He offered her help and brought her to Sumaiya. She then took her to Jakir who along with Ayyuub raped her before forcing her into prostitution,” said police. The accused have been handed over to Puna police station and they will produce them in court after their Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/couple-arrested-for-pushing-minor-girls-into-flesh-trade/articleshow/76078654.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||ADG, law & order, says zero tolerance against criminals||LUCKNOW: The country’s largest police force got a new additional director general of police (law and order) on Thursday. Prashant Kumar-I, IPS officer of 1990 batch, replaced PV Ramasastry, who was promoted as director general in the vigilance department. In his first interaction with reporters in the state capital, he laid stress on ‘zero tolerance’ against criminals. He said, strategies are hammered out according to geography and demography, citing Bundelkhand and areas in Indo-Gangetic plain as parallel case studies that need different yardsticks for policing. To a query on rise in crime against women in the state, the officer said, UP police doesn’t water down cases of crime against women and this is reflected in the data. On challenges ahead, he said, government’s guidelines will be followed while tackling the pandemic and the return of migrant labourers. “Migrants are a huge resource and their return to the state is a blessing for the economy,” he said. Lauding the police, he said, the force has tackled the covid-19 crisis well and rendered “service before self”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/adg-law-order-says-zero-tolerance-against-criminals/articleshow/76080580.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Salem||Five air passengers test positive||Salem: Five passengers who travelled to Salem from Chennai in a domestic flight on Wednesday have tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The passengers were admitted to the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital (SGMKMCH) for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/five-air-passengers-test-positive/articleshow/76079989.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Farmer leader under home quarantine||Rajkot: Kisan Congress leader Pal Ambaliya has been placed under home quarantine at his residence in Hanjadapar village of Khambhalia taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district ever since he lodged a complaint against cops for the alleged custodial torture on May 24. “To put me under quarantine is a conspiracy by the state government to restrict my movements to continue with the agitation for farmers,” alleged Ambaliya. Ambaliya also wrote a letter to director general of police on Thursday, demanding registration of his complaint against the cops for the alleged torture. In his letter, Ambaliya alleged that assistant commissioner of police J H Sarvaiya, inspector H M Gadhvi and the cops of Rajkot crime branch whipped him with sticks on the night of May 24. “I have sought a hearing through video conferencing with the DGP,” said Ambalia. “After subjecting me to police brutality, both ACP Sarvaiya and PI Gadhvi threatened to finish me off in an encounter, if I came to Rajkot again,” he said. On May 24, Ambaliya was arrested for holding a protest at the collectorate. “I wanted to register my protest against the wholesale traders’ decision to reduce the prices of onions and cotton produce,” he said. Ambaliya alleged that after his release from the Pradyumannagar police station, he was called to the police station again under the pretext of taking his finger prints. Then he was taken to the crime branch office where he was allegedly thrashed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-leader-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/76078874.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Cuttack||Priest beheads man in Cuttack temple to ‘rid world of coronavirus’||CUTTACK: In a suspected act of human sacrifice, a priest allegedly beheaded a 52-year-old man inside the Brahmani Devi temple in Bandhahuda village under Narsinghpur block of Cuttack district on Thursday. The gruesome incident came to light after the accused, Sansari Ojha (70), surrendered before Narsinghpur Police. Police identified the deceased as Saroj Kumar Pradhan (52) of Bandhahuda village. The victim would tend to the trees on the premises of the temple, and shared a room with Ojha. Radha Binod Panigrahi, SP (Cuttack rural), said Ojha committed the crime around 1am on Thursday after an argument with Pradhan over the coronavirus pandemic. Panigrahi said Ojha, during his confession, claimed to have been visited by the presiding deity of the temple and ‘asked’ to decapitate Pradhan to ‘rid the world of the coronavirus’. “The priest beheaded Pradhan with the help of a billhook,” he added. “Our preliminary investigation has shown that both of them had consumed weed at night,” the officer said. “A team has been sent to the spot and they have collected the necessary samples from the site. The body has been sent for postmortem. The accused has been detained and his medical check-up has been done,” Panigrahi added. Villagers of the area said entry of devotees in the temple had been restricted because of the lockdown. “Most of us had not been to the temple for months. The two men would spend all their time on the temple premises,” said a villager on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/priest-beheads-man-in-cuttack-temple-to-rid-world-of-coronavirus/articleshow/76078899.cms||Manabesh Mohanty
May 29, 2020||Delhi||NE riots: Court raps Delhi Police for not probing rival faction||NEW DELHI: “The investigation seems to be targeted only towards one end,” remarked a court in connection with Delhi Police’s probe into the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case lodged against Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. The court, which was hearing proceedings regarding Tanha’s judicial custody, inquired about the probe against the “rival faction”, to which police failed to respond. The court’s attention was drawn towards the statement of one of the witnesses showing “specific allegations” against Tanha. “The perusal of the case diary reveals the disturbing fact that the investigation seems to be targeted only towards one end. Inspectors Lokesh and Anil have failed to point out what investigation has been carried out so far regarding the involvement of the rival faction. In view of the same, the DCP concerned is required to monitor the investigation and ensure a fair probe,” said special judge Dharmender Rana. During the proceedings, Tanha was remanded to judicial custody for 30 days till June 25. He was produced from police custody on May 27 at the judge’s residence where inspector Lokesh informed the court that the student was “actively” involved in the “communal riots” that hit northeast Delhi this February. A resident of Jharkhand’s Hazaribagh, Tanha lived in Abul Fazl Enclave and was pursuing a bachelor’s course in Arabic from Jamia. He was also one of those who led the “United Against Hate” movement. Tanha, an office bearer of Students’ Islamic Organisation, was allegedly found instigating students to resort to violence during the anti-CAA protests outside Jamia in December 2019. He was arrested on the basis of eyewitness accounts. The FIR registered at Jamia Nagar police station after the violence had named Tanha, student leader Chandan Kumar, and former MLA Asif Muhammad Khan. It was alleged that in several videos Tanha was seen leading students, who later got violent and pelted stones. It was also alleged that Tanha had asked his followers to block the road near Jamia even as a mob went berserk and burnt several DTC buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-court-raps-delhi-police-for-not-probing-rival-faction/articleshow/76079992.cms||Aamir Khan
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav hits out at BJP for planning ‘one-year’ celebration||LUCKNOW: Lambasting the BJP for its plans to celebrate completion of a year in government at the Centre on May 30, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said the party is actually preparing to play Nero who fiddled while Rome burned. “The BJP is set to organise mega events across the country with pomp and show to list its achievements. This will happen at a time when people are dying across the country due to novel coronavirus pandemic which has left 1.5 lakh people infected. Migrants are compelled to cover distances on foot without food and water and farmers and small traders are disillusioned about the future,” he said. Visuals of an infant pulling bed sheet from over the body of her mother on a railway platform expecting that he can wake her up, have left a lasting impact on the people's mind about the prevailing state of affairs, the SP chief said The former UP CM said BJP’s national president posed for cameras while distributing food packets to 10 persons and claim that the government has distributed ration to 24 crore people and the finance minister declared that help has been extended to 80 crore families in India. “If what they are saying is true then who is lying -- the migrants dying of hunger and thirst or the women and children walking long distances barefoot to reach home?” he questioned. “The prime minister has once said that the BJP looks for an opportunity in a calamity. At a time when the entire nation is facing hardships and there is a need for the political leadership in power to reassure the people those at the helm of affairs have themselves turned directionless,” Akhilesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-hits-out-at-bjp-for-planning-one-yr-celebration/articleshow/76080625.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
May 29, 2020||Varanasi||Officials deployed, farmers alerted to take locust control measures||Varanasi: As the wave of locust swarms reached the Kusiara village in Halia area of Mirzapur district on Thursday, the administration has started making arrangements for the locust control operations in the district. Mirzapur chief development officer (CDO) Avinash Singh held a meeting of the officials and took stock of the situation. He deputed teams of officials and staff in the affected area to keep a close watch and take preventive measures. Besides, the administration of Varanasi and Chandauli districts has also alerted the farmers as well as the government staff to take necessary measures for locust control. In view of the possible invasion of locust swarms in Naugarh area of Chandauli district, the officials of forest and agriculture departments went to the bordering Shansherpur village to alert the farmers and make them aware about the preventive measures. Meanwhile, district magistrate of Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma also gave some tips to the farmers about how to handle the situation. He said that the possibility of locust problem has increased after it affected many districts of the state including Jhansi, Lalitpur and Hamirpur. The DM also appealed to the farmers to remain vigil and inform the district administration immediately if the problem occurs. The locust swarms can be diverted by making noise. The sandy soil is fit for the breeding of locust, hence the field of sandy soil should be tilled or filled with water to evade the problem. The DM advised the farmers to use prescribed pesticide to save the crops and contact the Locust Control Organisation, Faridabad in case of the attack of locust swarms so that trained personnel could be sent for effective control measures. Meanwhile, the central government has also taken measures for the control of locusts. According to a report of the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare (DAC&FW), control operations are being run in the affected states including Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. For effective control of locusts beyond scheduled desert areas, temporary control camps have been established in Ajmer, Chittorgarh and Dausa in Rajasthan; Mandsaur, Ujjain and Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh and Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh. According to the report, usually the locust swarms enter the Scheduled Desert Area of India through Pakistan for summer breeding in the month of June/July with the advent of monsoon. This year, however the incursions of locust hoppers and pink swarms have been reported much earlier because of presence of residual population of locusts in Pakistan which they couldn’t control last season. During 2019-20, India witnessed a massive locust attack which was successfully controlled. Locust is an omnivorous and migratory pest and has the ability to fly hundreds of kilometers collectively. It is a trans-border pest and attacks the crop in a large swarm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/officials-deployed-farmers-alerted-to-take-locust-control-measures/articleshow/76078585.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||50 of 85 BMC wards have less than 10 Covid cases||Bhopal: As many as 50 of the 85 Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) wards have reported less than 10 Covid-19 cases. The state capital has reported over 1,300 cases since the beginning of the outbreak. This effectively means that only 15% of cases have been reported from 60% of the BMC wards. “There has been a lot of proactive measures which have been taken at the ward and zonal level which lead to checking the spread of infection. Containment zones are working and we expect more support from the people to contain Covid-19,” said a BMC commissioner, B Vijay Datta. “Hand washing practice is the best solution,” he added. According to the report of ward-wise infection in the state capital, five new wards have been highlighted where a new spread is being indicated. Itwara, Jumerati-Lakherapura, Barkedi (Jehangirbad), Barkheda (BHEL), Chandbadh and Bagh Dilkhusha have reported 70% of the Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks. The trend also reflects an increase in the number of cases in the last two weeks. It indicates that containment efforts are in the right direction and reinforces the fact that scaling up of testing and social distancing should continue, said an official. Among children, both boys and girls are equally affected. In ages between 20 and 70 years, males are more affected than females. This indicates more mobility in males than females. As anticipated, spread of cases will more likely to happen in adjacent areas. Containment activities, including perimeter control, need to be enhanced in similar fashion, the civic chief added. Most of the deaths took place in those above the age of 50 years and was significantly more in those above 70 years of age. Intensive surveillance of the elderly is vital. Also, as suggested in MHA, GoI guidelines, it should be ensured that those above 65 years of age must stay indoors unless there is some medical emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/50-of-85-bmc-wards-have-less-than-10-covid-cases/articleshow/76078847.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: TDP leader Kuna Ravi Kumar surrenders before police||VISAKHAPATNAM: Former government whip and TDP leader Kuna Ravi Kumar who has so far been evading arrest in a case of abusing and threatening a government officer, surrendered before the Ponduru police in Srikakulam district on Wednesday. Ignoring social distancing norm, Ravi Kumar came in a rally with his supporters to surrender before the police. Ravi Kumar had abused and threatened Ponduru tahsildar Tamarapalli Ramakrishna with dire consequences over a phone call. The tahsildar and his team had visited the Ramasagaram tank and seized soil excavation vehicles and other machinery belonging to Ravi Kumar’s brother for illegal soil mining at Gorinta village on May 16. The TDP leader then called the Tahasildar and threatened him to release of vehicles. A recording of the conversation between them was exposed by Ramakrishna. Based on the complaint from the tahsildar, the police registered a case against Ravi Kumar under sections 353, 506 and 34 a few days ago. Suspecting that he may land behind the bars, Ravi Kumar absconded. The Srikakulam police said that they have produced Ravi Kumar before the court on Wednesday and later notices were issued to him under Section 41 A of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-leader-ravi-kumar-surrenders-before-police/articleshow/76048599.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shopkeeper booked for breach of norms||AHMEDABAD: A shopkeeper, Mayank Ramani, 28, of Bapunagar was booked on Wednesday for not wearing gloves, not keeping sanitizer and not ensuring social distancing while selling goods from his hardware shop located on Bapunagar Approach Road. Bapunagar police sources said while patrolling in the area, police noticed a group of men standing outside a shop named Krishna Hardware. “We approached the owner of the shop, Ramani. He was not wearing gloves and didn’t have sanitizer in the shop. He also didn’t ask his customers to maintain social distancing,” said a police official. Hence, for violation of guidelines as issued by the government for running shops from 7am to 4pm during lockdown 4.0, he was booked under Section 188 of IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Police said the guidelines state that a shopkeeper should wear gloves, keep sanitizer and ensure social distancing at his shop while doing business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shopkeeper-booked-for-breach-of-norms/articleshow/76079070.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai civic body not testing neighbours of Covid-19 patients, say residents||CHENNAI: The number of Covid-19 cases in Chennai may be going up but the government seems to have abandoned the idea of testing family members and neighbours of the people who have Covid-19, and disinfect their premises. If at all steps are taken, it’s done at the insistence of people who can pull some strings. Residents of Krishnappa Agraharam Street near Mint are a worried lot. The street is crowded though a senior citizen couple had tested positive five days ago. The couple who stay alone tested positive on May 22 and were admitted to a private hospital. But staff from Greater Chennai Corporation or from the health department have neither disinfected the house nor have they tested the neighbours. B S L Prasad, who knows the family, said, “They are living alone as their children are outside the state. The woman caught a fever and later she began coughing. They decided to get tested and called a private for collection of samples. The test results sent on their phones showed that they have Covid-19.” However, corporation staff are yet to disinfect the house. “There is no sign of anyone coming to test the neighbours who might have had come in contact with them,” said Prasad. On Raj Street in Ayanavaram, a 67-year-old woman has tested positive. But no attempt has been made to test her family members who lived in the same house and also those who live in adjacent flats. No one has come to disinfect the house and the building. There has been no attempt to trace the contact of the woman who tested positive. However, this is not the case if an influential person lives in the same neighbourhood as is the case with Varadha Muthiyappan Street located near Seven Wells. The street stretches across two divisions - 55 and 57 – of the corporation and have a few positive cases. “The stretch in division 55 was not disinfected despite a few people testing positive. But the other part of the street was disinfected and residents were screened after people tested positive because someone with political connections resides in the area,” said a resident. Vasanthi Kannan a resident of Kodambakkam tried reaching sanitary officials of her ward to inform about a resident with Covid symptoms. But an official chided her saying everyone will show symptoms. When she insisted that they were at risk and it was the corporations job to ensure the virus didn’t spread, the official said she would send someone. “I’m not sure whether they actually sent. They are becoming complacent and not taking any steps to contain the virus,” she said. Corporation officials said according to the guidelines, tests are done only if the contact of a Covid-positive patient shows symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-not-testing-neighbours-of-covid-19-patients-say-residents/articleshow/76079994.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Varanasi||Educationist Mastraj Shahi passes away||Gorakhpur: Educationist Mastraj Shahi died on Wednesday evening. He was suffering with urinal infection. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolences and also sent a condolence message to Shahi’s wife Priyamvada Shahi on Thursday. In his message, CM Yogi said that Mastraj Shahi was associated with ABVP in his student life and had close relations with Gorakhnath temple. He was also associated with the academic world and his demise is an irreparable loss to both the education world and the society. 52-year-old Mastraj Shahi was a resident of Kushinagar district and is survived by his wife, son and daughter. BJP zonal vice president, Satyendra Sinha, said, “He was very close to me and was extraordinary orator. In early 90’s he was a position holder in ABVP and also contested for vice president position of Gorakhpur University student union.” “He served as a principal in a school for five years and later started his own school and led it under his supervision. He was a very good human being, an inspiring leader and excellent educationalist. He passed away very early,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/educationist-mastraj-shahi-passes-away/articleshow/76078614.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||MP employed 23 lakh workers, highest under MGNREGS: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, Madhya Pradesh has employed the highest number of workers, 23.01 lakh, under the MGNREGS schemes. Of these, about 9.44 lakh labourers are involved with water harvesting works across the state, he said. During a review of the Covid-19 status in the state through video conference on Thursday, Chouhan, referring to the recently launched Shram Siddhi Abhiyan launched for providing work to all labourers said that so far 4.78 lakh migrant labourers/ other labourers have been given job cards and work. He said, “State should have ideal fever clinics so that during corona crisis, any person can easily walk-in for health check-up and post-corona these clinics must become good centres for treatment of all diseases.” At present 1,577 fever clinics are functioning in the state and they are being expanded gradually. Chouhan directed that in view of increasing cases of corona in Javad area of Neemuch district, there should be total lockdown for the coming days. He also directed for strict action against sand mafias in Bhind district and goons and criminals across the state. Regarding the corona situation in Bhind, the district collector said that there were 53 patients in the district, out of which 12 have recovered and gone home. All arrangements for treatment in the district are good. Health minister Narrotam Mishra directed that to effectively prevent corona infection in Indore and Ujjain districts, “Every street of these cities should be focused and necessary action must be taken by the field staff.” said the minister. During the meeting, additional chief secretary, health Mohammad Suleman informed that the corona doubling rate of the state has increased to 23 days, while that of the country is 16 days. The corona recovery rate of Madhya Pradesh has been increased to 54.3% as against the national average of 42.8%. He informed that Covid-19 testing capacity in the state has been increased to 6,000 tests per day. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains directed officials to increase Covid-19 testing capacity further in the state. DGP Vivek Johri, principal secretary medical education Sanjay Shukla and other senior officials were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-employed-23l-workers-highest-under-mgnregs-cm/articleshow/76078895.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||RP Singh on beach games panel||LUCKNOW: The director of sports and hockey Olympian R P Singh has been named as member of Olympic Preparation Committee for Beach Games 2020-21. Narendra Dhruv Batra, president of National Olympics Association, said R P Singh and 15 other members have been named in the preparation committee for Beach Games 2020-21. The committee has been constituted for smooth preparations and participation of the Indian contingent in the event. Singh has also been a member of the committee for Asian Hockey Federation and a functionary of the Indian Hockey Federation as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rp-singh-on-beach-games-panel/articleshow/76080627.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP demands MIM MLA’s arrest||Hyderabad: A delegation of senior BJP leaders met officials of Hyderabad police, demanding immediate arrest of AIMIM Malakpet legislator Ahmed Bin Abdullah Balala. The delegation said that despite lodging an FIR against Balala under the SC/ST Act for using derogatory language against its Dalit leader, the station house officer at Chaderghat police station has not initiated any action against the accused MLA. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-demands-mim-mlas-arrest/articleshow/76080005.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Special permission to UP legislator: HC issues notices to state, addl chief secy, DGP, DMs||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday issued notices to Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Om Prakash along with UP legislator Aman Mani Tripathi, ten of his aides as well as the state government, director general of police (DGP) and the district magistrates (DMs) of Dehradun, Pauri Garhwal as well as Chamoli and Rudraprayag district. The notices were issued by the division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe while it was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that has alleged that Tripathi was given special permission to travel to Badrinath in violation of the government’s guidelines on the directions of ACS Om Prakash – the respondent in person in the case. The petitioner has demanded a CBI investigation into the matter as well. Though the chief standing counsel, Paresh Tripathi, for the state government argued that the prayer for a CBI inquiry sought by the petition is misplaced. The court, however, said even though it finds “considerable force” in the state government’s submission on the issue of CBI inquiry, it is satisfied that the state government should explain why an exception was made and why special treatment was given to Tripathi. The court also held since all transport services were suspended under the guidelines issued by the Center the permission granted to Tripathi does not fall under any exception. “While we find considerable force in the submission of Sri Paresh Tripathi, learned Chief Standing Counsel for the State of Uttarakhand, that the prayer, sought for in the writ petition for a CBI inquiry, is misplaced, we are satisfied that the State Government should be called upon to explain why an exception was made in favour of, and special treatment was accorded to, the private respondents in giving them permission to travel to Badrinath,” the court said in its written order. The court also said that if the permission given on May 2nd was illegal then the government needs to explain what steps it has taken in this regard. “…if such authorization given by the 10th respondent (Om Prakash) is illegal what action the State Government has taken in this regard, needs to be ascertained,” the court order read. The bench has given all the respondents to file their counter affidavits within three weeks when the case will be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/special-permission-to-up-legislator-hc-issues-notices-to-state-addl-chief-secy-dgp-dms/articleshow/76077505.cms||Prashant Jha
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||3 including ex-BJP MLA hurt in firing||Rajkot: Three persons, including a former BJP MLA, were injured in a firing in Una town of Gir-Somnath district on Thursday afternoon. Police said three unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants waylaid Kalu Rathod (55), Anantrai Thakar (60) and Lokesh Khattar (35) in the parking lot of MK Park Society. “One of the accused fired four rounds at the victims from his firearm, injuring the trio. While Rathod received a bullet injury on his chin, Thakar was injured in his stomach. Khattar was also injured,” said V M Chaudhary, inspector with Una police station. Rathod, an ex-BJP MLA from Una (2007–2012), is the president of Una municipality. Rathod had gone to attend a mourning meet of Geeta Chag, a member of the municipality who died recently, when the attack was launched on him. The injured have been admitted to a private hospital in Rajkot. While Rathod and Khattar are stated to be out of danger, the condition of Thakar is said to be critical. Una BJP president Mitesh Shah was an eye witness to the crime. Thousands of people gathered at Rathod’s office after the incident. “We have launched an investigation on the basis of the CCTV footage of the crime. We are trying to ascertain the identities of the assailants,” said Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-including-ex-bjp-mla-hurt-in-firing/articleshow/76078918.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||Around nine thatched houses gutted in Kheri||Bareilly: A massive fire gutted nine thatched houses in Ambara village in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday night, while one of the farmer’s entire earning of Rs 1 lakh from selling his sugarcane crop reduced to ashes. The fire and revenue departments are assessing the damage and have provided ration and essential articles to the affected families. Farmer Shreepal said his brother Chutkhau and he were happy after earning Rs 1lakh after selling the sugarcane, and had decided to buy seeds and fertilisers. However, a fire broke out around 11.30 pm at the house of his neighbour Jamuna Prasad, and supported by strong wind and dry weather condition, the fire spread quickly and in no time it engulfed as many as nine hatched houses. However, there was no loss of life and livestock. Shreepal said, “We have already suffered losses due to the lockdown and now lost everything to the fire. We have nowhere to go and no money left to repay the loan. Now, the government is our only hope.” Bheera Police station SHO said, “Police rushed to the spot after getting information and carried out the rescue operation. Revenue teams are assessing the damage.” Gola SDM Akhilesh Yadav said, “A team of tehsildar and lekhpal had gone to the village to assess the damage and compensation will be provided to the aggrieved families. The administration will help them rehabilitate through various beneficiary schemes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/around-nine-thatched-houses-gutted-in-kheri/articleshow/76077527.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wood-based cremations start after threat of invoking epidemic Act||NEW DELHI: The resistance by crematoria staff to wood pyres took an ugly turn on Thursday with South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) issuing a one-month notice to Punjabi Bagh Shamshan Bhoomi Sudhar Samiti, the NGO running the operations, asking why its contract shouldn’t be terminated. The NGO staff were opposed to open burning of the bodies of Covid patients citing safety hazards. However, SDMC termed their action a “violation of the dignity of dead bodies”. Earlier, TOI had reported how limited CNG units weren’t able to process the high volume of Covid-infected bodies. A senior SDMC official pointed out that the cremation of bodies at such high temperature doesn’t pose any risk. The Centre’s guidelines on dead body management allow wood-based cremations. Reeling under a heavy body count, the three civic bodies had allowed wood-based cremations from Tuesday. A day later, several workers and pandits threatened to quit arguing that such cremation should be carried out only in open remote areas. The authorities have warned that Epidemic Diseases Act may be invoked against the employees. The termination notice issued to the Punjabi Bagh facility, the second largest crematorium in Delhi, stated that the NGO violated its MoU with SDMC by preventing on their “own whims and fancies” the cremation of the 12 Covid-infected bodies that had arrived on Tuesday. “This denial to provide services is also against humanity and violation of the dignity of dead bodies. Refusal to implement orders is a violation of National Disaster Act and action under Section 188 of IPC can be taken,” the notice warned. The operators of the other three crematoria at Nigam Bodh Ghat, Karkardooma and PK Road, which had been ordered to carry our wood-based cremation of Covid-infected bodies, were also issued warnings. On Tuesday and Wednesday, dramatic scenes of workers refusing to allow wood-based cremations were witnessed and district health officials had to intervene at Nigam Bodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh. The notice was issued by SDMC after bodies kept piling up awaiting final rites. After forceful intervention, some wood-based cremations have finally started. A north corporation official said that most of the resistance was coming from pandits. A supervisor at Nigam Bodh Ghat said 12 bodies were cremated till 4pm on Thursday. “We are being forced to do this. We just requested that wood-based cremation be done in open remote areas like Ghazipur, Rohini and outer Delhi,” he added. At Punjabi Bagh, 16 wood-based and 20 CNG-based cremations of Covid-infected bodies were booked for Thursday and more than half were processed. Officials said the notice would continue to remain in force and action would be taken if any problem was faced in the future. The three standing committee chairpersons also held a meeting on Thursday and announced steps to be taken to improve the conditions at crematoria and allay the fears of employees by conducting tests for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wood-based-cremations-start-after-threat-of-invoking-epidemic-act-/articleshow/76080009.cms||Paras Singh
May 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sing Bande Utkal Janani and motivate Covid warriors, Naveen urges people||Bhubaneswar: They have been at the forefront in the battle against novel coronavirus. They have been working tirelessly to contain the spread of the virus and keep the people safe. Now, people living in Odisha and beyond will get a chance to thank these Covid warriors who are risking their lives daily to keep the system up and running. On Thursday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik urged Odias across the world to sing Bande Utkal Janani at 5:30 pm on Saturday to motivate the frontline workers. “The time has come for us to acknowledge and honour all our people who have been working tirelessly to keep us safe. I request all of you, who are connected to the soil of Odisha, wherever you are in the world, to join us and sing Bande Utkal Janani by maintaining social distancing. The purpose is to inspire our Covid warriors and to honour their sacrifices,” said Naveen while addressing the people in a video message. Naveen also spoke to Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, state Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik, BJP state president Samir Mohanty, Samajwadi Party state chief Rabi Behera and CPM’s Auli Patnaik and requested them to sing Bande Utkal Janani. “Reciting the song at this moment will inspire us, strengthen our commitment to continue the fight and provide unparalleled energy and zeal to all of us. The future may have more challenges. But this will provide us strength to face the challenges successfully and work with renewed commitment,” the chief minister said, taking a leaf out of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to boost the morale of frontline workers in the fight against novel coronavirus. Written by Kantakabi Laxmikant Mohapatra, Bande Utkal Janani became famous during the movement for a separate Odisha province. Though it is yet to get official status of state anthem, it is sung on important occasions like Utkal Divas, end of assembly sessions and while celebrating the birth anniversaries of eminent Odias. Naveen, who had clapped and showed solidarity with Covid warriors following Modi’s call, had also announced financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh for family members of health workers and support staff, if they die in the fight against Covid-19. The state government will also treat them as martyrs, he had said. Meanwhile, hailing his government’s handling of the pandemic in the past two months, Naveen said his government’s priority is to save lives. “The Covid mortality rate in Odisha is one of the lowest in the country and the world. Besides, more than 50 per cent of the infected people have recovered and gone home,” said Naveen, who sought blessings from Lord Jagannath and also expressed his gratitude to the people of Odisha for their support in the fight against Covid-19. Stating that powerful nations as well as rich states in the country have not been able to achieve this feat, the chief minister said the low fatality rate is indeed a major achievement for a state like Odisha and its people. Despite the fact that more than 3.5 lakh people have returned from different states, Naveen said his administration has effectively handled the situation to contain the spread of the virus. “The credit goes to our Covid warriors, who have been working day and night with commitment. From the frontline health workers, panchayati raj institutions and people’s representatives, government employees cutting across all departments, private sector employees, self-help groups and individuals – all have been working round-the-clock keeping their personal lives aside and providing service to the people,” Naveen said. Earlier in the day, Naveen spoke to a sarpanch as well as Asha and Anganwadi workers who have tested positive for the virus. The chief minister lauded their courage and dedication in providing outstanding service to society and wished them speedy recovery. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sing-bande-utkal-janani-and-motivate-covid-warriors-naveen-urges-people/articleshow/76078925.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Bhor man duped of Rs 1.85 lakh in online fraud||Pune: A 28-year-old car accessories trader from Bhor lost Rs1.85 lakh to a cybercrook on May 11 when he tried to contact the customer care of a digital wallet service to fix a problem that he faced while transferring money. The cybercrook, posing as a customer care executive of the digital wallet service, told the trader to download an application on his cellphone. Within a few hours the trader found that his savings account in a public sector bank had been emptied. The trader on Wednesday approached the Bhor police and lodged an FIR. The police have registered the offence under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information and Technology Act. On May 11, the complainant first transferred Rs20,000 to his father’s friend in Baramati through the digital wallet. Later, he transferred Rs20,000 more. “The complainant soon found that his father’s friend did not receive the amount but it had been debited from his account,” said an officer from the Pune rural police. The complainant then contacted the customer care number of the digital wallet service that he found on the Internet. The fraudster told the complainant that the amount was stuck due to some technical issues. “The suspect told the complainant to download one application and also took a code from him,” the officer said. After some time the suspect contacted the trader and asked him whether the money had been transferred back to his bank account. The suspect assured him that the latter would get his amount back soon. “Around 5pm, when the trader checked the account after receiving a message from the bank, he was shocked to find that all his money was gone,” the officer said. “Our probe is on,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhor-man-duped-of-rs-1-85-lakh-in-online-fraud/articleshow/76080002.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh demands 200-day work under MNREGA||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh took to social media on Thursday and alleged that the Union government in its Rs20 lakh crore Covid-19 package has “nothing for the poor”. He said that MNREGA should be amended to make provisions to give employment for 200 days in a year instead of the present 100 days. He also argued that the Covid package has no benefits for the common man and would benefit a few power generating companies. The former chief minister made several demands from the Union and BJP-led Madhya Pradesh government. “Congress party has been making sincere efforts and even in their manifesto mentioned about the Nyay scheme which would ensure that Rs7,500 is deposited per month in the accounts of the country’s poor. Unfortunately, people of India elected BJP and not Congress. Today, you are seeing that the BJP’s Rs20 lakh crore package has nothing for the poor and labourers,” he said. Digvijaya said the Centre’s Covid package only gives loan options and only a few power generating companies will benefit. “The Centre should emulate the Chhattisgarh government, which has decided to deposit Rs10,000 in the accounts of farmers. We hail this move and demand that the Union and state government put Rs10,000 in the accounts of the poor and farmers. This payment should be made as ex gratia.” Digvijaya said small traders are severely affected because of the lockdown. “How will small traders survive when they have to even pay electricity bills?” he asked. Digvijaya said crores of migrant labourers are distressed. “They walked for thousands of kilometres, some died, and many were victims of accidents. The government never came to their rescue,” he alleged. “Even train and bus fares were taken from them. Trucks and buses ferried them and charged Rs3,000 to Rs4,000 per person and they were loaded into the vehicles like animals,” he said and demanded that all migrant labourers along with their families should be relocated to their respective homes free of charge. Digvijaya said that MNREGA should be amended to make provisions to give employment for 200 days in a year instead of the present 100 days. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi used to say MNREGA is the biggest mistake of Congress. Now, he accepts that there is no better alternative to the scheme. We demand that MNREGA should provide 200 days of employment instead of 100 days. And, if employment cannot be provided then unemployment allowance should be given in accordance with the provisions in the Act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diggy-demands-200-day-work-under-mnrega/articleshow/76078913.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 29, 2020||Allahabad||Kaushambi man tests Covid +ve, dist tally 48||Prayagraj: After one more person tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Friday, the tally in neighbouring Kaushambi district reached to 48. The man, a resident of Rohi village in Mooratganj , whose swab sample was collected on Thursday, tested positive on Friday. District surveillance Officer Dr Hind Prakash Mani said there are only 21 active cases, and they are undergoing treatment at Covid Level One facility primary health centre in Manjhanpur. As many as 27 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital, he added. He has appealed to the people that if any person is found suffering from cold, fever, cough and breathlessness should contact the control room at (05331232796, 05331232621 and 7080039571). The health authorities of Kaushambi district have also launched an awareness campaign in the villages appealing to the people to use three layer mask, sanitizer and follow social distancing. The people have also been asked to download Arogya setu App. Meanwhile, district magistrate Kaushambi, Manish Kumar Verma inspected the quarantine centre/screening centre in Sirathu and directed the officials concerned to maintain hygiene. He also asked the health officials to sanitize the centre on regular intervals and maintain social distancing norms strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kaushambi-man-tests-covid-ve-dist-tally-48/articleshow/76097120.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation sends 75,000 home, 20,000 waiting for green signal||CHENNAI: When Ashmitha Dewanjee, a 24-year-old IT employee desperate to return home in Bengal, was looking for help and contacting nodal officers, someone shared with her the contact number of a corporation official. Not only did the Greater Chennai Corporation arranged a seat for her in a train that was guest migrant workers back home, but ensured that she travelled with students from other parts of the state and feel safe. The corporation, along with the police department and Southern Railways, has so far helped 75,000 guest workers return home. However, another 20,000 people are waiting for trains. About 55 trains have left Chennai Central and Egmore railway stations since May 9 when Shramik special trains were started in Chennai. Besides workers, passengers stranded in the city were sent back in these trains in the absence of flights. “The corporation officials shared numbers of the students with me and we were in constant touch. We waited for a few weeks as trains were frequently getting cancelled due to the cyclone. We boarded a train on May 27. I will reach home on Friday,” Ashmita said from the train. Like Ashmita, Kavita Shaw too had contacted the corporation for help. Shaw, an employee at the international airport and living in Chennai for two years, said: “I was getting very lonely in my apartment and just wanted to get back home.” The corporation ensured Ashmita and Kavita stayed in touch before boarding the same compartment. Meghanatha Reddy, the corporation’s deputy commissioner, revenue, whom Ashmita and Kavita had contacted, said that since the day the railways started the Shramik specials, the civic body has kept the procedure “simple”. “Assistant revenue officers and zonal officials worked with the police to identify the migrants and stranded passengers. There were about 3,000 in our relief camps and many had registered on the Tamil Nadu government website,” he said. The corporation tied up with various companies that had call centres and began calling people. “We prepared a list based on their destination. Their location and contact details were collected. We tied up with the transport corporation for buses and brought them to the central railway station. So far, we have purchased tickets worth Rs 6.84cr for 75,922 passengers until May 27. Another 20,000 passengers will be sent in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-sends-75000-home-20k-waiting-for-green-signal/articleshow/76080012.cms||Komal Gautham
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant who walked over 100 km to reach home dies||Dehradun: A 20-year-old youth from Uttarkashi died of dehydration followed by multiple organ failure after he reportedly walked over 100 km in the scorching heat to reach his home in the Purola area. The doctors at Government Doon Medical College told TOI that Rahul Joshi, 20, was brought to the hospital in critical condition on Tuesday and he died on Wednesday late night. According to family members, Joshi was working in a private company in Hyderabad and had taken a lift in a goods truck to return home. He had started his journey from Hyderabad on May 14 along with two others. The three managed to hitch a ride on the truck which dropped them till the Roorkee border. Thereafter, they walked for three days to reach the Vikas Nagar area, bordering Dehradun. After reaching there, his family, based in Purola area of Uttarakashi arranged for a scooty to take him to the nearest quarantine centre. Dr Pankaj (who uses only his first name), the doctor at the Purola community health centre, told TOI that Joshi was placed in quarantine at an anganwadi centre on May 20. “He had complained of loose motions and dehydration since he arrived. We moved him to the local community health centre and then to Uttarkashi district hospital.” Heeramani Joshi, grandfather of the deceased, told TOI that his grandson was completely exhausted by the journey. “His friends told us that he was getting tired after every mile and asking them to stop for a while. Even when they were travelling in the truck, they remained hungry as food was limited and the truck driver used to stop just once or twice in the route due to police checking.” Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Government Doon Medical College, where Joshi was referred to on May 26 after his condition deteriorated, told TOI that his blood pressure was 75-40 mm/hg at the time he was brought to the hospital. “He was critical and his vital figures were down. He died of shock and multiple organ failure possibly caused by dehydration and intestinal infection. We were told that he had walked in scorching heat for a very long time which can be the primary reason for severe dehydration and shock,” Dr Khatri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-who-walked-over-100-km-to-reach-home-dies/articleshow/76077538.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||No India-China border trade via Lipulekh this year due to Covid-19||Pithoragarh: The annual border trade between India and China through the Lipulekh Pass, which starts from June 1 and lasts until October 31, will not take place this year due to the coronavirus outbreak, according to Indian traders in the region. Another reason behind calling off the annual trade was that merchants were unable to make any preparations this year due to the two-month-long lockdown. Traders added that there was no preparation by the government as well. Ahead of the trade, the government opens a temporary customs office, a bank branch and a police check post at Gunji to facilitate trading. Suspension of trade comes even as tensions between the two countries have been rising since Nepal released a map showing the disputed Kalapani region as part of its territory. AK Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate (Dharchula) told TOI that more than 100 traders held a meeting with the administration on Wednesday and informed them that they would not be trading this year due to Covid-19 outbreak. Bishan Singh Garbyal, patron of India China Border Trade Organisation, said traders have decided not to do business this year due to fears of Covid-19 spread and also because they were unable to make any preparations due to lockdown. Last year, the administration had issued 265 trade passes. Indian traders had imported goods worth Rs 33 lakh and exported items worth Rs 1.25 crore. Traders import ready-made garments, shoes, raw wool and blanket while they export candy, jaggery and cosmetic items. The border trade between India and China started in 1992 and is facilitated on the Indian side by the ministry of external affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-india-china-border-trade-via-lipulekh-this-year-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/76077523.cms||Prem Punetha
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Complete river cleaning in 7 days: Mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Thursday directed the civic administration to complete river cleaning works within seven days. Like every year, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has undertaken cleanliness drive of Nag, Pili and Pohra rivers, and nullahs across the city. After being informed by the fire and emergency services department, the mayor directed the NMC to issue show cause notices to St Xavier's and St Paul's schools in Nagpur, as both the educational institutions are situated on rivers’ banks. During rainy season, roads approaching the schools get water logged. Every year, the NMC’s fire department has to carry out rescue operations in both the schools. “The safety of students is the responsibility of schools. Therefore, the schools should make such arrangements for rainy days by issuing notices to those schools,” the mayor directed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/complete-river-cleaning-in-7-days-mayor/articleshow/76077554.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Allahabad||Complaints from citizens flood city police’s social media handles||Prayagraj: Amidst lockdown, it seems the Twitter and Facebook account of police has turned public redressal tool for the residents of the denizens of sangam city as in the past two-and a-half month, around 4000 people have interacted and lodged their complaints with senior police officials through social networking accounts of the district police. From lodging of FIRs to seeking blood for a needy patient, the police claimed to have solved grievances of the complainants. It is a starling fact that the number of followers of the city’s police and the SSP’s twitter’s accounts has increased manifold as police have secured 40th rank in the country on twitter. SSP, Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj told TOI that over the past two months, the district police have transformed its Twitter handles from a public relations platform to a public grievance redressal tool during phases of the lockdown. Police have been able to increase public involvement through district police’s social media accounts and delivering speedy justice in a transparent manner by making it easier for people to register FIRs, for instance, he added. He said with technological advancements, people especially the elite class feel better to get their complaints noticed before senior police officials, and the cops in turn are making their best possible efforts to strengthen its relationship with the residents by providing fast, efficient and real-time public service. The people who are trapped in other cities across the country and want to help their aged parents and family members during the lockdown period have district police Twitter account as the best medium to reach out to police officials and get their woes solved. For instance, Atul Pandey, who got trapped in Noida and could not be able to come due to the lockdown, had sought help from the district police to deliver medicines to his parents living in the Civil Lines. He tweeted his request to the district police twitter handle and the police arrived at Pandey’s house and delivered the medicines. Ankita, a student, who was frustrated over her neighbour’s love for loud music too found the solution after she tweeted to the SSP’s twitter handle. The SSP said “We have been replying to every complainant through same medium and the cases which are serious are referred to the thana concerned to get the FIRs lodged and ensure arrest of law breakers’. “ Every complaint is being recorded and the applicant is informed about the progress report” said a senior cop adding “We have also been receiving and verifying inputs being given by people against law breakers or those violating the lockdown norms through Twitter sewa”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/complaints-from-citizens-flood-city-polices-social-media-handles/articleshow/76078668.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Honour killing: Cops suspect slain woman’s brother of killing duo||Rajkot: Junagadh police is hot on the trail of a man, who is strongly suspected to have to brutally hacked to death his sister and her husband in honour killing, on Wednesday.Sanjay Ram (24) and his 22-year-old wife Dhara were axed to death by an assailant on Vanthli-Keshod highway on Wednesday. The attacker, who is suspected to be Dhara’s brother, had spared Sanjay’s sister Vanita who was also going on bike with them. Sanjay and Dhara had married against the wishes of their families, who were bitterly opposed to their relationship as they were from different castes. Dhara’s father Bhana Parmar had committed suicide after the couple got married around four months ago. “Dhara’s brother has been missing after the double murder. We strongly suspect his involvement. We have got to know that the suicide of his father had left him extremely furious with this sister,” said Junagadh superintendent of police (SP), Saurabh Singh. The search for him has been intensified with various teams being formed. Sanjay and Dhara, who had settled in Rajkot, had come to Keshod to renew his driving license and stayed at his sister’s house. His second sister Vanita Nandania had come to meet them from Junagadh. The couple offered to drop Vanita to Junagadh before leaving for Rajkot, said N B Chauhan, sub-inspector with Vanthli police station. On the way, the assailant waylaid their bike and hacked Sanjay and Dhara to death by dealing them blows of axe on their head even as he spared Vanita. “When Vanita was crying for help, a passer-by dialled a call from her cellphone to her husband Devshi Nandania, a constable with Junagadh police. Devshi alerted Vanthli police station and Junagadh control room,” added Chauhan. Meanwhile, the police have obtained the CCTV footage of the crime. However, the accused are not clearly visible in the footage. Sanjay and Dhara were natives Darsali village of Mendarada taluka in Junagadh district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/honour-killing-cops-suspect-slain-womans-brother-of-killing-duo/articleshow/76078942.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||192 new cases take Covid tally in state to 7,453||Bhopal: On Thursday, 192 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the state taking the state’s corona count to 7,453. Eight Covid deaths were also reported in Madhya Pradesh during the day, taking the toll to 321. Indore reported 78 new cases while Bhopal 17 and Ujjain 25. Neemuch district reported 34 cases, with Jawad tehsil of the district seeing a spurt in infections. Densely populated Jawad has a population of 17,000. Nemuch’s border district of Chittorgarh (Rajasthan) is also affected. District collector has banned medical practice by registered medical practitioners, who are mostly linked to Indian system of medicine. Three cases have been booked against the RMPs. It is said that these doctors did not report symptomatic cases on time, though the doctors have denied the allegation. Highway connecting the first tehsil of Nimbahera across the border in Rajasthan , with Neemuch, is also said to have reported over 150 COVID-19 cases. Tarapur and Umedpura, in Neemuch has also reported cases. Four people have died in Neemuch due to Covid-19. Meanwhile in the state capital, aday after Raj Bhawan was declared a Covid-19 affected zone by district administration, governor’s secretary, Manohar Dube said daily high level review in view of infection would be undertaken. He stressed that all precautions have been ensured in the Raj Bhavan premises. The residential areas of Raj Bhavan staff has been declared containment zone and remaining areas have been classified for arrangements and instructions issued accordingly. Six people have tested positive in Raj Bhawan since Monday. Governor’s residence and the office in Lal Kothi have been made inner zones and movements are duly monitored there. Office staff has been directed to work from home while offices within the premises have been closed temporarily. Staff will be called only when necessary, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/192-new-cases-take-covid-tally-in-state-to-7453/articleshow/76078927.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Undertrial prisoner out on bail killed in Yerawada||Pune: Ten men allegedly stabbed a 24-year-old undertrial prisoner to death in Yerawada on Wednesday night, barely hours after he walked out of the Yerawada jail on a temporary bail granted in view of the Covid-19 spread. Police said the murder was an outcome of the old enmity between the deceased, Nitin Shivaji Kasabe, and the assailants, who are now on the run. Kasabe’s friend, Nagesh Raju Kamble (25), of Hadapsar has lodged an FIR in this regard. Inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police told TOI, “Kasabe was arrested three months ago for a body offence and was lodged in the Yerawada jail after a local court ordered his remand in judicial custody. On Wednesday evening, he walked out of the jail on a temporary bail. He went home and his family members decided to visit a temple in Yerawada.” Waghmare said, “This is when the suspects, who were armed with sharp weapons, surrounded him and launched a brutal assault, causing deep cut injuries to his head, shoulder and chest. Some local residents and the police rushed Kasabe to a hospital where he died. We are searching the suspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/undertrial-prisoner-out-on-bail-killed-in-yerawada/articleshow/76080014.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Varanasi||MP Ravi Kishan arrives at Gorakhpur from Mumbai||Gorakhpur: For the first time since the Covid-19 induced lockdown, Gorakhpur MP and actor Ravi Kishan arrived at Gorakhpur from Mumbai on Thursday. Many people had, on social media, questioned his absence in his constituency during the lockdown. When asked about his late arrival to his constituency, Kishan said, “After the announcement of closing of parliament for indefinite time, I went to Mumbai for a day to meet my family. But the very next day, the lockdown came into force and domestic flights were cancelled. “Although I was in Mumbai, I continuously worked for the people of Gorakhpur stuck in other places. I wrote a letter to the Goa chief minister regarding people stranded there and also made efforts for running trains. With the help of my friends in the film industry and those in Gorakhpur, I tried to help the needy, and also distributed food items and water at Borivali railway station in Mumbai,” added Kishan. “Now I’m here and am going to visit hospitals, CHCs and PHCs in rural areas and do the needful,” he said. After reaching Gorakhpur, Kishan visited BJP leader Upendra Shukla and Rishabh Jain, and paid his condolences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mp-ravi-kishan-arrives-at-gorakhpur-from-mumbai/articleshow/76078643.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Allahabad||Teenager beaten to death by girl’s kin||Prayagraj: A teenager boy was allegedly beaten to death by a group of villagers in Pandit Ka Purva under Udaypur police station of Pratapgarh district late on Wednesday night. The deceased identified as Shaukat alias Zaheer, was a resident of Gauriganj in Amethi. He had been staying at his matermal grandfather’s house in the village. Heavy police bandobast was made to maintain law and order. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said two prime accused of the incident had been arrested and police was looking for others who were involved. He further added that the deceased, who reportedly attended from her girlfriend call, had arrived her house to meet around 2:30 am. Before they could meet, two brothers of the girl, who might have spotted the boy jumping the boundary wall, raised an alarm and the family members along with other villagers surrounded him and thrashed him so severely that he fainted. The youth was first taken to Sangipur community health center and later referred to Pratapgarh district hospital. He succumbed to his injuries on way to district hospital. Police said that detailed investigations were being conducted. The body was for postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/teenager-beaten-to-death-by-girls-kin/articleshow/76078687.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur Covid-19 tally now 24||VADODARA: The number of Covid-19 cases in Chhota Udepur increased to 24 as a man from Gabadiya village tested positive on Thursday. The number of active cases of the district is currently three. Patient Navsing Rathwa’s samples were sent for test on Wednesday and they tested positive for the virus. Health department officials said Navsing may have contracted the virus from a migrant who had recently returned to the village. Several residents of Gabadiya village migrate to other districts or outside the state in search of work. Piyush Patel, a resident of Naswadi, was, meanwhile, discharged on Thursday. The other patient, who is currently under treatment, is an accredited social health activist (ASHA) worker from Sankheda. Another patient from Dhamasiya village of the district is also undergoing treatment at GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-covid-19-tally-now-24/articleshow/76076878.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Over 12 lakh migrants given MNREGS cards in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: More than 12 lakh people have been issued new job cards in the state under the Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) since the nationwide lockdown was clamped, covering almost half of UP’s reverse migration tally of 26 lakh. Data compiled by the rural development department till Thursday suggest more than 39 lakh people possessed MNREGS cards, more than a month after the rural job-spinner was implemented in a calibrated manner to engage people, essentially migrants, after the first phase of lockdown came to an end. More than eight lakh households were covered under the scheme, generating more than 3 crore mandays after job cards were issued to at least 12,38,979 people. Speaking to TOI, additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar, said, the idea was to provide employment under MNREGS to maximum people hit by the lockdown. “The number of job cards has been increasing by 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh people every day,” he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already pitched for engaging 50 lakh workers under MNREGS, amid mammoth reverse migration to Uttar Pradesh. A maximum of 55,769 job cards, data show, were issued in Azamgarh, which is the parliamentary constituency of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. This was followed by Siddharthnagar (48,088), Ghazipur (42,528), Bareilly (42,528) and Mirzapur (34,871). Of the 75 districts, Ghaziabad was the sole district where new job cards were not issued. Data shows MNREGS work being carried out in more than 53,300 gram panchayats across the state, including 14,400 panchayats in 20 green districts, 27,500 panchayats in 36 orange districts and 11,300 in red zone districts. The total number of unskilled labour engaged in green zone is 12.28 lakh and more than 20.21 lakh in orange zone districts. Likewise, more than 6.7 lakh workers were engaged outside containment areas in red zone districts. Rural development department officials said, people seeking employment under MNREGS were given job cards in respective villages and if anyone did not figure in family’s card, it was added. As per Centre’s guidelines, MNREGS works could be conducted outside the containment area, for which the state government followed central guidelines in resuming construction work since April 21. Reverse migration had led to economic distress, which could be solved by providing jobs under MNREGS and other sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-12l-migrants-given-mnregs-cards-in-state/articleshow/76080632.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Hit by cash crunch & Covid, NMC sacks contractual staff||Nagpur: Priya Puri (name changed), a contractual social worker working for the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s slum rehabilitation authority for the past four years, suddenly found herself out of job last week. Working on contract from 2016, she was told that NMC had effected a manpower cut due to the Covid-19 impact on business. Puri is among the 200-odd contractual employees whom NMC have told that their services were no longer needed, and it was squeezing out temporary staff in a bid to trim cost. On May 27, as many as 50 civil engineers hired by the civic body in May 2019 too received discontinuation letters. Rahul (name changed) said that the NMC had appointed them for monitoring various central and state governments funded projects. The NMC had appointed many unemployed engineering graduates, especially civil engineers even at zone levels, on contract basis to overcome dearth of manpower. Those rendered jobless overnight on Thursday met mayor Sandip Joshi who too expressed concern over the development. Joshi told them that he would raise the issue with municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. According to Joshi, it’s not right time to discontinue services of engineers. Due to pandemic, there are no new job opportunities across the country, the contract engineers told the mayor. Some of these engineers told TOI that apart from monitoring civic works, the NMC also availed their services in various other jobs. Even during Covid-19 lockdown, they assisted the NMC in enforcing rules in containment zones, monitoring temporary vegetable markets etc. “Four civil engineers had helped the civic body in converting its hospitals like Pachpaoli maternity hospital, Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya etc to handle Covid-19 patients,” said one of the ousted engineers. On municipal commissioner’s directives, the NMC’s general administration department was tasked to shortlist contractual workers. The department has started the process to discontinue another 25 civil engineers who had been appointed on contract basis in 2016 for monitoring cement road works. They too termed the NMC’s retrenchment a deviation from the Central government’s directives. NMC’s deputy municipal commissioner Nirbhay Jain confirmed the development and said that most of the construction works of the NMC have come to a halt. “The civic body’s financial condition warranted cost cutting. Whenever the work resumes, the contractual staff will be called back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hit-by-cash-crunch-covid-nmc-sacks-contractual-staff/articleshow/76078962.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Entire quarantine centre of 32 people in Tehri tests positive for Covid-19; tally in U’khand touches 500||Dehradun: Tehri district has reported 37 positive cases of Covid-19 in the past 48 hours, out of which 32 are returnees from Mumbai – all living in the same quarantine centre. After reports of every occupant came back positive, they were moved to a dedicated healthcare facility. With 31 new cases reported on Thursday, the total tally reached 500 in the Himalayan state. Covid-19 nodal officer from Tehri district, Dr Jagdish Joshi, confirmed that while 10 people tested positive for coronavirus in Tehri on Thursday, another 27 new cases were reported on Wednesday. “Of the 37 new positive cases, 32 are from same quarantine centre. They are all returnees from Mumbai and their samples were sent for testing on May 22. After their reports arrived, they were moved to a hospital facility,” he added. Meanwhile, nine new Covid-19 cases were reported from Dehradun on Thursday of which, three are vendors at Niranjanpur sabzi mandi. One patient – suffering from a spinal injury – also tested positive at AIIMS, Rishikesh and one is a returnee from Maharashtra. “Three new cases were reported from Almora and eight from Haridwar. One patient from Nainital – who died of cancer – later tested positive for coronavirus,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 war room at health directorate. So far, the state has reported deaths of five coronavirus patients. With 1,068 new samples sent on Thursday, a total of 25,380 tests have been conducted in the state till now. The health department is awaiting the reports of 4,231 samples. The recovery rate in the state is 16.2%, while 2.48% of the samples have tested positive so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/entire-quarantine-centre-of-32-people-in-tehri-tests-positive-for-covid-19-tally-in-ukhand-touches-500/articleshow/76077549.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 29, 2020||Allahabad||72-year-old man among 3 new cases, Covid tally 82||Prayagraj: Three members of a family tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 82. Nodal officer and additional CMO Dr. Rishi Sahai said, “An 18-year old youth, his mother (45) and grandfather (72 years) tested positive for coronavirus infection here on Thursday.” He added all three had arrived from Mumbai on May 16 and were quarantined at Kalindipuram quarantine center. They all are residents of Chandaiya Bari, Sarsedi, Bara in Prayagraj district. A team of health department had collected their swab samples on May 25 which found to be positive on Thursday. All the three members of the family were admitted at SRN Level three hospital in city for treatment. Till now in , the district has a total of 41 active cases. While 24 patients are undergoing treatment at Covid Level One hospital and 17 others are undergoing treatment at SRN Level Three hospital.. Officials, meanwhile, claimed that over 800 people have downloaded “ Ayush Kawach” app on their smart phones after a campaign initiated by the health department. Health department has uploaded the details of over 77,500 migrants on the portal who had returned to city from Mumbai and other parts of Moreover, sanitization work has also been taken up in different parts of the city with an appeal to people to maintain social distancing, use of mask and sanitizer. A senior health official said “A control room set up by the health administration is working round the clock and people could dial 0532-2641577, 0532-2641578 and 7458825340.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/72-year-old-man-among-3-new-cases-covid-tally-82/articleshow/76078714.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court to hear PIL on lack of facilities for last rites today||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday expressed dismay at the lack of facilities in the city to cremate those who died due to Covid-19 and initiated a PIL to deal with the issue. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon said that as citizens of Delhi they were pained at the state of affairs reported in newspapers. The bench noted that as per news reports, dead bodies remained piled up due to delay in cremation. It said Lok Nayak hospital is the largest dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the city and its mortuary is the repository of bodies of those who died of the corona virus disease or are suspected to have died of it. “Bodies of those who died five days ago, are yet to be cremated. The backlog in disposal of bodies has been caused due to non-functioning CNG furnaces at Nigam Bodh and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums,” the high court said, referring to the news reports. It also observed that though wood-based cremation was permitted, personnel operating the said crematoriums are refusing to take part and there unrest at the Nigam Bodh Ghat as the staff and priests working there have stopped functioning. “If true, we as judges find the situation to be highly dissatisfactory that violates the rights of the dead. We thus take suo motu cognisance of the aforesaid violations of human rights and by this order bring the same to the notice of the Chief Justice to take it up in public interest for issuing requisite directions,” the bench said. It directed that a copy of the order be placed before Chief Justice D N Patel and also be forwarded to Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh as well as the lawyers for the three municipal corporations. The court listed the matter for hearing on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-hc-to-hear-pil-on-lack-of-facilities-for-last-rites-today/articleshow/76080033.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Allahabad||Caught throwing trash in open? Be ready to pay a fine||Prayagraj: Piling heaps of trash may soon be a thing of past as Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now decided to fine anyone spotted throwing garbage on the roadside or in drains. The move comes in the wake of the civic agency’s preparations for the monsoon. Citizens often complain about waterlogging and choked drains in their localities during the rain because of the carelessly disposed garbage. The corporation has starting getting drains cleaned in the city to keep them from getting choked whenever it rains. On Wednesday and Thursday, municipal commissioner Ravi Ranjan inspected several drains and pumping stations in the city ahead of the monsoon season. Ranjan inspected pumping stations in areas like Buxi Band, Mori Gate, Mumfordganj, Chachar drain, Daraganj and Gaughat. In Mumfordganj, the municipal commissioner found that the side wall of pumping station needed repair, while in Buxi Band the accumulated silt and choked passage could cause trouble in the future. “In most cases, drains get choked as citizens throw garbage in them or on the roadside. This irresponsible practice has to be checked by any means and imposing a fine is one of the ways,” said municipal commissioner Ravi Ranjan. Zonal officers of different wards have been given the responsibility of fining offenders. It has been seen in the past that choked drains have been a major reason for waterlogging even after a brief spell of rain . Prayagraj mayor Abhilasha Gupta Nandi inspected different localities of the city and the ongoing cleaning work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/caught-throwing-trash-in-open-be-ready-to-pay-a-fine/articleshow/76078752.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Two localities in Dehradun, Rishikesh declared containment zone following fresh Covid-19 cases||Dehradun: In view of the Covid-19-positive cases identified at Santo Wali Gali, Dehradun and Barrage colony, Rishikesh and other nearby localities, the Doon district administration has declared the areas as Containment Zones. The district magistrate has ordered complete lock down in these areas till further orders. The officials informed that the decision has been taken in the interest of residents who will not be allowed to move out of their homes during the complete lockdown period. The police will be putting up barriers on all the entry and exits points ensuring the compliance of lockdown and no shops, offices, and banks will be allowed to remain open till further orders. However, the district magistrate has ordered the district supply officer to ensure the availability of mobile vans for regular supplies of essential commodities like ration. In addition, supply of dairy products along with mobile ATM machines in the areas will also be stationed for limited duration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-localities-in-dehradun-rishikesh-declared-containment-zone-following-fresh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76077568.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||Around nine thatched houses gutted in Kheri||Bareilly: A massive fire gutted nine thatched houses in Ambara village in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday night, while one of the farmer’s entire earning of Rs 1 lakh from selling his sugarcane crop reduced to ashes. The fire and revenue departments are assessing the damage and have provided ration and essential articles to the affected families. Farmer Shreepal said his brother Chutkhau and he were happy after earning Rs 1lakh after selling the sugarcane, and had decided to buy seeds and fertilisers. However, a fire broke out around 11.30 pm at the house of his neighbour Jamuna Prasad, and supported by strong wind and dry weather condition, the fire spread quickly and in no time it engulfed as many as nine hatched houses. However, there was no loss of life and livestock. Shreepal said, “We have already suffered losses due to the lockdown and now lost everything to the fire. We have nowhere to go and no money left to repay the loan. Now, the government is our only hope.” Bheera Police station SHO said, “Police rushed to the spot after getting information and carried out the rescue operation. Revenue teams are assessing the damage.” Gola SDM Akhilesh Yadav said, “A team of tehsildar and lekhpal had gone to the village to assess the damage and compensation will be provided to the aggrieved families. The administration will help them rehabilitate through various beneficiary schemes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/around-nine-thatched-houses-gutted-in-kheri/articleshow/76077548.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire breaks out at fan manufacturing unit||Hyderabad: A fire broke out at a fan manufacturing unit in the industrial area of Balanagar on Thursday morning. According to officials, no casualties were reported. The temporary shed of a two-storey fan manufacturing unit caught fire at around 9.40 am. Locals alerted the fire department upon noticing the flames. “Thee fire broke out at the temporary shed but soon spread to the ground floor. It is suspected to be due to a short circuit. The fire was controlled and doused,” said an official. In another incident, a fire was reported at the canteen of the City Civil Court in Purani Haveli at around 1.55 pm on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-breaks-out-at-fan-manufacturing-unit/articleshow/76080027.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Met department allays fears of cyclone in Mumbai||PUNE: The Arabian Sea low pressure area, which international researchers think could intensify into a cyclone, is unlikely to affect Mumbai or the Indian subcontinent, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials clarified on Thursday. The IMD, however, has not yet announced the possibility of the system intensifying into a cyclone during the next few days. It only said the system could intensify. Fears of a cyclone to affect Mumbai had gone viral on the social media, possibly triggered by a tweet by an atmospheric scientist in New York. But an IMD weather update on Thursday stated that the system, which has still not intensified into a cyclone, was likely to move towards Oman and Yemen coast. “Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over west-central and adjoining southwest Arabian Sea, a low pressure area has formed over Westcentral Arabian Sea. It is very likely to concentrate into a ‘depression’ over the same region during the next 48 hours. It is likely to move northwestward towards south Oman and east Yemen coast during the next 72 hours,” the update stated. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI that as the system was likely to move towards Oman and Yemen coasts, it was unlikely to have an impact on the Indian subcontinent. “As of now, weather models are showing the movement of the system away from India. Itis unlikely to have an impact here, including Mumbai,” he said. Besides, there was finally some clarity on Thursday about the monsoon onset over Kerala as numerical weather prediction models began showing consensus on the onset over the coastal state around June 1. The IMD said another low pressure area to form over Arabian Sea could finally help monsoon advance over the Indian mainland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-allays-cyclone-fear-in-mumbai/articleshow/76080031.cms||Neha Madaan
May 29, 2020||Pune||Shower forecast for Pune along with gusty wind alert||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday said pre-monsoon showers were likely to pick up pace in the city from May 31 with wind speeds that might cause tree branches to break. The IMD also updated its forecast to indicate moderate rain over Pune till June 2 with possibility of sharp showers and gusty winds with the speed touching 40km per hour. Apart from other weather conditions, the likely formation of a low pressure area over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea around May 31 could aid this rainfall. This is the second low pressure over Arabian Sea and is different from the system that is to move to Oman and Yemen coasts. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “The wind pattern will change from northwesterly to westerly, bringing in moisture from the Arabian Sea. The wind discontinuity over south Maharashtra is likely to drag more moisture from the Arabian Sea towards the land area. This, coupled with high temperatures, is likely to bring rains in parts of the state.” “With the formation of another low pressure area over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea during May 31-June 4 and the direction the weather models indicate it would take, pre-monsoon rainfall may increase further in parts of the state. Scattered locations in Madhya Mahararashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha might get rain from May 31. Fairy widespread locations in Konkan would also get rain on June 1,” he said. Light to moderate rain in Pune city and district was expected, especially on May 31 and June 1. The rain may be accompanied with thunder, lightning and gusty winds. “There may be instances of tree branches breaking. Citizens should exert caution especially from May 31 till June 3,” Kashyapi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shower-forecast-for-pune-along-with-gusty-wind-alert/articleshow/76080023.cms||Neha Madaan
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||Forest guard assaulted by mob while rescuing sloth bear||Pilibhit: A forest guard was allegedly assaulted by a mob in Piparia Santosh village under Madhotanda police station on Wednesday while rescuing a sloth bear that had entered their village. The police lodged an FIR on Thursday evening following a written complaint filed by the victim. The incident took place after the forest guard, Harshit Mishra, attempted to restrain villagers armed with sticks from chasing the sloth bear. Divisional forest officer, Sanjeev Kumar, along with police and forest force, inspected the area where the incident took place and referred the matter to superintendent of police, Abhishek Dixit. Kumar told TOI that the mob attempted to kill a sloth bear (around 4-year-old) that might have come from Barahi forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve, hardly 1.5 km from the village. Mishra told police that he had rushed to the village along with four other forest force members on Wednesday morning after getting information. The forest team had to struggle hard to save the bear’s life from the mob, he added. Meanwhile, one of the villagers, Suresh, attacked him with a stick, snatched his mobile phone and crushed it. Within no time, the assailant was joined by 30-35 villagers. He and his colleagues escaped by running from the spot, he said. SHO Shahroz Anwar said that the police has booked Suresh and 30-35 unidentified accused under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC and section 9 (prohibits hunting) and 51 (imprisonment) of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-guard-assaulted-by-mob-while-rescuing-sloth-bear/articleshow/76077563.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Will not sell any property, says TTD||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board has decided not to dispose of the temple’s assets in any form in future, bringing down the curtains on the ‘unviable’ property sale debate. The announcement was made by TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy after the trust board’s first ever video-conference meeting, held in Tirumala on Thursday. “The state government has already issued a government order keeping the resolution passed by the previous trust board in abeyance. The present TTD trust board has decided to rescind its decision to dispose of the temple’s unviable properties. Henceforth, TTD will not sell its assets in any form,” he said. The trust board also resolved to constitute a high-level committee to study a mechanism to protect the temple’s assets. TTD will also initiate measures to regain possession of its encroached properties across the country. Meanwhile, the TTD plans to ask the state government to order a high-level probe into the smear campaigns unleashed against it in recent times. “Some people with vested political interests have been indulging in a smear campaign against the TTD. We have resolved to ask the government to order a high level probe to expose the people behind such campaigns,” Subba Reddy said. He also announced that the TTD will set up a children’s hospital in the temple city of Tirupati soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-not-sell-any-property-says-ttd/articleshow/76080041.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||Budaun man, father arrested in dowry death case||Bareilly: A man and his father were arrested by Budaun police in a case of alleged dowry death. After the murder, the duo allegedly dumped the woman's body in a field. Police said they found a semi-decomposed body at Serah Barolia village, under Ughaiti on May 24. Her family members identified the body as that of Gyanvati on the basis of clothes and jewellery. Harendra Singh, SHO, Sahaswan police station, said, “We arrested the deceased’s husband, Jaiprakash, and father-in-law Chandrapal on Thursday for allegedly killing Gyanvati for not fulfilling their dowry demands. On the pretext of buying medicines, they took her to a secluded area and killed her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-man-father-arrested-in-dowry-death-case/articleshow/76077559.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 29, 2020||Kochi||CPT plans to be a crew change and transshipment services hub||Kochi: With Covid-19 pandemic and resultant lockdown having affected the business of Cochin Port Trust (CPT) severely, the authorities are planning to develop the port to a hub for crew change and other transshipment services like bunkering in the region. After the authorities gave permission for crew change at off-port limits/anchorage of Cochin Port amid lockdown for the first time, more than 35 ships, including very large oil/ore carriers (VLOC), diverted to Kochi just for crew change compared to less numbers in other ports close to international shipping lanes, sources said. The plan is to leverage the port’s anchorage to attract ships requiring services like crew change, supplies, bunkering and repairs, and to also to generate direct revenue from the anchorage. Sources said CPT hopes to compensate for the loss, around 35% of its total business of previous year, due to the pandemic by attracting additional revenue through exploring the anchorage opportunities. “Cochin Port is situated in the middle of the Indian Ocean and it sees a good portion of world’s shipping pass by within a hundred-mile radius. Besides being a major tourist destination with high-class hospitality services, the city is well connected by rail, road and air. Also the presence of Southern Naval Command, Coast Guard, Cochin Shipyard, good hospitals, Cochin coast’s natural characteristic that it is not prone to tropical cyclones etc add to its worthiness to be an ideal hub. Moreover, the extended off-port limits of CPT have an area of 228 square nautical miles, which can accommodate the anchoring of more than 80 ships at a time. CPT is yet to schedule meetings of stakeholders to discuss the plan,” said a source. The plan, which is in nascent stage, will be fulfilling longstanding call from seafarers and shipping companies to tap the potential of Cochin Port to be developed as the hub for crew change and ancillary services of ships like Singapore port, which is the leader and the busiest container transshipment hub in the world. They said the development of port will propel Cochin to develop other related industries and transform its outlook. “Around 20 large ships have used the anchorage facility for disembarkation of 200-odd crew after the port gave permission for crew change for the first time. On Wednesday, five ships reached the anchorage and did crew change, which is the highest in a day. Most shipping companies were waiting for this to start and now many of them are lining up crew changes in Cochin, proving the preference for Cochin Port to ships sailing in international channels. Cochin’s geographical location is strategic within important sea routes to West leading to Suez Canal, Persian Gulf and Far through the Singapore Straits,” said Thomas Sebastian, International Transport Workers’ Federation inspector, Kochi, who had campaigned for the opening of anchorage for crew change. Some of the seafarers said the process and procedures should get further streamlined. “Our experience as the first sign-off crew to be handled by PHO, customs and immigration authorities during the lockdown was pleasant, proficient and professional. If authorities can extend visa formalities and online-clearance of immigration (like Singapore), streamline agency cost, then ship owners and charterers will use Cochin for transshipment and replenishing provisions, stores and bunkering of vessels,” said Captain Rajnish Shah, who was the master of MV Tominy Destiny that did the first crew change at Cochin amid lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpt-plans-to-be-a-crew-change-and-transshipment-services-hub/articleshow/76077600.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Niranjanpur mandi to stay closed twice a week||Dehradun: The members of the Niranjanpur mandi council (vegetable market) held a meeting along with the traders on Thursday, which has decided to close the market twice a week now. Vijay Thapliyal, Secretary, mandi council said “We have taken a decision to keep the market closed on Wednesday as well. Earlier, the market remained closed only on Sundays. The additional day off will help us sanitize the market which is important for keeping every one safe”. The decision was taken after coivd-19 positive cases were found in the vegetable market. On the request of the mandi council, the health department has agreed to carry out random sample collection of traders and their staff members to put a check on the spread of corona virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/niranjanpur-mandi-to-stay-closed-twice-a-week/articleshow/76077582.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP Sunni Waqf Board takes over land under Jauhar Trust||LUCKNOW: UP Sunni Waqf Board has taken direct control of Waqf number 157, commonly known as the land belonging to the Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust headed by Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan. The Board’s chairman using his special powers has put the Waqf under an administrator-executive officer Junaid Khan, who will now be managing the over 5 acres of Waqf property for a period of five years until further notice. While the decision was taken in March, it could not be delivered due to the lockdown. Junaid Khan received the Board’s letter recently. As per the official document (TOI is in possession of it), the Sunni Waqf Board had an “apprehension of the Waqf property being encroached upon and present mutawwali being unable to manage the Waqf and there being no other person fit to be recognised as mutawwali.” This formed the premise to take over the property. “Land was given to the Trust which was its mutawwali. Now, Waqf number 157 is under direct management of the board and nobody else,” said UP Sunni Central Waqf Board CEO SM Shoeb. Speaking to TOI, Junaid Khan said, “The land was enlisted as Waqf by Nawab Raza Ali Khan of Rampur as an orphanage in the 1900s. Some 40-42 descendants of those orphans were living on the land. In 2016, they were removed and Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust took over the property.” “An underconstruction school occupies about 35% of the land and in addition some 26 people brought back to their home on the area. Once the office resumes, the management of its affairs will be taken control of by the board through me as its administrator,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/waqf-board-takes-over-land-under-jauhar-trust/articleshow/76080643.cms||Yusra Husain
May 29, 2020||Pune||FTII academic schedule in mess, admissions in limbo||PUNE: Diploma films are yet to be shot, workshops and courses are incomplete and this year’s admission process isn’t close to being wrapped up. The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) will be on a long road to recovery when the government allows academic institutions to open. The institute had a soft reopening earlier this week, where staff and faculty met to plan how to restart classes and workshops. FTII’s academic council will also meet to discuss reopening the campus for students while maintaining social distance. “Students will have to be recalled in a staggered manner. There are three batches of around 250 students in the institute now. All of them cannot be recalled at the same time. We have drawn up a plan and we will discuss it in the academic council meeting,” said FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola. One of the batches is now nearly nine months behind schedule, which may effect scheduled intake for this year. While the admission test was conducted in February, most papers are still unchecked, and the orientation, interviews, and auditions for the acting course remain on hold. “I don’t think we will be able to call the 2020 batch to the campus in this calendar year. It may be possible only in January 2021. We must discuss the issues with the Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute as the entrance test is conducted jointly,” Kainthola added. Meanwhile, FTII’s summer film appreciation course will move online, with the last date of application being June 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-academic-schedule-in-a-mess-admissions-in-limbo/articleshow/76080036.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
May 29, 2020||Erode||Man rapes 75-day-old daughter, imprisoned in Erode||ERODE: A 40-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for raping his 75-day-old baby girl near Andhiyur here on Monday. The Bhavani all-woman police said the accused was a resident of Mathur near Andhiyur. He was arrested based on a complaint lodged by his wife, who said her husband had raped the baby girl on Monday. According to her, he had attempted to rape the baby girl two weeks ago. S Gajalakshmi, sub-inspector of police, said, “He attempted to rape the baby when his wife was outside the house. She came inside the house before he could commit the crime and warned him not to be anywhere near their daughter.” On Monday, the officer said, the woman went outside the house for some work, leaving the baby inside (the house). “She had warned her husband not to touch the baby. He, however, raped the baby girl who sustained injuries to her private parts.” The woman took her daughter to the primary health centre at Alampalayam, where doctors referred her to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. The baby’s condition is said to be stable. The officer said the man has confessed to the crime. Police have booked the man under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, and lodged him in the district prison in Gobichettipalayam under judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-rapes-75-day-old-daughter-imprisoned/articleshow/76080040.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Two lion carcasses found in Gir forest near Amreli||Rajkot: Carcasses of a lion cub and an adult lion were found from different regions of Amreli district on Thursday. In first case, carcass of a cub less than a year old was found Piplva round of Tulsishyam-Khambha range of Gir east forest division from the sanctuary area.According to forest department the primary reason for the death of the cub is believed to be infighting. Chief conservator of forest (wildlife) D T Vasavda said, “It appears that the cub was killed during infighting. This evident from the external canine marks on the body. It is suspected that a male lion could be nearby.” The postmortem conducted at Kesari sadan indicated deep puncture marks on the cub’s body and a damaged spinal cord. The second carcass found on Thursday was of an adult lion, probabaly around three years old from Mitiyala round in Abharampara revenue area. According to forest officials, the carcass was in decomposed state and there was nothing suspicious found around it. The cause of death, however, will be known after postmortem, the added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-lion-carcasses-found-in-gir-forest-near-amreli/articleshow/76078972.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Four killed in two different accidents||Rajkot: Four persons were killed in two different accidents reported from Morbi and Bhachau in Kutch district on Wednesday night. In Rangpar village of Morbi district, two SUVs collided with each other and a bike rammed into the rear of one SUV. “Two bike riders, identified as Nimey Gangadhar (28) and Bishnu Das (25), were killed on the spot. The victims were migrant labourers from Odisha working in a ceramic unit of Morbi,” said an official from Morbi taluka police station. Near Bhachau, two persons on a motorcycle were killed when their bike was rammed by an unidentified truck. The deceased were identified as Ajay Devipujak (31) and his cousin Ashwin Devipujak (29). “Both the victims were from Morbi doing business of onions in Samakhiyali,” said an official from Bhachau police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-killed-in-two-different-accidents/articleshow/76078958.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||No social distancing: Bank staff throw a party for retd chairman||Bareilly: Over 150 people, including employees of a government bank at Ramganga Vihar in Civil Lines area of Moradabad, came together for a farewell party to honour the bank chairman who retired on Tuesday, violating the Covid-19 lockdown norms. Photographs of the official get-together went viral on social media where employees could be seen violating physical distancing norms and hardly taking any precautions such as wearing face masks and hand gloves. Group photos were also being taken and uploaded on social networking sites. Sources said the party was held on Wednesday following the retirement of its chairman. Over 150 people joined the party, when not more than 20 are allowed at social gatherings as per the state government guidelines due to Covid outbreak. Bank officials, meanwhile, denied flouting any social distancing guidelines. The retired chairman said, “All measures were being taken considering the current pandemic and most of the people followed the stated official guidelines.” On Thursday, superintendent of police (SP city) Amit Anand told TOI, “Photographs and videos circulated on social media clearly shows that social distancing norms were flouted. People were not even wearing face masks. However, many of them have later claimed that they removed the masks only for taking photographs. A probe has been ordered and legal action will be initiated, accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-social-distancing-bank-staff-throw-a-party-for-retd-chairman/articleshow/76077579.cms||Maria Khan
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Delayed Gujarat University senate meeting holding up projects||AHMEDABAD: With uncertainty over the Gujarat University (GU) annual senate meeting, various projects which require financial planning and budgeting are stuck, sources in GU said. The senate meeting, which was to be held on the last two days of March, got deferred due to the Covid-19 situation and consequent lockdown. The meeting is held every year to finalize the budget and the academic calendar. The vice-chancellor and registrar also answer questions from members. Apart from faculty members, even student senate members are given a chance to ask questions. This year, the senate elections, held after a gap of three years, saw the Congress defeating the BJP. Projects including renovation and constructing of new buildings had to be halted due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delayed-gu-senate-meeting-holding-up-projects/articleshow/76079065.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Activists oppose new flyover at SPPU junction||PUNE: Activists and citizens are unhappy over the decision to demolish the flyovers at University Chowk and E-Square and build a double decker flyover in its place. NGOs have written to Pune municipal commissioner and the state government, opposing the decision. The planned double decker flyover will have vehicular movement on the first tier and the Metro rail on the upper viaduct. Harshad Abhyankar, director of Save Pune Traffic Movement, said the authorities must study the exiting traffic volume and infrastructure before taking any further steps. “How much vehicular traffic do roads currently carry? How much will they carry in the future with the Metro and BRTS in place?” he said, adding, “A double-decker flyover will only ensure the Metro is underutilized.” Citizens, meanwhile, are concerned about the costs involved. The two existing flyovers were built in 2006-07 at a cost of Rs40 crore. The new flyover’s cost is pegged at Rs240 crore. “Both the flyovers have failed to manage traffic on Ganeshkhind Road. Demolition and subsequent construction will further worsen the scenario. What if the new flyover too fails to address the problems?” Rohit Pawar, an SB Road resident, said. “If Pashan Road, Baner Road and Aundh Road are blocked due to demolition and then new construction, the traffic load on JM Road and Kothrud will rise manifold. The area is already facing congestion due to the Metro work,” Aundh resident Akshay Agarwal said. Pedestrians First, an NGO, has sought a thorough study into the failure of the existing flyovers. “These flyover should have yielded benefits for 50 years. The fact that these need to be demolished within 13 years shows the plan was flawed to begin with,” the NGO; s convener, Prashant Inamdar, said. He pushed for a scientific study before the new flyover is built. “PMC must first scrutinize the PMRDA flyover plan. Traffic studies must be undertaken to assess the need for a flyover, including the impact on the Metro ridership,” he suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-wary-of-proposed-double-decker-flyover-at-sppu-junction/articleshow/76080043.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Probe ordered in alleged irregularities in Melghat owlets research project||Nagpur: The Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) is inquiring into several irregularities allegedly committed in the owl research project titled ‘Ecological study of forest owlet and other owls using radio telemetry’ by Pune-based NGO Wildlife Research and Conservation Society (WRCS), Pune. A probe has been ordered based on a complaint filed by two wildlife lovers Alkesh Thakre and Shubham Singh Badratiya, Paratwada. Badratiya is an ex-employee of WRCS involved in the project. WRCS project to capture and banding of 20 forest owlets (Heteroglaux blewitti) was approved in 2012 by MoEF. Actual work on the project started in 2013 and is still going on. “Last couple of months there are concerns over irregularities in research of forest owlet and this is not good for the future of elusive and critically endangered forest owlet,” the complaint said. WRCS executive director Prachi Mehta said, “Our owl project is working towards achieving scientific insights into ecology of endangered forest owlet and other owls in Central India. Our work has received recognition in India as well as outside.” “The complaint is out of grudge by Badratiya against WRCS. This issue is borne out of personal insecurity and lack of scientific understanding. The complainant is trying to tarnish the hard work being done by our organization,” Mehta told TOI. On allegation that radio telemetry of other species of owls has not been done, Mehta admitted, “We have been permitted to radio-tag eight species of owls but radio-tagging has not started.” However, PCCF permission letter of July 10, 2019, shows only seven species of owl were allowed to be radio-tagged. WRCS instead of radio-telemetry is colour-banding these raptors, which is not permitted as per the complainants. They alleged that though permission to tag forest owlets was granted in buffer area of MTR, several birds were captured in core area. This is in violation of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Mehta said, “We have been given permission to work in Chourakund range of Sipna division and that’s where we are working. We have colour-banded only 17 forest owlets till now. However, Badratiya and Thakre alleged some owlets were also captured in Harisal range under Gugamal division. Deputy conservator Shiva Kumar is probing the matter. Badratiya and Thakre alleged non-technical specialists were involved in tagging of birds. “Forest personnel were not present during tagging of bird and the NGO did not even inform authorities while tagging,” said Badratiya. Mehta clarified she was a wildlife scientist and had extensive experience in banding. “Banding is done in my presence along with field biologists and assistants who have been trained by me,” she said. Mehta said, “Forest staff has always been informed and they have accompanied us.” On charge that during capture of any Schedule-I species, presence of experienced veterinary doctor was mandatory, she said, “Colour-banding is a non-invasive procedure and hence does not require presence of vets.” The complainants showed photographic evidence that NGO had illegally captured and tagged spotted owlet (Athene brama), Indian Scops Owl (Otus bakkamoena) and Jungle Owlet (Glaucidium radiatum). Deputy conservator of forest (DyCF), Sipna Division, Dr Sivabala S said, “There are lot of aspects to the project and hence we have sought all documents and reports from WRCS. An ACF has submitted a field inquiry report based on which I will submit a free and fair report.” Sources said the preliminary inquiry has found that forest owlets were banded in core area and statements of forest staff reveal they were not involved in any activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/probe-ordered-in-alleged-irregularities-in-melghat-owlets-research-project/articleshow/76078994.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 67 Covid-related deaths at Safdarjung Hospital since February 1||NEW DELHI: At least 67 Covid-related deaths have occurred at Safdarjung Hospital since February 1, when patients started getting treated there for the deadly viral infection. Of these, 53 deaths took place between February 1 and May 16 and the rest over the past 12 days, Dr Balvinder Singh Arora, medical superintendent of the hospital, told TOI. Arora said initially they were submitting all death reports to the Union health ministry. “Recently, Delhi government demanded that the case summaries of the deceased be shared with them. It appointed multiple coordinators for the same, which led to some confusion and delay. But now most details have been shared with them,” he added. Sources said some patients who had been admitted to the hospital with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and died during treatment also tested positive for Covid-19 later. These deaths are still being collated to be sent to the government. “If you combine the SARI deaths, the total number of deceased will be much higher,” said a source. He added that Safdarjung Hospital mostly gets patients who are seriously ill. “Peripheral hospitals and other states refer patients when they are in the last stage of illness and have lost all hope. Sometimes it’s too late to save such patients. However, in many cases death is caused due to comorbidities,” said a doctor. Delhi government data shows that there have been 316 Covid-19 deaths in the state. However, the Opposition parties allege that the actual number is much higher. Because of the high number of deaths, the city’s cremation grounds haven’t been able to conduct funerals that require proper protective measures and social distancing. Municipal corporations have been forced to allow wood-based cremation to avoid piling up of bodies, officials said. A Delhi government official said a death audit committee was constituted to look into all death summaries sent by hospitals that involved Covid-infected patients. “Initially, a few hospitals weren’t sending the death summaries. Now that they have started, we will report them. We are not trying to hide any data,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/67-covid-related-deaths-at-safdarjung-since-feb-1/articleshow/76080049.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man dies of cancer, tests Covid-19-positive hour later; family quarantined||DEHRADUN: A 32-year-old cancer patient who died in Ramnagar while in home quarantine was reported Covid-19-positive, barely an hour after his death on Thursday. His family members were quarantined soon after his cremation. Health officials attributed the man’s death to cancer. According to the health department, the man, a resident of Ramnagar’s Shiv Mandir locality, was working as an executive at a multinational firm in New Delhi. He was suffering from liver cancer for the past several months and was undergoing treatment at Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre, Delhi, since January. However, on May 25, he was brought back to home in the ambulance and was subsequently home quarantined with three other family members, including his wife. “The man died on Thursday morning and the family received the reports of his Covid-19 test around an hour after his death. His sample was tested in Delhi,” said SHO of Ramnagar, Ravi Sainin. Chief medical officer, Nainital, Dr Bharti Rana told TOI that his family was quarantined soon after the administration received the information of the deceased man testing positive. “The cause of death, in this case, is advanced stage cancer,” added Dr Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-dies-of-cancer-tests-covid-19-positive-hour-later-family-quarantined/articleshow/76077597.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM launches self-employment scheme||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday launched the CM’s self-employment scheme. The scheme is aimed at creating more self-employment opportunities for the youth and encouraging reverse migration. Under the scheme, one will get loan up to Rs 25 lakh for manufacturing project and up to Rs 10 lakh in service sector. CM Rawat said that the scheme will help in generating self-employment for people who have returned to Uttarakhand during Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chief-minister-launches-self-employment-scheme/articleshow/76077569.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kanpur||‘Ingredients in kitchen can boost immunity without any side effects’||Kanpur: As corona pandemic is spreading its wings at an alarming rate, it is the time that people should be on the look out to adopt safe measures, including a good life style and healthy food to strengthen their immunity, said Ramji Verma, general manager Ayush unit of National Health Mission. A healthy and recharged immune system wards off diseases and accelerates recovery from diseases, he added. “Our kitchen has a lot of ingredients to enhance our immunity which do not have side effects. Turmeric milk is an age old tested and trusted remedy. It is a rich spice, an antioxidant food for the body, prevents inflammation, keeps germs and virus away and cures infections. Adding a pinch of black pepper powder in the drink would be a wonderful addition”, Verma said. Pepper contains piperine which is an active compound that keeps the gut healthy, soothes infection as well as improves absorbency of cumin by up to 200 percent, he said. Use of spices such as turmeric, cumin, coriander powder, ginger, cinnamon,fennel seeds and garlic in food also increase immunity . According to Ayurveda, the spices not only have nutritional value but also help in speeding up metabolism and aid in weight loss. Garlic and cayenne pepper are potent anti viral foods, he said. Cloves contain powerful properties which can effectively destroy virus infected cells in the body and clear airways of any congestion. They have high antioxidants which ease infections as well. Herbal tea containing basil leaves, ginger, a pinch of black pepper and clove added with honey would work as immunity booster, Verma explained . Lemon water is an essential summer drink, said Dr SN Shukla, a surgeon having good knowledge of Aurveda .” It is power packed fruit. Consuming lemon in any form on regular basis helps restore the acid alkaline levels in the body, flush the system with a lot of Vitamin C which is good for the immunity and against cold. It also acts as a wonderful detox drink rooting out toxins”, he said. Light cough and cold are common problems during change in weather and Ayurveda has very good treatment for that. Steam inhalation with fresh mint leaves and black cumin seeds are the best remedy. Clove powder added with honey is another remedy which cures soarness of throat, he said. He advised the people to use kitchen remedies to enhance their immunity and fight against cough and cold problems and spare the doctors who are busy in serving the Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ingredients-in-kitchen-can-boost-immunity-without-any-side-effects/articleshow/76080404.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 29, 2020||Salem||Girl dies as boulder from stone quarry hits her on head||Namakkal: A 10-year-old girl died after a portion of boulder from a stone quarry hit her on head while the quarry operators were blasting a rock with dynamite sticks near Senthamangalam here on Wednesday night.The Senthamangalam police identified the deceased as M Nandhini, daughter of Murthy, 38, of Vaiyappamalai. She was a Class V student of a government school at Paramathi-Velur in Namakkal district.Pointing out that the girl was staying in a hostel, a police officer said she had come home following lockdown. “Her house is close to the stone quarry, where her father is employed.”On Wednesday around 9pm, the officer said, the quarry operators blasted a rock using dynamite sticks. “Stone pieces flew in the air and hit Nandhini, who was playing outside the house, on her head. She succumbed to her head injuries on the spot. Her brother Soundarrajan was also hit by a stone, fracturing his hand,” the officer said.When alerted, The Senthamangalam police sent the body to the Namakkal government hospital for post-mortem and initiated inquiry. The boy was taken to a private hospital in Namakkal town from where he was shifted to a private hospital in Bengaluru.Police have registered case against five people, including quarry manager Kuppandi. “We have arrested three people - Meenatchi, 28, Shanmugaraja, 28 and Balu, 26. We have also launched a manhunt for the remaining two, including Kuppandi, who managed to escape from the spot,” the officer said. The arrested have been lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/girl-dies-as-boulder-from-stone-quarry-hits-her-on-head/articleshow/76080045.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||IAF sergeant commits suicide in Bareilly||Bareilly: A middle aged-sergeant of the Indian Air Force (IAF) allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the top of an overhead water tank at Trishool airbase in Izzatnagar area of Bareilly district on Thursday. Deceased Prashant Pandey (47) was a resident of Jaunpur district and was about to retire from IAF on May 31. He used to live in an allotted quarter in the campus with his wife and daughter. Police have sent the dead body for autopsy. Sources said in the past few days, Pandey was upset over some anonymous reason. Neither his family nor IAF officials agreed to comment on the incident. Izzatnagar SHO inspector K K Verma told TOI, “A sergeant deployed at the airbase in Bareilly committed suicide by jumping from an overhead water tank. Pandey was brought to hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. He was about to retire after 20 years of service with IAF. We are trying to identify the reason behind his taking such an extreme step. We’re investigating the incident and will record statements of family members and officials Pandey was reporting to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/iaf-sergeant-commits-suicide-in-bareilly/articleshow/76077567.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Hopper bands at Kasimkota are not locusts’||VISAKHAPATNAM: Farmers in Achherla village under Kasimkota mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday panicked following the sighting of hopper bands at the cashew garden as they thought the hopper bands were locusts and could potentially become a serious problem. However, farmers got much relief after officials of the horticulture department said that the hopper bands seen at the Cashew Garden at Achherla are not locusts. They said that the hopper bands are Pyrgomorphidae Hopper (local hopper only). Recently, locusts invaded northwestern and central India and have been damaging crops. Speaking to TOI, deputy director of horticulture, Visakhapatnam, K Gopi Kumar said that it had been reported that there was a swarm of locusts in Kondala Rao’s cashsssew garden of the farmers in Achherla village. The hoper bands were found in and around over 20 cents of lands in Achherla village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hopper-bands-at-kasimkota-are-not-locusts/articleshow/76077605.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 29, 2020||Mumbai||Video goes viral of bodies near testing centre in Thane||THANE: A video of two bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients kept near a testing centre at civic-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital has gone viral. The video shows the bodies just metres away from people waiting to be tested. BJP MLA Nitesh Rane tweeted about it and said, “Such instances have happened earlier at hospitals in Mumbai, like Sion and KEM, and now in Thane. This shows basic administrative failure and is a danger to the lives of people.” Hospital authorities said the bodies were to be taken away. “The bodies were sanitized, covered and kept aside inside the hospital as we were waiting for a hearse, which did not take long,” said dean Dr Pratibha Sawant. TMC chief Vijay Singhal said the issue was resolved but there will be an inquiry. Watch Video of bodies lying near testing centre goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/video-goes-viral-of-bodies-near-testing-centre/articleshow/76080081.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
May 29, 2020||Agra||Rs 100 fine for not wearing face mask in Agra||AGRA: Agra district administration will levy a fine of at least Rs 100 on those stepping out without wearing a mask. In this regard, challan booklets have been sent for publication. The district administration is working on a plan to allow shops to reopen on June 1. To curb novel coronavirus from spreading, the district administration has decided to strictly enforce preventive steps like wearing a mask at public places. Prabhu N Singh, district magistrate, said, ‘We have been spreading awareness about the need for wearing a face mask to stop Covid-19 from spreading. Now, from June 1 onwards, those found not using a face mask will be penalized. First, a challan will be levied for at least Rs 100. On second violation, a penalty of Rs 500 will be imposed." The DM added that any person disobeying the directove would be deemed to have committed an offence. Legal action can also be taken against those found not wearing a mask. Police personnel can seize the violator’s vehicle and suspend his or her driving licence for a period of six months. The penalty would apply on pedestrians also for stepping out without wearing a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rs-100-fine-for-not-wearing-face-mask-in-agra/articleshow/76077623.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Woman found murdered in Pune's Wanowrie||PUNE: A 34-year-old woman from Bhavani Peth was found murdered on the Right Flank Road in Wanowrie around 6.30pm on Wednesday. Police said the victim, Jyoti Kamble (34), had left her home around 8am for a morning walk on Wednesday and did not return home. An army officer, who first noticed her body lying under a tree, alerted the city police control room officials. The preliminary post-mortem report revealed a stab injury on Jyoti’s neck. The woman’s husband, Deepak Kamble (50), is a daily wage worker. Assistant commissioner of police (Wanowrie division) Sunil Kalgutkar said, “We initially registered a complainant of accidental death. After the autopsy report confirmed a single injury on her neck, we registered a murder case based on an FIR lodged by the victim’s husband.” Kalgutkar said Jyoti’s husband revealed that the victim was suffering from an ailment for past one month. “Her father had planned to take her to his residence on the day of the incident. We are checking the CCTV cameras and working on certain clues,” he added. Senior inspector Krantisinh Patil from the Wanowrie police said, “Jyoti was staying at Manjula Chawl in Bhavani Peth under the Samarth police station. The place comes under the containment zone. She was earlier working as domestic help. We have formed two teams to probe the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-found-murdered-in-wanowrie/articleshow/76080059.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 200 beds to be set up in the building of Bytco hospital to treat Covid-19 patients||NASHIK: The health department of Nashik Municipal Corporation will set up 200 beds at the new building of Bytco Hospital within 15 days to treat Covid-19 patients. This decision taken on Thursday comes after over 100 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in the last eight days. “This new 200-bed facility will be ready within 15 days. We have just completed electrification and lift work of the five-storied hospital building,” said NMC officials. Though, earlier it was decided that the faciltiy will be used to treat non-covid patients. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/200-beds-to-be-set-up-in-the-building-of-bytco-hospital-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/76077628.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||Woman with multiple injuries found dead at home; brother says murder||Pilibhit: A 36-year-old woman, Kusum Lata, was found dead in her house at Chandupur village, under Madhotanda police station on Wednesday evening. Police found multiple injuries on the head, back and other parts of the woman’s body. The deceased’s in-laws claimed that she had collapsed due to some unknown illness. The woman's brother alleged that his sister was murdered and filed a written complaint with local police. The body has been sent for an autopsy. Rajpal, the deceased's brother, a resident of Banda block headquarters in Shahjahanpur district, said he was informed about the mysterious death of his sister by villagers of Chandupur. Then, he along with his family members rushed to her village. Rajpal alleged that his sister’s husband, Prem Pal, a farmer, was an alcoholic and a wife-beater. Shahroz Anwar,SHO, said police are awaiting the autopsy report to find out reason of death. Further legal action in the matter would be taken accordimgly. However, police had taken the husband of the deceased in their custody, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-with-multiple-injuries-found-dead-at-home-brother-says-murder/articleshow/76077587.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Man, 24, on rabbit hunt shot dead||NAMAKKAL: A 24-year-old man died after he was hit by pellets fired accidently from a country-made gun near Rasipuram on early Thursday morning. The deceased was identified as C Sakthivel of West Kattuvalasu near Vazhapadi in Salem district. Sakthivel, his friends S Dhoni alias Babu, 21, of Mangalapuram and S Senthil Kumar, 25, of Uthukulikadu, went to Singiliyankombai reserve forest near Mangalapuram on Wednesday night to hunt rabbits. After reaching the forest, Sakthivel handed over the country-made gun to Senthil Kumar. “The trigger was pulled accidently, and pellets hit Sakthivel who died on the spot,” the Mangalapuram police said. Senthil Kumar and Dhoni took the body on a bike to West Kattuvalasu and placed that in front of Sakthivel’s house. On Thursday morning, Sakthivel’s father spotted his son’s body and alerted the Mangalapuram police. “Senthil Kumar and Dhoni have confessed to the crime. We have arrested them,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-24-on-rabbit-hunt-shot-dead/articleshow/76080072.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kanpur||Admin issues alert against locust attack||Kanpur: The district administration, on Thursday, issued an alert to the farmers of Ghatampur, Narwal, Billhaur tehsils against a possible attack of locust swarm on their crop. He asked the tehsil officials to aware the farmers about the use of old traditional and tested methods to counter the attcak of locust swarm. The locust swarm can be diverted by making noise. Therefore old method to counter the attack is to beat drums /cannister/ plates and make noise in groups to ward off locusts, but maintaining social distancing during the process. Besides, sandy soil is fit for the breeding of locust, hence the field of sandy soil should be tilled or filled with water to evade the problem. The district magistrate has also put other district officials including district agriculture officer, horticulture officer and panchayati raj officer, on an alert and asked them to take all preventive measures such as spraying of chemicals and pesticides on locust swarm to save the crop. He also asked the fire brigade department to load be prepared to spray pesticide if need arises. In a specific directions to forest officer have been asked to ensure action if grasshopers move forward in the night in forest. According to the report, usually the locust swarms enter the Scheduled Desert Area of India through Pakistan for summer breeding in the month of June/July with the advent of monsoon. This year, however the incursions of locust hoppers and pink swarms have been reported much earlier||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/admin-issues-alert-against-locust-attack/articleshow/76080544.cms||Anant Chandak
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Coronavirus puts big fat weddings on hold||VIJAYAWADA: Covid-19 had had a severe impact on the big fat weddings across the city. No fewer than 30,000 weddings in the city have been postponed due to the Covid-19. People have been eagerly waiting for the government to lift restrictions on huge celebrations so that they can celebrate weddings in a grand manner. Due to fear of Covid-19, most wedding ceremonies have been postponed indefinitely. The government has permitted weddings with a limited crowd of 50 persons and this move received very poor response from the public. “We have been waiting for a long time to celebrate my daughter’s wedding on a grand note. We fixed the wedding date as May 14 and cancelled it later. We are anticipating at least 400 guests and the government gave permission for 50 guests. Wedding is a very special occasion and we have decided to wait till Covid-19 pandemic ends,” said Koppuravuri Baradhwaj, a city-based businessman. Wedding planners, event organisers, caterers, photographers, flower decorators, and others dependent on weddings are facing tough time with the postponement of weddings. “Summer is peak wedding season. But Covid-19 had had severe impact on event organisers. We lost our livelihoods in March,” said KN Ranjan a city-based wedding planner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/virus-puts-big-fat-weddings-on-hold/articleshow/76077645.cms||Venu Lanka
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Apartments at forefront of Covid battle||VIJAYAWADA: From providing essential needs to quarantining foreign-returnees to ensuring disinfection, apartments and housing societies across Vijayawada have been coming up their own set of guidelines in the city. While some of these are reasonable such as washing hands and wearing masks, certain apartment associations have taken stringent means such as stopping domestic maid services, banning delivery of essential services like milk, vegetables and food. “We had first closed all entry points to the building and left only one of the gates open to keep track of who is coming in and going out. The residents who go out for work comply in washing their hands and feet before stepping into the building,” K Mahesh, a bank employee residing at Sripriya Apartments in Kannur, said. Another apartment building in One Town area, where some of the recent foreign returnees reside, the neighbours took it upon themselves to ensure that all of their essential needs are catered to. “We created a WhatsApp group to address some of the rumours of Covid-19 instances in the neighbourhood. The primary issue was trust,” said Srinivas Rao, a bank employee. Apartments in containment zones have more stricter rules in place. For instance, JGR Towers in Karmika Nagar had took it upon themselves in maintaining strict timings between 8 am to 11 am for residents to go out and purchase essentials. Bigger gated communities in Penamaluru where a couple of Covid-19 positive cases have been reported had closed off common facilities such as swimming pool, gym and the clubhouse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apartments-at-forefront-of-covid-battle/articleshow/76077631.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||EMT wearing PPE collapses in Sagar||Bhopal: A health worker wearing a PPE suit collapsed in the scorching summer in Sagar while attending to a Covid-19 patient on Wednesday evening. Hospital sources howevers say that the health worker was suffering from epilepsy. The incident in Sagar took place around 5pm on Wednesday when the emergency medical technician (EMT) accompanying 108-ambulance fell “because of excessive sweating”. Technicians accompanying the health worker, identified as Prajapati said, “He was working in the ambulance at Motinagar locality of Sagar. The hospital staff took more than half an hour to complete the documents of the patient and he was told to wait. Earlier, too, he had to wait for a long time to shift another patient.” They also claimed that Prajapati has a history of epilepsy. A district administration spokesman said, there was “nothing wrong with the PPE suits” being used in Sagar. A similar incident took place on May 25 in Bhopal .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/emt-wearing-ppe-collapses-in-sagar/articleshow/76079015.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kanpur||Advocates urge courts to accept manual applications||Kanpur: A delegation of advocates on Thursday demanded that courts should accept manual applications instead of e-applications for hearing during the lockdown period. The delegation, led by Naresh Chandra Tripathi, former general secretary, Kanpur Bar Association, met district judge, Kanpur Nagar Ashok Kumar Singh and handed over him a memorandum addressed to the chief justice of Allahabad high court. The advocates urged in the memorandum that more than 90 percent advocates are unable to digitalize their applications and convert them into a PDF, and, therefore feeling difficulties. The district judge assured the delegation that he would send their memorandum to the high court. The Allahabad high court while ordering resumption of limited work in district courts had directed the advocates to file e-applications along with certain other formalities .The Kanpur district court had resumed its working from May 26. Kapil Deep Sachan, general secretary, Kanpur Bar Association, submitted that maintenance should be provided to the women who were contesting cases against their husband and were getting maintenance through courts. Due to closure of courts they were facing hardship, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/advocates-urge-courts-to-accept-manual-applications/articleshow/76080443.cms||Anant Chandak
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 victim’s and his employer’s families seek testing||have mailed picture to apoorvaAhmedabad: Family members of a Covid-19 victim who succumbed last Sunday, along with the family of his employer, have sought that that the authorities conduct Covid tests on them, so that they do not end up infecting other people in case they are Covid positive.Dharmendra Rajput (39) alias Lal Bahadur Gorkha, who worked as a manager in a private security firm, succumbed to Covid-19 on May 24. According to his family members, he died even as he was being wheeled into the Asarwa Civil Hospital.Gulab Bajwa, a football coach by profession, said that Lal Bahadur showed symptoms of Covid-19 on May 22, and visited the nearest designated corona hospital at Chandkheda as a x-ray showed inflammation of the lungs. “They just noted his name and number and sent him back, saying that they will call him when the vehicle arrives,” Bajwa alleged. Lal Bahadur worked as a manager in the security firm owned by Bajwa’s father.Bajwa said that on Sunday, Gorkha again complained of breathlessness and was taken to the SMS hospital, where there was no ventilator arrangement. “His family members took him to Asarwa Civil Hospital, where he expired even as he was being admitted,” Bajwa said. The postmortem report made available the next day said Gorkha was Covid positive.“I met him four days before he expired. His family members stayed with him. We have been asking the authorities to get our Covid tests done, but we are not getting any favourable response,” Bajwa said. He added that when they call various helplines or visit hospitals seeking a Covid test, they are sent back or prescribed medicines.“We are volunteering to get our tests done, but the authorities are not getting us tested. If any of us are positive, and are not being tested, we might end up infecting others,” said Bajwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-victims-and-his-employers-families-seek-testing/articleshow/76079017.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Car driver arrested for causing pillion rider’s death||Pune: A 42-year-old man died on the spot, while two others suffered severe injuries when a speeding car hit their motorcycle in Shewalwadi, on Pune-Solapur Road, on Tuesday night. The deceased, Mahaveer Kale from Hadapsar, was riding triple-seat with Milind Dabhe (pillion) and Gautam Dabhe (the rider), when the accident occurred. Police said the men weren’t wearing helmets. Gautam escaped with minor injuries, while Milind suffered fractures on his arm and leg. Kale died of multiple head injuries. The Hadapsar police on Wednesday arrested the driver, Chandrashekar Anklagi (23) from Andheri (East), under the charges of causing death due to negligence.“The trio were passing via Gram Sevak Training Centre Chowk and were headed towards More Vasti, behind Manjari farm, when Gautam took a sudden right turn and failed to spot the car coming from the other side. Anklagi lost control of the vehicle, which hit the bike,” sub-inspector Sachin Gadekar said. “The car, which belongs to Anklagi’s cousin, was delivered to him from Mumbai to Pune. He the started driving the vehicle towards Akkalkot. We have arrested him under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/car-driver-arrested-for-causing-pillion-riders-death/articleshow/76080098.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Average bills issued for power usage, actual amount in next bill||KOLHAPUR: The electricity department has issued average bills for the power consumed during lockdown, however, the difference in the average and actual bills will be recovered from the consumers after the lockdown ends The ones who take the meter readings could not go to houses due to the lockdown and some were not allowed to enter buildings. Since shops were closed, no readings were taken for the power supplied. The electricity department had appealed to the consumers to record the readings in the mobile applications to get the actual amount for the power consumed. Vikas Puri, the public relations officer of the state electricity department said, “More electricity has been used by the residential consumers during the lockdown. We have issued the average bills after calculating the power consumed for the earlier three months. The average bills issued are less compared to the regular bills. The difference will be reflected in the new bills.” The traders are asking for a waiver of power bills issued for their shops since they were closed and no power was used.. Bill payment centres reopen in Aurangabad The bill payment centres of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) reopened in Aurangabad circle after two months. A total of 300 such centres will be operational. The MSEDCL has sent messages to the consumers communicating their billing amount that to be paid. The state power utility has appealed to consumers to pay their monthly bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/avg-bills-issued-for-power-usage-actual-amount-in-next-bill/articleshow/76077651.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Agra||UP: Woman suffering from fever beaten mercilessly by tantric, video goes viral||AGRA: A mother of three children, who was suffering from high fever, was mercilessly beaten and poked with a sharp-knife several times in her back by an occultist in Agra. The incident happened over a month ago, but a video of the brutal act turned up on social media on Thursday afternoon. The victim, Harshri alias Seema, was married to Pokhpal Sarashwat alias Sachin in 2005 and was living in Gadaiya Mohalla of Shikohabad police limits in Firozabad district. Nearly two months ago, the victim along with her ill husband and three children came to her sister-in-law Uma’s home in Malpura area. Her husband is suffering from liver ailment and anaemia. Dinesh Sharma, the elder brother of the victim, said, “Harshri’s sister- in-law Uma and her husband Akash used to physically and mentally harass her. A month ago, she complained of high fever. But, instead of taking her to a doctor, the duo along with another relative Abhishek took her to a tantric, Rahul Bhagat. The tantric brutally assaulted my sister and her condition deteriorated.” In the minute-long video, shot by victim’s brother-in-law Akash, which was shared to Dinesh by Harshri’s nine-year-old son Sagar discreetly, the victim was found begging for mercy, while the tantric Rahul rained kicks and punches while grabbing her hairs. He even tried to stab her with knife multiple times on her back. The tantric also applied some chemical on victim’s face to make her unconscious. After the incident, Dinesh filed FIR against Uma, her husband Akash, Abhishek and tantric Rahul. All were detained by the police and booked under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354-A (sexual harassment), 506 (criminal intimidation), 508 (act caused by inducing person to believe that he will be rendered an object of the divine displeasure) and under Drugs and Miracle Remedies (Objectionable Advertisement) Act 1954. Superintendent of police (rural west) Ravi Kumar said, “The woman has been send for medical examination including coronavirus check-up. A detailed investigation ordered and four accused have been detailed for interrogation.” Watch Shocking! Woman suffering from fever beaten mercilessly by tantric||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-suffering-from-fever-beaten-mercilessly-by-tantric-video-goes-viral-fir-filed-against-four/articleshow/76077664.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 29, 2020||Agra||AMU student leader arrested for Dec 15 anti-CAA violence on campus||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student leader Farhan Zuberi was arrested on Thursday for his alleged involvement in the December 15 violence on varsity’s campus during anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest. Confirming this, Abhishek, superintendent of police, (city), said Zuberi was a wanted criminal and been remanded to judicial custody. Eleven cases are lodged against Zuberi at the Civil Lines police station, he added. Clashes had erupted on AMU campus on the fateful day after rumours spread that two students had been shot in police firing on Jamia Millia Islamia campus in Delhi during anti-CAA protests. During the confrontation between protesting students and police, students allegedly pelted stones at the former. The police, in retaliation, resorted to a lathi-charge and used water cannons, teargas and rubber bullets at the protesters. Police had registered three FIRs and arrested 26 people, including seven AMU students. A day later, they were released on conditional bail||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-student-leader-arrested-for-dec-15-anti-caa-violence-on-campus/articleshow/76077672.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad family of 12 clueless how Covid-19 spread despite members staying indoors||AURANGABAD: A day after getting discharged from the hospital, 12 members of a family, all of whom were infected by Covid-19, said on Thursday that they had no clue how did the infection spread among them despite staying indoors ever since the lockdown was imposed two months ago. “Since lockdown, all the family members were strictly confined to home. Our only contact with the outside world was for procuring essentials. My mother used to go out for getting ration and milk. She was the first positive patient in our family,” said the eldest of the four brothers in the family. The woman (70) was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and succumbed to the infection on May 21. Family members said there was no confirmed case of Covid-19 either from the area. “While the infection spread from my mother to all other family members, we are still wondering how she contracted the disease in the first place. How my mother got infected by Covid-19 is still a mystery for us,” said the elder son. Apart from the woman, the others who got infected from the Bahadurpura family included her husband, their three sons, three daughter-in-laws and five grandchildren. All of them have been discharged from the hospital. One of the four daughters of the elderly couple living at Phulambri and her daughter have also tested positive for Covid 19 and are now in hospital. “My mother was admitted to GMCH while other family members were put in either at the district civil hospital or MGM hospital. Except my mother, all other members knew that the infection has struck the entire family. We kept in touch with each other over phone. We never forget our days in the hospitals when we prayed for the well being of our family members,” said another member of the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-family-of-12-clueless-how-covid-spread-despite-members-staying-indoors/articleshow/76077673.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: ‘Workers must board trains with NOC from employers’||LUDHIANA: Labour shortage is severely hitting the hand tool industry of Ludhiana, said industry leaders. Earlier, the hand tool manufacturers were reporting availability of 50% workers in their units, which has now fallen by another 10% and the businessmen have started feeling the heat. According to the industry experts, the free train service to other states is responsible for the labour plight in Ludhiana and the government should introduce new system under which only those factory who have a no objection certificate (NOC) from their employers workers should be allowed to board the trains. The manufacturers allege that even the workers who have jobs, money and are living in good condition are leaving Ludhiana. S C Ralhan, president of Ludhiana Hand Tools Association, said “A few days ago, we were doing good, as we had 50% labour available with us in our factories. But in the last one week, it has fallen to 40% and will fall more in the coming days. This is happening because of the free train service introduced by the government due to which even those who are in good situation and have food, money and employment are leaving for their homes. If the labour exodus does not end here, the results will be disastrous for our industry. The government must introduce a system in which the factory workers who register for going back home on free trains should first get NOC from his employer. Without which the worker should not be allowed to go.” According to Ashwani Aggarwal, general secretary of Ludhiana Hand Tools Association, “Hand tools industry is struggling due to the shortage of labour and it seems that in coming days some units will have to shut down. The NOC system will ensure that only the deserving migrants avail the free train service and those who are financially sound and do not require any kind of help do not become burden on the system. Moreover, this will also sort out the problem of rising cases of workers running away with advance payments from their employers. We request the government to take steps in right direction for the welfare of both, industry and the migrants as well.” Ashok Gupta, senior vice-president of Ludhiana Hand Tools Association, said, “We have not enough work force to handle the export orders. This is not good for the industry. Shortage of labour is increasing on a daily basis and if the workers do not stop going home, our export orders will get cancelled as we will be unable to supply the goods to our customers on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/workers-must-board-trains-with-noc-from-employers/articleshow/76077653.cms||Mohit Behl
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Dispute with Nissan Motor: Tamil Nadu pays Rs 1,500 crore||CHENNAI: The state government has settled a long-pending dispute over tax incentives with Nissan Motor by paying nearly Rs 1,500 crore to the Japanese car giant’s Indian arm. In return, Nissan will withdraw international arbitration proceedings it has initiated against the government. According to sources, the Japanese automaker had claimed nearly Rs 5,000 crore in dues, interest and other damages. “We settled the dispute and made the payment, due to them for the period 2012-2017 in January this year much before the Covid crisis. It has come to light now since Nissan has filed for withdrawing the international arbitration proceedings,” state government officials said. The settlement is expected to boost Tamil Nadu’s image among international investors. “Ever since the dispute arose, we have kept aside the money due to the company and that was used to make the payment,” the official added. “The non-settlement of the dispute was proving to be a pain point, when we approached international companies to come and invest in Tamil Nadu. This is a positive development for the state, as non-settlement would have led to huge repercussions. We have only paid what was due to the company and have saved a huge sum by holding to our ground on not paying the interest for the period,” the sources said. The interest part works out to nearly Rs 400 crore. The genesis of the dispute was an agreement signed in 2008 between the state government and Nissan Motor India along with its alliance partner Renault India to jointly establish a passenger car manufacturing facility at Oragadam near Chennai. The agreement envisaged the car makers to avail incentives of nearly Rs 5,125 crore over a 21 year period. The state government reneged its obligation stating that Nissan changed its business model, in contravention to the original agreement thereby making themselves ineligible for the incentives. Not convinced, Nissan initiated arbitration proceedings against the state government. And sought Nissan Motor is seeking over Rs 5,000 crore or $770 million in dues under the 2008 agreement. The Japanese car maker brought the case against India too for alleged violation of a Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) the country has with Japan. The CEPA gives some protections to Japanese firms investing in India and vice versa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dispute-with-nissan-state-pays-rs-1500cr/articleshow/76080110.cms||D Govardan
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘Do not reuse N95 mask if worn near a patient/hotspot’||Q: Please advise whether banquet halls, guesthouses/hotels are bound to return the amount paid in advance now that their services would not be availed. | ML Kesarwani A: All hotels are working as per their refund policy. Due to the sudden cancellations of events because of the pandemic, they are refunding their clients’ money. If not, then they are giving them credit vouchers in which the customer’s money will be adjusted in any future event they wish to hold in that hotel. We cannot comment on every banquet hall or guesthouse but they must be opting for the same. | Girish Oberoi, general secretary, Uttar Pradesh Hotel and Restaurant Association. Q: A doctor has told my father that regular dosage of a homoeopathic medicine would enable us fight Covid-19. Is this true? | Rajesh A: It is being claimed that Arsenicum album can fight Covid-19. However, we cannot comment right now. | Dr Rama Srivastava, president, Indian Medical Association, Lucknow chapter Q: How should we clean an N95 mask for re-use? Will water or alcohol affect its quality? | Divyanshu Srivastava A: If you are wearing the N95 mask in a Covid-19 area or a hotspot, then the mask cannot be re-used. You need to dispose it off. If not, then you can reuse it by sanitising it with sodium hypochlorite solution or sanitizer with alcohol content of 70% and above and leave it overnight. After that, you can reuse it. | Dr Rama Srivastava Q: I am a 77-year-old patient of blood pressure and diabetes. I had an angioplasty in 2017 and was undergoing regular check-ups every few months. My check-up was scheduled in March but has not been done. What should I do? | HK Sinha A: You should regularly take the medicines prescribed by your doctor and consult them over phone in case of any emergency but do not move out of your house since you are a high-risk patient and staying at home with all safety precautions would be best. Most pathologies are offering home services and you can ask for your blood sample to be collected. | Dr Rama Srivastava||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/do-not-reuse-n95-mask-if-worn-near-a-patient/hotspot/articleshow/76080686.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hubballi||Economic, development activities should begin in full swing: Gourav Gupta||DHARWAD: Secretary to the department of commerce and industries Gourav Gupta, who is also the secretary in-charge of Dharwad district, has directed the officials to see that economic and development activities begin in full swing in the district. Chairing a meeting of district-level officials to review the Lockdown 4.0 situation on Thursday, he said permission has now been granted to restart infrastructure development and construction works, which had been stopped during lockdown. He said industrial units should also be fully operational. “In case of problems in mobilising raw materials or shortage of skilled workers, industrialists should submit their requirements to the district administration, and the government will try to solve the problems, if any,” Gupta said. To step up industrial activities, permission has been granted to run factories and industries in night shift and also on Sundays. “Industries at industrial areas should resume their operation without any delay. Shortage of labourers will be eased by mobilising them from nearby places,” he said. Gupta said the economic package announced for floriculturists and taxi drivers should reach the beneficiaries, and the officials of the departments concerned should ensure the same. “Infrastructure works which were taken up by NHAI, PWD, HDMP, Smart City Project and RDPR departments should be restarted and completed before the onset of monsoon,” he asserted. Covid-19 testing Referring to the Covid-19 testing in the district, Gupta said that of the 14,000 persons who have been tested so far, 12,500 have tested negative.The results of the remaining 1,500 are awaited. The administration has to see that there is not much delay in getting timely lab test results, he added. DC Deepa Cholan said the district has 32 active cases, and 11 persons have been discharged from KIMS Hospital. Gupta visited some of the institutional quarantine facilities in Dharwad and spoke to the inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/eco-devpt-activities-should-begin-in-full-swing-gupta/articleshow/76075401.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Cleaning of 10km stretch of Ambil Odha in last phase||PUNE: The work of cleaning the 10km stretch of Ambil Odha, hit by severe flooding in the last monsoon, is in the final stage and is expected to be completed in the next two weeks. The nullah witnessed heavy flooding during the last monsoon, which led to fatalities and damages to the road infrastructure and residential establishments near the water body. The civic administration this year came out with a detailed plan to clean the nullah, starting from Peshwe lake up to the Vaikunth crematorium. PMC officials said that about 80% work has been completed. "There are some plants which need to be removed to avoid further damages to nearby culverts. A proposal seeking permission for removal of plants has already been placed before the tree authority," officials said. A total of 250 plants have been proposed to be removed on a 2km stretch. The administration has so far received permission to remove 100 plants. "We will immediately begin the work after receiving a go-ahead from the tree authority. We plan to complete the work in two weeks," officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cleaning-of-10km-stretch-of-flood-hit-ambil-odha-in-last-phase/articleshow/76080109.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||75-year-old is Morena’s 1st Covid death||BHOPAL: A 75-year-old corona-positive woman died during treatment at a government hospital in Morena. She was not only visually challenged, but was also suffering from multiple complications. Her funeral was carried out by the local administration in compliance with the guidelines of government of India. The first Covid-19 positive patients were found in Morena in February second week. Three people, including a couple, who had returned from Dubai, were the first patients. Later, around 22 people who had come in direct contact with the positive patients were shifted to hospital quarantine, while the entire area where the positive patients lived has been declared a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/75-year-old-is-morenas-1st-covid-death/articleshow/76079040.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, prisoner awaits his Covid-19 negative result to get bail||AHMEDABAD: While all prisoners, who are out on bail, are compulsorily tested to ascertain that they are Covid-19 negative before they are taken back in custody, a murder accused Manubhai Desai is facing a situation quite contrary to this. Desai is the first inmate whose release from Sabarmati central jail depends on his Covid-19 test. If he is found Covid negative, he stands chances of getting bail. This is because he intends to go home and at stake is the health of his three children. He has sought bail because he could take care of his kids after his wife has been home quarantined after her Covid testing. Looking at the risk of three kids, the Gujarat high court has ordered the jail authorities to get Desai’s Covid test done and it would decide on his request for temporary bail on Friday after receiving the result. Before this, the high court had ordered the government to get Covid test done on Desai’s wife, who lives in a containment zone in the eastern part of Ahmedabad. Two weeks ago, Desai sought temporary bail saying that his wife was suffering from cold, cough and fever and is suspecting of having caught Covid infection. Later she was found Covid negative, but the HC ordered further tests on her to eliminate any possibility of infection. The HC asked Desai to wait because Desai’s home is in containment zone and the court feared that allowing a prisoner to go to containment zone would put other inmates at risk upon his return to prison. When the court took up hearing after the woman’s Covid test result, it was informed by Vivekanand Nagar police that she came in contact with Covid-19 positive person and therefore has been advised to remain home quarantined. Desai’s lawyer argued that since the wife is quarantined, the husband’s presence is more required for children. This has led the high court to order Covid test for Desai too. Meanwhile, upon the HC directions, all prisoners, who are out on temporary bail and parole, are put to Covid-19 test upon their return. If they are found negative, they are taken back in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-prisoner-awaits-his-covid-19-negative-result-to-get-bail/articleshow/76079029.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vadodara||15 who brutalized teen girl detained||VADODARA: Chhota Udepur police on Thursday nabbed 15 people involved in brutal flogging of a 16-year-old girl who had eloped with a youth from her village. Police said the 15 accused have not been formally arrested, but detained. “We brought them to Chhota Udepur town on Thursday for getting them tested for coronavirus. Right now, they are under quarantine and once their tests turn out to be negative, we will arrest them,” said a police official. Meanwhile, another video surfaced on Thursday in which the youth with whom the girl eloped is also seen. Cops said the new video could have been shot before the one which was shared on WhatsApp. In the new video, the girl is seen carrying the boy on her shoulders while the villagers, some of whom had thrashed her, are following them. “We are probing the new video too, but until the test reports of the accused arrive, we cannot interrogate them. The youth with whom the girl had eloped is also not in the village,” the police official said. The youth too has been booked for abducting the girl by luring her with the promise of marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/15-who-brutalized-teen-girl-detained/articleshow/76076904.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Gadkari bats for bio-stimulant sector, says regulation will harm SMEs||Nagpur: With the central government planning to bring bio stimulants, which are used as growth boosters for crops, into a regulatory mechanism, Union MSMEs minister Nitin Gadkari has written to agriculture minister Narendrasingh Tomar saying that the move may hamper small and mid-scale industries. The products include amino acid, seaweed extract humic acid and so on. As much as 60% of bio stimulants are estimated to be made in Maharashtra, said an industry source. Bio stimulants is the latest area in agriculture and a fast-growing segment. The industry size is pegged to be at Rs10,000 crore at present and mainly dominated by small and mid enterprises (SMEs), said sources. The growth rate is expected to be over 10% a year. Growth boosters are used in both conventional and organic farming. The stimulants are expected to replace chemical fertilizers due to the growth boosting effect, claims the industry. In his letter to Tomar, Gadkari that he has personally experienced these products which have no side effects and are rather beneficial to farmers. The letter says at present thousands of small and medium enterprises are engaged in making bio stimulants providing employment in rural areas. Including the sector into a regulatory mechanism will put the segment in a disadvantageous position as against the MNCs, the letter stated. Gadkari said that the requirement to submit technical data for acquiring a licence may be out of the financial capacity of the MSMEs. It may also not be easy for the agricultural universities to provide testing facilities to the nearly 10,000 industries in the country for generating the technical data. The government plans to bring the products under the ambit of regulatory law, because unlike pesticides or fertilizers there is no mechanism for certification or approving the label claims. This leads to a likelihood of farmers being cheated. The manufacture is planned to be regulated under the Fertilizer Control Order 1985. Suhas Budhay of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), whose reference has been given in Gadkari’s letter, said the proposal to include bio-stimulants in the fertilizer control order will actually benefit the MNCs at the loss of SMEs. Three years trial will be made mandatory for registering any products, specially by MSME. The bio stimulant products are out of these kind of regulations in major developed markets all over the world, he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkari-bats-for-bio-stimulant-sector-says-regulation-will-harm-smes/articleshow/76079036.cms||Shishir Arya
May 29, 2020||Kanpur||2 killed, 3 injured in dispute over mining in Kanpur Dehat||Kanpur:Two persons were killed while three others were injured over monetary and mining area dispute between the two groups at Nibarri village at Yamuna Kharka Ghat in Rajpur area under the limits of Satti police station in Kanpur Dehat district on Thursday. Police have recovered empty cartridges of 315 and 12 bore firearms from the spot. Following the firing, tension prevailed in the area and senior police officers including IG Range Mohit Agarwal, rushed to the spot. Reports said a fight broke out after one group attacked other over monetary and mining area dispute at Kharka Ghat in Yamuna riverbed in Rajpur area. Following heated argument, both the groups attacked each other with lathis, sticks and sharp-edged weapons and also resorted to indiscriminate firing killing two persons and leaving three others injured. The police on being informed rushed to the spot and admitted the injured men to hospital and shifted the bodies for postmortem examination. A heavy deployment has been made at the clash site to avoid any kind of further backlash. Further investigations are underway. The police identified the deceased as Gyanendra Singh Chauhan (42), a resident of Jamu village in Bidhnoo area of Kanpur Nagar and Gulrez (40) of Satti village in Kanpur Dehat. The three injured including one Deepak Singh, who had sustained wounds caused by lathi and sticks are undergoing treatment at the district hospital. According to superintendent of police (SP) Kanpur Dehat, Anurag Vatsa, five people have been taken into custody in connection with the incident and their questioning is underway. “The incident occurred at Nibarri village in Yamuna Kharka Ghat in Rajpur area under the limits of Satti police station,” he said. He added, “During preliminary investigations, it came to fore that one Manoj Chauhan and Saida Khan had together taken sand mines on lease but later fell apart due to monetary and mining area dispute. Both Gyanendra and Gulrez sustained multiple gun-shot wounds on their faces and other vital body parts. While Gyanendra died on the spot, Gulrez who was rushed to the district hospital was pronounced dead on arrival by the doctors.” Five persons have been detained and their questioning is underway in this connection, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Anup Kumar said, adding, “we are ascertaining the role of others whose names surfaced during initial probe. They are at large and a search for them is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-killed-3-injured-in-dispute-over-mining-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/76080552.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 29, 2020||Delhi||Anti-CAA protests: Jamia Millia Islamia student gets bail||NEW DELHI: Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha has been granted bail in a case related to the violence that took place near the university campus during protests against the CAA in December last year. The court considered his clean antecedents besides the fact that eight out of the 10 accused persons were on bail. The order passed by additional sessions judge Gaurav Rao stated, “Considering the clean antecedents of the accused, on the ground of parity, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and most importantly considering the present situation arising out of Covid-19, the accused is admitted to bail.” Tanha was arrested for rioting and other offences on May 17, 2020. Though a chargesheet was filed in the case, his counsels Trideep Pais and Sowjhanya Shankaran argued that Tanha was never arrested during the investigation stage. It was argued that no specific allegation of violence had been attributed to him in the chargesheet. The counsels called Tanha's “belated” arrest and subsequent custody “illegal, punitive and unjustified”. The court was urged to keep in mind that Tanha was only 24 and worked at a restaurant being the breadwinner. Tanha, according to his lawyers, had cooperated with the cops during investigation and could not tamper with evidence for most of it was in police’s possession. He was ready to abide by any condition imposed by the court. The prosecutor, however, opposed the bail plea saying Tanha had “serious allegations” against him and his presence at the place of incident stood established from the call data records. The ground of parity was referred to by the court when it considered the orders pertaining to grant of bail to other accused persons. While imposing conditions, it asked him to act like a good, responsible citizen. “The accused shall not indulge in any act of violence whatsoever and act like a good/responsible citizen as well as abide by the law of the land,” it noted. Tanha was granted the relief on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 25,000 with a surety in the like amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anti-caa-protests-jamia-student-gets-bail/articleshow/76100480.cms||Aamir Khan
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||Metal pot full of medieval-era coins recovered in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri||Bareilly: A group of labourers digging earth for a brick kiln stumbled on a metal pot full of coins, believed to be of Mughal-era due to the Persian inscriptions, in Pangi Khurd village of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday. Soon a fist fight broke between the otherwise friendly workers and a bystander called informed police. A police team rushed to the spot after hearing about the discovery of a “treasure”. And the pot containing 40 coins was taken away from the labourers, who were by then exhausted after the fight over its ownership. Station house officer (SHO) of Sadar Kotwali, Ajay Mishra, said that police will deposit the coins in the treasury. The district administration will then contact Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) for further action. Mishra told TOI, “The metal pot was damaged due to rusting, and coins were also muddied. They seem to be of Mughal era as something was written in Persian language. Since the coins were ancient and could be valuable from historical point of view so we have deposited them in the district treasury and have informed district magistrate about the discovery. “Since all the coins were recovered, no offence was proven on any of the labourer so we have not filed FIR in this case. However, we have given them warning and the incident is recorded in our general diary. The decision on further digging the spot will be taken by administrative officials if required in future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/metal-pot-full-of-medieval-era-coins-recovered-in-ups-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/76077658.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Lockdown 3.0 was not that effective: Punjab Agricultural University survey||LUDHIANA: A survey of 750 respondents from over 22 states and union territories by Dr Surabhi Mahajan of department of apparel and textile science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) stated that the first and second phases of the lockdown — from March 25 to April 14 and April 14 to May 3 — have proved to be a right decision taken by the government to contain the spread of pandemic, supported by 96 and 98% respondents, respectively. However, the third phase of the lockdown, from May 4 to May 17, is considered right decision only by 76% respondents. The rest felt that prolonging the lockdown has resulted in economic instability in the country, increasing poverty and hunger among many people, including migrant labourers. A little less than half (46%) of the respondents of the survey also feel that the lockdown was a hasty decision taken by the government without any prior warning to people resulting in panic and problems for daily wage workers, students and industries. Mahajan said, “Though, the government made many policies and took stringent actions so that people follow the lockdown rigorously, but only 57% respondents felt lockdown was strictly followed by the masses. The remaining respondents were of the belief that a large section of the society violated the norms of lockdown because of their callous attitude and being ignorant about the severity of the spread of infection. Nearly 63% respondents stated that strict curfew could have been a better option than lockdown, as people in India do not cooperate voluntarily and can be controlled only through imposing fine and giving punishment. This is also reflected in response of only 60% respondents who felt that people affected with Covid-19 or doubtful for being affected with the virus restricted themselves to self-quarantine. The rest of the respondents stated that many people, including celebrities whom we see as our role models, did not follow the government advisory of quarantining themselves if they were suspected for being infected.” She further added, “The health workers, police and para-military personnel and other Covid-19 warriors have done remarkable job to fight against the pandemic during the lockdown according to 95% respondents and all of them showed anguish against the incidents of violence that happened with the corona warriors in different parts of the country.” There was a mixed response among people on whether the administration was able to keep adequate supply of essential communities during lockdown in India, as it was supported by only 41.1% respondents while 39.3% showed their disagreement to it and remaining 19.6 % respondents were not sure and were of the opinion that the supply of essential commodities to people varied from place to place and cannot be generalised. The survey concluded that the lockdown has been a tough period but overall, majority of the respondents were appreciative of the government’s decision taken for the welfare of the country men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-3-0-was-not-that-effective-pau-survey/articleshow/76077684.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana municipal corporation pulled up for not maintaining challan records||LUDHIANA: The subcommittee members pulled up the Bhileong branch officials for their careless attitude and negligence towards their duties in a meeting on Thursday. Despite several letters, the building branch officials did not produce the list of revised charges being imposed on buildings in city in all four zones, which invited wrath of committee members. Now, officials have ensured to provide the list by June 2. Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh and joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh took a meeting with sub committee members, including senior Congress councillor Jaiparkash, Mamta Ashu, Gagandeep Bhalla, Dilraj Singh and BJP councillor O P Ratra. When committee members demanded list, the officials could not produce the same. Councillor Ashu claimed that several discrepancies are there in building branch and that despite provision of online system, no challan records have been maintained since January. She said she has been asking the list since January, but officials are giving excuses for not submitting the same. She claimed that they will report this matter to local bodies department so that suitable action could be taken against the erring officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-pulled-up-for-not-maintaining-challan-records/articleshow/76077678.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Two more PGI chemists move Punjab and Haryana high court against licence fee||CHANDIGARH: Two more chemists of PGI have moved the Punjab and Haryana high court challenging the show-cause notice issued to them by the PGI for non-payment of licence fee for the month of March. Citing losses in business due to the lockdown, the petition has sought either complete waiver of licence fee since March 20 till the OPD starts functioning normally or refund of the security deposit, which runs into crores. The chemists, Vinod Kumar Arora, who has licence of a chemist shop at Emergency Ward, and Navjeet Singh, whose chemist shop is near Advanced Trauma Centre, have been issued show-cause notices by the PGI over non-payment of licence fee for March, which is Rs 1.74 crore and Rs 45 lakh, respectively. Meanwhile, the HC has maintained the interim order granting status quo on payment of monthly fee of Rs. 91,21,147 for the month of March by another chemist at the PGI. The matter would come up for hearing on June 10. Earlier this month, HC had granted status quo on a petition moved by Kuldip Singh Pardesi, who has the licence of a chemist shop at PGI. He had also challenged the show-cause notice issued by the PGI estate office over non-payment of fee for March. Petitioner counsel Rahul Bhargva had pleaded that between March 1 and March 16 this year, the revenue of the petitioner had declined to 50% and by March 19, the revenue was down to barely 20%. Later, since the New OPD Block was shut, there was no business at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-more-pgi-chemists-move-hc-against-licence-fee/articleshow/76079056.cms||Neha Sharma
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Govt scheme eases foster parents’ burden||RAJKOT: “After my son died, my daughter-in-law remarried. However, they left me with the responsibility of bringing up their two minor daughters. If it would not have been for the monthly assistance of Rs 6,000 from the government, I would have been left in the lurch having to look after my family as well as my two granddaughters,” said 70-year-old Gauri Parmar, who ekes a living running a tea kiosk. To me this Rs 6,000 means existence, especially now, at this time of crisis during the lockdown period, when I can’t run my tea kiosk or earn anything,” said Parmar, who claimed she heard about the state government’s ‘Palak Mata Pita Yojana,’ or foster parents scheme from a social worker who also helped her fill up the form and apply. “Under the foster parents scheme, the state government transfers Rs 3,000 every month into the beneficiary’s account in the name of the child. There are 202 such beneficiaries in Porbandar distric,” explained M K Mori, district social security officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/govt-scheme-eases-foster-parents-burden/articleshow/76079075.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Agra||Couple found hanging from fan in Vrindavan||Agra: A young unmarried couple who were in a relationship, were found hanging from a fan in Vrindavan’s Nagla Randal village on Wednesday night, in what appears to be a suicide pact between the two. The couple was identified as Tamanna (23) and Manjeet Kumar (25). The boy hailed from Haryana’s Hodal and was staying with his grandfather in Vrindavan, where he worked as an electrician. Police said the girl hailed from Vrindavan and was upset with her family’s attempt to arrange her marriage with an Agra youth, against her wishes. Circle officer (Sadar) Ramesh Chandra Tewari said the bodies have been sent for post mortem and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/couple-found-hanging-from-fan-in-vrindavan/articleshow/76077683.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bareilly||Metal pot full of medieval-era coins recovered in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri||Bareilly: A group of labourers digging earth for a brick kiln stumbled on a metal pot full of coins, believed to be of Mughal-era due to the Persian inscriptions, in Pangi Khurd village of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday. Soon a fist fight broke between the otherwise friendly workers and a bystander called informed police. A police team rushed to the spot after hearing about the discovery of a “treasure”. And the pot containing 40 coins was taken away from the labourers, who were by then exhausted after the fight over its ownership. Station house officer (SHO) of Sadar Kotwali, Ajay Mishra, said that police will deposit the coins in the treasury. The district administration will then contact Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) for further action. Mishra told TOI, “The metal pot was damaged due to rusting, and coins were also muddied. They seem to be of Mughal era as something was written in Persian language. Since the coins were ancient and could be valuable from historical point of view so we have deposited them in the district treasury and have informed district magistrate about the discovery. “Since all the coins were recovered, no offence was proven on any of the labourer so we have not filed FIR in this case. However, we have given them warning and the incident is recorded in our general diary. The decision on further digging the spot will be taken by administrative officials if required in future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/metal-pot-full-of-medieval-era-coins-recovered-in-ups-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/76077676.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Working to keep fatalities in Tamil Nadu down, says govt as 12 die in a day||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 12 deaths on Thursday, its highest single-day Covid-19 toll, and the number of fresh cases continued to rise with 827 reported — 117 of them migrants coming into the state by air and rail — taking the tally to 19,372. Chennai accounted for 599 of the fresh cases and its three neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 102. The state’s death toll was 145. Health minister C Vijayabaskar urged people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms and to “not politicise” the pandemic. Doctors and nurses in government hospitals are working hard to keep recoveries high and mortality low. The state has a mortality rate of 0.7% and a recovery rate that was more than 50% after 639 patients discharged on Thursday took the number of people cured to 10,584.He said, “In this sweltering heat, with no air-conditioners in hospitals doctors and nurses don thick PPEs and work for six to seven hours straight without drinking water or using the restroom.” The video of the wife of a police officer, who profusely thanked the doctors for saving her husband explains why the state has succeeded in keeping standards high, when some of developed countries like France and Italy are struggling with a fatality rate of 15% and 14% respectively, the minister said. “Doctors face a huge challenge when patients are referred in critical stage from a private hospital. These patients die with a few hours of admission when it is too late for any intervention,” he said. The state is ramping up human resources and medical infrastructure at hospitals to meet the surge predicted by scientists and public health researchers. The blood donated by some of the doctors who were infected after treating infected patients was used in the plasma therapy trial to treat seven patients at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital as a part of the ICMR’s clinical trail, he said. Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi said the patients are responding well to the therapy. “We have also randomised patients for the Solidarity trial that is testing the broad spectrum antiviral Remdesivir,” she said. So far, 936 passengers from Maharashtra, 27 from Gujarat, 26 from Karnataka, 19 from West Bengal, 17 from Delhi and 10 each from Kerala and Rajasthan have tested positive. Of the 12 deaths reported on Thursday, six patients died with 48 hours of admission. There youngest was a 36-year-old man and the oldest was a 78-year-old. At the end of the day, there were 8,676 patients still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/working-to-keep-fatalities-in-tn-down-says-govt-as-12-die-in-1-day/articleshow/76080121.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 patient, 50, dies while trying to flee isolation centre in Firozabad; kin say he was assaulted by medical staff||Agra: A 50-year-old Covid-19 patient died under suspicious circumstances while trying to escape from an isolation facility in Firozabad, even as his mother and daughter, who were also quarantined with him, alleged that he died due to physical assault by hospital staff and policemen. The family will never get to know how the man died. “Since Covid-19 infected patient’s corpse does not go for post-mortem, we assumed that distress patient died of heart attack and coronavirus infection. He has no major injury due to jump from first floor lintel,” said Dr Alok Kumar, chief medical superintendent of Firozabad district hospital where the incident happened. The Covid-19 patient was admitted to an isolation facility in the hospital along with his pregnant daughter and septuagenarian mother. While his daughter was brought there on May 18, the man was admitted on May 25. According to sources, the victim was kept on third floor isolation ward. On Wednesday night, the patient allegedly jumped out of the first floor window after a scuffle with the staff as he wanted to go out. The distressed patient was caught, but died more than seven hours later on Thursday morning. The CMS said, “The victim was distressed after testing coronavirus positive. On Wednesday night, he had a scuffle with medical staff of isolation ward as he wanted to leave. Later, he broke the aluminium grill of the third floor window and climbed down the pipe to the first floor, from where he jumped down and again assaulted the security guard with a metal rod.” “He was rescued about two hours later, as the medical staff was scared of him and police team reached to him after wearing PPE kit. Later, he was taken to L2 isolation facility located at Firozabad-Agra border where he died on Thursday morning,” said Dr Alok. However, the victim’s relative alleged that he was assaulted by medical staff and policemen. “My father died of physical assault and not of coronavirus. On Wednesday night, he was in distress and I had asked the doctor to sedate him so that he could calm down. But my father told me that he was been assaulted and locked inside another room,” his son alleged. The CMS also told TOI that a few days back, the victim’s pregnant daughter too got into a scuffle, while she was moved to a separate room after complaining of labour pain. Later, she was shifted back to common isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-patient-50-dies-while-trying-to-flee-isolation-centre-in-firozabad-kin-say-he-was-assaulted-by-medical-staff/articleshow/76077696.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Seven new coronavirus cases: Six from Bapu Dham, one from Sector 15 in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Seven new cases of coronavirus were reported in the city on Thursday, taking the tally to 289. They include six persons from Bapu Dham Colony and a 91-year-old woman from Sector 15 who was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali. This is the second case from Sector 15, while Bapu Dham’s count has touched 216. The active cases are 96. As per Chandigarh authorities, “The 91-year-old was admitted to Max Hospital, Mohali, for the treatment of a fracture. Her three family contacts and two community contacts are being sampled. The source of infection is unknown.” The first Covid-19 case from Sector 15 was reported on May 1, when a 67-year-old man tested positive. He was admitted to the Advanced Cardiac Centre, PGIMER, for myocardial infarction (heart attack). He was tested before intervention, as per protocol, and was found to be positive. The source of infection in this case, too, was not known. The six persons who tested positive in Bapu Dham belong to two households of the same building. They include an eight-year-old, a 16-year-old, a 17-year-old, a 53-year-old, all males, and two girls — a 12-year-old and a 15-year-old. They are community contacts of an already positive case of the same locality. Meanwhile, two patients recovered from the disease and were discharged on Thursday. They include a 24-year-old staffer of Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and a 35-year-old resident of Sector 7. Both were discharged from GMH-16. With this, the count of cured patients in UT stands at 189. As many as 4,467 persons have been sampled in the city to date, of which 4,138 tested negative and 289 positive. Result of 39 cases is awaited. Four deaths have been reported in the city so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-new-cases-6-from-bapu-dham-1-from-sec-15/articleshow/76079067.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Repeal late fee, educationists tell Panjab University||LUDHIANA: The Panjab Educationists Forum have appealed to the vice-chancellor and members of the Panjab University (PU) Syndicate to waive off late fee charges to thousands of regular and private candidates who could not fill the examination forms on account of sudden and prolonged lockdown this year. Principal Tarsem Bahia chairman of the forum said it was sad that on the one hand the central and the state government claim to be giving relief packages to various sections of the society and on the other hand, the PU, which is funded both by the central and the state government, making money out of the misery of the students and their parents. Bahia said the move was all the more misplaced and condemnable as conduct of examinations and their schedule was still uncertain and the situation remained fluid and critical to date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/repeal-late-fee-educationists-tell-pu/articleshow/76077693.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Agra||Over 12 cops quarantined after inmate of temporary prison tests positive for Covid-19 in Mathura||Agra: At least 12 police personnel in Mathura were quarantined on Thursday after an inmate lodged at a temporary prison tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday night. According to health department officials, as many as 14 policemen, including the station house in-charge and three sub-inspectors, have been home quarantined, but none of them have so far shown any symptoms. Talking to TOI, superintendent of police (city) AK Meena said their samples are being collected for test. Health officials said that till now 74 people have tested positive for the disease in the district and five have died. So far, 44 patients have recovered and there are 25 active cases at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-12-cops-quarantined-after-inmate-of-temporary-prison-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-mathura/articleshow/76077702.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||NTCA for fortifying corridors; WII open to discuss all plans||Nagpur: The idea of translocating 50 tigers or resorting to neutering as another step to keep growing numbers under control doesn’t seem to have augured well with the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).Talking to TOI, Anup Kumar Nayak, member-secretary of NTCA, said, “Maharashtra government and forest department should focus on strengthening corridors. No doubt, the tiger numbers are increasing but we need to think beyond tranquillizing and capturing them.” Even as the proposal of the state forest department to translocate 50 tigers from Chandrapur and neuter some 20 tigers has stirred up a debate, more reactions have been pouring in with the TOI on Thursday.Nayak said, “In January 2020, PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar had made a brief presentation on the issue before the governing council in Delhi, but it was neither discussed nor approved. We need to mitigate conflict by continuously interacting with people.”Eastern Vidarbha Landscape (EVL) is an important tiger conservation unit of Central India. The landscape well establishes with adjoining states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. “Instead of capturing tigers, there is need to protect and conserve some remaining functional corridors in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) landscape like Khadsangi-Umred-Karhandla-Navegaon-Nagzira & Ghodazari-Nagbhid-Paoni-Nagzira towards north; Bramhapuri-Wadsa-Gadchiroli & Kanhargaon-Allapalli-Pranhita-Indravati towards east and Junona-Kanhargaon-Kawal towards south,” Nayak felt.After a series of TOI reports on the issue, there were natural reactions that the ideas might have been suggested by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) working with Maharashtra forest department on long-term tiger monitoring projects.However, WII scientist Bilal Habib said, “The idea has not been counselled, but at the same time human-animal conflict is a challenging issue which needs to be managed. The proposal by the state government needs to be discussed and evaluated and only after that line of action has to be decided,” he said. The forest department should be appreciated for their open mind for bold discussion in this direction.Habib reiterated, “Lifting tigers from one place to another is not a solution. We need to formulate area-specific strategies by categorizing them like PAs, buffer-sink and areas apart from these both, where conflict probability can be very high.”“Take for example CSTPS (Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station), where tigers are breeding due to prosopis. Western Coalfields Limited and the CSTPS need to remove these shrubs. Shifting tigers from here is a temporary solution. We need to think on the proposal and activism won’t help conservation,” Habib said.Nitin Desai, Central India director of Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), feels, “Whether it is shifting 50 tigers or neutering some individuals to bring down population growth, both ideas should not be dismissed summarily.”Desai said the ideas should be worked upon so that a plan is made that is scientific and legally compliant. The solution should also encompass measures so that dispersal of tigers from Tadoba in future is not affected. There is no doubt situation in Chandrapur is volatile as far as man-animal conflict is concerned and a solution is long overdue.“Difficult times call for drastic measures. Already, public sentiment in the area is hostile to tigers and it would get worse with every attack in future. This is a unique problem in Chandrapur district and it would be unwise to apply general rules here,” said Desai.“It is good that wildlife managers have started thinking in this direction. People opposing such ideas are probably unaware of the sufferings of scores of family members of the attack victims,” Desai stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ntca-for-fortifying-corridors-wii-open-to-discuss-all-plans/articleshow/76079107.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: GH matron dies, dean denies coronavirus infection||CHENNAI: A 58-year-old matron of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here who was under treatment in one of its Covid-19 blocks died on Wednesday, but the dean said she did not have the viral infection. John Mary Pracilla’s case sheet recorded that she was Covid-19 positive; the hospital declared that a cardio-respiratory arrest following chronic kidney failure and uncontrolled diabetes caused her death. Her name did not figure in the list of Covid-19 deaths. Her colleagues, who paid last respects to her at the hospital, said they did not visit her in the last three days as they were told she was in the isolation block being treated for Covid-19. Hours after her death, hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi said the mention of Covid-19 on her case sheet was a mistake. Doctors’ bodies and nurses’ associations said they were “upset” with the hospital management’s attempt to “cover up” death of their own staff, who was one of the frontline workers. Dr K Senthil, Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president said, “If she has had health issues, she should have been asked to stay away from ward duty.” “The duty doctors and dean should own up for wrong entries in the case sheets. If this is the standard of care in the state’s premier hospital, then it is extremely unfortunate,” he said. Pracilla was admitted to the hospital on May 24 and treated as “dangerously ill patient” on the third floor of the rheumatology block. “That block has eight floors. Not all patients in the block are Covid-19 positive. She was anyway in an isolation room,” Dr Jayanthi said. As soon as the matron was brought into hospital with breathlessness, the doctors suspected Covid-19, said Dr Jayanthi. “We even started her on the drugs meant for the viral infection as mentioned in the case sheet. But once the test returned negative, we did not continue with the drug,” she said. The hospital, she said, would constitute an inquiry to find why there was wrong entry in her case sheet. “She did respond well to the first dose of Covid-19 medications. She was given a drug that costs Rs50,000. We gave her high flow oxygen and her respiratory symptoms improved. But her deteriorated very quickly this morning. Duty doctors tried but could not resuscitate her,” said one of the duty nurses. Some staff members said civic authorities visited her residence in Nanganallur for initiating containment measures, but officials at the Greater Chennai Corporation refused to confirm. The ICMR guidelines ask doctors to declare Covid deaths and probable Covid deaths along with a list of comorbidities, but Pracilla's death declaration had neither.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gh-matron-dies-dean-denies-virus-infection/articleshow/76080139.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Open gyms, we’ll make it safe for clients, say owners, managers||LUDHIANA: As the lockdown is relaxed in the city and everything is allowed to function within a time frame, the gym owners of the city also insist that gyms should be opened. The gyms have been closed for more than two months and the owners said they have difficulty in clearing the salaries, electricity bills and rents, without any business. Jasdeep Singh, a gym owner from Krishna Nagar, said, “Opening the gym is an easy task, but maintaining hygiene and proper sanitisation is the part where we have to work carefully. I have already bought sanitiser kits and the gym is fully sanitised. Our clients safety is our first priority.” According to Sahil Sharma, who manages a gym in Rishi Nagar, this has to be a 50-50 effort from both gym management and the clients. “I feel its is the duty of both the sides to maintain proper hygiene inside the gyms. We will not open the sauna room and steam room for the clients as it will break the social distancing rule, which is not safe. Trainers and other gym staff will be allowed only with masks and daily temperature checks will be conducted as well as sanitisation,” added Sahil. Gagandeep Kaur, a gym manager from Malhar Cinema Road, it is important that the authorities open up gyms, as exercise will boost up immunity. “I suggest the gyms should be opened as quickly as possible. As a gym manager, I can guarantee we will make a set of rules, which will help us and clients to feel safe. We will give a particular time to clients. Only five to 10 clients will be allowed in the gym at a time and gyms will be sanitised often.” Harshi Grewal, Fitness enthusiast, BRS Nagar Gyms should be opened with precautions like not more than 5-8 members at a particular time, depending upon the size of the gym. Time slots should be given to every member. Old-aged members should be provided with online training only. No extra worker should be present when members workout, cleaning staff should have different timings to do their jobs. Harry Mittal, Gym enthusiastic, Basant Avenue There should be a sink with soap so you can wash your hands, or a hand-sanitiser station as soon as you walk in the door. Sign-in procedures should not require touch, and gym employees should stand behind sneeze guards or be wearing face masks. The gym space itself should be plentifully stocked with spray bottles containing disinfectant. Bring your own water bottle to avoid using drinking fountains. It would be advisable, too, to carry several clean towels. I would keep one on my left shoulder to wipe sweat from my hands and face, so I am not touching my face all the time, and the other to cover the weight bench or yoga mat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/open-gyms-well-make-it-safe-for-clients-say-owners-managers/articleshow/76077709.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: NRI, three Mumbai returnees test coronavirus positive||MOHALI: Four novel coronavirus cases were reported in Mohali on Thursday. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “The four include a 32-year-old non-resident Indian from the USA, a 32-year-old man of Sector 67, a 30-year-old Phase X resident and a 29-year-old woman of Zirakpur. Except the NRI, the three others are under home quarantine. They had arrived from Mumbai. The health department will take the samples of their family members on Friday.” “After landing at Delhi from the USA, the NRI, a resident of Humayun Nagar in Derabassi, reached Mohali by road on May 20. Since then, he was quarantined at Meritorious School here,” the civil surgeon added. With this, the positive cases in the district so far have increased to 110, including five active ones. The virus has claimed three lives to date. The civil surgeon said, “Before this, on May 26, a 29-year-old woman of Adarsh Nagar, Nayagaon, had tested positive. Her samples were taken after she gave birth at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, on May 23. The first death in Tricity, of a 65-year-old man, due to Covid-19 was also reported from Adarsh Nagar.” Mohali has the recovery rate of 92.7% and fatality rate of 2.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nri-3-mumbai-returnees-test-positive/articleshow/76079090.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Agra||Mughal-era stone sugar mill unearthed by AMU team||Agra: The archaeology section of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has excavated a “stone sugarcane crusher or mill” belonging to the late medieval period. According to officials, the huge stone object was unearthed during excavation of agricultural land in Dhanipur village. Prof Manvendra Kumar Pundhir of AMU’s history department told TOI, “The stone object appeared to be a stone sugar mill or a sugarcane crusher. The length of the discovered object is approx. 3.75 metres and its diameter is 2.6 metres. During the medieval period, sugarcane crushers were made of two parts — mortar and pestle.” “Indians knew extracting sugarcane juice to make jaggery and sugar since ancient times. It involved some technology consisting of technical devices,” said Pundhir. Sugar industry progressed greatly during medieval India. Irfan Habib, professor emeritus, AMU, has written in his Economic History of Medieval India (1200–1500), “Sugar mills appeared in India shortly before the Mughal era. Evidence for the use of a draw bar for sugar-milling appears at Delhi in 1540, but may also date back earlier, and was mainly used in the northern Indian subcontinent. Geared sugar rolling mills first appeared in Mughal India, using the principle of rollers as well as worm gearing, by the 17th century.” Abul Fazl in his Ain-e-Akbari describes various techniques used in Mughal-era karkhanas (workshops). One of them was gearmechanism, which enabled the conversion of circular motion in vertical and was used in water lifting devices, sugarcane industry, oil pressing industry etc. In another instance, Fazl calculated that white sugar cost about three times the price of rice and the price of brown sugar was almost the equivalent. This was much lower as compared to sugar prices at the time in west Asia and Europe. Sugar making was mainly spread in Gangetic doab, Bengal, Gujarat and Punjab. Arab entrepreneurs adopted sugar production techniques from India which eventually reached Europe too. In fact, the English word sugar comes from the French sucre, Latin seachrum, Arabic sukkar, Persian schkar, which in turn comes from Sanskrit sharkara. Among many other things, Shah Jahan’s recipe book Nuskhah-yi Shah Jahani has an interesting account of how the world’s largest sugar lump was produced once in the imperial kitchen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mughal-era-stone-sugar-mill-unearthed-by-amu-team/articleshow/76077698.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 1,000 migrants evacuated from Bapu Dham||CHANDIGARH: As part of the exercise to evacuate migrants from Bapu Dham colony in Sector 26, the Chandigarh administration on Thursday sent approximately 1,000 of them to their native places. With this, over 75% migrants have been moved out of the colony, which has been the hotspot of Covid-19 in the city. Of these 1,000 migrants, around 150 were from Bihar and the rest from Uttar Pradesh. They boarded trains from Chandigarh railway station after medical screening. “A major chunk of migrants was from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. We sent them to their native places while adhering to the Covid-19 travel protocol. The train, which left for Gonda district on Thursday, had people from Gonda, Pratapgarh, Amethi and a few other districts falling on the route. Now, the number of remaining migrants in the colony is not much and we are planning to evacuate them as well,” said a senior officer of the UT administration involved in the process. “We have not touched the containment zone part of the area and all those sent were from other parts of the colony not affected by Covid-19. Since these migrants were largely labourers and vendors working as daily wagers, they were struggling hard to run their livelihood, especially because entire Bapu Dham is sealed. So, it was a major relief for them,” he added. As per information, after evacuating from the colony, all registered migrants are being taken directly to Sector 26-based engineering college for medical test, and from there they are taken to the railway station in CTU buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1000-migrants-evacuated-from-bapu-dham/articleshow/76079098.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP to make it easier for industries to acquire land||LUCKNOW: After amending labour laws, the UP government has decided to ensure immediate availability of land to those who want to set up industries in the state. On Thursday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath issued directions for amending the revenue code which will make it easier to acquire land in the state. For instance, it will now be possible to lease agricultural land for industrial units and industrial parks. The Land Acquisition Act of 2013 will also be amended to simplify the procedure for acquiring land within distance of one km on either side of an expressway. This will also provide for additional means of revenue generation for industrial development authorities, said an official. The government will be developing an electronic city near the Jewar International Airport for which a large land parcel will be acquired. “At a meeting between the CM and key departments on Thursday to review the process for expanding land bank, it was decided to auction the land of closed public sector units. A legal verification for this land will have to be carried out,” said an official who was part of the meeting. If a revenue village comes under an industrial development authority, it has been decided that the public land in these gram sabhas be vested with the respective authority. Under the Industrial Development Zone Act, allotment of a plot is cancelled if a unit is not set up there after a stipulated period of time. On Thursday it was decided to implement this provision retrospectively as well. Meanwhile, it has also been decided that land of closed units under the Industrial Development Department and plots allotted to closed units of other departments such as sugar mills and Central government undertakings will be acquired for the land bank. The government is also going to set up a modern integrated industrial township with mixed land use. The revenue department has been directed to immediately delegate rights for the early disposal of proposals received from industrial units for reclamation of land and exchange of land. The official said that a decision to monetise expressways being operated by UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority was also taken on Thursday. “There are some major works in progress like the Purvanchal Expressway and Bundelkhand Expressway. In order to generate financial resources for these, it has been decided to develop land banks along the expressways. Other industrial development authorities have also been asked to look at similar options for generating revenue,” the official said. Meanwhile, to ensure smooth operations and proper coordination between various departments, the revenue department has been instructed to fill all posts of deputations to industrial development authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-make-it-easier-for-industries-to-acquire-land/articleshow/76080712.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man arrested for strangling wife over cooking food||RAJKOT: The man who had accused his brother-in-law of murdering his wife turned out to be the murder in Khambhalia of Devbhoomi Dwarka. The accused Sunil Pandavi (33) was arrested on Thursday. Investigation revealed that Sunil allegedly strangled his wife Meera over cooking food. Sunil had alleged that his brother-in-law Dashrath Guliya had strangled his wife Meera Pandavi (30). Sunil alleged that Meera and Guliya had a financial dispute, subsequent to which Guliya killed her at their residence on Jadeshwer Road on May 25. “When we questioned Guliya, he said that on the day of the crime, he was at work. On cross checking his statement, it was found that Guliya had indeed gone for work and that he was not present at the crime spot,” said P A Dekivadia, inspector with Khambhalia police station. It was then that the cops' needle of suspicion was pointed towards Sunil. “We then detained Sunil and interrogated him, during which he broke down and confessed to killing Meera. He said that he had a dispute with her over food. While Meera wanted him to buy food from outside, Sunil insisted that she cook food at home,” added Dekivadia. Sunil had first allegedly thrown hot water over Meera and then had strangled her with a cloth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-strangling-wife-over-cooking-food/articleshow/76079114.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Agra||Two AMU students booked by Aligarh police||AGRA: Two students of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) were booked by police for allegedly posting something “inappropriate” on social media on the occasion of Eid. The duo have been booked under sections 153A (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion) and 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of IPC, and Section 66D of the IT Act. Confirming this, spokesperson of the varsity, Shafey Kidwai, said strict action will be taken against them as per university rules. In their Facebook post, the students had written, “Eid means happiness and happiness is Pak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-amu-students-booked-by-aligarh-police/articleshow/76077714.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Agra||Two Covid-19 deaths in Agra, 85-yr-old passes away in Meerut||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: Two Covid-19 deaths were reported in Agra on Thursday. A 76-year-old man of Malpura and 57-year-old woman of Ravindra colony passed away. Both the individuals were suffering from multiple health issues. So far, 38 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Agra district. Also, an 85-year-old man passed away in Meerut, taking the Covid death toll in the district to 25. In Agra, at least seven new Covid-19 cases surfaced till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 882, while Meerut reported two fresh cases, taking its tally to 401,which included one found in Kanpur. Sambhal recorded six new cases, taking the district tally to 84. All the fresh cases are migrant labourers who recently returned from Delhi, Ahmedabad and Tamil Nadu, according to Sambhal CMO Dr Amita Singh. "A 14-year-old boy is among the positive cases here,” Singh said. And of the 84 cases so far, 33 are active while 51 have recovered and discharged. The new cases in Agra district were four patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), a patient suffering from chest pain and vomiting at SN Medical College, an ICU patient of a private hospital and a 32-year-old businessman. Four patients were also discharged. Out of the 882 cases reported in Agra district, 87.85% have recovered and discharged - and there are 70 active ones. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 774 people have been discharged.” Meerut's district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, "As many as two people tested positive in Meerut on Thursday. While one is a 52-year-old vegetable seller from Sector 2 of Shastri Nagar, another is a 58-year-old woman from Kidwai Nagar. Also, an 85-year-old man from Brahmpuri died at LLRM Medical College, taking the death toll to 25. He was a patient of hypertension and bilateral pneumonia." Five people, including two brothers, were found infected in Bijnor district. They are Mumbai returnee migrant labourers. Bijnor's CMO Vijay Yadav said, “Five people were found infected, taking the tally to 88. Out of them, there are 40 active cases.” Six migrants, from other states, tested positive in Mainpuri, taking the tally to 31, which includes two deaths in the district. As of now, 17 patients, including six migrants, are admitted at hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-covid-19-deaths-in-agra-85-yr-old-passes-away-in-meerut/articleshow/76077717.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Top cop who never reported sick lays down the baton||Nagpur: Joint CP Ravindra Kadam, an officer of the rank of special inspector general of police (IGP), who completed 60 years of age this month, would be among those rare officers in Maharashtra to retire without ever availing any sick leave in his career spanning 37 years and four months.Kadam, a gold medalist in Entomology (toxicology), had joined the police force in 1983 at the age of 22 as a deputy superintendent of police. Son of a labour court judge, Kadam’s career was tough from start as his first posting as sub-divisional police officer was at highly sensitive Malegaon. Considered as one of cuntry’s most insightful officers as far as Maoist insurgency goes, Kadam has spent at least two decades in tackling the problem in Maharashtra. After his stint as addl deputy commissioner in intelligence in Gadchiroli region, he had returned as Addl SP in the Maoist-affected district in 1993. In 2013, Kadam hit the headlines as DIG Gadchiroli after picking up Delhi University professor GN Saibaba for his Maoist links from latter’s Delhi home triggering a storm. An amicable Kadam, also an amateur tabla player, is known for his powerful presentations on Maoist insurgency and possible solutions for which he has been repeatedly appreciated by the central government. In 2018, Kadam gave Indian security forces and intelligence agency a new concept of ‘Urban Naxals’ by targeting Maoists’ major city-based front networks. He arrested some top intellectuals across the country including RTM Nagpur university’s ex-professor Soma Sen, activist lawyer Surendra Gadling and hordes of others during his probe of Bhima Koregaon unrest as Joint CP Pune. Even the first major encounter of the state in Gadchiroli was led by Kadam in October 1989 where he neutralized Chamorshi dalam commander Santosh Anna from whom an AK-47 was seized. It was the first seizure of AK-47 from Maoists. The uniqueness of the encounter of Santosh Anna was that Kadam had accomplished it as an addl deputy commissioner for intelligence for Gadchiroli. “A traffic constable had arrested a Maoist while he was getting off from a bus in civil dress in Gadchiroli. We had traced out Santosh Anna following his interrogation,” said Kadam. “We were following some footprints near a lake where Santosh was supposed to come. As we spotted each other from close range, some sound and hot air just zoomed past my ear even before I realized what Santosh was upto. I could not even move my head when the bullet went past,” said Kadam. “We too had to fire. Even after getting hit, Santosh had fled inside the forests. He was with AK-47 and had to be neutralized or else some of us would have got martyred,” he said. Challenging situations and confrontations with critical issues were never new in Kadam’s career whether it was arresting former Shiv Sena Supremo Balasaheb Thackarey while being posted as Zonal DCP in Mumbai in 1999 or the ugly stampede episode of 1994 where 115 people of Gowari community were killed. During Gowari episode, Kadam was Zonal DCP in Nagpur. In 2010, Kadam was promoted as DIG in the State Anti-Terrorist Squad during which he also led the probe of the German Bakery blast in which the mastermind Himayat Baig was later arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/top-cop-who-never-reported-sick-lays-down-the-baton/articleshow/76079112.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Body building supplements may become another addiction||Corona lockdown has witnessed the closure of all kinds of body building gyms/centres, which many a youth earlier often regularly visited to keep fit and enhance their six-pack abs. Stadiums and sports grounds too are not open for practice and training sessions for athletes and sportspersons are put on hold. Youth is desperate to restart their activities. Incidentally, the closure of such facilities for the youth have particularly left the parents a worried lot as, in the absence of regular gyms to train, their wards are taking heavy doses of nutrition supplements for keeping their muscles and body in shape. These supplements are easily available in online shops also. Nature of muscle building supplements Although the chemical composition of body muscle structure and ingredients of muscle enhancing nutrients are specialised areas, yet it is common knowledge that ‘proteins’ and ‘steroids’ are the basic ingredients in these supplements. Many sportsmen also take supplements to enhancement their stamina, unmindful of bans placed by National Anti Doping Agency (Nada) under ministry of youth affairs and sports. Similar bans are also prevalent in other countries in competitive sports. Nada cautions the sportspersons about how the banned substances can do great harm to overall health. Availability of supplements These muscle enhancing supplements, which are available in gyms over the counters, are normally available at medical shops as medical specialists do not prescribe them for common ailments. Medical supplements such as vitamin B,C,D and calcium tablets are often prescribed as per individual requirements by doctor. So muscle enhancing supplements are different from these six-pack abs enhancing proteins. Therefore, it becomes an urgency to regulate the sale, both over the counter in gyms as well as of online stores so that such supplements do not promote another kind of addiction in youth. Gym owners’ accountability should be also defined clearly. Unfortunately, there is neither any organisation nor any formalised effort to guide non sportspersons who visit such gyms — which are latterly termed as body muscle enhancing shops and, hence, the worry of parents is justified. Moreover, in our country research work on such supplements is lacking and there is no testing of such health supplements. Role of qualified nutritionists: It should be made mandatory for gyms to ask for prescription from a qualified practitioner who also must rely on certain parameters of international standards. Health authorities even at district level must keep any eye on such body building gyms so that these do not promote another kind of addiction in youth in the guise of body muscle enhancing supplements. (Writer is a social activist and health enthusiast)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/body-building-supplements-may-become-another-addiction/articleshow/76077719.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 35 Covid deaths in 10 days, spurt leaves doctors clueless||HYDERABAD: A sudden jump in Covid-19 deaths in the state — 35 casualties in 10 days (from May 18 to 28) — has left doctors scrambling for answers. These 35 deaths account for more than half of the Covid-19 deaths reported in Telangana till date (67 total deaths). Experts treating Covid-19 patients say that the severity of the virus has increased over the past few days. This might be indicative of an increased virulence or even a mutation. In many cases, a sudden deterioration in the condition — going from stable to death — in one day or a few hours has been noticed. For instance, an elderly woman who had pneumonia and was undergoing treatment suddenly developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and succumbed while on a ventilator support within four hours of developing the complication. “Depending on the patient’s immunity levels, even an asymptomatic patient might suddenly deteriorate from being normal to reaching ARDS and succumb within 30-48 hours. We are even seeing this in asymptomatic patients. There is no clear understanding on why it is happening. It could be anything, even a mutation of the novel coronavirus. It has to be studied,” said a senior doctor on Covid-19 duty at Gandhi Hospital. Dr Mahaboob Khan, superintendent of Chest Hospital, said on one hand, there are patients who are deteriorating very quickly, on the other there are others who are asymptomatic and became stable even though they have been Covid-19 positive for 30-40 days. “We are unable to explain this. The impact on a particular patient depends on the individual immunity, health status and the viral load. Most of the deaths are patients with comorbidities. Going by the kind of cases we are seeing of late, it can be said that the severity and virulence of the virus has increased,” he said. Other experts believe that the delay in testing could be another reason for increase in viral load among patients, which is ultimately leading to deaths. “There is a need to change the testing system. Currently, we are testing only symptomatic patients. Even patients who are coming from abroad are tested after seven days or 14 days if asymptomatic, which means that asymptomatic patients with a viral load of one lakh might see a jump in the load by the time he/she turns symptomatic,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-sees-35-covid-19-deaths-in-10-days-spurt-leaves-docs-clueless/articleshow/76080227.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 29, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi SP wants cops in high-risk areas to undergo Covid-19 test||BELAGAVI: In the wake of five constables from Hassan deployed for duty on the Maharashtra checkpost testing positive for novel coronavirus, Belagavi superintendent of police said that cops in the district would have to undergo tests for Covid-19 sooner than later. SP Laxman Nimbargi said that nearly 2,800 policemen deployed on Covid-19 duty would be tested for the novel coronavirus. Nimbargi said that he had written to Belagavi deputy commissioner SB Bommanahalli requesting mass testing for all cops. In his letter to the DC, the SP has indicated that Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai was thinking along the same lines to prevent the possibility of an outbreak among the entire force. Nimbargi told TOI that he was awaiting a detailed report on the travel history of the five cops from Hassan who had been conformed infected. “The constables are discharging duties in high-risk areas such as Koganoli, Telasanga and Khanapur where there are tens of thousands of migrant workers who have returned to the state. “Moreover, police from Belagavi have also been deployed to neighbouring districts such as Haveri, Gadag, etc. They are at the risk of contracting the infection and it would be ideal to have all of them tested for Covid-19,” Nimbargi added. Belagavi district health officer Shashikant Muniyal said that the SP’s letter had been received at his office, and they were ready and prepared to work in containment zones. “However, the guidelines over testing having changed, it will be difficult to test all police personnel,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-sp-wants-cops-in-high-risk-areas-to-undergo-covid-test/articleshow/76078632.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Maharashtra returnees send coastal districts Covid-19 graph northwards||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Covid-19 graph of the two coastal districts continued to zoom with Udupi and Dakshina Kannada accounting for 53 of the 115 cases that Karnataka reported on Thursday. Udupi recorded 29 of the 53 new cases with majority of them being people who entered the district from Maharashtra. The case was no different in DK with all 24 cases being people who came from Mumbai. Minister S Suresh Kumar said the situation was all but expected once the government decided to allow people settled in other states to return. He allayed concerns over community transmission. Pankaj Pandey, commissioner, department of health and family welfare, said the testing laboratories in two coastal districts are doing their best to handle the swabs they are receiving. There are atleast six ICMR approved laboratories in the two districts and there was a delay in receiving approval for the lab in Manipal which has led to little delay in getting the samples from Udupi tested, he said. Active cases in Udupi now standing at149 and Dakshina Kannada at 63. Amidst the gloom that galloping positive cases brought, a bright spot was the discharge of 10 patients from Dakshina Kannada district during the day. Total number of patients discharged from the district so far is 39. Krishna Mutt won’t open on June 1 Ishapriya Tirtha swami, junior seer of paryaya Admar Mutt said even though the state government has decided to reopen temples under the muzrai department from June 1, Krishna Mutt will not open for devotees up to June 15. However, Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala and Sri Kshetra Gokarnanatha have already announced their intent to open the temples for devotees from June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/maharashtra-returnees-send-coastal-districts-covid-graph-northwards/articleshow/76078671.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Four-day online litfest held||LUDHIANA: The Soultalk Literature Society and Creative Adda organised a series of online events under the Literature Live Carnival 2020 from May 22-25. The aim was to possess and propagate a positive energy in the difficult times of corona via music and literature and help people cope up with the depressing times. The events introduced many faces of the film and literature genres. Author Divya Prakash Dubey, the Gangs of Wasseypur fame Satyakam Anand, and other well-known poets of the country, including Chirag Jain, Shariq Kafi, Shakil Jamali, Shaqil Azmi, Varun Anand, Amardeep Singh, Rashmi Varna, Karanjeet Singh, Mussavir Firozpuri and many others talked about their work. The festival was inaugurated with a speech by Sayyad Sayosh Aasif. Followed by a Kavitri Sammelan, Yuva Mushayara, which remained the highlights of day one. The second day of the festival saw the grand mushayra along with a talk on the social issues. The third day had a session with female poets and a session on Urdu poetry. The last day witnessed conversations about the important concerns of literature, followed by musical event. Ashish Dwivedi, the founder of The Soultalk said the objective of such events is to motivate and promote new artists and help them network with others and promote mutual learnings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-day-oline-litfest-held/articleshow/76077737.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vadodara||Karelibaug cop, four of a family among 28 more positive cases||VADODARA: A police officer from the Karelibaug police station and four members of a family residing in Akota were amongst the 28 new Covid-19 cases reported in Vadodara since Wednesday evening. With these fresh cases the total number of cases in the city rose to 961 in the city. The police sub-inspector from the Karelibaug police station who tested positive was asymptomatic and has been quarantined at home. It is believed that he may have contacted the disease while on duty. Those in contact with him are being identified and necessary precautions will be taken. Four members of the family from Akota that tested positive include two men, a woman and a child. Sources said that the source of the infection of the family is not known yet. A colleague of a man from Gotri who had been tested positive earlier also tested positive. A man from Sayajipura on the outskirts of the city also tested positive. The man is a labour working in the wholesale vegetable and fruit market of the Agriculture Produce and Marketing Committee. A woman from Gotri area tested positive after her samples were collected before an orthopaedic surgery. The fresh cases included six from the eastern parts of the city, five from the western zone, 13 form north zone and two from the south zone. One case each was reported from Vadodara district outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits and from Ahmedabad. Eighteen persons were discharged in the city on Thursday. These included two from the SSG Hospital and 16 from home isolation. The total number of Covid-19 cases discharged in the city now stands at 548. As many as 371 persons still remain under treatment in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/karelibaug-cop-four-of-a-family-among-28-more-positive-cases/articleshow/76076937.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Garbage scam: NMC clean chit to BVG||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday gave a clean chit to BVG India — one of the door-to-door garbage collection agencies — facing allegations of mixing mud to increase weight of garbage. Shiv Sena’s city coordinator Nitin Tiwari had alleged that BVG had excavated mud from the parking space allotted to it in Bhandewadi and mixed it with garbage collected from residences in zone six and 10. In his inquiry report submitted to the municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradip Dasarwar mentioned that he had checked the Google map and images of drone cameras and found that the dug up portion in BVG’s parking area existed before the company took over the operations in the city in November 2019. BVG collects garbage from Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Lakadganj, Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zones. Tiwari had alleged that the company was increasing the weight of waste by mixing soil as garbage collection had dropped during the lockdown. Along with Tiwari, Dr Dasarwar on May 24 visited the parking space allotted to BVG India and conducted a spot panchnama. “Earlier, on August 28, 2019, entire area was surveyed by a drone camera. In the footage taken then, photos of the pit mentioned by the complainant were examined. We found that the pit existed before the commencement of the BVG”s work. Therefore, the allegations made by the complainant do not appear to be true,” Dr Dasarwar stated in a press communique. As a preventive measure, Dr Dasarwar said vigilance at weighing machines at Bhandewadi dumping yard has been increased and the NMC has also deployed two nuisance detection squad personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-scam-nmc-clean-chit-to-bvg/articleshow/76079123.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 149 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 3,185||PATNA: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 3,185 in the state on Thursday with 149 people testing positive, including 12 in Patna district. The total number of positive cases now stands at 2,135 while 1,050 patients have recovered and 15 have died so far apart from the suicide death of a coronavirus patient. According to Bhojpur district public relations officer Rashmi Chaudhary, a Covid-19 related death was also reported from the district, but there was no official confirmation from the state health department. As per information shared by the state health department, the largest number of cases was reported from Gaya on Thursday with 12 people testing positive for the virus. Other districts which reported significant number cases are Nawada with 10 positive cases, Purnia with eight, Khagaria and Bhagalpur with five cases each and Siwan with four cases. Two new cases reported from Patna, included a 25-year-old Digha man and a 14-year-old boy from Barh. According to a press release shared by the state health society, 2,041 migrants who have returned after May 3 have tested positive for the virus with 520 of them having returned from Maharashtra, followed by 477 from Delhi and 313 from Gujarat. The SHS further stated that 70,275 samples have been tested in Bihar so far. Patna district has so far the highest number of cases with 245 people testing positive for Covid-19. There have been two deaths and 72 people have recovered so far. The second highest figure is from Rohtas with 201 people testing positive for the virus, of which one has died and 68 have recovered. Madhubani has the third highest cases with 176 people testing positive, of which 23 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-149-new-covid-cases-tally-rises-to-3185/articleshow/76076828.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Palanpur school breaks rules, notified||PALANPUR: The district primary education officer (DPEO) of Banaskantha has issued notice to a private school in Palanpur for alleged non-compliance to government circular and violation of lockdown orders. The Shriram High School had called students seeking admission for the new academic year to the campus for interview on Thursday, said DPEO Banaskantha J P Prajapati. “We have sought clarification from the school on for holding interviews for admissions. The schools in the district have been directed not to hold interviews for new admissions,” said Prajapati. He added that action was initiated following a complaint received by his office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/palanpur-school-breaks-rules-notified/articleshow/76079161.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Feeling like free birds, chirp residents of sectors 52, 38||CHANDIGARH: “Earlier we were caged like animals and now we feel like free birds.” These were the general feelings of the residents of Sector 38-A EWS Colony and Sector 52 Rehabilitation Colony. They were celebrating after the UT administration removed the containment-zone tag from Sector 38 on Wednesday and Sector 52 on Thursday. Among the denotified zones, Sector 52 has 46 houses with 250 persons and EWS Colony in Sector 38 had the maximum affected population of 1,200 living in 250 houses. In both the areas, the SDMs concerned reached with their teams and ordered opening of barricades. In Sector 52, the residents banged utensils and clapped to express their happiness. Sonu, a resident of Sector 38 EWS Colony, said they were breathing in fresh air. They feel they have rights equal to other city residents. He said they suffered a lot, financially and mentally, during these days. Echoing similar views, another resident of the colony, Ram Kumar, said now they would be able to move out and earn. “Children are also happy, as they can now play with their friends after following proper social distancing,” he added. Hari Prakash, a resident of Sector 52 Rehabilitation Colony, said, “There was cheeriness in our colony when the SDM reached and ordered opening of barricades. From Friday, my father and I will join our duties. We will have to leave all bad memories behind and move ahead with a positive mind.” Pooja, another resident of Sector 52, said though the UT administration had lifted the containment-zone tag, real challenge for them would be to repay the loan they had taken from relatives and friends during this tough time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/feeling-like-free-birds-chirp-residents-of-sectors-52-38/articleshow/76079121.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cabinet approves Rs 809 crore fund for Covid-19 fight||PATNA: The state cabinet on Thursday gave its sanction to the disaster management department’s proposal for advance withdrawal of Rs 809 crore from the state contingency fund for expenditure to be incurred on measures taken for the containment of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. With regard to another proposal moved by the department, the cabinet gave its post-facto sanction to the transfer of money made by the government in the personal accounts of migrant workers, who had arrived from other states by Shramik trains as well as those who had arrived by other means. As per announcements made, the state government had reimbursed the train fares to migrant workers apart from Rs 500 towards expenses during the journey and also a minimum of Rs 1,000. Similarly, migrant workers who had arrived using other means were paid Rs 1,000 each. In both cases, the reimbursement was made by transferring the money into their personal accounts. The cabinet also gave its nod to the payment of Rs 2,416 crore to the urban local bodies in the state. The money had been transferred to the state government by the Centre on the basis of interim recommendations made by the 15th Finance Commission. The cabinet also sanctioned constitution of a committee headed by the chief secretary to find the ways and manner of expenditures to be made by the urban local bodies. The cabinet also approved the government’s proposal to create 397 posts in the assistant grade for the Patna High Court. The cabinet also gave its sanction to the promotion of personnel at 190 posts in the field offices of the transport department, besides creation of 163 other posts in the department’s field offices. The state cabinet gave its sanction to creation of posts in the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) meant to implement the Smart City projects at Bhagalpur, Patna, Muzaffarpur and Biharsharif. Those selected would be recruited on contract basis, while a committee headed by the urban development department secretary would decide on the fixation of posts, educational qualification and experience of the candidates required for their selection. The cabinet also gave its approval to the expenditure of Rs 9.94 crore to be incurred by the two software consultancy firms to set up and operate programmes such as CFMS, WAMIS and HRMS. The two consultancy firms will be given one-year extension, if required, to monitor the quality of the project. The cabinet also gave its approval to the government’s proposal to celebrate the birth anniversary of former Union minister and firebrand leader George Fernandes on June 3 as the state function each year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-approves-rs-809-crore-fund-for-covid-19-fight/articleshow/76077132.cms||Abhay Singh
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Focus on agriculture, MSME, unorganized sectors||GANDHINAGAR: A committee of experts headed by former Union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia submitted an interim report to the Gujarat government and suggested that the focus should be on reviving agriculture and small business activity in the state after the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. The expert advisory group (EAG) held a meeting with CM Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel and senior ministers and bureaucrats on Thursday, apprising them of the representations received by the committee on different aspects of reviving the state’s economy. The EAG, in its report, has asked the state government to address the issue of huge rise in unemployment because of the pandemic and lockdown, “The EAG is said to have asked the government to give a major thrust to agriculture and allied activities, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and the unorganized sectors, as these sectors have the potential to provide large scale employment,” a key state government source said. The official added that the EAG has also expressed concern over the exodus of a very large workforce, who returned to their respective states, saying industries and the real estate will find it difficult to bounce back without the required work force. “The committee, in its report, also expressed concern over the lay-offs and retrenchments in the industries and services sector,” the official said. The EAG is likely to submit its final report after two weeks, over which the state government is likely to announce key policy corrections. The committee was mandated to study the sectoral and sub-sectoral economic losses in the state and suggest measures for sector-specific restructuring. In addition, the EAG was asked to review the state’s fiscal and budgetary situation and suggest corrective measures. The committee will also make recommendations on re-evaluation of the tax structure as well as suggest long-term and short-term revival plans. The EAG, headed by Hasmukh Adhia, includes eminent experts from various fields like former professor of IIM-A, Ravindra Dholakia, financial expert Pradeep Shah, former IAS officer Kirit Shelat and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/focus-on-agri-msme-unorganized-sectors/articleshow/76079211.cms||Kapil Dave
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Locust swarms out of Vidarbha, no major loss to agriculture: Officials||Nagpur: Locust swarms that entered Vidarbha a week ago have left the region at least for time being, say agriculture department officials tracking the pest. The swarms have left without causing any major loss to agriculture.Locust swarms first entered Amravati through its bordering district of Betul in Madhya Pradesh. It then reached Katol and Kalmeshwar in Nagpur district and parts of Wardha.The pests were seen in Bhandara on Wednesday, from where the swarms were seen heading towards Tiroda tehsil of Gondia on Thursday.“By Thursday afternoon the pest crossed the Bavanthadi river and entered Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh,” said Ravindra Bhosle, joint director agriculture (JDA) for Nagpur division.Bhosle said it can be hoped that the pest has left Vidarbha — at least 90% of it has gone. “It cannot be ruled out that the swarms will not return. Since it crossed the river, it can only be hoped that the pests may fly away further,” he said.According to the officer, the spraying that has continued for three days is expected to have taken a major toll on the locust population as even the length of the swarms were seen to have reduced.The state’s agriculture department has alerted its counterpart in Madhya Pradesh from where teams had visited Bhandara.Officials in Wardha and Amravati also confirmed that the swarms were not seen again.In another encouraging sign, the swarms that were seen hovering around a paddy field in Temni village of Tumsar tehsil did not harm the crop.This has left the agriculture department officials who were tracking the pest surprised. The observation is also being taken as a sign of relief so far. “However, the pest devoured the leaves of mango, jamun, mahua, ber, and babul trees,” said Bhosle.“There was a paddy field right next to it, but fortunately the pest just did not seem to be interested in the crop. The crop was being harvested at that time,” said Bhosle.Though a Kharif crop which is harvested by Diwali time, paddy is also grown during summers in irrigated areas.“The swarm was located in Temni village at around 10pm on Wednesday. The spraying continued throughout the night, leaving a huge quantity of locust dead,” said Bhosle who remained there throughout the night. Two fire tenders were deployed in the operations.“The mango trees were affected the most, the entire upper part of foliage was eaten but the fruit was spared,” he said.The size of the locust swarm had also reduced substantially. From 17km length when it was spotted for the first time, it has now come down to 2km length and 2km breadth, he said.Now, the focus is to ensure that the locust does not lay its eggs in the areas so that another attack happens in the monsoon. According to initial surveys, no breeding area was found, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locust-swarms-out-of-vidarbha-no-major-loss-to-agriculture-officials/articleshow/76079137.cms||Shishir Arya
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Power cuts make Kharar residents hot under collar||MOHALI: With heatwave unleashing its wrath on residents, unscheduled power cuts are adding to their woes in Kharar. Rajeev Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 125, said, "These days, I often sleep in my car due to the frequent outages. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) seems least bothered about our plight. If residents are informed, they can plan their day accordingly. But the long cuts are unscheduled. And after a few hours, inverter too stops working. At times, we spend sleepless nights. On Monday night, too, there was no electricity supply and it was restored on Tuesday morning." SC Sharma, also a resident of Sector 125, said, "The power cuts are very unpredictable. They are making the summer unbearable." Chetna Malhotra, a resident of Chachu Majra Road, said, "The past one week has been a nightmare for us due to the long cuts. We have to ensure that our laptop is charged so that my daughter’s online classes are not affected. Most of the times, voltage is low." PSPCL officials said they were flooded with complaints from the area. PSPCL Kharar sub-divisional officer Swaranjeet Singh said, "We are receiving many complaints from Kharar. There are three main reasons for power cuts: the ongoing Kharar flyover construction work, shortage of staff in the department and overloading."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-cuts-make-kharar-residents-hot-under-collar/articleshow/76079139.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Huge demand for pest control, disinfecting services after reopening of shops in state||Madurai/ Trichy: There is a high demand for pest control and disinfection services after the reopening of commercial establishments following the relaxations in the lockdown. The overpopulation of pests including cockroaches and lizards in the shops during the months-long shutdown and the government’s directive to frequently disinfect the shops amid the pandemic have pushed the demand for pest control and disinfection services up by 50%. Corporate offices, banks, and mobile phone showrooms were among the commercial establishments that keep pest control services on their toes. Pest control service has taken centre stage in yellow pages, post the lockdown relaxations. “While the local bodies disinfect the public places, business firms have to disinfect office space on their own. The demand was such that we could fulfill the requests in a phased manner,” Immanuel Christopher, proprietor, Biochem Pest Control, said. Many shop owners in Madurai say that they have seen disinfectants such as phenol, bleaching powder, Lysol and Dettol topping the order in the monthly grocery lists. “Customers ask us to pack them separately, but almost all the customers have started buying them in bulk quantity,” said Kumar, a shop keeper in K K Nagar. Now, he has orders for larger quantities and has to keep replenishing his stocks at least thrice a week, while manufacturers have increased prices. Founder for Centre of Environmental Services, S V Pathy says that everybody should understand that a solution containing 1% hypochlorite solution was sufficient to clean the floor and surfaces at home. In the case of industries, a solution with 2% hypochlorite should be used. As the government has ordered regular disinfection, the price of this simple solution, which could be made by dissolving a kilogram of rock salt in five liters of water and boiling and reducing it to two liters, had gone up from Rs 17 before the lockdown to Rs 70 and more per liter, he said. Government insists to use isopropyl alcohol, the price of which was Rs 275 for 450 ml before lockdown. Now it has gone up to Rs 700. White phenol is the only solution that should be used at homes, he said. Pest control firms use disinfectant chemicals in the proportion suggested by the producers. Sodium hypochlorite is also used to disinfect the surface, walls and storerooms of the showrooms. Using hand-operated sprayers, surfaces that have a possibility of human contact were disinfected. As the receipts provided by pest control agencies serve as a proof for disinfection, commercial outlets seek professional pest control agencies registered with the agriculture department. “Calls seeking a solution to end cockroach menace are also increasing. Disinfection will be the new normal and when major textile showrooms reopen, the demand will surge further,” N Baskaran, proprietor, Care Pest Control, said. Commercial establishments were given suggestions by the pest control agencies to disinfect doorknobs, tables and reception area. The shops were told to refrain from cleaning the space for a day or two after disinfection as immediate cleaning after the disinfection process may dilute the chemicals applied. “People should also realise that sanitizers are needed only when one does not have access to water to wash the hands with soap, otherwise soap and water is the best option to keep one’s hands clean,” he said. Pathy says that the government should also fix a cap on the price of these disinfectants and withdraw GST and other taxes if people have to use them more frequently to tackle this disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/huge-demand-for-pest-control-disinfecting-services-after-reopening-of-shops-in-state/articleshow/76080178.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Coronavirus patient booked under attempt to murder case in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: A 33-year-old man who has tested positive for Covid-19 has been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). His sample was taken on May 24 at the district hospital and he was asked to follow home quarantine. However, two days ago he had gone to collect ration kit from a distribution program in which urban development minister Madan Kaushik took part in distributing ration kits to the needy. The patient visited public places and also went to collect ration kit where a large number of people were gathered. Circle officer (CO) city Abhay Singh told TOI, “A case has been registered against under section 307 (attempt to murder) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and section 51 of Disaster Management act. He has no travel history and we are tracing his contact history and all persons would be quarantined soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corona-patient-booked-under-attempt-to-murder-case-in-haridwar/articleshow/76077760.cms||MS Nawaz
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Village boys drive away crocodile with barrage of stones, save woman||BHOPAL: A bunch of village boys saved a 51-year-old woman from a crocodile’s death roll in MP’s Shivpuri district, hurling stones at it until it released its grip on her and swam away with part of her arm in its jaws. The woman lost her left hand below the wrist but will live. The croc attack took place by the Sindh River in Amola village, 40km from Shivpuri district headquarters, when Swaroopi Bai had gone to pluck watermelons near a small farm. Thirsty, she walked to the river’s edge to have some water, unaware that a mugger was lying in ambush. As soon as she crouched, the croc struck. It clamped its jaws on her left hand and started dragging her into deeper water. Undaunted, Swaroopi fought back, screaming for help and hitting the croc repeatedly in the eyes with her right hand. Her son, 21-year-old Omkar, plunged into the water with a stick in hand but by then the crocodile had started its death roll. It was twisting around itself while swimming backwards, flailing the woman about like a rag doll. Omkar hit it with the stick but it bounced off the croc’s thick hide. A group of children, playing nearby, came to the rescue. They unleashed a barrage of stones at the croc. With precision honed on bringing down mangoes from trees, they hit the crocodile repeatedly on its snout and eyes – enough for it to realise this human wasn’t worth the trouble. Besides, Swaroopi, too, had kept fighting. Watch Madhya Pradesh: Village boys drive away crocodile, save 51-year-old woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/village-boys-drive-away-croc-with-barrage-of-stones-save-woman/articleshow/76079155.cms||P Naveen
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Quack, nurse arrested for running hospital in Chotila||RAJKOT: A 12-bed hospital on Anandpur Road in Chotila was raided and a quack and a nurse who were running the establishment were arrested on Thursday. Police said the accused, identified as Vishal Sorani and Varsha Bawalia, were arrested after a tip-off was received about their hospital. “When we raided the hospital, three patients were found being given saline. We seized as many as 129 allopathic medicines from the hospital,” said Chotila taluka health officer who lodged the complaint in this connection with Chotila police station. At the time of his arrest, Sorani alleged that there were many quacks practising like him in Chotila taluka. He claimed he had a degree in homeopathic medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/quack-nurse-arrested-for-running-hospital-in-chotila/articleshow/76079180.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Include plastic units under continuous process industries’||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat State Plastic Manufacturers Association (GSPMA) has urged the state government that plastic extrusion and reprocessing should be included into continuous process industries category and such units be allowed to operate 24 hours a day. “We have written to the government to treat plastic units, especially extrusion and reprocessing units, as continuous process industries and permit the plants to carry out production round the clock subject to all the lockdown guidelines,” said Shailesh Patel, president, GSPMA. Extrusion and reprocessing units need to heat machines before starting production. The process takes around 2 to 3 hours. At the same time, amount of plastic wastage as well as electricity consumption increases every time the machine is heated. “Given the limited working hours and time consumed in restarting operations, units are able to run these machines only for six hours. As a result, capacity utilisation has reduced to just 15% at present,” Patel added. If plastic units, especially those in extrusion and reprocessing, are brought under continuous process industries, they will not only operate round the clock but also be able to reduce wastage and electricity cost. “If allowed to operate 24 hours, machines will be continuously used without requiring to them to be heated every day. This will reduce wastage and electricity consumption as well as increase capacity utilisation to 40-50%,” Patel said. Gujarat is a top state in plastic products manufacturing and houses 12,000 of the 55,000 plastic products making units across the country. Majority of these units are small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Plastic makers are already bearing the brunt of migrant workers’ exodus as trained and skilled labourers of these units have returned to their home states. This has resulted into drastic fall in capacity utilisation. “Allowing plastic manufacturers to operate continuously will not only bring financial viability but also serve the purpose of relaxing the lockdown, which among other things is to boost economic activity and ensure employment,” Patel said. GSPMA has also sought the help of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) to take up this issue with government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/include-plastic-units-under-continuous-process-industries/articleshow/76079208.cms||Kalpesh Damor
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Man gets 14-year jail for raping disabled girl||PANCHKULA: Terming rape of a girl with disability as “highest viciousness” and “human lust had taken such a demonic form”, Panchkula additional sessions judge Narender Sura on Thursday awarded 14-year imprisonment to a 28-year-old man, who had raped a survivor and had also broken her two teeth while committing the heinous act in March 2018. The court awarded the sentence under section 376 (2) (l) (commits rape on a woman suffering from mental or physical disability (m) (while committing rape causes grievous bodily harm or maims or disfigures or endangers the life of a woman); and section 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) of the IPC. The incident took place in March 2018, when father of the girl, who was residing in a jhuggi in Panchkula, had gone to the market. The accused, who was under the influence of liquor, entered their hut and attacked her. He also raped her. Later, the girl’s father and neighbours saved her from the clutches of the accused. The Panchkula police on March 2, 2018, lodged an FIR at Chandimandir police station against the accused. While awarding the sentence, the judge said, “From the record of the case, it is clear that the prosecutrix is a a girl with disability. The accused had entered the hut and beaten up the girl, who was not in position to save herself from the clutches of the accused, and due to her physical condition, she could not have resisted except to raise noise for help. The accused had broken two teeth of the prosecutrix, and thereafter committed rape upon the girl.” “So, the convict has committed a gruesome offence with ‘highest viciousness’ and human lust had taken such a demonic form. In such cases, sympathy in any form would be misplaced and it would shake the confidence of the public in the administration of the criminal justice system. We live in a civilized society where law and order is supreme and citizens enjoy inviolable fundamental human rights. But when these type of offences are committed, it causes ‘ripples’ in the conscience of the society and serious doubts are raised as to whether we are really living in a civilized society,” the judge observed. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-gets-14-yr-jail-for-raping-disabled-girl/articleshow/76079157.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Fightback message to Covid: Kolkata's New Market set to reopen on Monday||KOLKATA: After a gap of two months, New Market — the century-old grade-1 heritage market — will reopen on June 1, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) officials have decided after holding a meeting with the traders. However, the traders will have to strictly follow Covid-19 norms, said a KMC markets department official. According to an agreement, the traders won’t be allowed to leave their belongings piled on the pathways leading to shops. The traders have been asked to arrange for a fencing so that a minimum 6ft distance can be maintained between sellers and buyers. All shopowners have been told to keep sanitizers for customers. Masks have been made mandatory for traders as well as all shoppers. The business hours have been fixed keeping in mind the virus scare. “The market will remain open from 7am till 6pm for essentials and perishable items. For non-essential items, the market will remain open from 10am to 6pm. No electricity will be available to shops after 6pm,” said a KMC markets department official. “All employees and shopowners must leave the market by 6pm. After that, we will disconnect all electricity lines,” a civic official said. To avoid crowding, the KMC markets department has decided to open only three gates for shoppers to enter the market. “Under no circumstances will we allow crowding inside the market at a particular point of time. That is why we have decided to open only three gates,” a civic official said. According to Uday Sahoo, the general secretary of SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association, the traders have readily accepted the rules as a pre-condition for opening of the market. “We are happy that we can resume our business after a gap of more than two months. It is a huge relief as every single trader in the market was suffering due to the closure of the market for a prolonged period of time. Now we hope our business will pick up and we are ready to serve the customers following all Covid-19 norms,” Sahoo said. Ashraf Ali, a trader in the market who sells readymade garments, was visibly happy after the civic body finally granted permission for reopening the market. “It is a major relief for me as I was incurring huge loss everyday due to lockdown. But we are committed to serving our loyal customers with additional caution as the city is yet to get out of the grip of the deadly virus,” Ali said. However, a section of KMC markets department officials expressed concern over reopening of a hawking zone in front of the heritage market. “Hawkers at Bertram Street, Lindsay Street or Humayun Place will resume their business from next week. We need to control the crowd that will assemble at these places, which also have entry points to New Market. If need be, we will ask police to make the hawkers follow strict social distancing norms for the sake of shoppers,” a KMC markets department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fightback-message-to-covid-new-market-set-to-reopen-on-mon/articleshow/76079172.cms||Saikat Ray
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Newly laid panchayat road peels off in days||Trichy: The newly laid road in Kallikudi panchayat on the outskirts of Trichy city has begun to peel off, barely days after it was laid. Villagers are blaming poor workmanship and hasty completion of work for the debacle. The residents of Kallikudi panchayat in Manikandam union have for long been demanding better roads in their locality. District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) had sanctioned a fund of Rs 11.22 lakh for construction of the new road at Cholan Nagar, a settlement in Kallikudi panchayat comprising of mostly TNSTC employees. A few days back, a road spanning 623 metres in length and 3 metres in width was laid. The gravel and tar coating of the road is not more than inch thick. While it was anticipated that the authorities would lay fresh layers in the days to come, officials informed locals that the road laying work was over. The road is of such poor quality that the top surface peels off even if one were to stomp hard on the road.“The road was laid for 2cm thickness, our officials had conducted an inspection when it was being laid. We did not use any paver machine, the road was laid manually with the fund available,” an official source with DRDA told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/newly-laid-panchayat-road-peels-off-in-days/articleshow/76080220.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Containment zones in a flux, Kolkata police draw up fresh plans||KOLKATA: Buying groceries and essentials from fixed shops, not moving out beyond permitted hours in the morning and not attending offices on a regular basis — these are among some of the rules KMC and Kolkata Police want to enforce in the new containment zones after lockdown rules are eased in other parts of the city. The cops have also made it clear that they cannot allow their men to monitor all zones round the clock. “We will deploy personnel only when necessary. The city is limping towards normality and our force has been fighting this battle for over two months,” said an officer, reminding how around 90 Kolkata policemen themselves have tested positive. After battling the Amphan impact for the last one week, both agencies have started demarcating the zones yet again. The new containment zone classification is expected to be out any time soon. “Now that there is a steady rise in cases, we will sit with KMC again on this issue. This is also important as transport — especially autos — are back on the road. Several areas need to be regraphed and a more micro-level intervention will be required. Police said that with the south — especially posh colonies — showing upward trend, fencing the entire colony was no more the only containment solution,” said an officer. KMC officials said their plan of action was ready. “We are organising special training of 72 technicians involved in door-to-door swab collection. The three-day training has started with 24 people in each batch,” said a nodal officer of KMC for Covid-19. KMC has also decided to conduct special screening of people with the slightest symptoms through random sampling at ward 73 as a pilot project. This ward has no Covid cases so far. The measure is to stop its spread to new wards and areas. “We have laid special emphasis on special screening and the exercise will be conducted on a regular basis in all the wards with positive Covid cases. Only 15 of the 144 wards in the city have not had a single Covid case till date,” said officials. Both KMC and police are also hopeful of including several of those wards with just one containment zone — at present there are 38 such wards — in either the C group (which allows all economic activities) or B group that will see greater relaxations. “Even wards with two containment zones are showing rapid progress. For example, ward 60 (Beniapukur) that had 10 containment zones even three weeks ago now barely has two small containment zones. There are 43 wards with two containment zones. By simple maths, we have at least 101 wards that can witness greater economic activities in the coming days,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar. According to a senior official in the KMC health department, the civic body has reasons to feel confident with its interventions after some containment areas in boroughs VI and VII finally showing progress after more than a month. “The number of Covid-19 patients steadily rose in some worst-affected containment areas. At least we have been able to bring down the numbers,” the official pointed out. The civic officials are also keeping a close watch on areas such as Burrabazar, Chitpore, Jorasanko and Amherst Street-Bowbazar areas where Covid-19 positive cases are now finally declining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/containment-zones-in-a-flux-police-draw-up-fresh-plans/articleshow/76079184.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||‘Plastic distancing’ comes to Kolkata cabs, autos||KOLKATA: Scared to hail a taxi or board an auto amid Covid scare? Cabbies and auto operators in the city have come up with a solution for you. They have placed plastic sheet barriers between the drivers and rear seat passengers to ensure social distancing and protection against the spread of coronavirus. The idea was floated by officials of the Bidhannagar commissionerate when they convened a meeting with drivers of yellow taxis, app cabs and pre-paid taxis that ply in Salt Lake and New Town. The concept made sense and taxi union leaders across Kolkata, Howrah, Salt Lake and New Town decided to implement it. Bidhannagar police commissioner L N Meena told TOI on Thursday: “My officials came up with this concept. It seems to be the most effective solution for allaying commuter anxiety as the lockdown is eased in phases.” Dhritiman Sarkar, Bidhannagar DC (traffic), echoed: “We designed the low-cost H-shaped barriers made of polythene. Some tailors in Garia made the first set and we distributed them among the cabbies. Others taxi owners have started getting the barriers made.” The cost of a barrier is Rs 220. App cab operators like Ola and Uber, too, expect a drop in ridership, knowing that many would prefer to use their own transport. “To reassure passengers, we are mandating the use of isolators in cabs to separate passengers from the driver,” Sarkar said. “No passenger is being allowed to sit in the co-driver seat. Only two passengers wearing masks are allowed to sit in the rear seat,” he said. Prabir Das Mahapatra, secretary of the Progressive Taximen’s Union, said: “Around 400 cabs in Howrah, Kolkata and Salt Lake are already plying with these barriers. At the moment, 800 cabs are on the road. We are trying to have plastic shields in all vehicles.” Autos, too, are using barriers. Pradip Saha, member of the Calcutta Autorickshaw Union, said, “Everyone will get barriers since it is a matter of self-protection. The drivers need to protect themselves, too.” But will it work in containing the Covid spread ? Environmentalist S M Ghosh said, “This is a very good step towards increasing confidence in the drivers as well as the passengers.” But pulmonologist A K Ghosh said, “There will still be some risks. The plastic barriers will hang loose. So there are chances of aerosol transmission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plastic-distancing-comes-to-kolkata-cabs-autos/articleshow/76079193.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||In further relaxations, markets to remain open from 7am to 7pm||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Thursday gave further relaxations in lockdown restrictions by allowing the shops and markets to open from 7am till 7pm from Friday onwards. The decision was taken during a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and attended by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh and other secretaries. As of now, markets were allowed to open from 7pm till 4pm. However, the timings have been increased to encourage business activities that were worst hit due to Covid-19 lockdown. During the meeting, CM Rawat instructed director general of police (DGP) Anil Raturi to ensure that social distancing is maintained in the markets. On the request of DGP, CM also issued necessary directions for sanctioning budget to provide required PPE kit, sanitizers and masks for police personnel performing their duties on field. CM also directed the officials that in wake of rising coronavirus cases make sure that there are necessary facilities available inside the quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-further-relaxations-markets-to-remain-open-from-7am-to-7pm/articleshow/76077797.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Man killed in freak accident||RAJKOT: A man was killed in a freak accident involving a garbage van of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) at Shastri ground near Rajkot bus stand on Thursday evening. Police said the victim, identified as Bhupat Bambhania (40), died after getting sand-witched between the van and a wall. “The van driver apparently lost control and, after ramming into a parked autorickshaw, crashed against the wall against which Bambhania was leaning,” said S S Nimavat, sub-inspector with Rajkot A division police station. Bambhania was a farm labourer from Dumka village of Dhanpur taluka in Dahod district. “He wanted to board a bus to his native. However, as there was no bus, he sat leaning against the wall ,” said Nimavat, adding that the identities of the accused were yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-killed-in-freak-accident/articleshow/76079194.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat pins hopes on Prez nod for labour rules relaxation||AHMEDABAD: At a time when states like Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan have done a rethink about their decisions to amend labour laws ahead of restarting economic activities post Covid-19 lockdown, Gujarat government remains hopeful of making changes in the existing laws. The state government has recently drafted an ordinance and sent to the Centre for approval and securing presidential assent, said a senior state government official. He said that the government remained firm in its decision and that there was no rethink. In the new set of rules proposed, the state government has decided to give waiver to all new industries from applicability of all key labour laws for a period of 1,200 days. This does not include Workmen Compensation Act, 1923, Minimum Wages Act and Industrial Safety Rules. Chief minister Vijay Rupani had on May 8 directed the labour department to prepare an ordinance on these lines. Uttar Pradesh government has recently withdrawn its order diluting certain provisions of Factories Act following a rap from Allahabad high court. The country’s largest state had increased the working hours from 8 to 12 hours which was later withdrawn. Soon, Rajasthan, which had also proposed a similar move, withdrew its decision. The changes in rules in Gujarat are aimed to attracting the large number of industries and MNCs from Japan, USA, Korea and European nations which are willing to shift their production from China to other countries in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, said government sources. Gujarat has also proposed extension of work hours from 8 to 12 hours a day. “Gujarat workforce would consist of more than 50 lakh migrant workers. They have already suffered a lot during the Covid-19 lockdown period. Such regressive steps can further dent the state’s image and make them rethink of returning. This could only hurt the industries further,” said an official working with an infrastructure company. Many labour unions have opposed the reforms in states like Gujarat and asked the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to intervene and take up the issue with the Indian government. In a letter to trade unions dated May 22, ILO said it has objected to the ordinances proposed to temporarily scrap labour laws in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. It has also objected to executive orders issued by at least 10 states to increase the daily working limit from 8 to 12 hours. India being a signatory to the ILO, some of the changes proposed by the states are against ILO conventions, said government sources. While the state government can exempt factories from compliance of all provisions of the Factories Act, it can do it only for three-month period, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-pins-hopes-on-prez-nod-for-labour-rules-relaxation/articleshow/76079207.cms||Maulik Pathak
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Police land may be offered in lieu of defence land sought for Trichy RoB||Trichy: The district administration has identified a police department land as a compensatory land for the defence Ministry, which is giving a piece of defence land to complete the long-pending Trichy junction RoB project. This project is aimed at decongesting city roads and connect Chennai-Trichy-Madurai NH with Trichy-Dindigul NH. The proposal for the police department land was sent to the commissionerate of land administration department to get clearance. This identified land is near the defence land, hence the proposal is feasible, said sources.Even as six years have passed since the civil work for Trichy junction RoB was initiated, the project remains incomplete due to the delay in acquiring 0.66 acres of defence land in Mannarpuram required to complete the project. The attempts to compensate for the required defence land financially and steps to identify compensatory land in Chennai, Kanchipuram and Chengalpet districts failed over the years. Meanwhile, a proposal to use Tamil Nadu special police battalion’s land in Mannarpuram as a compensatory land was mooted a few months back. The police battalion’s land in Mannarpuram was inspected by principal secretary (highways) to the state government A Karthik on Wednesday.“Once we get clearance from the commissioner of land administration, we will communicate with the defence Ministry about the development. Since the compensatory site of equal value is located next to the defence property, the deal is a win-win,” an official source said. The delay in acquiring the defence land has already delayed the second phase of the RoB proposed to facilitate three more arms connecting Mannarpuram and Kallukuzhi localities in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-land-may-be-offered-in-lieu-of-defence-land-sought-for-trichy-rob/articleshow/76080224.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||From Kolkata to Sunderbans, a balm for the cyclone hit||KOLKATA: Students of Jadavpur University, who have been running a community kitchen to feed the poor in the past two months, have reached out to some villages in Sunderbans with food and essential medicines. A group of seven students visited Baikanthapur in South 24-Parganas and distributed 5,390 dry ration kits among the villagers of Halderbheri, Deulbari, and Nagenabad — each kit containing 500g flattened rice, 200g batasha, 400g sattu, four biscuit packets, two ORS packets, one Zeoline bottle, soap, masks, essential medicines, sanitary napkins and baby food. The students have also distributed weekly ration among 100 people in Kishorimohanpur village and supplied 500kg rice, 200kg pulses and 40kg soyabean to the two community kitchens run there by some locals who have lost everything to Cyclone Amphan. Sourav Sahoo, a JU student who was among the group visiting the villages in Sunderbans said, “People are living in deplorable conditions as many houses along the bank of Thakuran river in Halderbheri and Deulbari village on the bank of Matla river have been completely washed away. Since saline water has entered arable lands, cultivation is impossible in these villages for the next three years. Ponds have also been submerged with saline water while boats have been washed away — the only means of survival for many families in the area.” He added that the group will continue providing relief to the people of other cyclone-affected areas. Meanwhile, Swarnabha Dey and his friends already reached out to 400 families of Tushkhali, Atapur, Boro Mollakhali, Netaji colony, Fuljoli, Royapur, Palamari, Kumirmari, Baidyapara villages with rice, dal, potato, flattened rice, oil, puffed rice, sugar, sattu, milk powder, soyabean, salt,biscuits, sanitizer, Zeoline, sanitary napkins, soaps, essential medicines, candles, matchbox and mosquito repellent. They also gave tarpaulin and bleaching powder to the villagers. “Our team was accompanied by two doctors, so we were able to give medicines to the villagers,” said Dey, adding that their next plan is to visit Patharpratima where they will clean and drain out the saline water from 200 ponds and provide ration to the affected families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-kol-to-sunderbans-a-balm-for-the-cyclone-hit/articleshow/76079215.cms||Dipawali Mitra
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||HC gives BJP MP Subramanian Swamy time till June 11 to respond to application against his PIL||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) has given BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sumbramanian Swamy time till June 11 to respond to the Intervention Application (IA) filed by Dehradun based NGO named Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK). The RLEK had approached the HC against Swamy’s public interest litigation (PIL) that has challenged the state government’s recently introduced Uttarkahand Char Dham Devasthanam Act. Swamy has said that the Act – which wrests control of 55 temples in the state along with the Char Dham shrines – is unconstitutional. The RLEK, however, has argued that even the right to freedom of religion is not absolute and the Act has been passed to better manage the temples and shrines in the state. The division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe has also given the state government time till June 11 to respond to the Swamy’s (PIL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-gives-bjp-mp-subramanian-swamy-time-till-june-11-to-respond-to-application-against-his-pil/articleshow/76077810.cms||Prashant Jha
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||After HC rebuke, Gujarat agrees to pay train fares||AHMEDABAD: After getting a rebuke from the Gujarat high court over its reluctance to pay train fares for migrant workers who are heading to their native states, the state government agreed to pay for train fares for those workers who are travelling from May 24. In its reply to the HC query, the government stated that since the states of Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha are paying for the fares for their people, the state government has decided to pay for other workers. “On and from May 24, 2020, the government of Gujarat decided to pay the travelling charges for the workers of the rest of the states,” it said. On May 22, the HC lambasted the state government for its stand that it would pay for only 7,512 workers from other states because only these many workers were registered under the Interstate Migrant Workers Act, and that it was not liable to pay the allowance for 22.5 lakh workers. The HC said, “This is not done,” and directed the railways to waive one way charges of migrant labourers or in the alternative, the state government was directed to bear the charges. The court said that the government must ensure that the migrant workers do not have to face further difficulties for the purpose of travelling to their native places. The government has informed the HC that till May 27, total 13,84,023 inter-state migrant workers returned to their native places by 953 trains from Gujarat. Of them, nearly 6.21 lakh workers left from Surat in 423 trains. Meanwhile, a PIL filed by Congress MLA Naushad Solanki is pending in the high court. He has demanded that the state government should be directed to deploy the GSRTC buses to help intra-state workers to reach to their native districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-hc-rebuke-gujarat-agrees-to-pay-train-fares/articleshow/76079206.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||284 workers begin journey to Odisha||Trichy: A total of 284 migrant labourers in Trichy left for their native Odisha from Karaikkal by train on Thursday. The Trichy district administration has facilitated their journey. The workers, including engaged in skilled labour activities in Lalgudi, Manapparai, Mannachanallur, Musiri, Srirangam, Thiruverumbur, Thuraiyur, Trichy east, Trichy west, Palakkarai, Ariyamangalam, Cantonment and Fort areas in Trichy expressed their willingness to return to their native state. Revenue divisional officer (RDO) N Viswanathan and other officials arranged eight TNSTC buses for them to reach Karaikkal from where they boarded an Odisha-bound train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/284-workers-begin-journey-to-odisha/articleshow/76080252.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Bar owners selling only beer due to 5% tax on other liquor||Nagpur: Even though district collector Ravindra Thakre has allowed bar owners to exhaust their stock through home delivery, they have decided only to sell beer as it expires within six month. Thakre in his order had stated that bars could sell their stock only at maximum retail price (MRP) and pay 5% sales tax too. This tax has discouraged bar owners from selling liquor other than beer. According to them, their expenses are far higher than that of wine shop owners and hence they can’t sell at MRP and pay 5% tax simultaneously. Jasbir Singh (Mickey) Arora, owner of Hotel Centre Point, said that the order was good for selling off the existing stock. “We haven’t started home delivery yet as there’s no demand as such as of now. We are under the process of completing some formalities with regards to the testing of our employees and in coming days we too will start forwarding messages to our friends seeking their requirements. Selling beer on MRP is not an issue for us and is a good idea to finish our stock before expiry,” he said. Abhay Bagaddeo, manager of Ten Downing Street (TDS), said, “Our management has decided to start the home delivery of all our beer stock. We will be selling beer at MRP so that the material doesn’t get expired. We won’t be selling any other stuff. We had enough stock procured in December which could expire by June. So, it is a good decision to clear out our stock before the stuff gets expired.” Sameer Sharma of Lahoree Delux Bar and Restaurant said that finally, excise department had thought something for the betterment of bar owners. “Selling at MRP is not profitable but something is better than nothing. Good part is we can dispose of our stock before material gets expired. We will take all the precautions for our staff before delivering the beer to our customer,” he said. A bar owner preferring anonymity said that the collector did not understand the economics of running a bar. “Otherwise he would not have imposed a 5% tax on us. We would have generated some income by selling our entire stock and paid salary to our employees. Presently, very few bar owners are paying wages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bar-owners-selling-only-beer-due-to-5-tax-on-other-liquor/articleshow/76079233.cms||Ashish Roy
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Rise in trafficking cases feared after Amphan ravages coastal areas||KOLKATA: There may be a rise in trafficking cases in Sunderbans after Cyclone Amphan battered the coastal parts of Bengal, fear many NGO members working there and locals. The NGO members who have managed to reach the areas like Jharkali and Goranbose after the cyclone called for preventive measures immediately as a spurt in trafficking cases had been witnessed after Cyclone Aila in 2009. Take the case of a 20-year-old woman who had been trafficked from Basanti. “The cyclone has damaged my house, only two bamboo structures are left. I used to work in a nearby paddy field and managed to earn Rs 5,000. We had already been affected by the lockdown. Now the cyclone added more to out woes by destroying the field,” she said. Earlier, her house had been damaged by Aila. Four years ago, when she was 16, a youth had taken her to Delhi on the pretext of marriage and sold her off to a red-light area off GB Road there. Two months later, CID had rescued the woman by tracking her mobile number. Subhasree Rapran, who runs the NGO, Goranbose Gram Bikas Kendra, said, “We have visited the Amphan-hit areas in Sunderbans and met the survivors of domestic violence and trafficking. They have no food, water and basic needs. If they don’t get government support, they may fall prey to trafficking again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rise-in-trafficking-cases-feared-after-amphan-ravages-coastal-areas/articleshow/76079248.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 29, 2020||Kochi||In Kerala, quarantine unit & booze shop under same roof||KOTTAYAM: Can liquor be sold from the same building or compound where people are under paid quarantine? Though authorities gave a green signal to such a bar hotel, the long queue for buying liquor on Thursday morning raised questions over the functioning of a hotel as a paid quarantine centre. The unusual situation came up at Hotel Aida in town where people, mostly NRKs and people who arrived from other states chose to go on a paid quarantine. At present, there are 27 people staying under paid quarantine. The government, on Thursday, allowed the sale of liquor as takeaways. There were long queues outside the hotel from 9am till the closure of the counter at 5pm. Collector PK Sudheer Babu said that the entries to the hotel and the bar counter were separate. "The people in quarantine were staying in the second and third floors. The counter was on the ground floor. The hotel management had submitted an affidavit regarding this. We had forwarded this to the excise department," he said. Deputy excise commissioner AR Zulfikar said the department had inspected the place and there was nothing unusual about the arrangement. "The hotel got the permission from the disaster management authority. Those staying there are not confirmed with Covid-19 and the rooms are far away from the takeaway counter of the bar," he said. The guests here pay rent for seven days in advance. The rooms are given at a subsidised rate (20pc). There is no subsidy for food. A health worker is present in the hotel round the clock. Two persons are working on shifts for this. Hotel authorities have given strict guidelines to guests like not venturing out of their rooms for a walk outside. The guests are also given the option to get food from the community kitchen set up by the local body. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/paid-quarantine-hotel-with-bar-attracts-many-tipplers/articleshow/76077913.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Garbage vehicles fail to turn up in ward 49 for past 6 months||JAIPUR: The residents of ward number 49 are forced to dump garbage on the main road because garbage-lifting vehicles are not coming to their areas for the past six months. Mohammad Faruq, a resident of Kho Nagoriyan, said, “I have made calls to the call centre of JMC but they haven’t resolved it. I have written to officials. As our area is situated on the outskirts of the city, officials are not concerned about it.” Piles of garbage have accumulated on roads and are choking drains of the area. Another resident of Indira Gandhi Nagar, Seema Meena, said, “Initially, we kept the garbage in our house but eventually we started dumping it on road. What choice do we have?” One senior JMC official said, “We are looking into the matter. If residents have filed a complaint, the issue will be resolved soon as status of all the complaints are reviewed regularly.” Another resident Krishna Bagar said, “I have written letters to JMC officials but yet to receive any reply. I have specifically asked them the status of garbage lifting vehicles and if they have assigned them in my area. Officials told me that four vehicles are assigned in our area but none are coming. Piles of garbage have accumulated everywhere and with monsoon season in one month that can be a cause of malaria.” He further said that garbage dumpers coming in the area but they pick up garbage from the garbage depots instead of making round inside the colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/garbage-vehicles-fail-to-turn-up-in-ward-49-for-past-6-months/articleshow/76080255.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: ICMR to study community spread in 5 areas of Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct serosurveillance in five areas of Greater Hyderabad to find if there is any community transmission of Covid-19. Hyderabad is among the 14 hotspot metro cities selected for the sampling to monitor the pattern of Covid-19 transmission and help generate evidence on the role of asymptomatic and mild infections in transmission. Adibatla, Chandanagar, Miyapur, Balapur and Tappachabutra are the areas from where samples from random people will be collected. A total of 500 samples will be selected. From each family, one person will be selected. Samples from people only above 18 years of age will be collected. “Within the family also, there will be a separate code for selecting the sample. Serum from blood samples will be separated at a medical facility,” the official said. The serum samples will be sent to National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai, for testing presence of Covid-19 antibodies. The institute will use ELISA test kit developed by National Institute of Virology, Pune. “If there are antibodies, it means there is community spread and immunity being built among the people,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/icmr-to-study-community-spread-in-5-areas-of-hyd/articleshow/76080261.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Indian villagers along Indo-Nepal border who use Nepalese SIM cards, tune in to Nepalese radio worried over rising tensions||Nainital: As Indo-Nepal relations go through a rough patch, the inter-dependency of the two nations can be gauged from the fact that several villages along the border on the India side use Nepalese SIM and tune in to the Nepalese radio networks almost every day. Speaking to TOI, the villagers said that the BSNL network isn’t available in most of the areas post Garbadhar and even the Dharchula market lacks signals. And though they were using satellite phones till last year, now even that is not allowed leaving villagers from Garbyan, Gunji and several others in Dharchula block of Pithoragarh district with no choice but to use SIM cards from Nepalese service providers such as Sky and Nero to call their relatives living both in Nepal and in India. The villagers also access the internet through these SIMs. Even though they have to pay one Nepalese Rupee for a minute of call – almost Rs 0.6 in Indian currency which is much higher than the virtually free calls provided by Indian companies – they have no other choice. "As soon as you go past Garbadhar the BSNL network vanishes. After that almost all the villages in the Dharchula valley use the Nepalese SIM cards," said Krishna Garbyal from Garbyan village. Garbyan has more than 100 families and each of them has at least one Nepalese SIM. Villagers said that the Nepalese government has installed mobile towers in several villages on their side of the border. But the signal from those towers is strong enough that the Indians can even access internet through them. "There are mobile towers just across the border and the signals from there are strong enough that we can even access internet. Even though the signals aren’t good enough to use high speed internet but something is better than nothing," said another villager from Gunji village. However, ever since relations between India and Nepal began to sour over the Lipulekh road, the villagers are now worried that this might affect the communication facility. "Many of us on the border even tune in to the Nepalese radio network every now and then. But there is uneasiness that if the tensions escalate, the Nepalese government may block the network in India. That means that hundreds of us will be left with any network. Many of us will have to trek and travel to Garbadhar to access the Indian network which isn’t possible," a villager of Garbyan said. Incidentally, Nepal in its newly introduced map has declared many of these villages as part of its territory. The government officials, meanwhile, said that the administration is working to set up mobile towers in the border areas and the communication facilities will soon be available through Indian SIMs. "We understand that there are several areas along the border where people have to rely on Nepalese SIM cards but we are working to set up mobile towers in the area and we will make sure that people have access to Indian network," said a senior district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/indian-villagers-along-indo-nepal-border-who-use-nepalese-sim-cards-tune-in-to-nepalese-radio-worried-over-rising-tensions/articleshow/76077823.cms||Prashant Jha
May 29, 2020||India||Don’t charge any fare from migrants: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Centre and states not to charge even a penny from migrant workers for transporting them home through rail and road transport and asked the governments to give an estimate of the time it would take to send all stranded migrants back home. After a three-hour hearing through video conference, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said states must provide a definite time schedule to each migrant worker within which s/he would be provided transport facility to go back home. “When waiting for their turn to board a transport for going home, the migrant worker must be provided free food, shelter and basic amenities by the state governments,” the bench said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta admitted that there were initial glitches about who would pay the railways for transporting migrant workers from one state to another. However, the Centre and state governments worked out a mechanism by which the fare would be paid either by the state from which the train/bus originated or by the state receiving the migrants. "All states, irrespective of political and ideological affiliation of the ruling party, have worked in tandem and done their best in this regard," he said. The SG said between May 1 and 27, the governments had sent 91 lakh migrant workers home on 3,700 Shramik Special trains and buses. "At present, the government is willing to provide as many trains as the states want to send back those migrant workers who want to go home. But since industries are gradually opening, many do not want to travel back home," he added. The bench said after taking care of the immediate problems faced by migrant workers in reaching their homes, the court would dwell on other issues. "We would like to examine in future what arrangements for employment and food should be made by the respective state governments for migrant workers who have arrived after leaving their workplaces," the bench said. The SC asked the Centre and states to furnish details of the action plan for evacuation of stranded migrant labourers by June 5. When senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the central government had left states in the lurch by not preparing a national plan to address the pandemic, Mehta said there was a national plan under the Disaster Management Act and states had also framed similar plans. Sibal said under Section 12 of the DMA, the government was bound to provide proper sanitation, food, shelter, medical cover and means of livelihood to those hit by the pandemic. The SC asked Mehta to respond to Sibal's arguments in the response affidavit. The bench, however, did not permit politicising of the hearing by refusing, for the time being, to entertain interventions by Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala. Even Sibal and A M Singhvi were allowed to address the court as lawyers and not as counsel for their clients. Former finance minister and senior advocate P Chidambaram was visible on the video screen for some time, but he disappeared after the court said it would not allow politicisation of the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-charge-any-fare-from-migrants-sc/articleshow/76081318.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 29, 2020||Hubballi||5 Mumbai returnees test Covid-19 positive in Kalaburagi||KALABURAGI: Five persons who returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi on Thursday. The infected include three women, a 9-year-old boy and a 3-year old boy. They were in the quarantine centre and after testing positive they were shifted to the ESIC hospital. With this, the number of active cases in Kalaburagi has gone up to 108.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/5-mumbai-returnees-test-positive/articleshow/76075646.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh tipplers sneak into Telangana for cheap liquor, sales zoom||HYDERABAD: Liquor sales in the state’s districts bordering Andhra Pradesh have zoomed past the liquor sales in the city. Shops in Nalgonda, Khammam and Mahbubnagar districts have registered a 50% rise in sales compared to the period before the lockdown was announced. Due to the huge difference in the prices of liquor in AP and Telangana, tipplers residing in Krishna, Guntur and Kurnool districts of Andhra Pradesh are buying liquor from shops in the bordering districts of Telangana. As a measure to implement total prohibition in AP in a phased manner, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy increased the prices of liquor by 75%, while Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had increased the prices of liquor by 16%. “The demand for beer increases in summer, so many people from Andhra Pradesh are crossing the border to buy beer and liquor in Telangana as the prices here are much less compared to Andhra Pradesh,” said a liquor shop owner in Kodad, which is near the Telangana-AP border. Liquor shops in the districts usually see profits of around Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh, however, the profits have now increased to Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. On the other hand, shops in Hyderabad have seen a dip in sales by 50%. “Many don’t have surplus money in hand to spend on liquor due to the lockdown, only the liquor shops in posh areas have remained unaffected,” said a liquor shop owner in Secunderabad. Meanwhile, liquor shop owners in the state have been urging the state government to reduce the license fee for the lockdown period as the shops were shut. “If it continues this way, we may have to close down the shops,” said a worried liquor shop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-tipplers-sneak-into-t-for-cheap-liquor-sales-zoom/articleshow/76079266.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Pay bill before deadline, avail rebate: Discom to consumers||JAIPUR: The state government allowed deferring payment of power bills for two months till May 31 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As the deadline is now fast approaching, the discoms have appealed to consumers to take advantage of 5% rebate on next bill by paying before May 31. The consumers have not been paying the bills, hoping for a waiver. Discoms said that no power bill has been waived and consumers could avail discount of 1% to 5% if they deposit the bill before the month end. Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited has appealed to lakhs of consumers of the 11 districts under it, to take advantage of the exemption being given and to submit the bill by May 31. AVVNL managing director V S Bhati said that Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited has given many facilities to consumers in compliance with the decision taken by the state government to provide relief to the power consumers and the order issued by the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission. If consumers of agriculture and household category pay bills by May 31, then they will be given 5 per cent discount on the amount paid in the upcoming bill. Similarly, on payment by May 31, other categories of consumers (other than agriculture and domestic category) will be given a percentage discount in the upcoming bill. He informed that during the period from March 22 to May 31, the electricity bills have only been deferred and not stayed, the consumer could now pay such electricity bills partially or in full even after the due date. In such cases the electric connection of the consumer will not be severed. The online system has also been suitably changed so that consumers can submit online part payment of their electricity bill. Bhati said that consumers will be given one per cent discount (maximum Rs 50) in their bills for the period up to May 31, when consumers send meter reading (figure and photo) to the call centre or concerned officer of the corporation through WhatsApp. In order to provide relief to consumers, all types of banking charges and processing fees will be borne by the discom on payment of bills issued through digital payment mode till May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pay-bill-before-deadline-avail-rebate-discom-to-consumers/articleshow/76080262.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Infant makes full recovery from Covid-19, discharged||PUDUKOTTAI: An 18-month-old infant recovered from Covid-19 at the Government Ranees Hospital and was discharged on Thursday. The doctors also ensured that the child’s mother, who was staying with him, did not get infected. Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari gave the send off in person by giving the child dolls in the presence of medical staff on Thursday. Working as construction labourers in Maharashtra, the parents and baby returned to Manthakollai village in Pudukkottai district on May 18. All the three were tested on May 20. While the parents tested negative, the baby was positive. The child was having difficulty in breathing and was admitted in the ICU of Government Ranees Hospital. The medical team, including medicine chief Dr C Babu Anand, paediatricians Dr S V Inkarsal and Dr S Vairamani, examined the child and found heavy breathing due to lung infection and lowering oxygen saturation levels.The doctors said that the child required respiratory support, but as there were chances that it would worsen the condition, they chose high-flow oxygen therapy in which oxygen was given at a high-flow to fill up the lungs to improve oxygen saturation. The child was given anti-viral drugs and immune boosters and shifted out of ICU after 2 days. He tested negative on Wednesday. Government medical college dean Dr A L Meenakshi Sundaram said it was crucial to have the mother close to the child and prevent her from getting infected. “The child was too young to manage on his own. Therefore, we ensured that the mother stayed with the child with personal protective equipment, N-95 mask and gloves, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/infant-makes-full-recovery-from-covid-discharged/articleshow/76080265.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Moving fallen giants from private premises burns hole in pocket||KOLKATA: How much does it cost to remove an uprooted tree lying on the street and another inside a residential complex? Nothing for the first and anything between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 for the second. The civic bodies say they can’t afford to step into private complexes when large stretches of the road outside are still demanding their attention. And Wednesday’s squall has added to their work. Residents across the city, from Behala and Thakurpukur, and Alipore and Ballygunge to Salt Lake, continued to cry foul over living precariously with fallen trees on their premises nine days after Amphan. Biren Roy Road East resident Bulbul Chatterjee, 72, had managed to find some KMC ground-level personnel last Friday and showed them how a mango tree had toppled into the water body in her complex. “But they said they didn’t have orders to remove trees inside private properties. The local contractor, who is helping KMC remove trees, wants Rs 20,000 to lift it out with a hydraulic crane,” said Chatterjee, who lives alone. “I asked the men hacking trees next door to cut down one of my trees that has tilted towards my neighbour’s house. They demanded Rs 15,000,” said Alipore resident Aradhana Agarwal. On Ballygunge Circular Road, eight families living in a cul-de-sac are at their wits’ end on how to clear a mango tree that has been blocking the street since Amphan. “We were locked in for two days. We then got some people to saw off a few branches to allow access,” said Devasis Gupta. However, Ekdalia Place resident Tanusree Bhattacharya’s troubles ended on Thursday after a Odisha-based team slogged for six hours to remove a tree from her verandah. The Basus of Salt Lake’s AE 258 were not as lucky. “A tree has fallen on our house. A neighbour brought in the fire brigade, but their crane couldn’t be used because of lack of space,” said Keka Basu. The cost of removing it on our own will be huge,” said her husband Debashis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/moving-fallen-giants-from-private-premises-burns-hole-in-pocket/articleshow/76079293.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Drama at GMCH mortuary after wrong identification of 2 bodies||Nagpur: A goof-up nearly took a serious turn after bodies of two elderly women got exchanged at the Government Medical College and Hospital mortuary on Thursday. The matter was sorted out on time and the bodies handed over to the right claimants. Both the women had died on Wednesday. Bodies of the deceased, Lalita Pantawane, 60, and Savitri Kamble, 80, were sent to the mortuary for collection of swabs for Covid-19 test as both were resident of containment zones. Pantawane had come from Parvati Nagar while Kamble was from an old-age home at Tajbagh. Both elderly women later tested negative. Some claimed that the goof-up happened due to the hospital staffers while others blamed it on the employee of the Tajbagh-based old-age home . “In view of the Covid infection scare, people are hesitant in getting close to the bodies. Even doctors are advising safe distance. The confusion happened due to this,” said a source. “Kamble’s test result came first. Hence, Sakkardara police came with an employee of the old-age home where Kamble stayed,” said a source. It’s learnt the employee identified the body of Pantawane as that of Kamble following which the Sakkardara police performed the inquest. Ajni police were supposed to be conducting the inquest panchanama for Pantawane’s body. After the inquest, the old age home employee took Pantawane’s body to the Mokshadham ghat. In the meantime, family members of Pantawane reached the mortuary and were left stunned after learning that the body has already been handed over for cremation. They started protesting on seeing Kamble’s body, and subsequently Pantawane’s last rites was stopped on time. Sakkardara police later conducted panchanama of Kamble’s body and took it away while Ajni police performed formalities for Pantawane. Later, Kamble was buried at Mokshadham ghat and Pantawane’s family too performed last rites at the same place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/drama-at-gmch-mortuary-after-wrong-identification-of-2-bodies/articleshow/76079273.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn gets cost-effective mobile disinfectant machine||Trichy: A cost-effective mobile disinfectant has been developed by Vimal Jyothi Engineering College, in Kerala, that can be easily moved around and also connected to a motorcycle for disinfecting public roads and bus stands. Named ‘Unnat Mobile Sanitiser’, the equipment was developed by the team in collaboration with SVN metals Trichy and Bharath Engineering Corporation, it was donated to Trichy Corporation in the presence of corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian on Tuesday. It has been designed specifically to sterilize public roads, bus stands and other common places by spraying disinfectant solution, V Sampath Kumar, professor from Vimal Jyothi college, said that the equipment is cost effective and can be used by anyone. “The equipment can be easily connected on a two-wheeler and quick disinfection can be carried out on public places and roads,” he said. “The engine is fitted with two motors which are electrically rechargeable,” said T D John, head of the research team. The machine, mounted on three wheels, can spray up to 10ft. Disinfectant can be sprayed with special fitted arrangements for a further 60ft with a 30ft-long hose, he said. Sanitary officer S Karthikeyan from Trichy Corporation said that the equipment will help disinfect office spaces and multi storey buildings. The equipment is eco-friendly and cost effective not running on fuel, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-gets-cost-effective-mobile-disinfectant-machine/articleshow/76080258.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Girl sale: Dad sold elder son too, say cops||NAGAPATTINAM: In a fresh twist to the sale of a three-year-old girl, it has come to light that her father, who it turns out masterminded the crime, had sold his son too, to a couple in Kancheepuram. Following the revelation, the Nagore police arrested the accused M Ashraf Ali, 40, of Vellapallam in Nagapattinam, his friend Hasan Mohammed, an autorickshaw driver, his friend Mehrunnisha and Fatima on Thursday. Ali, a native of Tenkasi settled in Vellapallam, and his wife had fallen out following which the girl and his one-and-half-year-old brother were left to his care. Ali had sold the girl for Rs 1.35 lakh to a couple, Abdul Razak-Renabu Nisha in Kovilpatti, with the help of Mohammed, Mehrunnisha and Fatima, the couple's relative. However, according to police, Ali told them that he had an elder son too who had been sold to a couple. Police are now probing this revelation. When the incident came to light, police said Ali staged a drama pointing fingers at his accomplices. However, during the interrogation headed by deputy superintendent of police, Nagore, Murugavel, he spilled the beans. All the four accused have been remanded at prisons in Tiruvarur (women prison) and Nagapattinam after they were produced before the court in Nagapattinam, police said. District child protection unit (DPCU) officer N Sivakumar told TOI that the one-and-a-half-year-old boy has been rescued and sent to Annai Sathya children home in Nagapattinam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girl-sale-dad-sold-elder-son-too-say-cops/articleshow/76080276.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 29, 2020||Kochi||Flouting of quarantine norms by Keralite returning from Delhi creates scare at Athani||Thrissur: A 46-year old man who had reportedly moved around violating quarantine norms after coming from Delhi by train created a scare in Athani area near Wadakkanchery. He was later sent for quarantine by police and residents. Naduppathil Rajesh of Kurichikkanam in Kottayam district reportedly came by Rajadhani Express and got down at Ernakulam in the wee hours of Thursday, police said. He came to Thrissur as there was no quarantine facility near his house, according to police. He reached Thrissur by bus around 6am and took a taxi up to Athani, where he had worked as a security person at a shopping complex. Rajesh had reportedly told police he was planning to stay at Athani or go to the place of a Swamy at Desamangalam. When he was trying to have a bath at the pond attached to Kuttiyankavu Temple, the children around there grew suspicious and did not allow him to take a bath. Subsequently he hitch-hiked on a bike to Athani and went to two ATMs there and had tea from a hotel there. By then police and health officials reached the spot and took him to the Medical College Hospital in an ambulance. However, since Rajesh was carrying medical certificates from Delhi stating that he was not suffering from any ailments, he was shifted to an ashram at Kondayur in an ambulance. The health authorities subsequently sanitised the ATMs. By then exaggerated stories were being circulated through the social media about the incident, and police have initiated actions against those who spread fake information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/flouting-of-quarantine-norms-by-keralite-returning-from-delhi-creates-scare-at-athani/articleshow/76077956.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Info of 33 districts to be revised in gazetteer||JAIPUR: The state government will rewrite the gazetteer of all 33 districts of the state in a phased manner. Under this programme, every year, the gazetteer of at least six districts will be written and published. In the first phase, the work of writing and publishing gazetteers of Alwar, Banswara, Jodhpur, Karauli, Hanumangarh and Pratapgarh districts would be taken up. A budget provision of Rs 30 lakh has been made for these districts, at Rs 5 lakh per district. Simultaneously, compilation and writing of information of Churu, Bharatpur, Ganganagar, Bikaner, Jaisalmer and Jalore districts will be done in the next phase. The chief minister has instructed that in order to maintain uniformity and authenticity in writing the gazetteers of all the districts, they should be written by selected writers at the state level. It is noteworthy that all the district gazetteers published earlier are from 15 to 40 years old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/info-of-33-dists-to-be-revised-in-gazetteer/articleshow/76080277.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Leaning trees now a bigger threat to lives and utilities||KOLKATA: More than the uprooted trees, those leaning dangerously over roads are now posing a threat to pedestrians, motorists and utility services. Some of the large trees which had been leaning since May 20, when Amphan hit, were uprooted by Wednesday’s storm, bringing down lamp posts and cable wires. According to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation parks department sources, many leaning trees were uprooted in Wednesday’s storm and brought down about 50 lamp posts. Areas in Belgachhia, Rajabazar, Lindsay Street, Sarat Bose Road and Southern Avenue plunged into darkness, said an electrical department official. Widespread damage was also caused to cable lines, particularly in Dum Dum Cossipore, Belgachhia, APC Road Road, Behala and in areas located off EM Bypass, a civic source said. Two large Radhachura trees leaning dangerously over Jatin Das Road pavements fell on two parked cars on Wednesday night, damaging the vehicles. “We were slowly restoring city’s street lighting system that was severely damaged after Amphan. But our efforts suffered a setback after several leaning trees were uprooted on Wednesday, damaging a large number of lamp posts,” the official said. Authorities of MR Bangur Hospital have been struggling to clear a large tree from the rear of the premises which was initially leaning and then fell. Branches of another tree have been hanging from wires. According to a hospital official, the KMC needs to remove the tree to enable vehicles to enter the hospital. “It is essential that the large tree be removed. We need to clear the passage to enable free movement of vehicles that carry medicines and sanitizers,” a hospital official said. According to parks department sources, of the 9,000 large trees uprooted by the cyclone across the city, 10% were left leaning for the first three-four days. “We carried out a major drive along with the Army and disaster management teams and removed most of the leaning trees from major thoroughfares. However, we need to remove over a 100 more which are still posing a threat to lives and public utilities. Several such leaning trees are also lying in the various neighbourhoods. We will remove them as soon as we can,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/leaning-trees-now-a-bigger-threat-to-lives-and-utilities/articleshow/76079326.cms||Saikat Ray
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Migrant worker found murdered, cops suspect sexual assault||Nagpur: The partially naked body of an unidentified man, possibly a migrant labourer, with smashed head was found in a farm near Kapsi flyover on Thursday. The murder took place around 100 metres from a camp for migrant labourers. Apart from being robbed, police suspect that the victim was sexually assaulted before murder. The post-mortem could not take place on Thursday because first swab sample was collected from the body for Covid-19 test. It’s reliably learnt that the post-mortem would be done only if the sample tests negative. The forensic experts are likely to conduct minimum dissection autopsy as per the latest guidelines issued in the backdrop of the Covid outbreak. Cops recovered the body which was in partially naked state with jeans pulled down. No purse or mobile phone was found. Apart from a blood smeared stone, police have also found empty liquor bottles near the body. The investigation team feels that one or more assailants were present with the victim. The murder might have happened following a fight after consuming liquor, said a police officer. Pardi police have registered an offence of murder against unidentified persons. Zonal DCP Neelotpal said the CCTV footages from the camp and different places are being checked. “The first challenge is to establish the identity,” he said. It is learnt, cops visited nearby liquor outlets, eateries, industries, factories and transporters’ offices for identification purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrant-worker-found-murdered-cops-suspect-sexual-assault/articleshow/76079333.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Centre’s package nothing but loan mela, says Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot led the Congress online campaign to draw attention towards the plight of migrants and workers affected by the countrywide lockdown for two months. Gehlot in a message under the Speak-Up India campaign said the Congress president had extended unconditional support to the central government to fight the corona pandemic and suggested various measures to alleviate the misery of the poor including migrant labourers and workers. But the central government ignored the suggestions by the opposition leaders including former party president Rahul Gandhi. He said Rahul Gandhi had been consistent in his demand for cash transfers to the poor. This would not only help their survival but generate demand in the economy, he said. He said the package announced by the Centre was nothing but a loan mela which would not benefit the poor. Pilot said lockdown 4.0 was about to end, but there was no strategy or roadmap in sight. He said the virus was still very active and people were suffering. He said the Centre had not extended help to states which are in the forefront in the fight against corona. “We have been demanding a national policy on migrants,” he said. He said the Centre should immediately transfer Rs 7,500 to the accounts of migrants, Rs 10,000 to all non-income tax payers and an increase in mandays under NREGA, he demanded. Pilot said NREGA is the only source of income for the rural people now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centres-package-nothing-but-loan-mela-says-gehlot/articleshow/76080269.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man loses Rs 4.2 lakh in KYC fraud case||HYDERABAD: A 70-year-old retired government employee lost Rs 4.2 lakh in a KYC (know your customer) fraud case. An unidentified man, posing as a Paytm employee, lured him into completing his Paytm KYC process, by stating that his account will be blocked if he doesn’t do so. The victim, who resides in Sainikpuri, received a message stating- “Dear customer your KYC has been suspended. Paytm office Ph: 70xxxxxxxx calls immediately, your account will be blocked within 24 hours. Thank U Paytm team”. Fearing his account will be blocked, the victim dialled the phone number and spoke to the accused, following which the accused instructed him to install AnyDesk app on his mobile phone and asked him to share the ID of the remote access app. “He was asked to add Rs 10 to his Paytm wallet. The moment he shared credit and debit card details and OTP in the app, money was deducted,” said a police official from Rachakonda cybercrime cell. A case was registered by Rachakonda cybercrime police. “Many fraudsters these days are sending such bulk SMSes, and most of the victims are aged above 55. Citizens have to be cautious, KYC frauds have seen a sudden rise during the lockdown,” said ACP S Harinath, cybercrime, Rachakonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-loses-rs-4-2l-in-kyc-fraud-case/articleshow/76079306.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana gets ready to thwart locust threat||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials to take precautionary measures like keeping fire engines, jetting machines and pesticides to thwart the locust threat. Thousands of locusts were seen over Jaipur on MondayThousands of locusts were seen over Jaipur on Monday.To estimate the travel method of the locusts from time to time and to monitor the measures to avert their entry, the government has appointed a five-member committee with Central Integrated Pest Management (CIPM) plant protection officer R Sunitha, agriculture university principal scientist SJ Rehman, Warangal conservator of forests Mohammed Jalaluddin Akbar, Ramagundam police commissioner V Satyanarayana and Mancherial district collector Holikeri Bharathi. This committee members will camp in Ramagundam for four days from Friday and would monitor the situation from Adilabad to Bhadrachalam alongside river Godavari by taking chopper rides. Officials informed the CM that 15,000 litres of pesticide like malathion, chloropyrifos and lambda cyhalothrin liquid have been kept ready on the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border. Apart from this, 12 fire engines and 12 jetting machines have been kept ready. KCR asked chief secretary, director general of police and disaster management secretary and principal secretary of agriculture to monitor the situation from Hyderabad and interact with officials of the neighbouring states. “As locusts travel along with wing direction, if the winds blow towards the south, they may travel via Chhattisgarh to Telangana. Though the chances of locusts entering the state are less, all the districts need to be on a high alert. If they enter, they should be killed on the borders by spraying the pesticides,” the CM said. The district collectors of Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mancherial, Asifabad, Adilabad and Peddapalli and police officers have also been alerted. The CM held a review meeting with officials at Pragati Bhavan on possible entry of swarms of locusts into the state and the impact they could have on crops. He said all the district collectors and police officials in the border districts of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh have been alerted. Fire engines, jetting machines and pesticides were put in place. KCR also enquired on the possible direction of locust invasion in the next few days. Officials informed him that the locust swarm that entered the country is moving towards Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra en route Bhandara and Gondia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gets-ready-to-thwart-locust-threat/articleshow/76079356.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Retail demands focussed attention from government||Hyderabad: Instead of a piecemeal approach to a sector that is one of the largest employers in the country, the retail industry needs the government’s undivided attention in the form of tailored incentives to tide over the Covid-19 crisis, said retailers. They also rued that the retail industry is yet to get its due recognition and deserves a dedicated ministry to address its concerns. “The bureaucracy has just begun to understand the pain points of the retail sector. Every retailer, be it small or big, has unique problems which have to be addressed in a specified manner,” said Avnish Kumar, CMD, Neeru’s, while speaking on ‘Retail: Delivering the goods in a post-Covid world,’ as part TOI’s six-day virtual conclave: ‘Reboot Telangana- Making Telangana Future Positive’, which is supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Agromech, Meluha Technologies, Saket Pranamam and Janapriya. Krishna Pavan Kunjeti, CMD, Happi Mobiles, said retailers operate on very thin margins and the highest cost is towards manpower management and rentals. He pointed out that the PF and ESI exemption being provided to players employing less than 100 players, should also be extended to all employers, which will benefit the sector. Meanwhile, Sanjay Jain, managing director, Agromech Industries pointed out that the retail industry will beef up spending on technologies and the level of digitisation will also rise. “As a player, we too are focussing on digitisation… it is to ensure better user experience for customers…,” he added. With Telangana allowing all shops, except malls, to open up, retailers are hopeful of gaining lost ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retail-demands-focussed-attention-from-government/articleshow/76080335.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Government announces cheaper solar power for household||JAIPUR: Now people looking to reduce their energy bill can do by putting up solar plants on their rooftops. For a kilo watt rooftop system, which generates about 350-400 units, one can pay Rs 78,000 after availing government subsidy of 40%. Without subsidy, the cost of plants are estimated at Rs 43,000 per kilo watt. Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has selected vendors who will be eligible to put up the plants. The vendors will also be responsible for getting the government subsidy and for maintenance of the solar plants for five years. RRECL has allocated 45 megawatt under the scheme. People consuming more power can also opt for additional capacity plants but the subsidy will be 20%, applicable for 4-10 kilo watt systems. “The rates of rooftop solar now are in reach of common public. It will provide boost to rooftop solar sector in state as well as less power burden on discoms. It is a good option for people to get cheap power at their homes,” said Prakhar Mittal, member of Rajasthan Solar Association. Mittal said the move will be a game changer to promote renewable at the grass-root level and will ensure that a large population of residential connection owners will become self-dependent on energy consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-announces-cheaper-solar-power-for-household/articleshow/76080281.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Nor’westers likely over weekend, wind speed could touch 50kmph, says Met||KOLKATA: The city remained cloudy with intermittent spells of rain on Thursday as a low-pressure trough loomed over south Bengal. The Met office has predicted thunderstorms between Friday and Sunday, with light to moderate rain in Kolkata and across south Bengal. As the low-pressure trough that had triggered a 96kmph nor’wester on Wednesday evening slid southward and lay across Bihar, Bangladesh and north Bay of Bengal, cells of cloud floated into the city. Several spells of rain lashed the city since Thursday morning — there was 3.6mm of rain. “We still have a cloud cover due to the trough and it will persist for the next three days. Nor’westers are likely, though they may not be as intense as that of Wednesday. The cloud and the rain will continue till Sunday,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. The wind speed could range between 30kmph and 40kmph during the nor’westers, predicted the RMC, adding that it could touch a maximum of 50kmph. Kolkata has remained windy and cloudy under the impact of the trough since Monday. “The entire south Bengal could receive more storms now,” Das added. Wednesday’s nor’wester left several city roads waterlogged on Thursday. Areas in north and central Kolkata, like Belgachhia, Burrabazar, Muktarambabu Street, Amherst Street, Camac Street, and Ekbalpore, Kidderpore, Behala and Joka in the south were waterlogged. The KMC special garbage cleaning drive was also halted in some waterlogged stretches. Earlier this week, the trough had been hovering above north Bengal and lay between Uttar Pradesh and Assam. It triggered thundershowers across north Bengal. It was aided by a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal, which supplied moisture and led to a strong breeze in Kolkata. “The wind travelled from south to north across Kolkata. It continued till the low-pressure in north Bengal existed and then travelled towards south Bengal, which led to thunderstorms across Gangetic Bengal. These troughs are common in the pre-monsoon period,” said a weather scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/norwesters-likely-over-weekend-wind-speed-could-touch-50kmph-says-met/articleshow/76079369.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Excise dept levies 10% VAT on Rajasthan-made liquor||JAIPUR: The cash-strapped state government has again turned to liquor to replenish its depleted coffers. The excise department has levied 10% VAT on Rajasthan-made liquor, increasing the prices by up to Rs 11 per bottle. Sources in the department said the cumulative revenues from the surcharge would be around Rs 700 crore annually. In its liquor policy, the government has made the country liquor shop licence holder mandatory to buy 30% of RML of their total intake. A senior official in the government said that RML was introduced for the first time. “Therefore, as a procedural formality it was notified in the VAT list,” he added. VAT is applicable to all other brands, including country liquor and Rajasthan Made Foreign Liquor. The department is expected to fall short of the revenue collection it had targetted due to the lockdown and also the lower demand. “While the additional revenues will not be adequate to meet the shortfall, still it can compensate to some extent,” said an excise department official. TOI had reported that liquor sales after the curbs were lifted on May 4 had fallen by 50%, while revenue fell short by Rs 35 crore in the first 16 days of reopening of the shops. Despite the government looking at raising liquor prices, it is unable to do so because the prices in neighbouring states like Haryana are cheaper by 25% and any further increase will give rise to bootlegging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/excise-dept-levies-10-vat-on-raj-made-liquor/articleshow/76080285.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||12% rise in compensation at IIM-Trichy placements||Trichy: Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy completed the final placement for the 2018-20 postgraduate programme (PGP) in management batch with a 12% increase in median annual compensation over last year. A total of 119 companies offered over 186 roles to 173 students who participated in the placements which got over by March. The median annual compensation has increased to Rs 14.5 lakh from Rs 13 lakh last year and the roles spanned finance, sales and marketing, consulting and analytics and operations domains. There was a rise of 26% in the number of companies which participated while the average annual compensation for students placed in finance domain has seen a rise of 18% over last year. With an average annual compensation of Rs 14.97 lakh per annum across all domains, Rs 25 lakh was the highest annual compensation offered this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/12-rise-in-compensation-at-iim-trichy-placements/articleshow/76080283.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Manglauru: Bajrang Dal leader booked for assaulting minor||MANGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district police booked a Bajrang Dal leader, who is also a rowdy-sheeter, for assaulting and forcing a minor to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’ in Vittal police station on Wednesday. Though the incident took place a fortnight ago, the victim filed a complaint only after a video of the same went viral on social media. Vittal police said that they have booked rowdy-sheeter Dinesh, 25, a resident of Kanyana village, and two minors in connection with the case. The incident took place in a school premises under Vittal police station limits. In the video, Dinesh tries to assault a minor along with two other minors, and forces the victim to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’. Police said that the victim came to the police station on Thursday morning, after which a case was filed. Since the station is sealed, after one of the police personnel tested positive for Covid-19, the station head said that they have registered an FIR, and that they will book the accused under various sections, after analysing the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bajrang-dal-leader-booked-for-assaulting-minor/articleshow/76075682.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||With WFH here to stay, citizens making it comfy||Nagpur: It has been more than two months since most office-goers were compelled to coop up at home. Work from home has become an integral part of lives. Recreational activities notwithstanding, many will be working from home permanently. To make the process more enjoyable, many have converted their rooms’ corners into comfy work stations, arranged for tables, resting chairs and are keeping a snack box at hand to munch on, while working. Others are making the most of their balconies. Freelance artist Samiksha Munot has converted her dining table into a work station. She has installed beautiful plants, paintings and a comfortable chair to imbue more warmth into the workspace. “It is all about creating the perfect space that lets you work, and it’s possible if one gets a bit creative,” Munot says. She loves to enjoy a cup of coffee and binge-watch her favourite TV series there. “I can relish snacks while working or play a movie if I am bored; that is the benefit of working from home,” she adds. For Khushal Katara, a young entrepreneur, balancing his work and leisure is very important. He works only at the workstation that he has put up in his 2BHK flat, where he stays with his friends and has a collection of teas — which he loves to sip while working. “I am a tea lover, so nothing is more comforting for me than sitting peacefully on my desk with a schedule planner and sticky notes around. I like to lie down in my chair and get engrossed in my work,” he says. Katara also loves to sit in his balcony and spends a lot of time on his terrace for fresh air. Nidhi Prasad, a home baker, loves to work from home and has now made appropriate changes in her kitchen to have fun with baking and cooking. She has decorated her work station with everything new. “Baking is my job and I receive many orders in a day. Now that my factory is shut, I have decorated my kitchen with all the required ingredients, arranged the tools and vessels so it becomes more efficient,” she says. Adding to this, another baker Leena Puri says, “My kitchen is always equipped with everything needed for baking. I am utilizing this time to try new flavours and recipes.” Anushree Pingley, an IT engineer is always surrounded with her family members near her desk. She loves to take small breaks and do exercises to relieve stress. “I make sure to always sit on my desk with an upright posture. I do some simple exercises in between so that I don’t feel fatigued, as I work for 9 hours,” she says. Manank Panchmatia, a law student who is also a community head in digital media firm Yes Theory’s India operations, has to arrange for several Zoom call meetings everyday. He prefers working on his study table for meetings and writing. “I cannot work anywhere but my workstation. It gives me a sense of discipline so that I can work with concentration. I also love to work and study in the lawn for some time, while snacking on peanuts and cold coffee for added comfort,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-wfh-here-to-stay-citizens-making-it-comfy/articleshow/76079393.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 29, 2020||Amaravati||Big-ticket investments in pipeline for Andhra Pradesh, says YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Industrial policies took centre stage on the fourth day of Mana Palana Mee Suchana held at the camp office on Thursday. Addressing industrialists and business leaders present at the meet, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy said the state will soon become the biggest destination for investments as the government has made the administration corruption-free in the last one year and several big-ticket investments are in the pipeline. He exuded confidence that the government will achieve the much-delayed Special Status Category (SCS) at some point in the coming years. The chief minister said that Andhra Pradesh has suffered post-bifurcation chiefly due to the failure of the previous TDP government in pressing for the SCS despite being a coalition partner in the then Union government. He said the state could have easily got the SCS had BJP not secured full majority in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Although, they (the BJP-led Centre) are not dependent on us for support, we are maintaining cordial relationship with them and continuously pressing for the SCS. I firmly believe that we will achieve it someday, if not tomorrow,” said Jaganmohan Reddy. About 1,466 industries have already expressed their willingness to invest nearly Rs 11,500 crore in the coming months in the state and another 23 big firms are in negotiations to invest in different locations, he said, adding, “The TDP has done nothing except for making foreign junkets all the five years in the guise of industrial promotion. We are getting new investments with our honest governance.” He said that they would make Andhra Pradesh’s four major ports, six airports as big investment attraction and get more industries to the state. The state has already readied the blue-print to promote industrial development on a big scale and the 972-km long coast is set to play an important role in it. The chief minister said that they have taken several initiatives to help MSMEs struggling due to the Covid-19 induced financial troubles. The government has recently released pending incentives to the MSMEs and promised to clear the incentives from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/big-ticket-investments-in-pipeline-for-ap-says-jagan/articleshow/76083033.cms||Samdani MN
May 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Centre reconstitutes AIIMS, Jodhpur’s institutional body||JAIPUR: Ministry of health and family welfare reconstituted the institutional body of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur and appointed Jaipur’s Dr S S Agarwal, past president (national) Indian Medical Association (IMA) as one its members. Dr Agarwal is one of the 17 members nominated by the Centre. SMS Medical College professor (department of nephrology) Dr Dhananjai Agarwal, AIIMS Delhi professor (gynecology) Dr Vineet Ahuja, Bikaner technical university vice-chancellor Dr Hakam Dan Charan and representatives of ministry of human resource development, secretary of ministry of health and family welfare, representative of ministry of finance, director general of health services of ministry of health and family welfare, chief secretary of state government and other members including three MPs have been named in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/centre-reconstitutes-aiims-jodhpurs-institutional-body/articleshow/76080291.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Farmer arrested for death of 13 peafowls||TRICHY: A 53-year-old farmer was arrested after 13 peafowls died after after consuming rat poison-laced paddy grains in his farmland. The farmer, K Kasinathan from Seekampatti village near Arimalam had spread the poison to get rid of rats. According to officials from the forest department, they received information about the death of a few peafowls in the farmland owned by Kasinathan a few days back. Upon inquiry, Kasinathan told forest officials that his paddy crops were facing onslaught by rats and he had placed rat poison mixed with paddy grains in some parts of his land. Kasinathan was booked under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, arrested and sent to 15 days judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmer-arrested-for-death-of-13-peafowls/articleshow/76080293.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Boy uploads porn using dad’s phone, both held||Trichy: A plus-one student who uploaded child pornographic pictures and videos on his facebook account using his father’s mobile phone was arrested late on Wednesday night at Papanasam in Thanjavur district. His father, a resident of Pandaravadai in Papanasam taluk, was also arrested for abetting the crime. Papanasam deputy superintendent of police Nandhagopal and a team of police from all women police initially picked up the father after the social media cell of the rural police found that the contents were uploaded and shared from his mobile phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-uploads-porn-using-dads-phone-both-held/articleshow/76080298.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Big-ticket investments in pipeline for Andhra Pradesh, says YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Industrial policies took centre stage on the fourth day of Mana Palana Mee Suchana held at the camp office on Thursday. Addressing industrialists and business leaders present at the meet, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy said the state will soon become the biggest destination for investments as the government has made the administration corruption-free in the last one year and several big-ticket investments are in the pipeline. He exuded confidence that the government will achieve the much-delayed Special Status Category (SCS) at some point in the coming years. The chief minister said that Andhra Pradesh has suffered post-bifurcation chiefly due to the failure of the previous TDP government in pressing for the SCS despite being a coalition partner in the then Union government. He said the state could have easily got the SCS had BJP not secured full majority in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Although, they (the BJP-led Centre) are not dependent on us for support, we are maintaining cordial relationship with them and continuously pressing for the SCS. I firmly believe that we will achieve it someday, if not tomorrow,” said Jaganmohan Reddy. About 1,466 industries have already expressed their willingness to invest nearly Rs 11,500 crore in the coming months in the state and another 23 big firms are in negotiations to invest in different locations, he said, adding, “The TDP has done nothing except for making foreign junkets all the five years in the guise of industrial promotion. We are getting new investments with our honest governance.” He said that they would make Andhra Pradesh’s four major ports, six airports as big investment attraction and get more industries to the state. The state has already readied the blue-print to promote industrial development on a big scale and the 972-km long coast is set to play an important role in it. The chief minister said that they have taken several initiatives to help MSMEs struggling due to the Covid-19 induced financial troubles. The government has recently released pending incentives to the MSMEs and promised to clear the incentives from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/big-ticket-investments-in-pipeline-for-ap-says-jagan/articleshow/76076763.cms||Samdani MN
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘77% Covid-19 victims had end-stage comorbidity’||CHANDIGARH: Nearly 77% of Covid-19 victims in Punjab had end-stage comorbidity and other contributing factors, state’s principal secretary for health Anurag Agarwal said on Thursday. Out of 40 deaths so far, occurring mostly in patients over 50 years, 31 persons were afflicted with serious underlying illness, like end-stage kidney disease and cancer, HIV, besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure. Chronic illnesses like heart disease, hypertension, diabetes and obesity were major associated illnesses which worked as contributing factors in the remaining 23% of cases, said Agarwal, while pointing out there were only handful of cases which had no underlying chronic illness. In most cases, patients were already suffering from serious illness which might have led to mortality in natural course of events, he said. As many as 1,918 patients have already fully recovered. Underlining scientific, systematic and aggressive contact tracing coupled with the effective enforcement of lockdown, Agarwal said doubling rate of in Punjab has been about 100 days for last few days, which was encouraging. In all cases, where patients are found to be positive irrespective of the underlying disease, as per ICMR guidelines the death is counted as Covid-19 death, Agarwal said underlining the state’s mortality rate was significantly lower than the national average of 3%. In many cases, samples of dead bodies have been taken some of which have turned out to be positive and all these deaths have been taken as Covid-19 death. This was done to not to miss on contact tracing of possible positive cases, Agarwal added. Expert committee headed by Dr K K Talwar also guided the state to analyse and review the cases of deaths and take corrective action accordingly. The review of the death cases were also taken up by the expert committee in details and doctors working in the state updated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/77-covid-19-victims-had-end-stage-comorbidity/articleshow/76080263.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Shimla||Vice-chief of PHSC opts for private facility||JALANDHAR: At a time when the Punjab government wants people to have faith in the public health system and the health department has been claiming credit for handling of Covid-19 pandemic, the vice chairman of Punjab Health System Corporation (PHSC) has got himself admitted to a private facility after testing positive. Jalandhar city-based Congress leader Monik Sehgal, popularly known as Bobby Sehgal, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and opted for an isolation centre established by the Punjab chapter of Indian Medical Association at Shahkot — around 45km from Jalandhar. Interestingly, Jalandhar civil hospital, which has 340 dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients, is also under PHSC. Currently, most of the beds are empty there. The Jalandhar medical superintendent said currently, they have 46 patients, including 14 confirmed cases. When contacted, Bobby Sehgal said he opted for the private facility as there was no room available at Jalandhar civil hospital and he also did not want to disturb any patient already occupying a room. “I shall shift there as soon as a room is available there,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/vice-chief-of-phsc-opts-for-pvt-facility/articleshow/76080278.cms||IP Singh
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Will protect cadre at any cost: Chandrababu Naidu||AMARAVATI: Stating that challenges are not new for the party, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu said they will march towards a better future inspired by NTR’s vision and ideals. Naidu said cadre are the biggest strength of the party and he will not bow down to pressures in protecting the cadres. Naidu paid floral tributes to party founding president and the late chief minister N T Rama Rao (NTR) on his birth anniversary during the last day of Mahanadu on Thursday. The party general body passed a resolution demanding conferment of Bharat Ratna on NTR. Addressing party leaders and cadre via video-conference, Naidu said NTR was the symbol of Telugu pride, courage and dynamism. He said NTR was not an individual but an institution who inspired many generations during his lifetime. Naidu assured the party leaders and cadres to take the party ahead with NTR’s ideals and principles. Nandamuri Balakrishna, NTR’s son and TDP MLA, said schemes launched by his father were followed by many states. NTR relentlessly worked to eradicate poverty in the state, he said. Balakrishna exuded confidence that TDP would return to power under the dynamic leadership of Naidu. Speaking to the cadre from Hyderabad via a video link, Balakrishna said TDP was the only party that worked for the uplift of the downtrodden sections. He said that he would be available to the party whenever it required his services. Senior leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu lashed out at the state government for creating a ‘terror environment’ in the state. He expressed serious displeasure at the government for not honoring the court directives. “It shows the height of the arrogance of the chief minister. He has no respect for the courts and judiciary,” said Yanamala. Senior leader Ayyanna Patrudu said that future generations would suffer if the chief minister continued in power. Former home minister China Rajappa said that the chief minister had directed the DGP to go one-sided to harass opposition cadres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-protect-cadre-at-any-cost-naidu/articleshow/76076787.cms||Samdani MN
May 29, 2020||Vadodara||Man accused of killing his father hangs self in quarantine centre||VADODARA: A man, who was detained for allegedly murdering his father in a village of Panchmahal district, committed suicide in a government Covid-19 quarantine facility in Godhra on Wednesday night. The accused Pravin Parmar was brought to the quarantine facility on Tuesday for conducting Covid-19 test before formally arresting him. According to police sources, Parmar, a resident of Nani Dasar village in the precincts of the Kakanpur police station, had allegedly strangled his father Narvat (56) on Monday afternoon. The complaint against Pravin stated that Narvat had tried to intervene in a bitter fight between his son and wife Rita on Monday. As Narvat reprimanded Pravin, he got furious and strangled his father at their residence. Pravin fled from the house, but was nabbed on Tuesday itself. He was brought to the hostel of the Maize Research Station in Godhra where a quarantine facility has been set up. Health workers collected Pravin’s samples for Covid-19 test on the same day and he was kept at the facility as results were awaited. Sometime on Wednesday night, Pravin hung himself using the cover of the mattress at the hostel. “He went to the gallery and used its grill to hang himself. Three other persons were sleeping in the same room as Pravin, but they did not come to know of the incident as it took place outside in the gallery,” said deputy superintendent of police Ramesh Desai. Desai said that Pravin tested negative for Covid-19. As per the procedures, he would have faced arrest. It is believed that he took the extreme step out of guilt of having killed is own father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-accused-of-killing-his-father-hangs-self-in-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76076972.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Injured elephant died of excessive loss of blood, fluids: Post-morterm report||Dehradun: The injured elephant which was rescued from Ganga banks and eventually died in Haridwar on Tuesday had suffered hypovolemic shock (excessive blood or fluid supply loss), the post-morterm report revealed. The male tusker was around 45-years-old and it suffered a major respiratory attack too, the report states. The post-mortem report also stated that the pachyderm had five major wounds. The rescue operation team saw the elephant drowning twice due to the river flow, even though it tried to protect itself from drowning. “It had around 42cm deep lesion and its rectum was punctured too. It was in extremely poor health condition when it was drowning. We darted it once, but the jumbo failed to regain its senses despite several attempts to save it. It was completely exhausted and had probably lost all the important fluids during the in-fight with other elephants,” said Dr Aditi Sharma, senior veterinary officer, Rajaji Tiger Reserve. According to the officials, the jumbo jumped into the river near Bhimgoda Barrage in Haridwar to save itself from the attack of other elephants. The veterinary officer said the fight for territory often leads to such instances in the jungle. “It is very common to see wild animals attacking each other to prove their dominance in an area and the weaker ones often get knocked down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/injured-elephant-died-of-excessive-loss-of-blood-fluids-post-morterm-report/articleshow/76078004.cms||Shivani Azad
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Bhandewadi on fire again, experts blame non-segregation of waste||Nagpur: The city’s garbage dumping ground in Bhandewadi once again caught massive fire on Thursday, leading to enormous air pollution in the surrounding areas. The fire reportedly started in the morning and continued till late evening on Thursday. According to officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the waste caught fire due to increasing temperature. The maximum temperature of the city on Thursday was 46.3 degree Celsius. Four water tankers were deployed at Bhandewadi. This is the third time in this season that the dumping ground of city’s municipal solid waste has caught fire. Six days back, the garbage caught fire when a nearby high tension power line came in contact with plastic carry bags. Earlier on April 14 too, the area was on fire that raged for two days. Massive fires in the dumping area have become a regular phenomenon every summer. According to experts, the unscientific dumping of unsegregated solid waste was the major cause. “The civic body is encouraging segregation at source but it itself dumps all kinds of mixed waste at Bhandewadi. Only segregated garbage should be dumped. All the recyclables have to be sorted out in material recovery facility which needs to be planned properly,” said Leena Buddhe, director of Nagpur’s Centre for Sustainable Development. Founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee said, “The reason of frequent fires may be attributed to non-segregation of waste. The dumped waste contains high volume of light weight plastic, which gets blown off due to heavy winds, touches the high tension wire present over the dumping yard and catches fire. Due to peak summer the dumped waste is dry, which catches fire from burning plastic. Stating that wet waste should compulsorily go to the compost yard, Buddhe added, “Merely collecting segregated waste from household will not serve the purpose. It has to reach the dumping yard too. Wet and dry waste need to be treated separately and windrows have to be made scientifically to avoid fires.” Windrows are rows of heaps of municipal solid waste. NMC is carrying out biomining process to treat solid waste in Bhandewadi. “The process generates methane gas which has high calorific value. The suppressed methane gas inside dump waste accelerates the spread of fire. However, fire due to human activity also can’t be ruled out,” added Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandewadi-on-fire-again-experts-blame-non-segregation-of-waste/articleshow/76079408.cms||Manka Behl
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Pest swarm splits into two, groups head to MP and Bhandara||HYDERABAD: Officials in Telangana geared up to tackle the swarm of desert locusts as part of ‘Operation Desert Locusts’ heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday as the swarm split into two groups and headed in different directions away from Telangana. The swarm had come close to the state borders in Amaravati, Maharashtra on Wednesday. “The swarm split into two groups in Amaravati of Maharashtra, one headed back to Madhya Pradesh while the other entered Tumsar tehsil of Bhandara in Maharashtra,” Y G Prasad, director, Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute (ICAR-ATARI), Zone-X, Hyderabad told TOI. On Thursday morning, the swarm went east and it is expected that it will enter Gondia district in Maharashtra. “Whether it will move to the border areas towards Madhya Pradesh will have to be observed. There are also reports of another swarm in Mumbai, but this will have to be confirmed” Prasad said. Though the swarm split and went in different directions, the threat to Telangana still remains from the small remainder of the desert locusts. Moreover, a few locals in Rayadurgam, Anantapur, reportedly noticed desert locusts preying on a crop on Thursday. “The movement of the swarms is based on the winds. So their movement has to be tracked every day,” Prasad said. Mohan Reddy, deputy director in the agriculture department, said the state is ready to meet the eventuality of the locusts entering Telangana, however, as the swarms change their direction, their final destination cannot be predicted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pest-swarm-splits-into-two-groups-head-to-mp-and-bhandara/articleshow/76079409.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-Roorkee to conduct research on identification of antivirals to treat Covid-19||DEHRADUN: The Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, (IIT-R) will conduct research on the identification of antivirals to treat SARS-CoV2 (Covid-19). A proposal in this regard, led by professor Pravindra Kumar, has been given a go-ahead by the science and engineering research board (SERB) of the Union government. The study will be funded by the Centre's Department of Science and Technology (DST). The objective of the study, the institute sources said, is to identify antiviral molecules to combat Covid-19. They added that it will expedite the process of identification of drugs through “an in-silico approach that is based on computer-aided simulation of their molecular structures”. The study will be conducted by professor Pravindra Kumar in collaboration with professor Shailly Tomar from the department of Biotechnology, IIT Roorkee, and Dr Gaurav Sharma from the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Izatnagar, who will aid in the assessment of the antiviral efficacy of the identified molecule to treat SARS-CoV2. “We are stuck in a strange situation and there is hardly any chance of a proper drug for coronavirus any time soon. Our idea is that we identify repurposing drugs, which is currently being used for some other purpose but can also be effective in the treatment of Covid-19. Hence, our study will identify small molecule inhibitors to target key viral replication enzymes—RNA dependent RNA polymerase, viral proteases and the methyltransferase. These enzymes are virus-specific that are encoded with genetic material (RNA) of the viral pathogens. We will try to find out which currently available drug will be effective in the treatment,” said Pravindra Kumar of IIT-R. According to the scientists, the groundwork of the research has already been prepared by the completion of in silico work based on high-throughput virtual screening approach to assess the binding affinity of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drugs targeting the main protease of the virus (M-pro). The study will leverage a computer-based high throughput virtual screening approach to identify antiviral molecules from various compound libraries that will be validated for antiviral potential. “This approach can be path-breaking in the identification of antiviral molecules to fight COVID-19.,” said Prof. Ajit K Chaturvedi, Director, IIT Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-roorkee-to-conduct-research-on-identification-of-antivirals-to-treat-covid-19/articleshow/76078011.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Chief secy, two others appear before HC||Vijayawada: Facing contempt of court orders, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, panchayat raj principal secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi and commissioner panchayatraj Girija Shankar appeared before the high court on Thursday. The court summoned them for not implementing its order in the matter of painting government buildings with colours akin to that of YSRC flag colours. However, as the state government has challenged the order in the Supreme Court, the high court posted the matter for further hearing to Friday. Though the Supreme Court was scheduled to take up the special leave petition (SLP) moved by the state government on Thursday, the hearing did not take place. The high court had earlier passed an order suspending the GO issued by the state government, and directed the government to paint government buildings with politically neutral colours. It also issued specific guidelines. The state government moved the apex court challenging the high court order but the Supreme Court declined to intervene in the matter. However, the state government issued GO 623 prescribing the new colour scheme by adding one more colour to the old colour scheme and said that the new colour scheme was selected to reflect the agrarian nature of the state. Taking objection to the new colour scheme, petitions were filed in the high court again. After hearing the petitions, the high court suspended GO 623 and directed the government to comply with its earlier order, and warned that failing to do so would be considered as contempt of the court and the officials responsible will have to personally appear before it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chief-secy-two-others-appear-before-hc/articleshow/76076809.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Boy uploads porn using dad’s phone, both held||TRICHY: A plus-one student who uploaded child pornographic pictures and videos on his facebook account using his father’s mobile phone was arrested late on Wednesday night at Papanasam in Thanjavur district. His father, a resident of Pandaravadai in Papanasam taluk, was also arrested for abetting the crime. Papanasam deputy superintendent of police Nandhagopal and a team of police from all women police initially picked up the father after the social media cell of the rural police found that the contents were uploaded and shared from his mobile phone. They traced the internet protocol (IP) address of his mobile from the pornographic content that was uploaded. During interrogation, it came to light that it was his minor son who had indulged in the crime. The boy had appeared for plus one examination. Papanasam police arrested the boy and booked him under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act. His father, a trader, was arrested on charges of abetting the crime, police said. The mobile phone and a laptop were seized from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-uploads-porn-using-dads-phone-both-held/articleshow/76080309.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||8 fires reported in city in 24 hours||Nagpur: Soaring temperatures in the city have resulted in spurt in fire incidents with eight being reported within 24 hours. This kept the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire and emergency services department personnel deployed at nine fire stations across the city on their toes. The first fire was reported on May 27 at a DP box near Kumbhar Toli in Lakadganj area, followed by Cotton Market fire which gutted 18 temporary vegetable shops there. Fires also broke out at a dal mill in Kalamna and a slum area in Sonegaon. Fire was also reported in roadside garbage near LAD College, Gandhi Nagar, Bhandewadi dumping yard, at a house near Rachana Apartments at Swawlambi Nagar and another one in a transformer near Gandhi Gate (Mahal).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-fires-reported-in-city-in-24-hours/articleshow/76079425.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||No. of disabled students sees sharp fall in Rajasthan schools||JAIPUR: In the last four years, there has been a 63% decline in the number of disabled students studying in various government and private schools across the state. Information received under Right to Information Act reveals that slowly the number of disabled students are going down despite all the schemes and initiatives of the state government. In 2015-16 academic year, 1,16,683 disabled students were studying in schools which came down to 42,910 in 2019-20. One of the major reasons for this downfall is lack of facilities and special teachers. Dipendra Singh, an activist who filed the RTI said, “Appointing special education teachers has not been a priority for government and private schools. RTI data shows the ground reality of state when it comes to educating disabled students. Special teachers are compulsory in every school under the Disability Act 2016. In compliance with the same Act, special teachers are appointed in states like Delhi, Karnataka Kerala. Recently, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has also made two special teachers compulsory in all its schools while no such attempt have been made in Rajasthan.” The RTI reply stated that from 2015 to 2017, only 10 types of disabilities were included while from 2018 to 2020 information of students with 21 disabilities have been provided and still their numbers were declining every year. In Rajasthan, there are only 1,650 special teachers in government schools whereas according to Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, every school should have one special teacher. At the national level, Rajasthan with 40.16% has the lowest literacy rate of disabled persons in the country. Recently, commissioner court of specially abled, Jaipur, has issued a notice to the state government to fulfil the requirement of special teachers and proper required facilities in all schools in Rajasthan. Its implementation is yet to be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-of-disabled-students-sees-sharp-fall-in-schools/articleshow/76080316.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram accounts for 27% of Haryana total tally||CHANDIGARH: With sudden spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the state of Haryana for the past three days, more than one fourth of the total cases in the state are from Gurugram district alone. On Thursday, 68 of the total 123 cases reported in the state were from Gurugram. In overall tally, 405 of the total 1,504 Covid-19 cases reported in Haryana till Thursday evening are from Gurugram district. It constitutes 27% of the total cases of the state. Meanwhile, Thursday’s 123 cases spike is sharpest ever single day rise in the state. Earliest, highest figure was 94 cases reported on Tuesday. With one death reported from Gurugram district, the total number of deaths in Haryana has reached to 19. On Tuesday, the district Gurugram had received 33 cases, on Wednesday 20 cases and on Thursday 68 cases were recorded in the district that share boundaries with the national capital. The business capital of the state, Gurgaon is also the biggest revenue generator district of Haryana. Till Thursday, a total of 604 active cases of Covid-19 have been left in the state, while 881 have recovered. The recovery rate of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has been recorded to 58.58%. To prevent the spread of Covid-19 cases in the state, the authorities have identified 26 containments zones in Gurugram district. While Gurug is at number one place in the state with 405 cases of Covid-19, Faridabad has recorded 276 cases. Sonipat is maintaining third position with 180 cases.  Even the highest numbers of 209 active cases left are in Gurugram district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ggn-accounts-for-27-of-haryana-total-tally/articleshow/76080294.cms||Ajay Sura
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||Across Pithoragarh, report of inmates escaping quarantine to buy booze, get drunk & create ruckus||Pithoragarh: District authorities are investigating an allegation that residents who worked in different parts of the country and have recently returned to Pithoragarh, are using government schools and other government buildings where they have been institutionally quarantined, as “recreation centres”. They are consuming liquor there, and in some cases, indulging in drunken brawls at the centres, creating problems for other inmates . On Wednesday night, some people were reported to have created a ruckus after consuming liquor at Tourist Rest House (TRH) Munsyari, which currently houses 44 people in institutional quarantine. Earlier the same day, two inebriated inmates tried to escape from the quarantine centre by jumping from the first floor of the TRH, said Arif Khan, SHO of Munsyari police station. One of them fractured a leg and was sent to Pithoragarh for treatment, he added. An FIR was lodged against both for violating quarantine protocol, and investigation is on to find how they have been acquiring the liquor, Khan said. The baggage of the inmates wasn’t frisked at the time they were quarantined at the TRH, so it’s possible they had carried the liquor with them.” On Thursday, nodal officer of Gangolihat Government Inter College, had also lodged a complaint at Gangolihat police station against 11 quarantined people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/across-pithoragarh-report-of-inmates-escaping-quarantine-to-buy-booze-get-drunk-create-ruckus/articleshow/76078014.cms||Prem Punetha
May 29, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra set to cross 60,000, deaths near 2,000||MUMBAI: Maharashtra recorded 2,598 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 59,546 and thus inching close to the 60,000 mark. Also, the state continued to add a significant number of deaths with 85 recorded on Thursday, its third highest count for a day. With this, the state’s death toll was 1,982, very close to the 2,000 mark. In the last three days, the state has added 287 deaths. The state government attributed the jump in deaths to book-keeping and said the bulk of these deaths had occurred over a one-month period but have been added to the tally only now. Out of the total deaths reported on Thursday, 37 occurred in the past two days, the state said, and the other 48 were from the period May 15 to 25. The case fatality rate for the state was 3.32%. Of the total deaths, 38 were from Mumbai, taking the city toll to 1,135. Of the 38 deaths in Mumbai, 22 were from May 15 to 25, the update stated. After a marginal slump in cases on Tuesday (1,002) and Wednesday (1,044), the city again saw a rise in cases. With 1,467 fresh ones on Thursday, its case count rose to 35,485. Out of the 38 dead in Mumbai, 24 patients had co-morbidities, the BMC said. It added that 27 of the victims were men and 11 women, while four deaths were of those below 40 years of age. Around 15 of the deaths were of those above 60 years old. The city’s recovery rate stood at 28% even as the death rate hovered around 3.2%. Revealing the city’s bed status, the BMC said that 96% of its 6,099 beds in the Dedicated Covid Hospitals (for co-morbid and severe cases) were occupied on Thursday, while 80% of the 1,437 beds in Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs, for moderate cases) were occupied. The civic body also admitted that 99% of the 645 Covid ICU beds were occupied. However, beds in the Covid Care Centres were abundantly available. In a positive development, the recovery rate for the BEST, that has been one of the hardest hit groups among the essential service providers, is steadily going up. It has increased from 26% two weeks ago to 52% on Thursday, senior officials said. The total staffers infected in BEST has risen to 250. Among civic staffers too, over 1,500 have been infected, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal revealed recently. The rate of discharge in the state was also steadily increasing. Of the total number of cases, 18,616 patients have been discharged so far. On Thursday, 698 people were sent home after treatment. Besides Mumbai, four deaths each were reported from Vasai-Virar and Thane, two deaths were reported from Navi Mumbai and one each from Raigad, Jalgaon and Nanded. The Pune Municipal Corporation reported 10 days, nine deaths were reported from Satara and seven from Solapur. Three deaths were reported from Aurangabad and five from Akola. Meanwhile, as many as 154 Covid-19 positive patients and three deaths were reported from Thane within 24 hours on Thursday. So far, 2,604 positive patients have been recorded in Thane, the death toll there is 75, and 1,085 patients who were infected have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cases-in-state-set-to-cross-60000-deaths-near-2000/articleshow/76080313.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard attacks two, including official, dies on way to Nehru zoo||HYDERABAD: A leopard caught by forest officials in Nalgonda district on Thursday morning died while being shifted to the city’s Nehru Zoological Park. The seven-year-old male leopard was trapped in a snare in Rajampet thanda of Marriguda mandal. According to zoo officials, the snare was kept by the farmers to trap wild boars. After several efforts, the leopard was tranquilized and put in a cage. However, it died on the way to Hyderabad. A team of doctors, who conducted the post-mortem, certified that the cause of death was due to internal haemorrhage, shock and asphyxia. The zoo authorities said that all the samples collected have been sent to VBRI, Shantinagar in the city for a detailed investigation. Further, two persons, including a forest official, were injured while catching the leopard. On Thursday morning, a farmer noticed the leopard stuck in a fence and alerted officials, following which forest and zoo officials from Hyderabad rushed to the spot to rescue the animal. The officials used tranquilizer to immobilise the leopard, however, the leopard did not calm down and chased the people around, injuring two of them. The animal then slipped underneath the vehicle of the forest officials. A little later, when the tranquilizer had its effect on the animal, it was moved into a cage and was taken to the zoo. “The leopard was put in a cage and was being shifted to the zoo where it was to be kept in quarantine before being released back into the wild. Unfortunately, it died on the way,” officials said. Hundreds of villagers from surrounding areas gathered at the spot to watch the animal. Four months ago, another leopard had been rescued by forest officials in the same area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-attacks-two-including-official-dies-on-way-to-nehru-zoo/articleshow/76079431.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||HC nod for e-auction of govt land with riders||Vijayawada: The high court on Thursday passed an interim order allowing the state government to proceed with e-auction of government land under ‘Mission Build AP’, but with riders. While allowing the government to go ahead with the e-auction procedure, the court also asked it not to allot land to eligible bidders till its next orders. Five public interest litigation (PIL) petitions have been filed in the high court, challenging the state’s decision to sell land under ‘Mission Build AP’. Contending that the government notified land donated by people for sale under the programme, the petitioners urged the court to restrict the government from selling those land. The government argued that the sale of land was taken up in a transparent manner. The government further argued that the process of selling unused government land was not new and it was a policy decision taken up duly following all constitutional procedures. The government also relied on various Supreme Court judgements to justify its stand. Taking the arguments of both sides into consideration, the HC allowed the government to go ahead with the procedure of e-auction but said the allotment of land has to be done subject to the outcome of the petitions. The hearing on the petitions has been posted to June 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-nod-for-e-auction-of-govt-land-with-riders/articleshow/76076846.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 cases in Raj Bhavan, will cabinet expansion go online?||BHOPAL: With six staff and residents of Raj Bhavan testing positive for Covid-19 and a part of it turned into containment zone, where will the expected cabinet expansion take place? And will it be delayed because of this? Over 100 officials and employees working in Governor House are being tested for Coronavirus and the staff quarters is out of bounds, said an official. The swearing-in of ministers, if the cabinet is expanded in the next few days, can still take place on the lawns or in the auditorium, where the first five ministers were sworn in on April 21. But this expansion is going to a big one – at least 25 ministers are expected to be sworn in. If the auditorium falls short, the event can move to Minto Hall, the assembly or even online, said an official. Raj Bhavan officials said they can very well organize the ceremony on campus but there has been no official communication from the government yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-cases-in-raj-bhavan-will-cabinet-expansion-go-online/articleshow/76079446.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Dr Sudhakar moves HC, alleges ‘wrong’ treatment||Vijayawada: Alleging improper and wrong treatment, Dr Kolaventi Sudhakar Rao moved the high court on Thursday requesting that he be shifted to a better hospital. The doctor, who was admitted to government hospital for mental care (GHMC) in Visakhapatnam after he was arrested by the police on May 16 for allegedly creating nuisance in a drunken state, said his current treatment is resulting in serious side-effects as some of the medication prescribed to him should not be given to diabetic patients, and if administered for a long duration, can cause serious health complications, including psychological issues. Dr Sudhakar mentioned in his petition that he was illegally admitted to the mental health hospital even though he is conscious and healthy. He alleged that after the intervention of the high court, the authorities, with the support of the mental care hospital superintendent, created a false story that he was suffering from mental illness. “They are making efforts to provide wrong treatment by giving me ‘clozapine’ and typical antipsychotic drugs like ‘haloperidol’ which are dangerous for diabetic patients,” he said in the petition. He pleaded the high court to direct the authorities to shift him to a better medical centre. He also requested action against authorities who are trying to create doubt about his mental health and named the principal secretary (home), principal secretary (health), DGP, Visakhapatnam city police commissioner and superintendent of mental care hospital as respondents. The high court yet to hear his petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dr-sudhakar-moves-hc-alleges-wrong-treatment/articleshow/76076884.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Shimla||Eight more persons test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, count at 281||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported eight more positive cases of Covid-19, including three from Solan district of a woman with travel history to UP and Delhi-returnee mother and son duo. With this, Himachal has reported total 281 positive cases so far, of which 199 are active, four have migrated out of the state, 73 have recovered. So far, five have died due to the pandemic in the state. The 30-year-old woman, who lives in a rented accommodation in Baddi, has a vague travel history to Shamli in UP earlier this month. Officials are verifying the exact travel history with the date. She was planning to travelling to UP and was tested randomly where she was found positive. A woman and her son, resident of Ramshehar in Solan district, had returned from Delhi on March 22, and had been quarantined at Suncity at Baddi, have also tested positive. A 60-year-old man from Indora in Kangra, 30-year-old man from Nagrota Bagwan, a 20-year-old woman from Baijnath and 35-year-old woman from Dandol area of Baijnath have also tested positive on Thursday. All four had come from Thane, Maharashtra, by train and their samples were collected on Wednesday. They were in institutional quarantine facility at Parour and were being shifted to Dadh dedicated covid care centre in the night time. A 21-year-old man from Jogindernagar in Mandi district has also tested positive on Thursday. Two female patients admitted to Baijanath dedicated Covid care centre tested negative on Thursday and will be discharged on Friday. Hamirpur district has total 93 positive cases of which 83 are still active, Kangra has 69 positive cases of which 48 are active, Una has 32 positive cases and 15 of these are active, Solan has 23 positive cases of which 14 are active, Chamba has 20 positive cases and 9 of these are active, Bilaspur district has 18 positive cases of which 11 are active, Mandi has 12 active cases of which 9 are active, Shimla has 9 positive cases of which 7 are active, Sirmour has 4 positive cases of which 2 are active, Kullu’s lone positive case is still active and Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts have not reported any positive case so far. A total of 39,806 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Thursday, of these 14,908 completed their 28-day surveillance, while 24,898 are under active surveillance. So far 32,449 person have been tested for Covid-19, of which 31,655 have been tested negative and 281 have been tested positive and result of 513 samples is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/8-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-count-at-281/articleshow/76080302.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||10 doctors resign over transfer of Rajkot medical college professor||RAJKOT: A major row has erupted over transfer of Dr S K Gadhvicharan, associate professor of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay (PDU) Medical College in Rajkot, with at least 10 doctors from the medicine department which he heads, tendering resignations in protest late Thursday night. The doctors have opposed transfer of Gadhvicharan to Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital amidst the coronavirus outbreak. However, there was no reason cited for his sudden transfer. Gadhvicharan went on sick leave as soon as he received the transfer order. As soon the news of Gadhvicharan’s transfer spread, the doctors of the medicine came out in protest and warned the hospital authorities of resignations. The 10 doctors who tendered their resignations late Thursday evening include four associate professors and assistant professors of medicine department Talking to TOI PDU dean Dr. Gauravi Dhruva confirmed the development. “I don’t know why they have resigned. I have forwarded the resignations to the state health ministry in Gandhinagar for further guidance,” said Dr Dhruva, adding that the resignations are yet to be accepted and the doctors are working in still performing duty at the hospital. A total of 104 people were infected with Covid-19 virus in Rajkot district, out of which 83 were from the city. The Rajkot Civil Hospital being the biggest medical facility in Saurashtra, critical patients from neighbouring districts are also referred here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/10-doctors-resign-over-transfer-of-rajkot-medical-college-prof/articleshow/76079452.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Good Samaritans step out to feed & ferry migrants heading home||HYDERABAD: About 23 men and women, apart from 10 children, have been walking from Bidar with a hope to reach Raipur. By the time they reached Medchal on Thursday morning, walking for almost three days, the women were famished and the children almost dehydrated. When a team from Harvest Ministries gave them food, the women broke down in tears. “This is the first meal that we had in the last two days,” said a woman as she wept. The others were filled with joy as they had the pulihora and lime juice. Moved by the plight of the children and women, R Caleb Premanandam, director of Harvest Ministries, who has been working to provide food to the migrant workers during the last one-and-a-half month, got the people ferried in autorickshaws to Kandlakoya, hoping that the authorities would provide them transport. “I was under the impression that the government was providing buses etc., for the migrant workers but when I came here I got to know that they had to fend for themselves,” he said. Realising that the only way for the workers to reach home was through trucks or private buses, he managed to strike a deal with a truck driver to take the workers to Raipur. The driver asked for Rs 2,500 per person but after some hard bargaining settled for Rs 1,500 per person. Initially, he agreed to pay for 23 people but with 14 others pleading with him, he paid the entire amount. Caleb paid Rs 50,000 and another samaritan Ramchander, a retired banker who has been providing food to the workers, chipped in with Rs 5,000. Another person was seen giving Rs 200 each to the women workers at Kandlakoya. “We are grateful to the people who have provided us food and arranged for the transport,” said a worker, as the truck left for Raipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/good-samaritans-step-out-to-feed-ferry-migrants-heading-home/articleshow/76079445.cms||Solomon S Kumar
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||10 air passengers from metro cities test +ve for Covid-19||Coimbatore: Ten air passengers, who landed in the city on Wednesday, have tested positive for Covid-19.While one is from Coimbatore, five are from Trichy, two from Namakkal and one each from Erode and Salem. They had flown in from Mumbai, New Delhi and Bengaluru.While the Coimbatore patient was admitted to the ESI Hospital, the rest were sent to their districts, where health departments will decide on their quarantine and treatment.The Coimbatore patient is a 34-year-old woman, who came from Chennai, officials said. “Seven of them had flown from Mumbai to Bengaluru and to Coimbatore as there are no direct flights between Mumbai and Coimbatore. The Namakkal patients had flown from New Delhi to Coimbatore,” an official said.The Coimbatore woman is asymptomatic, like the 24-year-old man, who had tested positive on Monday. “The other nine passengers were sent to their respective districts via road on Wednesday and we notified health department officials at those places. We have informed the officials that those people had tested positive,” said a senior health department official.The officials also informed the airlines on which the passengers flew in and alerted the passengers who were sitting next to the 10 people. They have been instructed to remain in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-air-passengers-from-metro-cities-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76079459.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘1 of 3 phases had live power’||HOWRAH/TARAKESWAR: CESC workers had failed to switch off power supply to one of the three phases of the lamp post on which the tree that fire serviceman Sukanta Sinha Ray was to cut had fallen. This negligence on part of CESC led to Sinha Ray’s death. The three CESC workers present at the spot had allegedly told fire service officers there that power to the lamp post had been snapped. Only after getting this confident all-clear from the CESC men did the fire officers ask Sinha Ray to climb a ladder to cut the tree. Bally fire station OC Ramkrishna Saha said, “The three arrested CESC employees confessed to police during interrogation that they forgot to cut off the power supply to one of the phases of the lamp post. I was present at Belur police station when they were being interrogated. I had earlier repeatedly asked the three CESC employees whether they had switched off power supply to the lamp post and they said they had. They assured me that it was safe for firemen to start cutting the tree. To be doubly sure, I asked the CESC men to let us use their wooden ladder. I asked Sinha Ray to use that instead of our aluminium ladder and I was among those who held it in place as he climbed. Had he climbed the aluminium ladder, many, including myself, would also have been electrocuted. Sinha Ray was electrocuted the moment the hydraulic saw he was holding touched the lamp post. There can be no pardon for such negligence. We will seek the harshest punishment for the accused.” In protest, fire servicemen across Howrah district did not join in any tree cutting or removing operations on Thursday. CESC employees Raj Narayan Ray, Santanu Mahato and Kamal Akhtar were produced in a Howrah court on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. In Sinha Ray’s Santoshpur-Uttarpara neighbourhood in Hooghly’s Tarakeswar, people tried in vain to comfort his mother Bijoli Devi. She was informed about his death only after his body reached the neighbourhood late on Wednesday. Sinha Ray’s last rites were performed at the local crematorium. Sinha Ray’s mother kept crying throughout the day. “Every morning, he would talk to me before heading for work. He did so on Wednesday, too, saying he hoped to be back early,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-of-3-phases-had-live-power/articleshow/76079454.cms||Rupak Banerjee
May 29, 2020||Dehradun||RTR braces for upcoming monsoon, heightens vigilance in forest||Dehradun: In a bid strengthen the vigilance across its 110 forest beats, the Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) administration has started analysing the movement of its patrolling staff at multiple levels. The threats of poachers, abandoned and unkempt anti-poaching posts and upcoming monsoon has pushed the need for more vigilance, when the forests are more susceptible to the anti-forest elements. “Monitoring at several levels will help us to see that reserve is being patrolled 24/7 by the staff and in case of any incident, prompt action is taken. We have utilised the past one month of lockdown in upgrading our system and skills of patrolling staff,” said Amit Verma, director, RTR. We have an app which will be used by the range officer, park warden, deputy director and director of the reserve. It will help in maintaining vigilance. The multi-level analysis will help the top brasses understand gaps and areas untouched while patrolling. “If an area is being patrolled for several hours only once in a day, it is not useful as patrolling is about being vigilant all the time. So, analysis of patrolling would strengthen us in filling those voids.” added Verma. Every year before the onset of monsoon, such activities are taken up as forest and wildlife become vulnerable in the absence or lack of patrolling. But now, with monitoring system being revamped patrolling teams would be on their toes, feel officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rtr-braces-for-upcoming-monsoon-heightens-vigilance-in-forest/articleshow/76078044.cms||Shivani Azad
May 29, 2020||Amritsar||Sikhs For Justice ‘referendum’ deferred to 2022||AMRITSAR: Coronavirus pandemic seems to have cast a shadow on the Sikh Referendum 2020 for a separate Khalistan state from India. Going by the reports, the scheduled referendum, an exercise by US-based body Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) to know the opinion of Sikhs for a separate Sikh state, has been deferred to 2022. According to a Pakistani private TV channel, Referendum 2020 was scheduled to be held in November 2020 but has been deferred due to coronavirus pandemic. The new date for holding the referendum would be announced soon, the report said. Earlier, Pakistan’s Khalistani Sikh leader Gopal Singh Chawla had hinted at a delay in holding the referendum, saying that, “Neither is it written in Quran nor in Guru Granth Sahib that Referendum 2020 has to be held in 2020 only.” As the news of reported deferment started making rounds in social media on Thursday, a Twitterite Devinder Singh commented: “SFJ postponed its Referendum 2020 propaganda to the year 2022. Two more years of collecting money from innocents”. In its so called ‘London Declaration’, SFJ had announced to hold the first ever referendum in November 2020 among the global Sikh community regarding secession from India and re-establishing Punjab as an independent country. While confirming the development, sources in the intelligence department, said there were organisations which were inimical to Hindu and Sikh fraternity in Punjab and want to create a trouble among them through malicious campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sfj-referendum-deferred-to-2022/articleshow/76080314.cms||Yudhvir Rana
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Wall cave-in kills man, injures five||KOLKATA: A 40-year-old man died and five others in his family were seriously injured in North 24 Parganas’ Haroa after the wall of a room in their house collapsed on them during the storm on Wednesday night, trapping them underneath. Locals said Mohor Ali Mollah and his family members were sleeping when the wind, blowing at 80kmph, razed a wall. “As we were trying to go out, the wall collapsed on us. A chunk fell on my uncle and he was trapped under the debris. We managed to get out,” said Sheikh Shabir Ali, the nephew of the deceased. Locals took all six to Haroa State General Hospital where Mollah was declared brought dead. The rest were shifted to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital where their condition is stated to be critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wall-cave-in-kills-man-injures-five/articleshow/76079492.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Mother-son duo held for cheating NRI of Rs 6.5 lakh||Hyderabad: A mother-son duo was nabbed for allegedly duping an NRI engineer to the tune of Rs 6.5 lakh via matrimony fraud. Malavika Devati (44) with her husband Srinivas Devati and son Venkateswara Pranav Lalith Gopal Devati (22) created a fake profile on a matrimonial site with a fictitious name of Keerthi Madhavaneni and contacted many men. According to police, Malavika pretending to be Keerthi introduced herself as a doctor living in Jubilee Hills and the owner of several properties. “They created a fictional story that Keerthi’s father died and mother was torturing her to transfer property on to her name,” an officer from Jubilee Hills police station said. She started asking for money saying she has to fight a legal battle with her mother and stated she has to undergo a surgery too. The victim, a software engineer from California, believing the story transferred Rs 6.5 lakh. Later, they stopped responding to calls and messages. He then lodged a complaint through his friend and police recorded his statement through Skype. The mother-son duo was nabbed and booked for cheating and sent to judicial remand. The accused Srinivas was still at large, police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mother-son-duo-held-for-cheating-nri-of-rs-6-5-lakh/articleshow/76079604.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 230cr project to restore Noyyal||Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated the Rs 230-crore Noyyal river restoration project through video conferencing from Chennai on Thursday. The project involves removal of encroachments on the river bank, repair and desilting of 18 anicuts, strengthening of the river bund and construction of four new anicuts. According to district collector K Rajamani, the project would be completed in 24 months. The Noyyal originates from the Western Ghats in the district and flows through Tirupur, Erode and Karur districts. It confluences with the Cauvery in Karur district. It is a seasonal river, which records heavy flow during the northeast and southwest monsoons.The Noyyal river basin is 158.35km long with 23 anicuts, most of which are in a dilapidated condition. It covers 25 tanks in the district and six in Tirupur district. Nine of the 25 tanks in the district are maintained by the city corporation and the rest by the public works department (PWD).Under the project, bunds of 22 tanks that are maintained by PWD will be strengthened, and surplus weir and sluice gates would be repaired. At least 18 anicuts will be deslited and restored to good conditions. Supply channel would be repaired and retaining walls would be constructed. Vegetations to be removed from the bunds and river.The state government had sanctioned a fund of Rs 230 crore for the rehabilitation of the Noyyal as per the government order dated November 22, 2019.The collector said, “We will prevent sewage water from getting mixed with the Noyyal water. The government will spend Rs 174.96 crore to implement the project in the district, while another Rs 55.04 crore is set aside for the remaining three districts. New anicuts will be constructed at Uripallam, Iruttupallam, Thombilipalayam and Thennamanallur.”He said the project would help increase the groundwater level in all the four districts. Chithiraichavadi check dam would also be desilted as part of the project, which would benefit 36,304 acres agriculture land.The collector said tenders have been awarded to three companies to complete the project. One of the companies would implement the project for 34km stretch of the river, another for around 40km and the third one for around 86.35km, he said. “The work will be completed in two years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-230cr-project-to-restore-noyyal/articleshow/76079480.cms||A Subburaj
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC monsoon action plan lacks clarity on waterlogging prevention||HYDERABAD: Plans to prevent water logging on newly-laid roads is unclear, experts and residents said on Thursday, despite the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) allocating Rs 2.4 crore towards monsoon emergency teams. For instance, on recently re-carpeted stretches — Durgam Cheruvu to Inorbit Mall, Punjagutta Junction to Road Number 1 (Banjara Hills), Accountants General Office to Lakdikapul, Police Control Room (Basheer Bagh ) to Old MLA quarters (Hyderguda) — the water exits have been closed. These roads had been laid under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP). “Every year , GHMC officials press into service staffers to clear the stagant water. Authorities should come up with a permanent solution,” said V Ridima, a resident of Trendset Sumanjali, Road number 5, Banjara Hills. While restoration works, wherein water exits were closed by contractors are said to be below standards, the civic body too failed to monitor operations. On May 16, when the city saw a heavy downpour, several stretches (including the aforementioned re-carpeted ones) were waterlogged. “These contractors should be blacklisted,” said an angry Praveena Sarvepally, Road No. 12, Banjara hills. The CRMP was introduced to ease commuting woes with 401 stretches covering 709 kilometres in the city handed over to private agencies for five years at a cost of Rs 1,827 crore. It is these agencies which are responsible for maintaining these stretches even during rain. However, when the roads were waterlogged due to the recent downpour, it was the GHMC cleared the stretches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-monsoon-action-plan-lacks-clarity-on-waterlogging-prevention/articleshow/76079543.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 29, 2020||Hubballi||Postgraduates, graduates enrol for work under MGNREGA||HAVERI: Graduates and postgraduates, including women who have been rendered jobless by the Covid-19 crisis, are working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) — the rural jobs scheme which guarantees work and wage of Rs 275 a day to the poor. The extended lockdown has left several people who had migrated from different states in the lurch, forcing them to work under the scheme to make ends meet. There has also been a sharp jump in the number of people given jobs in rural areas. Several people who have completed courses, including MSc, B.Ed, BA, B.Com and ITI among others are working as labourers under this scheme, since they have lost their jobs due to Covid-19 pandemic. “After the lockdown, a total of 3,649 people have freshly enrolled in the Haveri district under MGNREGA and a majority of them are graduates, technicians and other qualified individuals. They had been working as accountants, data entry operators, salesmen, technicians in small industries and other private sectors in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Hubballi and other cities before the lockdown. Now they are jobless due to this pandemic,” said zilla panchayat CEO Ramesh Desai. Most of these people are involved in physical works like desilting of tanks, forestation, private land development, and others. “However, they are not hesitant to work under MGNREGA and proactive,” CEO Desai added. A postgraduate in agriculture Dore Uppar from Kummur village of Byadagi taluk who has enrolled under the scheme said he could not find job in the private sector due to the pandemic. “I have to earn to feed my family, so I enrolled under the scheme along with my father. Initially, I found it difficult, but because my family needs all the help, I’ll do it,” he said. “Earlier, I was working in NGO, but I lost my job after the lockdown. Finally, I enrolled under MGNREGA at Tilavalli gram panchayat on March 31. Moreover, I am not bothered about my qualification as my only focus is family,” said Duddusab Tilavalli, a B.Com graduate. Lalavva Lamani from Chikkaharallalli village of Ranebennur taluk completed B.Ed recently. She had applied for a teaching position in several private schools, but did not receive any response due to the uncertainty of the academic year. “Left with no option, I decided to join MGNREGA to support my family,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/postgraduates-graduates-enrol-for-work-under-mgnrega/articleshow/76077446.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Driving test tracks from June 1||CHANDIGARH: Driving tracks in the state will be made operational from June 1. An online system has been launched to book driving tests and obtain regular driving licence, Punjab government announced. State transport commissioner Amarpal Singh said applicants will now be required to take the test in accordance with booking and officials will not be allowed to take the test at their own discretion. Those who miss an appointment will have to make a booking again, he said. “Jumping the queue or adjusting a person without booking will not be possible,” said the state transport commissioner, adding that this will prevent exploitation of the public. The previous procedure for learners’ licence will continue .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/driving-test-tracks-from-june-1/articleshow/76080317.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vadodara||MSU forms special cell to hold exams||VADODARA: MS University has constituted an 11-member cell to resolve the grievances of students regarding examinations and academic activities and provide them guidance. University officials said the ‘Covid-19: Examinations/Academic Activities Cell’ has been formed as per the directions of the state government’s education department. The cell consists of professor R C Patel, who has been made convener; professor Ranjan Aiyer and professor Satyakant Shastri; professor K Krishnan, professor Hari Katariya; professor Ketan Upadhyay; professor K M Chudasama; Dr Apurva Shah; Dr Sonal Mishra, in-charge deputy registrar Mayank Vyas and deputy registrar of examination section Darshan Maru. “The cell will not only look into grievances but also manage the entire examination system from planning to implementation stage, including issuing guidelines and protocols.” Chudasama said. All faculty deans, college principals and heads of institutions under the university have also been asked to constitute similar cells at faculty, college and institution levels within two days. Chudasama said the faculty-level cells will provide support to the centralized cell of the university. In its syndicate meeting on Wednesday, the university decided to conduct examinations of final year students from July 20. Those students who are unable to take the examinations in July will be allowed to appear in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-forms-special-cell-to-hold-exams/articleshow/76076957.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Heavy showers pound city||Coimbatore: Showers for more than an hour provided a much-needed respite from the blistering heat on Thursday evening. The downpour, accompanied by loud thunder and lightning, inundated streets. It brought down electric poles at some places and uprooted trees, causing power outages across the city for more than three hours. Rain started in the evening with thick black clouds gathering over the horizon. It started to drizzles around 6pm and picked up pace soon into a slamming downpour. Mild drizzle continued well into the night. Rain water gushed into roads as storm drains overflowed in Singanallur,Podanur, Ramanathapuram, Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heavy-showers-pound-city/articleshow/76079463.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Boom unnerves Tirupur folks||Coimbatore: Panicked residents rushed out of their houses in Tirupur after a loud bang was heard around 10.30am on Thursday.While police and district administration officials maintained that it was sonic boom caused by a Tejas fighter jet from the Sulur Air Force Station, the station ruled out the possibility.The noise was heard in areas like Tirupur city, Kangeyam, Palladam, Arulpuram, Avinashipalayam, Pongalur, Koduvai and Anupparpalayam. Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan and superintendent of police Disha Mittal, who were in their offices, also heard the boom.The collector tweeted that it was most likely sonic boom caused by a supersonic aircraft and requested people not to spread rumours.When contacted by the district administration, Sulur Air Force Station officials ruled out the involvement of supersonic aircraft as none were in the air at that time.Residents of Bengaluru had heard a loud noise on May 20, which was later confirmed as the sonic boom of an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft.IAF’s No 18 squadron, the second squadron of Tejas fighters, was operationalized in the Sulur station on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/boom-unnerves-tirupur-folks/articleshow/76079470.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Wind & thunderstorm bring down 150 trees in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The city has lost over 150 trees to thunderstorm and fierce gales over two consecutive days (Tuesday and Wednesday). Also, over 200 branches snapped across Bengaluru in the same period. On Tuesday evening, wind speed touched 40-50kmph, while the next day it soared to 60-75kmph. BBMP control rooms received about 1,125 distress calls over the two days, with most complaints pertaining to uprooted trees and broken branches. “Most calls were about trees falling on vehicles, roads and on electricity lines,” said a senior Palike official. A senior officer from BBMP’s forest cell said they had already earmarked over 200 old/dead trees for felling, but the lockdown derailed their plans. “The plan was to chop these trees this summer but post-lockdown, most of our labourers have gone home, leaving us with little manpower to execute the work. This is causing trouble,” the forest cell official admitted. Most tree-cutters deployed for BBMP works are from Gadag and Bidar districts. “These workers are skilled when it comes to cutting trees. They can bring down a 60-foot-tall tree in an hour, but now we are in trouble as they aren’t around,” he added. Vijay Nishant, tree expert, said most of the trees which came crashing down belong to three species — copperpod, gulmohar and silver oak. Copperpods are generally the first casualty when wind attains moderate to heavy speeds. Nishant thinks the tree-planting pattern in the city needs to change. “We need to plant trees that can sustain strong wind and heavy showers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wind-thunderstorm-bring-down-150-trees/articleshow/76079115.cms||Nithya Mandyam
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Drainage work in Guntur and Vijayawada may be revived||Guntur/Vijayawada: Hopes have been rekindled that the underground drainage work in Guntur city and stormwater drainage project in Vijayawada will be revived following chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s order to complete both the projects. The infrastructure work in both cities connected to the capital city were stalled after the YSRC government launched a probe into the awarding of the contracts. While L&T took up the Vijayawada project with Rs 461 crore, Shapoorji and Pallonji launched drainage work in Guntur with Rs 1,000 crore. The YSRC government had not even released the dues pertaining to the completed portion of the work citing pending enquiry. Vexed with the delay, the firms have almost shut their shop in the two cities and shifted the workforce to project sites in other states. Almost a year since the work was put on hold, the chief minister has now directed the municipal administration department to resume the project. It is, however, unclear whether the same firms would be allowed to complete the pending work or government would opt for re-tendering. The question arises because the municipal administration department had cancelled the previous tenders in the housing projects launched by TDP government through the AP Township Infrastructure Development Corporation (AP Tidco) and awarded the work to new firms by calling for fresh tenders. As a policy, the state government had allowed the contractors who completed more than 70%-80% of work to continue but reviewed the other projects. Although, Guntur drainage project was planned to be completed much before the 2019 general elections, the firm had failed to complete even half of the project. Many of the roads were left after being dug to lay the pipelines leaving the city in chaos for months. Following the uproar from the public, the YSRC government has directed the district administration to complete construction and repairs of all the roads dug by UGD contractor in the last few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/drainage-work-in-guntur-and-vijayawada-may-be-revived/articleshow/76076911.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops taking HCQ shield but doctors warn of unchecked use||HYDERABAD: With a spurt of Covid-19 positive cases in the police force, the men in khaki have started taking hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as a prophylactic drug to safeguard themselves against the virus. As per the advisory of Union ministry of health and family welfare, IPS officers as well as field-level staff have been taking HCQ tablets under medical supervision. However, with the World Health Organisation (WHO) suspending use of HCQ for treatment of Covid-19 patients in view of high mortality rate, city doctors warn that indiscriminate use of the anti-malarial drug may lead to drug resistance against some strains of malaria. During the past two days, 17 police personnel posted in various units of the city tested positive for Covid-19. With the number of coronavirus cases increasing in the department, senior officials have decided to take preventive medicine as per the Union health ministry advisory issued on May 22. As per the advisory, apart from asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in containment and treatment of Covid-19 and asymptomatic healthcare workers in non-Covid hospitals, asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, the prophylactic use of HCQ has been recommended for, “asymptomatic frontline workers, such as surveillance workers deployed in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in Covid-19 related activities.” Subsequently, Telangana police officials started advising the staff to go for prophylactic use of HCQ under strict medical supervision. “We have advised staff on Covid-19 field duties to consult a doctor and, based on doctor’s advice, take prophylactic doses of HCQ. The stock is available at government hospitals,” additional director-general (Law & Order), Jitender said. According to experts, HCQ is known to cause severe health issues in case of overdose or indiscriminate use. Major health problems triggered by HCQ include change in heart rhythm, heart failure, change in blood sugar levels and muscle damage. It may also trigger suicidal tendencies and may trigger depression. Health experts claim that species of malarial parasite have already developed resistance to some known drugs including chloroquine (CQ) and HCQ. Many areas in Telangana and AP are endemic to malaria and doctors warn that uncontrolled use of hydroxychloroquine will result in a scenario wherein the drug may not work when it is needed to treat malaria. Dr Shyamala Iyengar, senior consultant, internal medicine, Apollo Hospitals, Hyderguda, said HCQ and CQ, though widely used antimalarial drugs, have immunomodulatory effects and are thus prescribed for experimental therapies for Covid-19 patients. “Chloroquine had developed resistance way back in 1973 first to falciparum malaria and later to vivax malaria. “Indiscriminate use of the drug is definitely a threat. New drugs have come up for malaria treatment since chloroquine. As clinicians we should keep a watch on drug resistance,”Dr Iyengar said. Dr Suneetha Narreddy, consultant, infectious diseases, said: “We don’t know how much HCQ usage will confer protection or result in ‘breakthrough’ malaria that is chloroquine-resistant. We will need studies to look at resistance of vivax malaria to HCW on HCQ prophylaxis. As a rule of thumb, any vivax malaria in someone on HCQ prophylaxis should be tested for CQ resistance. This cannot be done on a regular basis. It can be done only in research settings”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-taking-hcq-shield-but-docs-warn-of-unchecked-use/articleshow/76079579.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Neutering, translocation of tigers are hare-brained ideas’||Nagpur: Wildlife experts, veterinarians and wildlife buffs have termed the idea of neutering tigers to stop procreation and preventing man-animal conflict by the state government outlandish and hare-brained. They also questioned the proposal to translocate 50 tigers from Chandrapur district.“It is usually not justified scientifically to translocate wild tigers to new locations whatever be the reason. Only if there is a sufficiently large site with abundant prey, some wild tigers that have already acquired hunting skills can be relocated to repopulate such an area. There has been only one successful large project of this nature in Panna, where there was abundant wild prey, villages had been relocated, and tigers had been poached out earlier. All other cases of translocation have failed including the one in Sariska to meet the intention of repopulating a new habitat with tigers,” said K Ullas Karanth, director, Centre for Wildlife Studies (CWS).Karanth said translocations of tigers into new areas with low prey density, many livestock, and human presence has caused many tragedies not only in Maharashtra but also in other states such as Karnataka. “If it is true that dozens of tigers will be translocated in Maharashtra, it would extremely unwise and will lead to a tragedy both for local people and tigers involved. I would strongly advise against it,” the expert said.Karanth added, “If the goal is to control tiger populations, we must recognize that as the real problem. ‘Surplus’ tigers, which cannot be kept in zoos for many different reasons, should be euthanized humanely by professional doctors either in the field or after capture.”Secondly, production of ‘surplus’ tigers in wild populations can be brought down by stopping the present excessive, artificial, ‘habitat management’ which is artificially inflating prey densities and as a result increasing tiger densities and production of surplus animals that have no place to go.“These are complex ecological problems which should be seriously examined by scientists with necessary knowledge. We have too many ‘experts’ who are causing this problem without learning anything from the past,” said Karanth.“Such a proposal smacks of ignorance and reveals those who make proposals do not understand tigers. Neutering wild tigers will be against all international guidelines and would trigger a Supreme Court intervention. Translocating 50 tigers is the worst and most hare-brained scheme I’ve ever heard. Such proposals are meant for garbage can,” remarked conservationist and wildlife author Valmik Thapar.Seething reactions have been coming across India to TOI on the issue. Anish Andheria, president, Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), said, neutering had been tried in domestic dogs and other animals with limited or no success. “There may be 200 tigers in Chandrapur, but this population is ‘open’. There is nothing like ‘excess’ tigers in a landscape as none of our parks are fenced - through natural processes, young tigers will be pushed out by adult animals, keeping the overall tiger population in check,” he said.Andheria said tiger population in Chandrapur district had gone up because of better protection. Poaching too has been controlled. Unlike human population in cities, tiger population will not keep growing for forever. “What is needed is a conservation strategy unique to areas outside national parks and sanctuaries,” he added.“We should not use the same methods we are using to manage wildlife inside our parks. Outside the reserve, communities have to be involved. Habitat management has to change. Most importantly, prompt emergency response teams, composed of forest personnel and some members from the community have to be constituted,” the wildlife expert said.Andheria added also widespread and repeated awareness programmes to communicate ways of coexistence with wildlife have to happen in every village and school. If you want wildlife to roam free in human-dominated landscapes, systemic changes should be tried instead of shortcuts such as translocation and neutering. Both these methods have serious limitations and will only transfer the problem or at best give temporary relief. “What we need is a sustainable and permanent solution,” he said.Conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said, “Neither neutering nor translocation are solutions. If tiger numbers are increasing, natural dispersal is the only solution. Whole landscape is an important unit to maintain natural flow of tigers and carrying capacity is entirely decided by land use pattern. Maintaining ecological balance and securing corridors hold key over artificial management. The forest department should prepare a landscape level conservation plan for Vidarbha where state’s 96% tiger population is based.”Noted veterinary surgeon Dr Shirish Upadhye, though supportive of the idea, sounded a note of caution. “Selection of these males needs to be scientific and unhurried. In areas where viable mating pairs exist, it would be unwise to neuter the males. Instead, an effort should be made to translocate these pairs so as to maximise birthing potential.”“Population to be vasectomised should be based on genetic studies to ensure we retain maximum genetic diversity in the numbers we choose to leave intact,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neutering-translocation-of-tigers-are-hare-brained-ideas/articleshow/76050120.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Boy flunks class 6, dad dials police for help in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: In early May, the police control room received an unusual distress call. A Kengeri resident called to say his son, whose class 6 annual exam wasn’t held due to the Covid-19 lockdown, had been failed by his school. Following swift response from officials at the Bengaluru city police commissionerate, the boy’s school promoted him to class 7. The school’s move to detain the child was in violation of a state government order mandating all students up to class 8 be promoted in view of the disruption in academic activities due to the lockdown and a Right to Education Act requirement, under which no child can be failed up to class 8. The man reported that his son, who studied at a private school, had just received his annual report card and had been failed. Realising he’d have to continue another year in the same class, the boy and his father were heartbroken. “The affected boy was in tears as he complained over phone to police. As the distress call was related to a child, the case was transferred to us,” Bindya Yohannan, counsellor at Parihar Makkala Sahayavani (child helpline) at the commissionerate, told TOI. Considering the boy couldn’t attend his annual exam due to the lockdown in the state, Yohannan contacted the school principal, who claimed they hadn’t promoted the child as he was very poor in studies and had performed badly in earlier examinations during the academic year. Yohannan then approached child helpline experts and ascertained that there was a Karnataka government order mandating schools promote children till class 8, mainly during the lockdown owing to the pandemic. “As per the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, school authorities must promote children till class 8, irrespective of their academic performance throughout the year,” said Nagasimha G Rao, convener, RTE taskforce. Following inputs from Rao, Yohannan dialled the school principal. “We convinced him that as per the government order, they aren’t supposed to fail the boy and he should be promoted,” Rani Shetty, head of Parihar, said. Much to the delight of Parihar staff, the school authorities contacted them a few hours later to say the earlier report card had been cancelled and the boy had been promoted to class 7. The commissionerate staff soon contacted the child’s father and gave the good news directly to the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/boy-flunks-class-6-dad-dials-police-for-help/articleshow/76079083.cms||Petlee Peter
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Don’t merge shifts in govt colleges, says students’ union||Coimbatore: Members of a students’ union on Thursday wanted the state government to rescind its decision of merging two shifts in government arts colleges from this academic year.Merging the shifts will lead to reduction in intake of government arts colleges, resulting in students from rural areas and underprivileged backgrounds losing opportunities, members of the Students Federation of India (SFI) said.More than half of the 114 government colleges in the state follow the two-shift system. The morning shift is from 8.45am to 1.15pm and the afternoon shift is from 1.30pm to 6.05pm. The state has decided to merge these, from 10am to 4pm, with a lunch break in-between. SFI district secretary M Dhineshraja said if the shifts are merged, the intake would come down and students from rural areas and underprivileged backgrounds would lose out the opportunity and have to seek private colleges, where they would have to shell out more fees. “Students from other districts stay in hostels and do part-time work to support themselves. This is possible due to the shift system. If this is done away with, then there is a danger that these students would drop out.”The student representatives submitted a petition to the regional joint director of collegiate education, P Ponmuthuramalingam, on Thursday.Collegiate education officials, meanwhile, said no official announcement has been made and the move was under consideration.“Even if it is done, the intake would not be reduced. The facilities would be improved to accommodate all the students,” Ponmuthuramalingam said. “As there are two shifts now, classes are conducted in a hurry. If there is a single shift for a longer duration, students would get more time to use resources such as libraries and labs and also can clear their doubts with teachers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dont-merge-shifts-in-govt-colleges-says-students-union/articleshow/76079488.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Woman, friend arrested for robbing man||COIMBATORE: The Vadavalli police on Thursday arrested two people, including a woman, for robbing a vehicle dealer. Police identified them as M Sathya, 29, of Anna Nagar in Vadavalli and her friend A Saddam Hussain, 32, of Kuniyamuthur. “Sathya was engaged in prostitution and used the house of K Shanthi, 51, of Kamadenu Nagar at Vadavalli. She often visited Shanthi’s house along with K Pradeepkumar, 37, of Kavundampalayam, a used motorcycle dealer. Sathya hatched a plan with Hussain to rob Pradeepkumar of his five-sovereign gold bracelet and 3.5-sovereign gold chain. Last Friday evening, she invited Pradeepkumar to Shanthi’s house. When he reached there, a five-member gang, who had covered their faces with masks, snatched the ornaments from Pradeepkumar. The gang also snatched ear studs and gold ring weighing four grams, a mobile phone and Rs 4,000 from Sathya. The gang forced Pradeepkumar and Sathya pose nude for photos and threatened to circulate the photos on social media if he files a police complaint,” a police officer said. Pradeepkumar, however, lodged a police complaint stating that a gang had robbed him, Sathya and Shanthi. Police tracked Sathya’s stolen phone and found that she was still using it. They picked her up for interrogation on Wednesday evening and she confessed to the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-friend-arrested-for-robbing-man/articleshow/76079485.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Nagaur quarantine model: Only Rs 50 per person a day||JAIPUR: Quarantine in only Rs 50. Surprised, don’t be. While reams have been written on how the rising expenses on quarantine is creating financial crisis across the globe, the nondescript town of Nagaur has come up with an economic model sorting out the quarantine costs. The district administration has come out with a model that can quarantine a person for as low as Rs 50 a day. With this cost, they have quarantined 10,096 people in their facilities. The maximum limit of per person expenditure under the quarantine in Rs 2,400 set by the state government. “I have just followed the principle of ‘optimum utilization of available resources’ and sharing the responsibility with the civil society to achieve the unimaginable cost,” said Deepak Yadav, district collector of Nagaur. Disclosing his quarantine model, Yadav says that they have turned 1,474 government schools with huge infrastructure and big classrooms into quarantine centres. Taking government-run community centres along with private trust and foundations volunteered their facilities for free to be used as isolation centres have reduced the overall taxpayers’ money on lodging. “Another principle followed by us is isolating the suspected ones or those migrating from other states in schools located in their villages or blocks. Here, we have motivated the families to provide them 2-3 meals a day. In case any family is not capable, the gram sabha and gram panchayat has taken up the responsibility of serving food,” said Yadav. The response has been phenomenal as close to 6,000 persons are getting home-cooked food which also destresses them. In every school, a desk has been formed where the family members can drop the food packet and can take the utensils if any the next day. The administration has activated its strong network of Bhamashahs (donors) for providing clothes, drinking water, bedding any infrastructural facility like fans and coolers in these isolation centres. “Around 50 schools are such which has been entirely adopted by the donors and providing everything from food to clothes and even transport facility to district headquarter for Covid-19 test which is compulsorily for the exit from these centres,” said Yadav. The cost administration is bearing is on disinfectant and cleaning of these facilities. Even in the district headquarter, they have engaged in schools or other facilities. The only hotel hired by the administration is for health workers in order to give comfort as they work in a long shift of 12-16 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nagaur-quarantine-model-only-rs-50-per-person-a-day/articleshow/76080329.cms||Shoeb Khan
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Women SHGs create ‘grain bank’; distribute wheat, sanitary napkins||JAIPUR: To help the poor living in 255 villages of Alwar district’s six tehsils during the lockdown period, local women self-help groups created a ‘Grain Bank’ by collecting wheat donations from the farmers. So far, they have collected 305 quintals of wheat and distributed 292 quintals of it to 1,100 families. The six blocks in Alwar include Ramgarh, Lakshmangarh, Kishangarh, Umrain, Thanaghazi and Govindgarh. A group of 25 members was formed by an NGO Ibtada to conduct a survey for identification of the most vulnerable and needy families in the villages for distribution of wheat. They have also started collecting sanitary napkins from government schools where these are lying unused for distribution to women and girls in the villages. As of now, 2,000 sanitary napkins have been collected since mid April. Of these, 1,110 sanitary napkins have been distributed to 505 women and girls in 18 villages of Ramgarh and Umrain blocks. Some farmers have donated money along with wheat and the collection has touched Rs 15,000. “Looking at the difficulties faced by the poor in the villages during lockdown, it was decided by the heads of the self-help groups to start this initiative. In each village, a corona awareness committee has been set up. When 100 kg wheat is collected in a village, we discuss with them to identify the poorest and most vulnerable for the distribution of wheat. We started this initiative from Ramgarh block in April,” said Sahab Singh, project coordinator of Ibtada. “From our end, we also distribute ration kits (two litre mustard oil, 2kg sugar, 1kg salt, half kg tea and spices) to these families. So far, 305 quintal wheat has been collected from these blocks. We have already distributed it to nearly 1,100 families. We spoke with the government schools and hospitals to give us the sanitary napkins that are lying unused. Since the schools are closed now, we requested them to give the napkins to us for distribution to the poor girls and women so that these could be used before expiry. We also observed Menstrual Hygiene Day on Thursday. An awareness campaign on menstrual cycle was also organised. Apart from this, we have distributed 11,000 masks stitched by these women,” he added. Seema Kabra, who is involved in training of the SHGs, said, “Around 26,000 families are engaged in self-helf groups in these blocks. Of these, nearly 12,000 will come under Rajeevika and around 14,000 are associated with Ibtada. We spoke with the federations and its members and they agreed to start this initiative. We are distributing sanitary napkins through Ibtada’s girls’ resource centres (GRC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/women-shgs-create-grain-bank-distribute-wheat-sanitary-napkins/articleshow/76080337.cms||---
May 29, 2020||India||Karnataka wants flights restricted from 5 states, bars road traffic from 3||BENGALURU: Three days after domestic flights resumed operations, Karnataka sought on Thursday to cut down flights from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, citing a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases with the arrival of a large number of people from these states. The state government also virtually barred entry by road from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu by extending restrictions on road travel indefinitely. At around 5 pm, briefing reporters after a cabinet meeting, law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy caused a flutter, saying the state wanted flights from these five states to be barred. As the headlines created ripples across the country, he clarified around two hours later that the state government has requested the civil aviation ministry to "restrict" the number of flights coming into Karnataka from these five states as they have registered a record number of cases in the past few days. Madhuswamy said the government has written to the Union ministry and is awaiting a response. The state’s request is based on two points: one, the majority of Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka in the past 10 days have travel histories to these states; and two, institutional quarantine facilities in the state are likely to be overwhelmed if there is a sudden spurt in the number of passengers. When domestic air travel resumed in the country on Monday after nearly two months of lockdown, Karnataka stipulated a mandatory seven days’ institutional quarantine for passengers coming from seven states — including Maharashtra, Gujarat, TN, Rajasthan and MP — which have a high prevalence of cases. Madhuswamy said existing restrictions on entry by road from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat would continue till further orders. "Since a large number of people who have come from these states have tested positive and it will be difficult to manage quarantine if more people come, we have decided to stop (arrivals) by imposing restrictions… until some people leave quarantine facilities and return home," he said. In effect, applications will continue to be processed via the Seva Sindhu portal as before but, sources said, approvals are likely to be delayed until space in quarantine facilities frees up. The government is likely to take a call on trains to these three states once services resume on June 1; entry from these states has been barred since May 18. The government estimates that 13,000-15,000 people would come to Karnataka from other states if all scheduled flights operate at full capacity, which would make it difficult for the government to arrange institutional quarantine for all. "Keeping this in mind, we have requested the Centre to reduce the number of flights operating to Karnataka from these five states," Madhuswamy said. Bheema crossover from MahaThe Karnataka government has decided to step up vigil on the Karnataka-Maharashtra border along the Bheema river, which passes through Vijayapura, Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts. "Since the river has dried up, people are crossing the riverbed to reach Karnataka from Maharashtra. Against this background, we have instructed the district administrations to keep track and stop people entering the state illegally," the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-wants-flights-restricted-from-5-states-bars-road-traffic-from-3/articleshow/76081536.cms||Anil Gejji
May 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Bilara lawyer who wore 1kg gold found murdered||JODHPUR: An advocate was found murdered at Sojat in Pali district on Thursday morning. His hands and legs were tied and the body had been dumped in an ancient waterbody. His car was also found burnt a little away from where his body was found. According to police, Narayan Singh Rathore was a renowned advocate in Bilara. “He used to wear about 1 kg gold and was also known as ‘sone wale vakeel sahab’ in the area. He had left Bilara in his car on Wednesday afternoon and had been last seen by some heading towards Sojat,” said the police. SHO (Sojat City) Rameshwar Bhati said the body had marks of injuries and postmortem of the body had been conducted by a medical board. “We would be able to know more about his murder after obtaining the postmortem report,” said Bhati. On Thursday morning, police received information from villagers that a body was found dumped in a pond at Chandaval village in Sojat area with hands and legs tied by a rope. Police believe that some unidentified persons killed him for the gold he used to wear. Before this, his family members had also began a hunt for Rathore when he did not return home at night. “His family members had been constantly trying to talk to him but his phone was not responding. They also informed police and began a hunt on their own,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bilara-lawyer-who-wore-1kg-gold-found-murdered/articleshow/76080343.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bilara lawyer who wore 1kg gold found murdered||JODHPUR: An advocate was found murdered at Sojat in Pali district on Thursday morning. His hands and legs were tied and the body had been dumped in an ancient waterbody. His car was also found burnt a little away from where his body was found. According to police, Narayan Singh Rathore was a renowned advocate in Bilara. “He used to wear about 1 kg gold and was also known as ‘sone wale vakeel sahab’ in the area. He had left Bilara in his car on Wednesday afternoon and had been last seen by some heading towards Sojat,” said the police. SHO (Sojat City) Rameshwar Bhati said the body had marks of injuries and postmortem of the body had been conducted by a medical board. “We would be able to know more about his murder after obtaining the postmortem report,” said Bhati. On Thursday morning, police received information from villagers that a body was found dumped in a pond at Chandaval village in Sojat area with hands and legs tied by a rope. Police believe that some unidentified persons killed him for the gold he used to wear. Before this, his family members had also began a hunt for Rathore when he did not return home at night. “His family members had been constantly trying to talk to him but his phone was not responding. They also informed police and began a hunt on their own,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bilara-lawyer-who-wore-1kg-gold-found-murdered/articleshow/76080343.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||In Covid-19 times, locals throng beaches of N Goa for family picnic, salt water bath||BAGA: Unarguably, Goa’s busiest tourist stretch, the coastline from Baga to Sinquerim is unlike its normal self. The lockdown norms have eased and visitors have begun trickling in, but the footfalls are nowhere close to the packed-to-the-brim scenes normally witnessed in May, with domestic tourists pouring in to enjoy summer in the state. There are no hawkers, shacks or beach beds and no restaurants either offering meals with a sea view. The only visitors on this belt now are locals who have finally found the space to enjoy the annual summer salt water bath on their neighbourhood beach. “Usually, in the month of May, there would be no space to sit in peace at this time of the year on the beach in Baga, leave alone sit for hours with our legs buried in the sand. My daughter lives in the neighbourhood and after learning from her that there is plenty of space on the beach this year, I specially planned a trip here for my annual ritual,” said 65-year-old Vimal Dabolkar. Her daughter’s family also decided to take the opportunity to organise a picnic around her salt water bath. “I couldn’t imagine swimming here normally. With far fewer tourists, it is all locals, people known to us from the neighbourhood, who are around us. I feel far safer doing this now,” said Dabolkar’s granddaughter and a resident of Nerul, Kanishka Pednekar, as she munched on home-cooked snacks on the beach with the family. At Candolim, the shutters are down on tiny tattoo and swimwear stores that line the pathway leading to the beach. Local children are cycling in the empty beach pay parking lots. Only the odd foreign tourists, who have opted to stay back during the lockdown, are seen strolling on the beach. Like Kanishka and her grandmother, Siddhesh Jirge’s family too is snacking on the beach as they watch the sun set. “We live in Bicholim and usually had to drive all the way to Morjim for some quiet time on the beach. This year, we found that the beach at Candolim is devoid of the usual crowds and we keep coming here every now and then now in the evenings to experience the quiet here,” said Jirge. It is not even a fourth of the regular numbers for the month of May, said a lifeguard at Calangute. “At Baga-Calangute this year, it is mostly locals who are coming here for their annual salt water baths or family picnics now. They spend the day here and leave. In the evenings, occasionally, an odd person may have a drink or two and venture into the water, so we have to be alert. But such incidents are far lesser than what we see under normal circumstances,” said the lifeguard. Only a handful of migrant workers remain on this beach belt now. “Most workers have left. I am waiting for a direct bus to take me to Hubballi and am waiting for an update on it. There were four deaths in my immediate family, but I could not leave due to uncertainty over transportation. The employer at the restaurant I work treats me very well and so I have preferred not to pack my bags and leave without a proper update on the transport,” said Tajuddin Khan. For his employer Dominic Alexander, unlike other locals, there is no joy in staring at the empty beaches. “The season is over already. We have to look forward to October and see what happens next,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-covid-times-locals-throng-beaches-of-n-goa-for-family-picnic-salt-water-bath/articleshow/76080339.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gujarat govt acquires 62% beds in 45 private hospitals||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Thursday informed the Gujarat high court (HC) that it has acquired 62% of total beds in 45 private hospitals in Ahmedabad after these hospitals were designated Covid-19 care facilities. In a reply to the HC directions, the government said that in 45 private hospitals, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has reserved 2,048 beds out of total 3,303 beds. This is approximately 62% of the total beds as against the HC’s directions to acquire 50% of total beds in these hospitals. It also said that since some hospitals volunteered to offer 100% of their facilities, the AMC could secure more beds. Out of 42 hospitals, which were designated earlier, the AMC dropped some hospitals from the list because they were not found equipped to deal with Covid-19 emergency. These hospitals have 2,672 beds, and AMC reserved 1,731 beds from them. Among the new hospitals like Zydus Hospital, KD Hospital and Columbia Asia, where there are 415 beds in all, the AMC has said that it will reserve 213 beds. These are hospitals which were mentioned in the list of eight hospitals that the HC questioned as to why they were not included in the list. The government also clarified that the list was open-ended, and more hospitals could be acquired if need arose. At present, 415 patients have been admitted to private hospitals on beds reserved by the AMC. The government has said that there are 2,964 beds available with the government facilities. The government said that Apollo has agreed to make its City Centre near Parimal Crossing as Covid-19 facility. VS HOSPITAL IS UNDER REPAIRS: On the HC’s query as to why the AMC does not consider the VS Hospital to convert it into a Covid-19 facility, the state government has said that the VS Hospital is under repair and therefore, it is not possible to use its 500 beds for Covid-19 patients. Impasse over rates for private patients staysAhmedabad: The government informed the HC that the ceiling for rates for private patients in private hospitals, those patients who are not referred by the AMC, has been reduced further by 10%, though the association of private hospitals was not ready for this. They express their inability to reach any conclusion in this regard. It has reduced 10% cap for B Category private beds for wards and HDU, and 5% for two categories — isolation and ICU as well as ventilation and ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-acquires-62-beds-in-45-private-hospitals/articleshow/76080349.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Wadarwadi, Janwadi fresh Covid-19 hotspots in Pune||PUNE: Wadarwadi and Janwadi, two densely populated slum pockets under Shivajinagar ward office, are the new hotspots of Covid-19 in Pune. The slum pockets had remained relatively free of the contagion till last week. Over the last five days, Wadarwadi has recorded 35 positive cases and one death following which the area of 18,000 people was sealed. Similarly, Janwadi with a population of 25,000 people recorded 32 positive cases and a death over the last week following which micro-containment zones have been created in the worst-hit areas inside the slum. Two other pockets in Shivajinagar, Ramoshiwadi, a slum and a little spaced-out locality of Gokhalenagar, have also started intermittently reporting positive cases. Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole said, “Civic officials sealed Wadarwadi slum on Wednesday. Over 200 close contacts of 35 positive residents of the slum have been put into institutional quarantine facility. Micro-containment zones have been created in Janwadi to rein in the cases. There was not a single case in Wadarwadi or Janwadi till last week.” Two Covid-19 associated casualties, one each in Wadarwadi and Janwadi, occurred on Wednesday. “Both had co-morbid conditions. We have prepared a list of slum dwellers with pre-existing conditions and have told health officials to screen them on priority as they are the high-risk group,” Shirole said. Doorstep delivery of ration and other essentials is also on the cards in both Wadarwadi and Janwadi. “We are planning to start doorstep delivery of ration in a day or two,” Shirole said. Pandavnagar area in Wadarwadi is the worst-affected. “People use community toilets in slums. These toilets are potential sites for virus transmission. Hence these toilets need to be disinfected at regular intervals. PMC should provide the mobile toilet facility to these slums as per the recommendations by the central government delegations that recently visited Mumbai’s Worli and Dharavi areas,” health activist and medical practitioner Sanjay Dabhade said. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “We have already intensified the surveillance in the affected slum pockets after the first case was reported in Wadarwadi a week ago.” Like in Mumbai, densely-populated areas, especially slums, are the epicentres of Covid-19 in Pune as well. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has declared 65 slum pockets in the city as micro containment zones. No one in these areas is allowed to go out or have visitors. Experts have warned that coronavirus could spread quickly in slums where social distancing and home-quarantine are not feasible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wadarwadi-janwadi-fresh-covid-19-hotspots-in-pune/articleshow/76080341.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 29, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Now, CET with 12 students per exam hall, test in 129 towns||MYSURU: The Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) has decided to bring down the number of candidates in an exam hall from 20 to 12, for candidates taking the Common Entrance Test (CET), to ensure proper social distancing. The authority has decided to hold the examination in most taluk centres. KEA which had earlier planned to hold CET at 54 places across the state, has now decided to hold the test in an additional 75 places, taking the total number of places where the test will be held to 129. Test on July 30, 31 KEA administrative officer S J Somasekhar informed that keeping in mind the interest of students, the authority decided to limit 12 students in an examination hall. “It was 20 students earlier, but now we have decided to bring down the number to 12 students. We want to ensure enough distance between candidates who take the test,” he said. He also informed that the examination centres will be opened up in an additional 75 towns. “Many students returned to their native places from the place where they studied their PU course, and are stuck due to the lockdown. Many students from across the state study in PU colleges in Dakshina Kannada. They have now returned to their native places. To enable these students to take the CET in their native places, CET examination centres have been opened in another 75 towns,” he said. In Mysuru, as per the original CET notification, it was planned to open a testing centre only in Mysuru city, but now it has been decided to conduct the test in all the taluk headquarters, including HD Kote town. Similarly, in Kodagu district, the CET examination will be conducted in Virajpet and Somwarpet towns as well. Similarly, new towns have been added in all the districts of the state, to conduct the CET. Students are given time till 6 pm on May 31 to edit their online applications on the preferred place where they wish to take the test. “The students will be given three options to select their preferred place,” said a KEA official. Candidates are happy with the decision to increase the number of test centres. “This decision will help students from remote places. It takes students from border areas an average two hours to reach the district headquarters. Opening test centres in their nearest town is a good idea,” said Shruthi Suman, a student from Nanjanagud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/now-cet-with-12-students-per-exam-hall-test-in-129-towns/articleshow/76076982.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation gets 450 admitted to private hospitals in 10 days||AHMEDABAD: In about 10 days, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) acquired 1,500 beds in 42 city-based private hospitals on 50-50 sharing basis for Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients. Data on Thursday by AMC revealed that about 450 patients have got admitted in these hospitals where expenses are borne by the civic authority. “The move is not only to augment the existing medical infrastructure available with the state government but also to extend the care available in private sector to the patients from middle and lower income groups of the city,” said a senior AMC official. Kanta Dantani, 65, a resident of Dharmanagar, said that her monthly family income is around Rs 5,000 and she is a BPL and MAA card holder. “I got admitted to a hospital near my residence where I got the best treatment. It’s great that the civic authority is paying for the treatment,” she said. Medical officers at the private hospitals said that several of the patients have co-morbidity ranging from heart ailments to hypertension and diabetes. “Patients – especially belonging to above 60 years of age bracket – need additional screening and treatment. We are attending to several such patients who are also getting treatment for such ailments,” said medical officer of a requisitioned hospital in Ahmedabad. Dharmesh Shah is a 52-year old patient who has got admitted to a SG Road-based hospital. “Without a penny, I am getting good treatment. It’s a commendable move and a timely help in time of global pandemic when at one point of time people could not get hospital beds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-gets-450-admitted-to-private-hospitals-in-10-days/articleshow/76080366.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: KCB declares part of Range Hills in Khadki micro-containment zone for 14 days||PUNE: A part of Range Hills in Khadki cantonment limits has been declared as a micro-containment zone for the next two weeks. Khadki Candtonment Board (KCB) chief executive officer Pramod Singh told TOI that the decision was taken after three persons tested positive for Covid-19. The zone comprises a portion of Range Hills area in KCB limits, the area near Range Hills police chowkey, Type-II quarters buildings 1-3 and 5-7 between the two roads connecting Central Avenue Road and CGHS Health Centre No.6 KCB office superintendent Shuja James 32 Covid-19 cases were recorded till now in KCB limits. “Of them, 27 patients have been discharged after full recovery, while two died,” James said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-declares-part-of-range-hills-in-khadki-micro-containment-zone-for-14-days/articleshow/76080344.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 29, 2020||Goa||Skill test for BVoc students later: Goa University||PANAJI: For the BVoc programme too, the semester end assessments for the year 2019-20 will not be held, Goa University has said. The varsity has said that practical examinations and exams to test skills component will be held later ‘when circumstances permit’. “The university has decided not to hold semester end assessment (SEA) for the general education component of the first and second year regular students of the BVoc programmes offered at the university and its affiliated colleges for the current academic year 2019-20. All the above students shall be graded based on the marks scored by them in the Intra Semester Assessment (ISA) and Practical Examination of the General Education component during the current Semester,” GU has said in a circular. In cases where the practical examination and assessment of skill component of the course could not be conducted, the same will be held whenever the circumstances permit, the varsity has said. Supplementary and/or repeat examinations of the BVoc programme will be conducted from July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-skill-test-for-bvoc-pupils-later/articleshow/76080338.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘More testing will cause fear psychosis’||AHMEDABAD: The state government once again told the Gujarat high court that more testing, particularly of asymptomatic persons to find Covid-19 patients, is not advisable because it would reveal more cases and this may lead to a fear psychosis among the people. On May 22, the Gujarat high court had questioned on reduced testing in its last order, “Is this an action to artificially control the data qua the number of cases in Gujarat?” To this, the government said that it is working on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and has no relevance or connection with the so-called artificial control of data qua the number of cases in the state. “However, the likelihood of fear psychosis being crept in, cannot be ruled out, if Covid-19 testing is allowed in all asymptomatic cases, just for acquiring a feeling of safety and security,” The government said that it has formed a committee of Dr Pankaj Shah, Dr Tejas Patel and Dr Atul Patel to come up with findings on whether testing is advisable and should be permitted to asymptomatic persons merely to eliminate their doubts of being coronavirus carriers. In response to the Gujarat high court’s directions to free Covid-19 testing and to procure maximum testing kits even for private labs, the state government on Thursday said that it is strictly following the ICMR policy for testing and does not intend to deviate from it. On aid for private laboratories to test, the government said that 19 government laboratories are sufficient and good enough to conduct tests even though the number of cases may rise. “The 12 private laboratories are going to be utilized in case optimum capacity of government laboratories is likely to be exhausted,” the government reply said, adding that it is strictly following ICMR testing guidelines .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-testing-will-cause-fear-psychosis/articleshow/76080368.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Teachers’ association opposes duty in Kota’s affected areas||JAIPUR: The decision of the government to deploy teachers in locust control activities at Itawa tehsil in Kota district has been opposed by their association on Thursday. The teachers’ association said that they are already overburdened with Covid-19 duties and locust control is beyond their domain. An order has been issued by the sub-divisional magistrate of Itawa appointing teachers in locust control teams along with agricultural officers to spread awareness among farmers about the method of controlling the insects. The order mentions that in the nearby Jhalawar and Bundi districts, locusts had caused damaged to the crops of the farmers and wind direction indicates that locusts will move towards Kota. Hence, teams have been formed that include government teachers who will inform farmers about the locust attacks and precautions they can take. One government teacher deployed in locust control team said, “Orders were issued on May 22 but till now, we haven’t received any information about our duties. I am already deployed in Covid-19 duty. Teachers are always soft target for government who thinks we are robots.” Vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers’ Association Vipin Sharma said, “Teachers are already working on Covid duty. Then, why are they being appointed for locust control activities. There is a trend going on to deploy teachers wherever necessary. This work should be done by agriculture department officers and this is a technical matter where teachers have no role to play.” Last week, Dholpur district collector appointed government teachers in NREGA duties where they had to mark attendance of workers every day. School education minister, Govind Singh Dotasra taking cognizance of the matter posted on social media that government teachers can be appointed only for Covid-related work. Next day, that order was cancelled. Sharma said that as per minister’s orders, government teachers cannot be appointed in other work then locust control work orders should be cancelled soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-assn-opposes-duty-in-kotas-affected-areas/articleshow/76079512.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro trials along north-south corridor||KOLKATA: Nearly 65 days after suspension of services, Metro Railway began trials along its north-south corridor in Kolkata from Thursday. The trials will serve two purposes. While the fitness of rakes that had been lying idle for over two months can now be checked, it will also allow Metro employees across the city to travel to their designated work locations. “The primary aim is to ensure that all systems, including the rolling stock, are in perfect condition when we receive instructions from the ministry of railways to resume commercial services. To check the signalling systems and other assets at stations and inside the tunnels, we require staffers. Many of them are unable to reach their workplace due to the lockdown. Now that the trials have started, employees can board them to reach the stations where they are posted,” Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said. Among the other aspects that are being checked are the third rails, power distribution systems and air-conditioning. Filters of ACs at stations and on trains have been cleaned and the machines overhauled to ensure comfort for commuters when services resume. At the same time, plans have been made for crowd management when services start. Metro believes that only about a third of the nearly 6.5 lakh commuters who used the city’s lifeline before the lockdown will be permitted on trains after it is lifted to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-trials-along-north-south-corridor/articleshow/76079515.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 29, 2020||Ajmer||Covid count breaches 8,000 mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Rajasthan on Thursday breached the 8,000 mark after 251 more tested Covid-19 positive. Fresh spike of cases in Jhalrapatan and Aklera of Jhalawar are keeping health authorities on their toes. In the past two days, 133 cases have been reported. According to officials, the area which reported cases is congested and densely populated where cases were sporadic earlier. Health authorities had collected more than 540 samples and out of those 69 tested positive on Thursday. Chief medical health officer (Jhalawar) Dr Sajid Khan said they were conducting sampling work of contact persons of infected persons on a war-footing in Jhalrapatan, Aklera and Jhalawar city. On Wednesday, 64 persons in Jhalawar district were found infected. In the state, seven persons died while 251 others tested positive bringing the infected tally to 8,067. The deaths were from Ajmer, Banswara, Dausa, Jaipur, Karauli, Nagaur and one from another state. The toll stands at 180. Dausa reported its first Covid-19 death. Districts which reported cases are Jhalawar (69), Jodhpur (64), Pali (32), Bharatpur (12), Sikar (10), Kota (9), Nagaur (9), Jaipur (7), Bikaner (7), Jhunjhunu (7), Ajmer (6), Churu (5), Dausa (4), Hanumangarh (3), Bundi (1), Bhilwara (1), Dungarpur (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Sirohi (1), Jalore (1) and one from other state. In Jaipur, a computer operator of SMS Medical College’s department of pharmacology tested positive. Two more were found infected in Nandlapura, one each from Bhojpura, Mansarovar, Kailashpuri on Amber Road and Shastri Nagar. As many as 85 migrants tested positive on Thursday taking their tally to 2,199. However, 253 persons have recovered taking the count of such patients to 4,815. The health department clarified on Thursday that it will release Covid info bulletin twice in a day. Earlier it used to be released thrice a day. “After feedback from all stakeholders, it has been decided that info bulletin of state government will now be released twice a day at 10.30 am and 8.30 pm,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-count-breaches-8000-mark-in-state/articleshow/76088315.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Covid count breaches 8,000 mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Rajasthan on Thursday breached the 8,000 mark after 251 more tested Covid-19 positive. Fresh spike of cases in Jhalrapatan and Aklera of Jhalawar are keeping health authorities on their toes. In the past two days, 133 cases have been reported. According to officials, the area which reported cases is congested and densely populated where cases were sporadic earlier. Health authorities had collected more than 540 samples and out of those 69 tested positive on Thursday. Chief medical health officer (Jhalawar) Dr Sajid Khan said they were conducting sampling work of contact persons of infected persons on a war-footing in Jhalrapatan, Aklera and Jhalawar city. On Wednesday, 64 persons in Jhalawar district were found infected. In the state, seven persons died while 251 others tested positive bringing the infected tally to 8,067. The deaths were from Ajmer, Banswara, Dausa, Jaipur, Karauli, Nagaur and one from another state. The toll stands at 180. Dausa reported its first Covid-19 death. Districts which reported cases are Jhalawar (69), Jodhpur (64), Pali (32), Bharatpur (12), Sikar (10), Kota (9), Nagaur (9), Jaipur (7), Bikaner (7), Jhunjhunu (7), Ajmer (6), Churu (5), Dausa (4), Hanumangarh (3), Bundi (1), Bhilwara (1), Dungarpur (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Sirohi (1), Jalore (1) and one from other state. In Jaipur, a computer operator of SMS Medical College’s department of pharmacology tested positive. Two more were found infected in Nandlapura, one each from Bhojpura, Mansarovar, Kailashpuri on Amber Road and Shastri Nagar. As many as 85 migrants tested positive on Thursday taking their tally to 2,199. However, 253 persons have recovered taking the count of such patients to 4,815. The health department clarified on Thursday that it will release Covid info bulletin twice in a day. Earlier it used to be released thrice a day. “After feedback from all stakeholders, it has been decided that info bulletin of state government will now be released twice a day at 10.30 am and 8.30 pm,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-count-breaches-8000-mark-in-state/articleshow/76080356.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||PMC plans for medical college gets Maharashtra govt’s nod||PUNE: The state government has green-lit a long-pending proposal by the Pune Municipal Corporation to set up a medical college and hospital in the city. Ten acres will now be set aside on the Raja Bahadur Mill Road, next to the Naidu hospital, for the 350-bed college and hospital, which officials said will add 300 doctors to the city's healthcare system. The proposal to start the college was first discussed 10 years ago. The PMC’s standing committee and general body okayed it last year. In 2017, the civic administration handed out a contract to a consulting firm to prepare a project report for the medical college. The company made various suggestions, including a plan to operate the institute either through a trust or via the public-private partnership (PPP) model. Officials said the PMC has decided to form a trust to run the medical college. The institution will offer students 100 seats and patients, 350 beds. “The health department followed up the matter. The process to form the trust will be completed by the legal department,” Ramchandra Hankare, head of PMC’s health department, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plan-for-medical-college-gets-states-nod/articleshow/76080351.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses advance bail plea of duo for selling liquor illegally||MADURAI: Observing that detention and custodial interrogation is necessary in a case filed against two people for illegal sale of liquor during the lockdown period, the Madras high court has dismissed their anticipatory bail plea The petitioners, Alaguraj and Padmanaban apprehended arrest in the case registered by Town East police in Thanjavur district under sections of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act. Padmanaban is the licencee of the Tasmac shop and Alaguraj is the supervisor. On March 24, while all Tasmac shops in the state were closed following lockdown, the petitioners along with others took the liquor bottles from a Tasmac shop and sold them illegally. During the raid, police seized 2,045 liquor bottles and Rs 52,159 cash, which was earned as profit from the sale. The additional public prosecutor strongly opposed for the grant of anticipatory bail on the ground that these petitioners with an intention to make money illegally had sold liquor during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-advance-bail-plea-of-duo-for-selling-liquor-illegally/articleshow/76079517.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Authorities scramble as 143 deportees from Saudi test +ve in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A total of 458 deportees from Saudi Arabia, many working illegally there, are currently undergoing tests for Covid-19 in Telangana, with 143 testing positive so far, in a new worry for authorities battling the deadly virus. While samples of 200 more have been collected, the reports are awaited. State health authorities are on tenterhooks as the deportees who have travelled by air and reached Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) in Hyderabad over the last fortnight, might have spread the virus to others. The deportees are quarantined in two different camps in the cantonment area by the army and are being closely monitored. While none of the deportees who have tested positive have had any symptoms, the tests coming positive has resulted in the launch of a massive exercise to test all the deportees. They were airlifted by the government of India. Most were engaged in construction labour work. “Since these deportees were all living in jails before being sent back to India, their living conditions might have been congested and unhygienic. That might be the reason for so many having tested positive and we are expecting substantial numbers to be positive in the second round too. Although these patients have been quarantined separately from other patients, they had travelled to Hyderabad airport, which is a cause of worry,” said a senior official from the state health department. Meanwhile, the health authorities have decided that each of the deportee will be screened, treated if found positive and then sent to their respective states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/authorities-scramble-as-143-deportees-from-saudi-test-ve/articleshow/76080373.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 29, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body to provide free PPE kits as an impetus to doctors to reopen private clinics||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has decided to provide Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to private medical practices in the city, in a move to encourage doctors to open their clinics. Officials said doctors who want to reopen private practices can collect the PPE kits from ward offices at no cost. Lockdowns and concerns over the spread of coronavirus forced many doctors to keep clinics shut despite appeals by the PMC to open them. Distribution of PPE is set to bring some relief. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has welcomed the move. It said the kits should be made available as soon as possible. “The PMC will help doctors who want to reopen their clinics. The safety of these doctors is priority,” said municipal commissioner, Shekhar Gaikwad. According to the IMA, there are around 11,000 private clinics and hospitals within the Pune municipal limits. More than 70% of them are operating. “A lack of clarity on lockdowns and fear or infection led to closure of clinics. But doctors have responded positively to directives on restarting hospitals and clinics came from the government. Initiatives like handing out medical kits will boost morale among the medical community,” said Sanjay Patil, the president of IMA Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-provide-free-ppe-kits-as-an-impetus-to-docs-to-reopen-private-clinics/articleshow/76080360.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Only 37 of 248 new cases found by active surveillance||AHMEDABAD: The city had had reported 248 fresh cases on Wednesday evening, but of these only 37 were reported through active surveillance. This showed a trend reversal to the reporting of cases on Tuesday where 75% cases were reported through active surveillance. In the North-West zone, three cases — one from Shahjananad Tower, Gurukul, one from Akansha apartment in Ghatlodia and one from Chotubhai Housing Society in Gota were reported. In the South West zone including Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej and Makarba four cases were reported. One was from Kamleshnagar in Ramdevnagar area in Jodhpur, two were from Vejalpur and one case was from Maktampura. In the West zone including Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Nava Vadaj, Vasna and Paldi area there were nine fresh cases — four from Sardar Patel Stadium ward, three from Nava Vadaj and one each from Chandkheda and Ranip wards. Of the 248 fresh cases, six patients were between 15-20 years, while another 24 patients were in the age group of 21-30 years. The highest number of cases, 57, was in the age group of 41-50 years, while another 56 patients tested positive in the age group of 51-60 year. The data reveals that 41 patients were Covid-19 positive in the age group of 61-70 years and anther 17 patients were above 70 years. The western part of the city now has 1,085 active cases with 659 cases in Stadium, Navrangpura, Naranpura, Paldi and Vasna areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-37-of-248-new-cases-found-by-active-surveillance/articleshow/76080383.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||10 more die, patient count rises above 7,000 in PMR||PUNE: The Covid-19 case count breached 7,000-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, with the addition of 369 new patients in 24 hours, which is second to the addition of 459 fresh cases in the region on May 25. Besides, 10 more people succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Thursday, taking the casualty count to 310. The total case count in the region stands at 7,012. Among new cases, 320 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 31 in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas and 18 in rural and Cantonment areas in the district. The PMC health department said 150 patients were in critical condition. Over 200 patients were declared cured and discharged on Thursday in the PMC limits, the health department said. Among the deaths, five were reported at Sassoon hospital. These included a 35-year-old man from Nagpur chawl, a 68-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 75-year-old woman from Nana Peth, a 50-year-old woman from Parvati and a 70-year-old man from Ramtekdi. A 45-year old woman from Bopodi died at district health hospital in Aundh, while four patients died in private ones. On the rising cases in Pune district, collector Naval Kishore Ram said due efforts were being taken in the containment zones. About the mortality rate, Ram said while it had come down to 4.4%, he had called for death audit reports not just from Sassoon but also from private hospitals. The collector will meet deputy CM Ajit Pawar in the coming days for post-lockdown directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-more-die-patient-count-rises-above-7000-in-pmr/articleshow/76080376.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Eight-day curfew in Maharashtra's Beed to trace Covid-19 patient’s contacts||AURANGABAD: The Beed district administration has imposed a curfew in Beed city and 12 other villages for eight days starting on Thursday. The decision was made after the throat swab sample of a man, who returned to his village in Karegaon, of Patoda taluka, from Mumbai, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday evening. Soon after the man came in Mumbai, he was shifted to a hospital in Beed, where his throat swab samples were collected. “In the hospital, the man may have come in contact with at least 300 people from different localities or villages around the city. The curfew has been effected for eight days as we want to trace all his contacts,” Beed superintendent of police Harrsh Poddar said. A few days ago, Beed collector Rahul Rekhawar had allowed many establishments, including liquor shops and barber shops, to operate for eight hours. Following this new development, Rekhawar issued a fresh order late on Wednesday, imposing a complete curfew from the early hours of Thursday till June 4. He exempted health services, newspapers and media services for 24 hours. It has been found that the patient came in contact with people from Beed city and at least 12 villages including Khandala, Charhata, Palwan and Itt (Beed taluka), Vaijala, Dongarkini (Patoda), Devandi (Wadwani), Khandvi, Madalmohi, Dharvanta (Georai taluka), Kharmata (Keij) and Pargaon (Dharur). For medical emergencies, residents can make online applications on www.covid19.mhpolice.in to get a pass. The district collector has also made it compulsory for the residents under curfew to download the Setu App.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/8-day-curfew-in-beed-to-trace-covid-patients-contacts/articleshow/76079522.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Woman commits suicide with 3 kids in Barmer district||JAISALMER: A 30-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping into a water tank, along with her three children, following a family dispute in Sindhari police station area in Barmer district late on Wednesday night. On Thursday, after the family members of the deceased woman arrived, police got the postmortems conducted and handed over the bodies for cremation. After hearing of the incident, the shocked husband fell unconscious and was admitted to a hospital. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that 30-year-old Papu Devi, wife of Jagdish Sain and a resident of Khara Mahechan, along with her three children, Kavita (6), Mohan (4) and Suresh (2), committed suicide by jumping into a water tank, when there was no one at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-commits-suicide-with-3-kids-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/76079520.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake better, Rajarhat areas a problem zone||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 situation under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation areas, covering Salt Lake and a large portion of Rajarhat, is under control so far said civic officials. According to government figures, around 100 persons have tested positive out of an approximate 6.7 lakh population so far. Out of 41 wards of the civic body, 10 are presently demarcated as red zones. Most of these are towards Baguiati and Tegharia. Eighteen wards are marked as green zones. As many as 91 persons from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area have tested Covid-19 positive so far. Many of them have already recovered and returned home. Out of the 91 persons, only 20 were from Salt Lake. The rest were from Rajarhat in the pockets of Baguiati, Tegharia, Narayanpur Raghunathpur and Kaikhali. Wards 3, 6-9, 17 and 25 that are under red zones are falling towards the Rajarhat jurisdiction area. The highest number of Covid-19 cases from a single ward of the civic body is from Ward 7 where 23 Covid cases have been reported out of a population of nearly 14,000 in the ward. There were about nine containment zones under Baguiati police station area. In Salt Lake, only three wards (32-34) were demarcated as red zone with 13 Covid-19 cases being reported so far. The localities are mostly in the areas between Karunamoyee and Salt Lake stadium like FD, FC, IB, HB, HA, GC blocks. Government sources said that the district health department officials are constantly monitoring the situation and taking feedback from the police and civic authorities. The local civic authorities are conducting health surveys and collecting swab samples regularly. These are being sent to NICED for tests. In neighbouring New Town, a few Covid-19 cases have been reported so far with two areas — Action Area I and III — getting marked as orange zones. NKDA has taken several precautionary measures to restrict the spread in the township. In South Dum Dum Municipality area, bordering Bidhannagar, that comprises areas like Lake Town and Nagerbazar, the number of red zones are higher, with 16 wards demarcated as such out of a total of 35 wards. But at 72, the number of persons testing Covid-19 positive is lower than that in Bidhannagar. There are 11 wards marked as green zone and the rest as orange zone. “The situation in Bidhannagar, New Town and South Dum Dum Municipality areas are under control and improving. In the Bidhannagar civic body area, containment zones are now restricted in only some pockets of Baguiati, Narayanpur and Bidhannagar South. The police and civic authorities are coordinating with the health department and are doing good work,” a North 24 Parganas district administration official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-better-rajarhat-areas-a-problem-zone/articleshow/76079519.cms||Suman Chakraborti
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||2 migrants commit suicide in Banda||Kanpur: Two migrant workers, who had recently returned to their home, committed suicide in Banda district of Bundelkhand region on Wednesday. Villagers attributed both the suicide incidents to be fallout of poor financial condition of the deceased owing to coronavirus-triggered lockdown. In the first incident, Suresh, 22, hanged himself from a tree in Lohra village in Mataundh police station area. Suresh’s family said he had been working in Delhi and had returned home five days ago. “The family members said he was reeling under acute depression owing to his poor financial condition since he lost his job during lockdown and suspect this pushed him into taking the extreme step,” said inspector Ramendra Tiwari. In the other incident, one Manoj (20), who had returned from Mumbai about a fortnight ago, committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room in Sindhan Kala village under Pailani police station. “Manoj was working as a security guard in a private company which shut down because of the lockdown. His parents had died long ago and he was brought up by his grandparents. He was facing hardships since he returned from Mumbai. Investigations are underway. His body was handed to villagers after autopsy,” said inspector Baljeet Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-migrants-commit-suicide-in-banda/articleshow/76080370.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 29, 2020||Goa||3 Shramik specials leave with 3,500||Margao: Three Shramik Specials carrying over 3,500 migrants departed from Goa for Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram and Assam on Thursday. The first train left Margao railway station for Sonbhadra, Uttar Pradesh, with 984 passengers at 12.55pm. Another Shramik Special departed from Karmali station with 1,351 passengers for Dibrugarh, Assam, after 8pm. The last train left Margao railway station for Bairabi, Mizoram, at 9pm with 1,293 passengers. Around 45 passengers boarded the Rajdhani Express to Trivandrum, while 15 passengers including 12 adults and three children alighted at Margao. A total of 34 Shramik Special trains have left Goa with over 72,000 migrants and people stranded during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-shramik-specials-leave-with-3500/articleshow/76080357.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Authentic information from AMA, IMA||AHMEDABAD: A day after the list of 40-plus doctors from the city working at private clinics and hospitals who have tested positive for Covid-19 made the rounds on social media, the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) and Indian Medical Association (IMA) started drawing up a list with authentic information and specialities. “The purpose of the exercise is to prevent misinformation,” said a senior AMA official. The IMA officials pointed out that the rumours of the death of Dr Kamlesh Tailor due to Covid-19 on Wednesday night were baseless. His name featured among those of a few other doctors who have succumbed to the infection in the messages on social media. “Dr Kamlesh Tailor is under hospitalization and is recovering,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/authentic-info-from-ama-ima/articleshow/76080380.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Minister seeks cooperation of education institutions in smooth conduct of SSLC exams||MANGALURU: With the high court upholding the decision of the department of public instruction to conduct SSLC examinations, Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board has begun preparations to ensure that exams are held in a safe environment in the Covid-19 situation. The high court has disposed a PIL filed on the need for SSLC examination, said minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar. Underscoring importance of SSLC exams in the lives of students, the minister in a letter to the heads of educational institutions has sought their cooperation for the smooth conduct of exams from June 25 to July 4. Many organisations, including Bharat Scouts and Guides, have joined hands with the government and KSEEB for the successful conduct of the exams, he said. The department intends to provide a minimum of two masks to each student. KSEEB will provide thermal scanners at each of the exam centres and will arrange to conduct health screening. Despite all the precautions that the department and KSEEB are taking, the role of heads of educational institutions is vital and they should come forward to provide basic minimum needs of the students appearing for the exams, the minister said. The steps that need to be taken include ensuring that each student is seated at least a metre and maintain social distancing while entering and exiting the hall. Students with visible signs of discomfort due to fever will be allotted a separate room and hence additional rooms need to be kept ready. The educational institutions should coordinate well in advance with the health department to facilitate health check-up of students. The institutions should play a proactive role in ensuring that students from the families of migrant labourers appear for the exams, based on the request for centre placed by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/minister-seeks-cooperation-of-edn-institutions-in-smooth-conduct-of-sslc-exams/articleshow/76077029.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Plea against giving nod to quarry savudu soil||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madras high court against a May 6 state government notification granting permission to quarry savudu (alluvial) soil for agricultural and pottery making purposes from waterbodies. The PIL cited an earlier order of the court which had granted stay on the quarrying of savudu soil in 13 districts. M Kalidass, a resident of Madurai, stated that the notification was issued during the Covid-19 lockdown period with a malafide intention to make use of the situation to deplete the environmental resources. The petitioner also stated that the the press note was issued despite an earlier court order on August 28, 2019 granting stay on the grant of permission to quarry savudu soil in 13 districts. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to quash the press note. When the case was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, the state government submitted that no GO or permits were issued for quarrying savudu soil and sought time to respond in this regard. Hearing the plea, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi adjourned the case to June 3 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-giving-nod-to-quarry-savudu-soil/articleshow/76079523.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||IMA favours app on bed availability||Pune: Indian Medical Association (IMA, Maharashtra, president Avinash Bondhwe said the state has been requested to ready a portal to inform patients and doctors about bed availability in Covid-19 hospitals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-favours-app-on-bed-availability/articleshow/76080394.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Madras high court imposes cost on club seeking nod to supply liquor to members||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Thursday imposed Rs 50,000 cost on a recreation club which sought to grant permission to supply liquor to the members by takeaway or through online delivery. T Ravikannan, president of Star Recreation Club at Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district filed the petition. In his affidavit, he stated that the club has a FL2 licenced bar. Following the lockdown, the club has been closed from March 17. The petitioner’s counsel stated that the Supreme Court had granted permission to the state government for the sale of liquor though Tasmac shops and sought a similar right to be extended to Ravikannan. Justice C V Karthikeyan observed that while the entire country is facing a pandemic situation, it would only be appropriate that government policies are followed by everyone and by every association. The judge observed that so far, the state government’s policy does not permit opening of liquor bars, and the court cannot step into the shoes of the government and direct to open such bars. The judge further said that as a matter of fact the Supreme Court also did not interfere with the policy decision of the state to open the Tasmac shops. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-imposes-cost-on-club-seeking-nod-to-supply-liquor-to-members/articleshow/76079537.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Illustrious Lucknow University alumni to turn mentors for students||LUCKNOW: Students of Lucknow University will get an opportunity to be mentored by experts from different fields from India and abroad, thanks to the university’s alumni portal made in the centenary year. Around 1,000 former students have expressed their wish to get registered on the portal, using which they will get an opportunity to be LU’s adjunct or part-time professors who will guide, teach and help students in getting placed in various sectors. The list of former students who have expressed interest in giving back to their alma mater by way of sharing knowledge includes many gems. “Be it our former students who are faculty in IITs and IIMs or scientists based abroad, all will get connected to the university via the alumni portal. This portal will have various sections for both former students and retired teachers who want to help their alma mater and institution to nurture students,” said coordinator of the portal Prof Nishi Pandey. She said the portal will be revamped further so that adjunct professors can volunteer to teach students, or share industry and market trends, give them the opportunity to work in their organization or provide internships. The alumni can either guide and mentor students online or visit the campus as per a schedule fixed. Prof Pandey said the portal will also have one section for sharing funds for LU in which students can financially support the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/illustrious-lu-alumni-to-turn-mentors-for-students/articleshow/76080389.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Raut wants 500MW solar park in Vid||Nagpur: Energy minister Nitin Raut has directed MSEDCL officials to facilitate the setting up of a 500MW solar park in Vidarbha. Maharashtra Solar Manufacturer’s Assosiation (MASMA) had organized a webinar on this topic. Raut instructed MSEDCL, Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (MEDA) and MASMA to form a joint committee and work hand in hand for faster and efficient implementation of solar policies. The minister also instructed MSEDCL & MEDA for restarting the subsidy process immediately. On request of MASMA, he also asked MSEDCL and MEDA officials to clear way for 500MW solar park in Vidarbha. He also instructed them to follow the guidelines outlaid by Maharashtra Energy Regulatory Commission (MERC) for solar roof top installations. MSEDCL’s stand has been against solar roof top consumers as it has twice tried to destroy the sector. However, MERC came to the consumers’ rescue both times. The minister assured MASMA for easy empanelment of members with MSEDCL for the next phase of grid connected solar roof top subsidy procedure. Energy minister also instructed MEDA & MSEDCL officials to take a target of at least 150MW from union ministry of non-renewable energy (MNRE) for 2020-2021 subsidy for the state. MASMA office-bearers Saket Suri, Amit Deotale, Sudhir Budhay and Pankaj Khirwadkar participated in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-wants-500mw-solar-park-in-vid/articleshow/76079532.cms||Ashish Roy
May 29, 2020||Pune||Pimpri camp area closed till Sunday||Pimpri Chinchwad: Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar has directed the closure of the Pimpri camp area, the largest market in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, till Sunday to arrest the Covid-19 spread. He also ordered the closure of markets at Shagun Chowk, Karachi Chowk, Arya Samaj Chowk, Gelard Chowk, Ramabai Ambedkar Chowk, Deluxe Chowk and Sant Gadge Maharaj Chowk. Pavan Salve, additional medical officer of health, PCMC, said 22 positive cases had been found in Pimpri camp and its surroundings till May 27. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-camp-area-closed-till-sunday/articleshow/76080382.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 cases touch 1,400 in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district touched the 1400 mark on Thursday with the addition of 14 fresh cases. The district has registered 65 coronvirus-related deaths so far. The new cases diagnosed on Thursday include one each from Baijipura, Rahemaniya Colony, Misarwadi, Waluj Mahanagar-I, Bajajnagar, Sanjay Nagar, Shahgunj, Hussain Colony, Kailas Nagar, Rokadiya, Osmanpura, Itkheda, City Chowk, Nath Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Sai Nagar Cidco N-6 , Kareem Colony, Roshan Gate, Anguri Baug, Tanhaji Chowk, Balaji Nagar and Hudco N-11, two each from the Railway Station area, Cidco N-6, Naralibaug, Sambhaji Colony Cidco N-6 and Jai Bhawani Nagar, three from Hanuman Colony and four from Cidco N-4 and Hamalwadi. Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) said that as on Thursday evening, 76 Covid-19 patients were admitted to the hospital, of which, seven were in critical condition. Meanwhile, after a GMCH staffer tested positive for the contagion on Wednesday, following which the dean’s office was closed until Monday. The additional charge of dean was given to deputy dean Shivaji Sukre, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said. Until May 27, a total of 867 patients have been discharged from different health facilities, district administration officials said. Addressing the public through a social media platform on Thursday evening, district collector Uday Chaudhari said that the administration may take positive decision on opening eateries and restaurants in the rural areas from June. However, the eateries in the city may not open soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-cases-touch-1400-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/76079528.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two more cases takes Bopal count to 26||AHMEDABAD: With two more cases reported on Thursday, Bopal now has 26 active cases. Four more cases were reported from Ahmedabad district taking the number of active Covid-19 cases in district areas outside AMC limits to 184. Of the 184 Covid-19 cases in the district, 71 were reported from Dholka and 70 from Daskroi taluka, while 22 cases were reported from Sanand taluka. The remaining cases were reported from Bavla (10), Dhandhuka (5), Viramgam (4) and Mandal (2). The two cases in Bopal reported on Thursday were from Someshwar Residency and Sterling City. The president of the Bopal-Ghuma Nagarpalika said a 36-year-old man from Someshwar Residency had tested positive on Tuesday was admitted to SVP Hospital. The patient from Sterling City is an employee of an automobile showroom in Ranip. The nagarpalika president said that late reporting of cases is hampering treatment and educated people should come forward and get themselves treated in time. Among the other four cases reported from the district on Thursday, two were from Sanand, one was from Dholka and the fourth case was from Preet Bungalow in Bareja. In Sanand a 65-year-old woman from Moraiya village and a 42-year-old man from Maheshwari Society tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-more-cases-takes-bopal-count-to-26/articleshow/76080385.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Revoke Sec 144, Khaunte tells govt||Panaji: The state government should revoke Section 144 as it has outlived its utility in restricting movement and is now being used to settle political scores, said independent MLA for Porvorim Rohan Khaunte here on Thursday. Khaunte said that the state government is preparing to reopen casinos and is keeping Section 144 in force in order to quell any protests against the reopening of casinos. “It’s high time the government withdraws it because whatever good Section 144 could do in case of this pandemic has already been achieved and further continuity is tantamount to challenging the basic rights of citizens,” said Khaunte. The former revenue and IT minister said that chief minister Pramod Sawant and ports minister Michael Lobo support the reopening of offshore and onshore casinos. “This will be disastrous because the casino is a place where our quarantine tourists will gather in an air-conditioned environment perfect for spreading Covid-19,” said Khaunte at a press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revoke-sec-144-khaunte-tells-govt/articleshow/76080374.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Court grants interim stay on retirement of 5 teachers||Madurai: Madras high court has granted interim relief to five government school teachers by directing the state government not to relieve them from service while hearing their pleas seeking the benefit of the state government’s GO which had raised the retirement age from 58 to 59 years. Petitioner T Jeyamangalam, PG assistant at the government higher secondary school at Allinagaram in Sivaganga district, said she was due to retire on April 30 on reaching superannuation. However, she was granted re-employment till May 31 which was approved by chief educational officer. She stated that on account of Covid-19, government servants were not allowed to retire and their pension proposals were not even forwarded. It was in this backdrop that the government in a GO on May 7 increased the retirement age of government servants from 58 to 59 years and made it applicable to all government servants due to retire on May 31. The government later clarified that the GO is not applicable to government servants who had attained superannuation at 58 years on or before May 1. She stated that benefits granted to teachers who retire on May 31 cannot be denied to those who retired on April 30. The government’s decision would amount to violation of equality enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. A similar plea was moved by four other teachers. When the petitions were heard on Thursday, Justice J Nisha Banu directed the state government to file a counter and adjourned the case to June 3 till when the 5 petitioners are not to be relieved from service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-grants-interim-stay-on-retirement-of-5-teachers/articleshow/76079526.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Woman tests +ve for Covid-19 in Bundi village, zero mobility imposed||KOTA: After a 22-year-old woman in Shankarpura village near Hindoli in Bundi district tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday night, samples of 14 people who came in her contact were sent for testing on Thursday. Bundi collector Antar Singh Nehra enforced zero mobility and imposed prohibitory orders in the area and erected barricades on entry routes to the village. The woman was sent to New Medical College Hospital in Kota for further treatment on Wednesday night. The woman was under dedicated institutional quarantine in a school in Bhawanipura village since her arrival from Mumbai on Monday night. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Hindoli, Mukesh Choudhary said at least 14 samples, including the woman’s husband, were sent for test and the report is expected by Friday. The 14 people have been put in dedicated quarantine centre in nearby Bhawanipura village, he added. Besides, four medical teams were deployed in the village on Thursday to carry out door-to-door survey and no case of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) was found in the survey, SDM said. He added that reports of 11 migrants of Shankarpura village, who were quarantined, tested negative on Thursday. “The arrangements are in place to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities in the zero mobility area,” Choudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-tests-ve-in-bundi-village-zero-mobility-imposed/articleshow/76079539.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Meerut||Peacock dies due to electrocution||Bijnor: A peacock, which entered a residential colony in Bijnor, was electrocuted after coming in contact with a transformer here. The incident took place in Bijnor’s Panchwati Colony.According to the colony residents, it is the second such death in the last 15 days in Civil Lines area of Bijnor city.The forest team rushed to the scene as soon as they got the news and inspected the area where carcass of the bird was found. Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, "We had information on Thursday morning that a carcass of peacock was lying on the roadside. Prima facie it appears that it might have died of electrocution. The probe is on. Earlier, another carcass of a peacock was found in the same location. We are probing the matter."There are over hundred peacocks in district magistrate’s residential area, mission compound and ITI College in the city, but officials are not concerned about them.According to Brijveer Singh, a resident of ITI college area, "There is no conservation plan for the national bird here in the city. It is the second death of peacock here but officials are not concerned about it and to find the real cause of death."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/peacock-dies-due-to-electrocution/articleshow/76078208.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 29, 2020||Mysuru||Tusker found dead in Mysuru||MYSURU: One more elephant died inside the MM Hills wildlife division in Chamarajanagar district. This time a tusker aged between 45 and 50 was found dead at Nerele Marada Gundi area under MM Hills range. Yedukondalu V, DCF, MM Hills wildlife range informed that the elephant died of natural causes. “A postmortem will be conducted on Thursday morning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tusker-found-dead/articleshow/76077040.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Maharashtra man tests Covid-19 positive, active cases at 31||PANAJI: A man who had travelled from Maharashtra has tested positive for novel coronavirus, while one patient was succesfully treated and placed in institutional quarantine on Thursday. Goa’s count of active cases remained static at 31, whereas confirmed cases increased to 68, of which, 38 patients have recovered. Director of health services Jose D’Sa said the man detected with the infection was later shifted to Covid hospital. His condition was stable, he said. Two suspects were admitted to hospital isolation and 416 international passengers were placed under home quarantine. 26 interstate travellers were home quarantined, while 21 are in facility quarantine. 886 samples have tested negative and 38 reports were awaited. As of Thursday, 14,686 tests have been conducted. Since last month, the state has steadily upped its testing capacity and it is carrying out tests 24x7. Since a majority of Covid-19 cases detected in Goa have travel history, a every traveller coming to the state is being tested. As per the new guidelines that have come into effect on Monday, interstate travellers have been given an option to either get tested on arrival by paying Rs 2,000 or produce a Covid-19 negative certificate from the Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR) certified laboratory. The certificate will be considered valid only if it is obtained 48 hours prior of arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/maharashtra-man-tests-covid-positive-active-cases-at-31/articleshow/76080381.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Aerial control plan to curb pests in Rajasthan||JAISALMER: Expecting a bigger locust attack by pests flying in from Pakistan border, the locust control department has started working on an aerial control plan. Drones are being deployed to locust-affected areas including Phalodi, Barmer and Bikaner, as well as in some areas of Madhya Pradesh. The department is working on a plan to promptly destroy locusts coming from Pakistan on entering India. Locust control department deputy director Dr KL Gurjar said that locusts are continuously entering India via Barmer, Bikaner and Jaisalmer districts and are spreading into other parts of the country. Pakistan has informed that locusts in their areas are being destroyed through aircraft, in an ongoing operation. He said at present, locusts have reached 21 districts of Rajasthan, nine districts of MP, one district each in Gujarat and Punjab. At present, locusts are being destroyed using tractor sprayers, fire brigade etc. The department has started getting drones for the task. Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta said that information system has been strengthened and total 10 posts of locust control department have been set up near the Indo-Pak border. These posts are working in Myazlar, Dhanana and Ramgarh. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said that as per directions received from FAO and the Centre, village-level committees formed for Covid-19 have been asked to keep a watch on locusts too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aerial-control-plan-to-curb-pests-in-raj/articleshow/76079544.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Use private doctors to fight Covid-19, says Congress||GANDHINAGAR: A delegation of Gujarat Congress leaders met chief secretary Anil Mukim on Thursday and demanded that the government use the services of private doctors to help people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Handing over a charter of demands, the Congress said that if required, all private hospitals and practitioners must be roped in to ensure that patients get the best possible treatment. The delegation, comprising MLAs Shailesh Parmar, Gyasuddin Shaikh, Imran Khedawala, Himmatsinh Patel and state general secretary Nishit Vyas, also demanded that other services like cancer treatment, treatment of kidney, heart and other organ ailments must begin in full capacity at government hospitals. They also demanded that availability of beds at designated Covid hospitals should be published online. The Congress leaders also said that complaints of private hospitals fleecing people in the name of Covid-19 treatment must be addressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/use-private-docs-to-fight-covid-cong/articleshow/76080447.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Government rejects police’s panel of prosecutors||NEW DELHI: The state cabinet on Thursday rejected lieutenant governor Anil Baijal’s proposal to accept the panel of special public prosecutors suggested by Delhi Police. The government has sent its names of advocates again for contesting cases related to the violence in northeast Delhi in February. Baijal had on May 23 asked Delhi government to either accept the revised panel of prosecutors suggested by Delhi Police or place the issue before the council of ministers if the state home minister didn’t agree to it and difference of opinion still persisted. Sources said the LG would now refer the matter to the President under Section 239AA(4) of the Constitution citing “difference of opinion” with the council of ministers. Government sources said Section 24 of CrPC clearly states that Delhi government had the power to appoint special public prosecutors and not the investigating agency (Delhi Police). “Both Delhi high court in 2016 and Supreme Court in 2018 gave the elected dispensation the power to appoint pubic prosecutors. Referring the matter to the President will have long-term implications on the balance of power in the state,” said an official, pointing out that the President acts on the advice of the Union ministry of home affairs, which is also the controlling authority of Delhi Police. In April, Delhi Police had appointed a panel of public prosecutors to represent it in trial courts, which was rejected by AAP government as it reportedly suffered from both “technical irregularities and malafide intentions”. “Certain names were found to be directly related to senior police officers, while some lacked experience of 10 years, which is a mandatory condition for appointment,” a source said. While the AAP government prepared its own panel of “independent and technically qualified” advocates and issued orders for its notification on April 16, Delhi Police submitted a fresh proposal on April 24. State home minister Satyendar Jain, however, directed the officials on April 28 to notify the panel prepared by Delhi government. On May 1, Baijal called the file from Delhi government using his power under Section 19(5) of Transactions of Business Rules and noted that Delhi government withdraw its April 16 order and notify the revised panel submitted by Delhi Police. Jain met Baijal on May 21, but the issue couldn’t be resolved with both sides holding onto their opinion. In his note on the file on May 23, the lieutenant governor said the matter related to “public order” considering the large-scale communal violence involved and asked Delhi government to allow the appointment of prosecutors as per the revised proposal of Delhi Police. Emphasising that he was the competent authority for the appointments on the aid and advice of the council of ministers, he said that in case of difference of opinion he could invoke Article 239AA (4) of the Constitution. The Aam Aadmi Party government, however, held that the LG should express “difference of opinion” rarely and the apex court had clearly said that “routine” matters shouldn’t be sent to the President. In its statement, the LG office said that the Supreme Court (division bench) in its judgment on February 14 in civil appeal 2,357 of 2017 had already settled the legal position for appointment of special public prosecutors. “The high court also categorically held that the power to appoint a public prosecutor is relatable to entries 1 and 2 of List III. In our opinion, the high court has rightly held that in respect of these entries, Delhi government has legislative competence under Article 239AA of the Constitution and the LG under Article 239AA(4) shall act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers,” the LG office quoted the apex court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-rejects-polices-panel-of-prosecutors/articleshow/76080774.cms||Atul Mathur
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers block highway, force CCI procure cotton||Chandrapur: Cotton growers, irked over denial of procurement of their produce at Sonurli village centre in Korpana tehsil, stalled traffic on Chandrapur-Adilabad highway for hours on Thursday. Budging under the pressure of farmers, Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) procured 70 mini-truck loads of cotton from the farmers who even did not have the token issued after online registration. CCI has its own process of cotton procurement. The farmers have to register online for sale of their cotton to CCI. They are issued a token number and a particular date to come to the procurement centre. With monsoon round the corner, farmers have turned eager and want to sell their harvest so that they could purchase seeds and fertilizer for coming Kharif season. They also alleged that despite waiting for weeks, CCI did not give them date for procurement. As a result, farmers are forced to sell their cotton at cheaper rates to private traders. Desperate to sell their produce, framers in the area on Thursday took 70 truckloads of cotton to procurement centre. After they were told that procurement has been closed, the irked farmers blocked the highway. Police officials from Gadchandur mediated between the CCI, APMC officials and agitating farmers and resolved the situation. Farmer leader Abid Ali demanded that the token system in procurement should be scrapped and CCI should purchase cotton directly from farmers coming to the procurement centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-block-highway-force-cci-procure-cotton/articleshow/76079550.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Education sector moving towards hybrid model of learning||HYDERABAD: The education sector will have to move towards a ‘hybrid model’ that offers a blend of classroom and digital learning. From online modules for students to teacher training, internships and placements, educational institutions are adopting and exploring newer ways to navigate a Covid-19 world. “Covid-19 has accelerated the change we were expecting in the next 5-10 years. It will no more be just physical or online learning. It will be a blend of both,” said Navin Mittal, commissioner, collegiate and technical education, Telangana, at a session on education as part of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave: ‘Reboot Telangana- Making Telangana Future Positive’, which is supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Saket Pranamam, Janapriya and Agromech. Prof PJ Narayanan, director, IIIT-Hyderabad, said online education needs to be remodelled. “It’s not just delivering lectures on a computer. Online learning should result in a rethink of how to present material. Have more modules, interactivity and integrate quizzes that will allow students to respond,” he said. As uncertainty looms large over reopening of schools, Abhilekh Puttagunta, director, Meluha Technologies Pvt Ltd, said a system has to be developed to deliver the content to students. “Learning is not just about recording classes. Activity-based learning and gamified environment can be adopted to keep students engaged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/edu-sector-moving-towards-hybrid-model-of-learning/articleshow/76080398.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Four booked in Tamil Nadu for forcing minor girl into marriage||MADURAI: The M Chatrapatti police booked four people including the parents of a minor girl for forcibly conducting her marriage. Although the marriage took place in March, it came to the knowledge of officials only on Wednesday. A police officer said the girl has completed Class XII and was staying at home. Her parents, Kasi Saravanamalai, 48 and his wife K Tamilselvi, 38, arranged her marriage with a relative M Pandidurai, 27, from a village near Usilampatti in March. Although the girl had opposed the marriage, they went ahead with it. The marriage took place in Karanthamalaiyan Temple in Usilampatti on March 30. Recently, Murugeswari, an official from the social welfare department, received an alert about the marriage. She immediately reported to the M Chatrapatti police. A team reached the house and conducted an inquiry. The parents first claimed that the girl had completed 18 years of age. However, when police asked the parents to produce her birth certificate, they failed to do so. They admitted to the crime during a detailed inquiry conducted by the police. Pandidurai and his mother M Vasantha, 45, were also booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-booked-for-forcing-minor-girl-into-marriage/articleshow/76079541.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Astrologer hospitalized: Family says pneumonia, AMC says Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: A nationally renowned astrologer has been admitted to a private hospital in Ahmedabad for the last few days with pneumonia and brain hypoxia, according to his son. The ninety-year old, one of Asia’s most widely read astrology columnists, tested positive for Covid-19 on May 22 according to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s list of patients. The family, however, denies this. “My father has pneumonia and doctors are currently treating him to restore oxygen supply to his brain. I reject the claims and rumours that he has coronavirus,” the son said. The ninety-year old, whose name figured among the 100 great astrologers of the last 1,000 years in ‘The Millennium Book of Prophecy’, published by Harper Collins, is said to have accurately forecast some successes for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, film actor Amitabh Bachchan and cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, among others. Sources aware of the matter said the astrologer has been admitted to a special Covid-19 facility at a private hospital on the outskirts of Ahmedabad. In a video posted online in the second week of April, the astrologer had predicted that the challenges of the Covid-19 situation would last only till May. “After May 21, this disease is expected to go away,” he had said. The astrologer was admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad for a brain stroke last year, from which he seemed to have recovered, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/astrologer-hospitalized-family-says-pneumonia-amc-says-covid/articleshow/76080450.cms||Maulik Pathak
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad temperature drops a notch||AHMEDABAD: After maximums of close to 44C for two days, Amdavadis felt a slight relief as the mercury touched 43.2C degrees on Thursday. The maximum temperature was 1.5 degrees higher than normal, whereas minimum temperature (28.8C) was 1.1 degrees higher, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. “There will be a fall in maximum temperature by 2-3 degrees during the next three days,” mentioned the IMD forecast. The forecast also indicated the possibility of light rains or thunder showers in coastal regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-temperature-drops-a-notch/articleshow/76080449.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Tariff unchanged for domestic slab: APERC||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) on Thursday clarified that there was no tariff hike for any slab in domestic category except for the consumption exceeding 500 units per month. In a press release, APERC made it clear that it has found no defect in the billing procedure by discoms and the higher electricity bills are only due to increased consumption. APERC said that change of groups or slabs or delay in meter reading was not the reason for higher electricity bills. The commission announced the present tariff order after consultation with wide-range public who had welcomed the change. No tariff hike was made for any slab in any group except for the consumption exceeding 500 units per month. During review meeting, Justice C V Nagarjuna Reddy, chairman, APERC, said that the commission had given reply to some consumers who filed complaint with the APERC alleging that the discoms were issued the electricity bills for two months based on total consumption which caused substantial increase in billing amount. The commission had carefully examined the electricity bills submitted by Kiran Kumar Reddy, resident of Kurnool, who submitted electricity bills of three consumers to the commission, said APERC. “The billing procedure adopted was not questionable and found to be in order except applying the total consumption in a month for 30 days irrespective of the duration between meter reading days,” the commission said. “This is due to extraordinary situation prevailing due to Covid-19 pandemic,” APERC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tariff-unchanged-for-domestic-slab-aperc/articleshow/76077051.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court seeks reply from Centre and state on locust outbreak||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan high court on Thursday sought a reply from the state and Centre for not working according to the guidelines set to avoid and overcome the locust outbreak in the state. The bench comprising Justice Sabina and Justice C K Songara gave these interim directions and asked the state and Centre to file their replies in the matter by June 8. The directions were issued by the court on a petition filed by advocate Vijay Poonia. The petitioner stated that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has issued guidelines and contingency plans to overcome the desert locust, but the state government did not follow them. These guidelines and plans are also available on the website of the Union ministry of agriculture. In the plan, the role of other departments and ministries, availability of resources, calendar of activities, strategy, etc. have also been explained in detail. The petitioner stated that due to widespread uncontrolled locust swarms, Rajasthan has sustained substantial damage to crops as well as green cover in the state. “This will further affect the food supply chain in the state. And the state government is already under stress due to Covid-19 outbreak,” the petitioner said. The petitioner elaborated that the primary responsibility of the ministry of agriculture and the department is to unite all the agencies and work on a plan of control, along with locating the area of attack and locating the origin of locusts. “Also, the state governments have to provide pesticides, vehicles and human resources for control. The Union ministry of agriculture and farmers’ welfare and the state government have failed to control locust attacks,” said the petitioner. Around 5 lakh hectares of crops and greenery have been destroyed due to the locust attacks in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-seeks-reply-from-centre-state-on-locust-outbreak/articleshow/76079547.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Meerut||Hordes of migrants start living at bus terminals for fear of losing a ride home, brave soaring mercury||Meerut: Sweating profusely, Suraj, 18, sat on the floor of Meerut's Bhainsali bus terminal on Thursday. He now lives there. “It has been two days since I am waiting for a bus to go to Bahraich. We are a group of 26 persons who worked as farm labourers in Meerut. But with hardly any savings left, I have no other option than wait here for a bus to go back home,” says Suraj. He registered for a bus ride five days ago but has not got any confirmation as of yet. Suraj is not alone. Scores of migrants have now started living at the bus terminal itself.On Tuesday, Meerut even broke a six-year-record and recorded the highest temperature in the month of May at 44.5 degrees Celsius – the hottest day of the season so far.“I had come here with dreams of working and living in a city. Those dreams are all shattered now. Our landlord was a noble soul as he did not ask for any rent. But then, we started gathering people bound for Bahraich and came here. We do not want to miss any bus that might take us home,” said Suraj.Any person who wants to go home needs to register himself with the district control room telephonically and inform about the district and state he has to travel to, and provide a phone number. Once the district authorities have at least 30 people going to a common destination, a bus is arranged.There are ceiling fans at the terminal, but there is still no respite from the heat. “I spread a bed sheet on the floor. I lie here using my bag for a pillow to save it from the prying eyes of thieves,” said Jagjivan, who was told to get his registration only after he had stayed at the terminal for a day.“I have my kids waiting for me in Madhya Pradesh. I have been waiting for a bus since Wednesday morning, but to no avail. I keep checking my phone to ensure that I do not miss a call from the authorities about the bus. We even take turns to charge our mobile phones since there are limited charging points at the terminal,” said Bhola, 24.Subhash Prajapati, additional district magistrate (finance), said, “We have sent at least 14,000 migrants from Meerut to their homes by buses. While 8,000 were from UP, as many as 6,000 are from different states. At least 75 of them were even sent to Nepal. However, we start a journey only after we have at least 30 people going to a destination. The people at the bus terminal were told that they will be called on the day their bus is scheduled to leave. But they have refused to budge.”Munesh Kumar, 22, who is waiting for a bus to Madhya Pradesh’s Singrauli with his wife and his three-year-old daughter, said, “I was working as a labourer at a sugarcane farm in Daurala. Without any place to go to now, it is better for us to stay here,” Kumar said, adding that the bus terminal authorities provide them with khichdi, biscuits and drinking water from time to time. “I purchase fruits some time for my daughter – because I need to take care of her health in this searing heat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hordes-of-migrants-start-living-at-bus-terminals-for-fear-of-losing-a-ride-home-brave-soaring-mercury/articleshow/76078221.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 29, 2020||Pune||‘Focus now on rural pockets’||Pune: The district administration has now turned focus on the rural areas seeing rise in Covid-19 cases, with migration of 1.48 lakh people from Mumbai to villages. “As of now, the administration is focussing on Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad areas. With this large-scale migration from cities to villages, the rural areas cannot be ignored. They need special care as far as surveillance is concerned. Infected people are being home-quarantined or admitted in hospitals with the help of community management,” Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said he had directed all the zilla parishad chief executive officers in the five districts in the division to take due care to avoid spread. The collector said 90 Shramik trains have been sent out with almost all 1.20 lakh migrant workers from Pune district. He said about five trains might be sent out to West Bengal and some other states in the coming two to three days as per demand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-now-on-rural-pockets/articleshow/76080400.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Aurangabad||SMSN demands probe of income proofs||Aurangabad: Anti-reservation movement ‘Save Merit Save Nation’ (SMSN) has demanded an official inquiry into the income proofs and non-creamy layer certificates submitted by candidates during postgraduate medical admissions in Maharashtra. The public movement has alleged that a section of undeserving candidates has submitted fake documents in order to usurp benefits of reservation. “It has come to our notice that many students applying under Economically Weaker Section (EWS) are actually affluent and are applying under EWS quota by fraudulently obtained certificates. It has been found that a lot of students, including some top rankers, applying under EWS quota are actually rich but have produced fake certificates,” a release issued by SMSN said. The anti-reservation movement has added, “While the whole family income is to be considered to qualify a person as EWS, some students have shown only a single parent's income or have hidden their family properties. As per rules, the EWS criteria says that the whole family income, including siblings, spouses and children should be considered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/smsn-demands-probe-of-income-proofs/articleshow/76079552.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Monsoon onset likely in Goa by June 5-6, says IMD||PANAJI: Goa may see the arrival of monsoon in the first week of June. Formation of a low-pressure area over the southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea during May 31 to June 4 is likely to advance the date for the onset of southwest monsoon this year. The India meteorological department (IMD) said that conditions are becoming favourable for onset over Kerala from June 1, owing to this phenomenon. It takes around five days for monsoon to arrive in Goa thereafter. The earlier forecast for the onset over Kerala was June 5 with a model error of plus or minus 4 days. Accordingly, it was predicted that Goa would get rainfall from June 10. “If the low pressure area’s position remains favourable for northward advance of monsoon currents, Goa has a likelihood of receiving monsoon rains around its normal date of June 5, but it largely depends upon the future course of the system in southeast Arabian sea,” IMD scientist Rahul M said.  “The movement of the system may be confirmed in coming days with latest data and observations,” he said. A low pressure area has also formed over west-central Arabian Sea which is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards towards south Oman and east Yemen coast during next three days,” stated the press release issued on Thursday by the IMD. It has advised fishermen not to venture into west-central Arabian Sea from May 29 to June 1 and into the southeast and east-central Arabian Sea from May 31 to June 4. With the strengthening of westerlies and increase in convective clouds, the southwest monsoon has further advanced into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area, parts of south Bay of Bengal, parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, IMD stated. Conditions are favourable for the further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Maldives-Comorin area during the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-onset-likely-in-goa-by-june-5-6-says-imd/articleshow/76080407.cms||Nida Sayed
May 29, 2020||Madurai||More dugongs beach in TN, but poaching drops||Madurai: While around six to 10 dugongs were being poached annually for meat in the Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar in Tamil Nadu till 2017, it has since then dropped to zero to two. This drop came after the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, an autonomous institution under the Ministry of environment forest and climate change, implemented the ‘Dugong Recovery Programme’ in 2016-17. “We estimate that the dugong popoulation in India could now be around 250 to 300 against 200 to 250 according to the last survey in 2010,” K Sivakumar, project investigator and senior scientist at WII told TOI on World Dugong Day, observed on May 28. Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar in Tamil Nadu, Andaman and Nicobar and Gulf of Kutch in Gujarat are the only habitats of dugongs in the Indian coasts. Sivakumar said that Keelakarai and Nambuthalai in Ramanathapuram and Therku Pudukudi in Pudukottai were the poaching hotspots. With the highest dugong population, the state also leads in dugong beaching with 13 since 2017. “But Tamil Nadu also leads in dugong rescues. Of the 13 dugongs rescued from fishing nets so far since 2017, 11 are in Tamil Nadu and one each in the two other habitats. This year, two have been rescued,” Sivakumar said. The initial task was putting an end to poaching that fetched Rs 1-2 lakh per animal. Dugong creates breeding grounds for fish and species like squid and prawns that are sought after by fishermen. A dugong when alive helps fishermen fetch revenue to the tune of Rs 2 crore annually and it lives up to 72 years, the investigator said. Last May, WII sent a proposal to the TamilNadu forest department (TNFD) to declare a 400 square kilometre stretch in the Palk Bay – Tanjore and Pudukottai districts – as a Dugong conservation reserve because it is a prime habitat, mating and breeding area. Top TNFD officials have reportedly responded positively to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-dugongs-beach-in-tn-but-poaching-drops/articleshow/76079551.cms||M K Ananth
May 29, 2020||Pune||People coming from outstations don’t need NOC to enter their home: Police||Pune: The city police on Thursday clarified that people returning from outstations after the relaxation in lockdown norms did not require any no-objection certificates (NOCs) to move into their houses in societies or gated communities.The clarification came after the police received at least 25 to 30 queries on e-mail or over phone about their position on many societies or gated communities asking outstation returnees to bring NOCs from the police before moving into their houses.“The societies must insist only on such people following the government’s guidelines related to self-quarantine,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh. According to norms, if a person travels within the state, s/he would have to be in home quarantine for 14 days. Flyers are sent to seven-day institutional quarantine and then to another seven days of home quarantine. A senior police inspector said, “People are travelling from one city to another after the relaxation in lockdown norms. Those travelling into the city are being advised and stamped for home quarantine. Still, the society office-bearers are asking travellers to take an NOC from the police and provide a copy of the same to them. This is absolutely not necessary.”The city police also received applications for NOCs from people who arrived in the city. “It is not required and the police cannot issue NOC for these,” Singh said.An office-bearer of a housing society in Market Yard told TOI, “What is wrong in asking for NOC from police stations? The police have permitted them to travel and we don’t know if they are infected. Who will certify it? Thus, we asked travellers to get NOCs.”A senior police officer said, “The society office-bearers have become cautious, thus the demand for NOCs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-coming-from-outstations-dont-need-noc-to-enter-their-home-police/articleshow/76080438.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Chicken rates soar, Maha suppliers want bigger bite||Panaji: Prices of chicken have yet again shot up in Goa, with live chicken going anywhere between Rs 160-190, while eggs are selling for Rs 48 per dozen. “Ever since chicken supply from Karnataka was suspended, our suppliers from Maharashtra have been demanding a higher rate. Due to this, we have been forced to increase the retail prices in Goa,” said chicken vendor, Shane Fernandes. He was, however, optimistic that the prices will fall if chicken supply from Karnataka resumes and supply normalises. “The chief minister has to only give out the order for resumption of supply, which will lead to a decrease in prices,” he said. TOI had earlier reported that the Goa government had banned the entry of chickens from Karnataka and Kerala following the outbreak of Avian Influenza (bird flu) in parts of these states. This left Goa with no choice but to depend upon Maharashtra for its supply of chicken. However, traders in Goa lamented that the volume of live chickens arriving from Maharashtra is far lesser compared to Karnataka which has resulted in a shortage of the meat’s supply. Some vendors, however, reasoned that the price-rise is a normal affair. “Chicken was going at Rs 130 until Wednesday, but the prices had to be increased to Rs 160 on Thursday,” a vendor from the Panaji market said. Salhauddin Shaikh, a vendor from Margao said that the suppliers have been selling him the birds for Rs 150 each owing to which the retail price has been decided at Rs 180. “Compared to chicken, the prices of eggs have increased by only Rs 2. We were selling it for Rs 46 per dozen until a few days ago,” an egg seller said. Prices of mutton and beef though unchanged, still remain at an all-time high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicken-rates-soar-maha-suppliers-want-bigger-bite/articleshow/76080399.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Fire guts textile store near Temple||Madurai: A fire broke out in a three-storey building housing a textile store opposite the Meenakshi Amman temple in Madurai on Thursday evening. Police suspect that lightning could have triggered the fire since power was shut down pre-empting accidents. Three fire tenders and 50 officers and fire and rescue personnel from nearby stations were pressed into service and it took more than four hours to put out the fire. A detailed inquiry is underway to assess the damage and cause of fire. Meanwhile, bush fire destroyed 10 acres of vegetation in the buffer zone of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) on a hillock at Mullimalai pothal in Tenkasi district on Thursday. The fire broke out around 11.30am. A team of 12 forest department personnel led by Kadayam forest range officer C Nellai Nayagam and 12 villagers rushed to the spot to put out the fire. As it was inaccessible for fire tenders the team started fighting the flames. However, heavy winds and dry grass fuelled the flames and made it difficult for them. After nearly six hours the fire was put off. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fire-guts-textile-store-near-temple/articleshow/76079558.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Lack of proper safety gear, precautions put GRP personnel at high coronavirus risk||LUCKNOW: The number of novel coronavirus cases among Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel has been increasing but, a TOI reality check at Charbagh Railway Station on Thursday evening found only few cops following safety protocol against the infection earnestly. GRP officers said cops deployed to manage migrant workers have to maintain social distancing and wear face shield, mask and gloves and use sanitiser frequently. Around 1,500 passengers arrived via a Shramik Special train from Mumbai at around 10.15pm. Around 30 GRP jawans were there on platform one to manage them. The cops stood at a safe distance while migrants were deboarding with most of them wearing reusable face mask, while few had covered faces with gamcha. However, none of them had gloves, while only five cops had put on face shield. Similarly, most personnel deployed outside station to help passengers board UPSRTC buses were not wearing safety kits. And once the migrants were gone, social distancing took a back seat as cops mingled with each other without any precaution. No one was seen sanitising hands, though most of them touched benches, pillars and other things at the station. A GRP constable said they were provided disposable hand gloves and masks on Wednesday. He claimed that 16-18 constables are staying in barracks having capacity of 12. An RPF constable said they have not been provided any safety kit. When asked about the precautions, steps and gear to protect jawans, SP GRP, Saumitra Yadav said, “We have requested railway authorities to provide us space for expansion of barracks. We also sanitise barracks and mess twice daily. Besides masks, over 100 face shields have been distributed and discussions are underway with a few suppliers to provide reusable hand gloves for our force.” Inspector, RPF, Dharmendra Rana, said there is no need to panic as jawans are following safety guidelines strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lack-of-proper-safety-gear-precautions-put-grp-personnel-at-high-corona-risk/articleshow/76080423.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||70,000 workers head home, demand for shelter homes falls in Goa||PANAJI: Ever since the Centre allowed migrant workers to cross state borders and head home, more than 70,000 of them have left Goa for their respective states. Now with the wheels of economy slowly turning, some have opted to stay put and the number of inmates at shelter homes appears to be tapering off, government officials said. On Thursday, a Shramik Special train departed for Uttar Pradesh with just 980 passengers even though the train has a 1,500 capacity. On Tuesday officials could not find enough passengers for a Shramik Special train bound for Odisha and have decided to postpone other trains planned for the state. “Many workers are not going, especially those involved in fishing activity, since fishing has been permitted till June 15. Even construction workers are holding on,” a senior government bureaucrat said. More than 8,000 fishermen from Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh remain in the state and are likely to leave only after the fishing season comes to an end. Officials said that attempts to convince workers to stay back in Goa have partially paid off and the exodus is lower than earlier estimated. “It is better to retain these people in Goa. Some members have convinced majority of their workers to stay,” director general of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ramakant Kamat said. As of Wednesday, there were 3,100 migrant labourers and stranded people at relief camps and shelter homes in the state. “Initially these people were keen on going home because there was no work here, they couldn’t afford to pay rent and they wanted to see their people. Now that work has started, they are ready to stay back,” said an IAS officer involved in the exercise to ferry the workers home. This is not to say that Goa’s industrial sector has not felt the impact of the 70,000 workers who have left. The hospitality sector will not feel the brunt, but the construction sector, logistics, transportation and smaller sectors are facing a shortage of workers. Kamat hopes that the current situation has been a lesson for those who criticise migrant workers. “We find in many places there is a shortage of labour. This is a learning curve for us and we should learn the value of the migrants to the economy,” Kamat said. A Konkan Railway official said that with trains operating well below the passenger capacity, the need for Shramik Special trains is being reassessed. “The state government is assessing the requirements,” the Konkan Railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/70k-workers-head-home-demand-for-shelter-homes-falls/articleshow/76080454.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 29, 2020||Goa||Train to Assam departs with only 11-min delay||Panaji: A train carrying 1,351 passengers left from the Karmali railway station in Goa for Dibrugarh, Assam at 8.11pm on Thursday. Unlike trains in the past that have seen anywhere between an hour to three hours’ delay, the train to Assam on Thursday only saw an 11 minutes delay. The train was scheduled to leave at 8pm. Railway officials have attributed the reason for the same to early passenger arrivals. Many of the migrant workers arrived at the railway station hours prior to the train’s departure, they said. TOI had earlier reported that some Shramik Special trains were delayed due to late arrivals. On Wednesday, the last passenger boarded the train to Dibrugarh, Assam at 8.08pm, following which the train left the station three minutes later, sources said. The passengers, who were stranded in Goa during the lockdown are being ferried back home in the Shramik special train 05002.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/train-to-assam-departs-with-only-11-min-delay/articleshow/76080436.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mysuru||Pregnant woman wrongly diagnosed Covid-19 positive in Chikkamagaluru||CHIKKAMAGALURU: Close on the heels of a medical officer, who was wrongly diagnosed with Covid-19 and hospitalised, a pregnant woman from Tarikere, who was also wrongly diagnosed and hospitalised, due to incorrect laboratory analysis, tested negative for the disease. The medical officer was in hospital for four days, while the woman for eight days. Their samples were tested in Nimhans, Bengaluru, which had confirmed that they had Covid-19 on May 20. After samples of their contacts tested negative, officials in Chikkamagaluru carried out tests in the TB machine, truenat, only to find they didn’t have any infection. They later sent their samples to Shivamogga, Hassan and NIV Bengaluru labs, for testing, and the official and the woman again tested negative for the novel coronavirus. The samples of the duo were collected while carrying out random tests in the district. Both of them had no travel history. With the discharge of these two individuals, the total number of active cases has gone down to 14 from 16 in the district. Chikkamagaluru deputy commissioner Bagadi Goutham said that the laboratory samples of these two individuals tested positive due to technical errors. “Now the woman is free to go home, as she has tested negative for Covid-19. The district administration will no longer consider her locality to be a containment zone,” he said. The DC however refused to give any further information on the case. After the woman tested positive, the district administration sealed her locality and checked her travel history. The health department had quarantined 10 of her relatives, and obtained her husband’s contact information. Later, all the samples of her primary contacts tested negative. A week ago, a medical officer in Mudigere, who was declared to have Covid-19, tested negative for the disease. Nearly a 1,000 people who had come in contact with him were quarantined in Mudigere, after he was hospitalised. Health officers said that due to an overloaded of samples in laboratories in Shivamogga and Hassan, random samples from Chikkamgaluru were sent to Nimhans in Bengaluru, and that both the wrong reports came from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pregnant-woman-wrongly-diagnosed-covid-ve/articleshow/76077077.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||25 test positive, 38 discharged in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: A total of 25 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Kolhapur district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 427. Also, 38 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. The total number of active cases across Kolhapur now stands at 332. A health official said that more people will be discharged from the hospital in coming days. “So far 91 patients have been treated successfully, while four have succumbed to the contagion. As many as 37 patients are in serious condition,” he said. “The number of people under institutional and home quarantine are declining. Currently, around 833 people are in 19 institutional quarantine centres. On Thursday, over 150 were discharged. At the same time, 840 people are under home quarantine,” he added. Meanwhile, in Sangli district, three Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday. The total number of cases has now reached to 101, of which 44 are active cases. Of the new cases, one is the mother of a Covid-19 infected person who returned from Mumbai. The containment zone has been declared at her village on Kavathe Mahankal tehsil. So far, three people have died due to Covid-19 in Sangli district and 54 have been treated successfully. Box Kolhapur mayor Nilofer Ajrekar on Thursday ordered the wholesale traders from Laxmipuri market, located in the heart of the city, to shift their shops at Temblaiwadi market that is on the city outskirts. “Owing to the large number of customers arriving at the wholesale shops, the market is witnessing congestion and physical distancing norm cannot be maintained. All the 54 wholesale traders have been given a deadline till Sunday to shift their shops to Temblaiwadi market,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-test-positive-38-discharged-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76079560.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Pandharpur, Akkalkot see rise in Covid-19 cases||Kolhapur: Two popular religious destinations in Solapur district — Pandharpur and Akkalkot — have witnessed a gradual rise in the number of Covid-19 patients. Pandharpur tehsil has registered five patients so far while Akkalkot has reported three cases. The first person to test positive for the contagion in Pandharpur is a resident of Upri village. He had returned from Mumbai. Of the five Covid-19 patients from Pandharpur, three have travel history to Mumbai, of which two are women. The rise in coronavirus cases in Pandharpur has put local administration on alert as several followers of Warkari sect, which has strong presence all over Maharashtra, are expected to arrive in Pandharpur after relaxation in nationwide lockdown. The prominent “Palkhi Sohla” of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram is scheduled to leave from Alandi and Dehu respectively on June 11. Lakhs of devotees of Vithoba are expected to come to Pandharpur on July 1 on account of Ashadhi Eakadashi. While the government is yet to decide on the nature of the annual program, local authorities fear that devotees will come to Pandharpur irrespective of restrictions. Akkalkot, which is located at a distance of 30 km from Solapur, has reported three Covid-19 cases so far. Of these three patients, one has travel history to Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pandharpur-akkalkot-see-rise-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76079585.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Parents watch daughter tie the knot in Mumbai on phone||Madurai: As this couple in tied the knot in Mumbai, the bride’s parents had to be satisfied by watching the ceremony on their phones in Sholavandan in Madurai as they could not travel to Mumbai due to the Covid-19 lockdown to be part of their wedding day. Kannan and his wife Meena, of Kuruvithurai in Sholavandan in Madurai district, had decided to conduct the marriage of their daughter Archana with their nephew Rajeswar, in Kuruvithurai in their village on May 27, this year. Both the bride and bridegroom were working in Mumbai and had planned to come down to Madurai for the wedding in mid-May. However, after the lockdown was announced, they could not travel to Madurai. Meanwhile, since the bridegroom’s parents were also in Mumbai, it was decided to conduct the wedding in Mumbai. Since Kannan, Meena and other relatives could not travel to Mumbai due to unavailability of trains or flights, the wedding was conducted without the bride’s parents. “We were told that we would have to follow quarantine guidelines if we travel, which would have proved all their efforts futile,” Kannan said. On Thursday, morning, Kannan, his wife, their eldest daughter and son-in-law and few other relatives gathered in the house in Sholavandan and watched the get married in front of a temple in Mumbai. “I have never been so unhappy and happy at the same time, but I am grateful for a technology like the smartphone which made us participate in the function virtually,” he said. They have now planned a grand reception in Madurai as soon as normalcy returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/parents-watch-daughter-tie-the-knot-in-mumbai-on-phone/articleshow/76079582.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Madurai road works to resume in June||Madurai: Madurai Corporation is all set to resume road works from June, which were stalled due to lockdown. Around 150 roads are to be laid fresh under 41 separate package works at a cost of Rs 34.72 crores. Officials from the corporation said that works had to be suspended due to lockdown as soon as the works started. In fact, only three of the 150 road works took shape and that too had to be stopped when it was around 40%. Works for 30 more roads were about to be taken up, but they had to be put on hold. “The road work was taken up utilizing the fund allotted by the central government last year. Although there are issues like shortage of manpower and cost escalation of raw materials, contractors have been asked to start the work from June 1,” said an official from the engineering wing of Madurai corporation. Most of the road works are key roads connecting bus routes and key roads connecting residential areas. People did not complain about road problems until 10 days ago as people stayed at home. People have now started raising the issue, officials said. Syed Mohammed, a resident of Sammatipuram said that most of the roads at present are in bad condition in the city, giving a bumpy ride to commuters. Many of them require immediate attention from the corporation. Condition of roads on bridges are also turning bad due to lack of maintenance, he said. A higher official from Madurai corporation said that corporation does not have funds to take up maintenance work as of now. Only projects for which funds are already allotted will be carried out as of now. The civic body has spent heavily on Covid-19 prevention works, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-road-works-to-resume-in-june/articleshow/76079613.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Meerut||Baghpat wholesale market shut down to protest armed robbery bid on local trader||Meerut: A day after a trader in UP’s Baghpat district was shot at by bike-borne assailants during a robbery bid, the local trader’s union shut the wholesale Naveen Mandi market in protest, alleging deteriorating law and order situation in the region.According to police, Ajay Jain, a rice trader at Naveen Mandi in Baraut, was waylaid by three bike-borne assailants on Wednesday afternoon, who snatched his bag containing Rs 2 lakh in cash and shot at him. As the bullet grazed past Jain, the assailants tried to flee from the spot, but fell from the bike.Although they managed to hurriedly escape through a field, they had to leave behind the cash bag and their firearm. Later, local traders held a protest alleging deteriorating law and order and demanded immediate arrest of the outlaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/baghpat-wholesale-market-shut-down-to-protest-armed-robbery-bid-on-local-trader/articleshow/76078271.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Covid grips 6 more railway constables||Lucknow: An outbreak of Covid-19 is now threatening the Government Railway Police (GRP) ranks at Charbagh railway station with six more constables including one of Railway Protection Force (RPF) testing positive. This takes the novel coronavirus infection tally for the forces to 10 in three days. In all, 14 persons were diagnosed with the disease, taking the city’s tally to 355. Of these, 292 have recovered, while two died during treatment. According to health officers, all constables detected with the infection so far had been deployed to manage thousands of migrant workers coming from different states via Shramik trains. They are all undergoing treatment at KGMU. Of the five GRP constables diagnosed on Thursday, four were among 27 who had been quarantined at Sardar Patel Institute of Medical Sciences on Wednesday and their samples sent for testing after four of their colleagues tested positive. The fifth constable lives in GRP lines and had come in contact with those infected earlier. “The RPF constable, a resident of RDSO, Para, got himself tested voluntarily after influenza-like symptoms surfaced. Ten of his close contacts including family members have been quarantined and are being tested,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. “Contacts of all the constables tested positive are being traced,” he added. Meanwhile, four more migrants, including two women and the son of an SGPGI employee tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. While two had come from Ahmedabad, one each was from Mumbai and Jhajjar. As many as 43 migrant workers and their family members have tested positive in the city till date. A mother-son duo from Sadar were the other two infected. They were tested at SGPGI where the woman had gone for treatment. So far, 112 positive cases have been reported from various localities of Sadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-grips-6-more-railway-constables/articleshow/76080465.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Six migrants reach Bihar with help from police||Pune: Prompt action by the Hinjewadi police helped six construction workers, staying in a camp at Marunji village, to reach their native place in Bihar on Tuesday morning. Having run out of food and money, they were desperate to return to their village. Early on Saturday morning, they set out for Pune railway station with the hope of catching a train to Bihar. However, the police took them to the police station where they issued travel passes. Chintu Kumar, one of the workers, told TOI that they had reached Danapur railway station in Bihar on Tuesday morning, but without any food in the last two days. “We stayed in a labour camp and our mukadam (contractor) used to provide us with food. But he ran away a few days ago. We had exhausted all our money and were hungry. So, we decided to leave the camp,” said Kumar. He and his friends came to Pune three years ago and started working at different construction sites. The workers left for their homes early on Saturday morning and reached the station around 4pm. “We decided to walk till Chandannagar and catch a bus from there to Madhya Pradesh if we failed to get passes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-migrants-reach-bihar-with-help-from-police/articleshow/76080458.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Gem cutters scout for local machines to regain shine||CHENNAI: Trichy, once regarded as the capital of artificial gem cutting, an industry which manually made diamond lookalike stones, had lost its market to the aggressive pricing and machinery expertise of China way back in the early 2000s. Only a few gem cutters continued with the family business by purchasing China-made gem cutting machines. But with the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown making it difficult to source spare parts for mechanised gem production from China, local gem cutters are now looking at indigenous machinery for retrieving the market lost to China. Since January 2020, the local gem cutters here have been deprived of raw material, artificial stones and spare parts for automatic gem cutting machines, as China went for a lockdown ahead of India. Seeing an opportunity in this adversity, local artificial gem cutters plan to produce automatic artificial gem cutting machines locally. Trade bodies, including the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Trichy chapter, have pitched in to help. "We have a plan to seek the support of premier institutes and industries like NIT Trichy, IIM Trichy and Bhel Trichy for the plan to upgrade the technology. To revive the gem cutting industry that flourished in the Trichy region, we have a long-term plan to involve experts to guide the industry," said Ketan J Vora, chair, Young Indians (Yi-CII), Trichy. Cost of an automatic gem cutting machine imported from China is around `25 lakh, the gem cutters say that such a machine can be locally made within `13 lakh. The local gem cutters have realised the time has arrived to scout for local machine production rather than depend on China. CII-Yi Trichy and artificial gem cutters have conducted a series of meetings to devise a strategy for reviving the industry that was once producing ‘Trichy Kamalam’, a unique artificial gemstone. "For minor repair or spare parts requirement, we have to wait for months for help to arrive from China. So, we are approaching industries and experts to produce automatic gem cutting machines locally," said T Rajasekar, artificial gem cutter from Trichy, who owns a Chinese automatic gem cutting machine. The machine imported through shipping can produce 20,000 artificial gems per day. The gem cutters have sought government help to introduce them with experts. Financial support such as soft loan is the need of the hour to overcome Chinese monopoly and generate local employment, the gem cutters said. The MSMEs of TN have the capability to design suitable machinery for artificial gem cutting, say experts. To overcome the Chinese monopoly, gem cutters said raw material for gems which are rock stones can be procured from South Korea. "In the 1990s we were supplying artificial stones to Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. We have to upgrade and adapt to the changes to take on the Chinese stones," said M Kalyani, another gem cutter from Manachanallur. The gem cutters expect the governments to help their cause exposed by the lockdown by providing financial support under the self-reliant India scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gem-cutters-scout-for-local-machines-to-regain-shine/articleshow/76079621.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 29, 2020||Meerut||Three encounters in a day in Meerut as new ADG takes over||MEERUT: Even as the new ADG Rajeev Sabharwal took charge of the most crime infested zone of the state, three encounters were reported in Meerut district on Thursday. Four assailants were arrested. While two miscreants were apprehended in encounters in Pallavpuram and Nauchandi areas, a suspect wanted in a robbery attempt from a cash van in Mawana area was held in an encounter where he sustained bullet injuries. "As the Lockdown 4 is nearing its end, police are being directed to step up vigil. During the checking drive on Thursday, three encounters took place after a hot pursuit. Four assailants were arrested in these encounters, out of which two carry rewards of Rs 25,000 each," Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni said. "Police also managed to intercept a gang of three which tried to flee with cash from the bank employee's van a few days ago in Mawana area of the district," the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-encounters-in-a-day-inmeerut-as-new-adg-takes-over/articleshow/76078291.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Construction gathers pace with 20k workers on-site||PUNE: With 20,000 workers having stayed back in Pune district, developers’ bodies have stated that construction activity had slowly gained pace over the past week. Developers said they are now training local workers so that work in the non-containment zones in Pune district can commence at the earliest. The workers are being trained as a part of the in-house “Kushal” training programme of the Confederation of Real Estate Developer Association of India (Credai). Many developers said the workers have to be trained in additional skills, as over 75% of those who had worked on-site before the lockdown had gone back to their native places. Armed with the new skills, the remaining workers should be able to resume work at some sites, they said. As per rough estimates of the local administration, about 50,000 workers had left the city and state on the Shramik Special trains arranged by the authorities. “We cannot wait for the migrant workers, who were working at the sites, to return. So now we have decided to train the local people who will first learn and then join the construction activity. We are mobilizing the activity and the training programme should start soon,” Credai-Pune Metro president Suhas Merchant said. National Credai vice-president Shantilal Kataria said work has picked on at some sites, but that supply chain remains affected, with soaring prices of cement and steel. “We are getting inquiries and have to start work with the remaining migrant workers who have stayed back at the site,” Kataria said. He said that most of the supply is coming from the heart of the city, Bhavani Peth which is in the containment zone. “That’s a hurdle,” Kataria added. Credai members have categorically stated they are not keeping the workers back against their will. “If the workers express a desire to go back, we are allowing them,” Kataria said. He said the workers who have stayed back are generally from different villages and talukas in the state and have been assured of paid work soon. The average daily wage for workers is between Rs400-600., sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-gathers-pace-with-20k-workers-on-site/articleshow/76080456.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Panels formed to assess lockdown impact on coop finance institutes||Kolhapur: The state government has formed two committees to assess the impact of national lockdown on cooperative financial institutions in urban and rural areas. The panels have been asked to study the finance option for the farmers and professionals/salaried persons. The cooperative, marketing and textile department issued an order on Wednesday announcing formation of the committees, comprising government officials and representatives of cooperative financial institutions. The first committee has been asked to study the impact of national lockdown on the functioning and finance of urban cooperative banks and credit societies. The order has said that lending money to professionals and salaried persons was the backbone of urban cooperative banks and credit societies. “The national lockdown was bound to affect functioning and the committee has been asked to make recommendations, which can be implemented after lockdown is lifted,” the order added. The second committee has been asked to study possible effects of lockdown on the functioning of cooperative institutions that play a crucial role in providing loans to the farmers. These institutions, including district central coopertive banks and village level credit society, deposit the amount of all the government schemes into the bank accounts of the farmers. Both the committees have been asked to submit their reports within two months. Maharashtra has a strong network of cooperative finance institutions with over 2 lakh institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panels-formed-to-assess-lockdown-impact-on-coop-finance-institutes/articleshow/76079602.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Nat’l Games hit by virus, postponed to next year||Panaji: The oft-postponed National Games in Goa will be delayed further after the state government said on Thursday that it cannot host the multi-discipline event in October due to Covid-19 and will be held next year. “The infrastructure is ready, but we cannot play with the lives of everyone. We cannot host the National Games in October, that’s for sure. It is deferred to next year,” sports minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said after a meeting of the National Games Organising Committee (NGOC). “We have to see the situation (later this year) and decide on the next date,” said Ajgaonkar. Allotted in 2008, the National Games were originally scheduled to be held in 2011 and after several postponements, the 36th edition was scheduled from October 20 to November 4. “We cannot host in October because of Covid-19. In September, we will have a review meeting and then access the situation. We have to see how Covid plays out. Our decision will depend on that,” said National Games deputy CEO VM Prabhu Desai. Sources said Goa will not communicate its decision first to the IOA. Instead, the state government will write to the sports ministry and “seek advice”. Goa’s stand is in sharp contrast to what it had written to IOA last month when National Games CEO J Ashok Kumar said “despite the grim scenario”, Goa and the organising committee is working alongside to attend to all National Games related matters with the commitment it deserves. The letter prompted a response and advice from IOA. The national body said Goa should go ahead with the preparations and host the Game as scheduled from October 20 this year. Goa has often been found lagging in its preparedness for the National Games. Even an April deadline was pushed to August 2020 to complete the infrastructure with the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) worried about the fate of at least five sports projects. There was talk of Plan B for these venues after the swimming pool (Campal), tennis facility (Fatorda), hockey turf-ground (Peddem), squash courts (Chicalim) and lawn bowl facility (Chicalim) all saw inordinate delays. “From our end, we have been working tirelessly to prepare for the Games, but the coronavirus pandemic has held us back. Our sportspersons cannot prepare, they cannot train. The Games was a good opportunity for our athletes to shine,” said Ajgaonkar. No National Games has seen as many official postponements as the one scheduled to be held here. The 35th edition was held in January 2015 in Kerala and, should Goa manage to host it next year, it will be more than six years since the last event was held. In the 100-year history of the National Games—held every two years from its beginning in 1921—the Games have been delayed for over six years just once when there was a seven-year gap between Kerala 1987 and Maharashtra 1994.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/natl-games-hit-by-virus-postponed-to-next-year/articleshow/76080470.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Two inmates each of Madurai, Tirunelveli prisons test positive||Madurai/Trichy: Two inmates each from the central prisons in Madurai and Palayamkottai in Tirunelveli who returned from Puzhal central prison in Chennai last week, where they had gone to attend a training programme, have tested positive for Covid-19. In Trichy, the central prison authorities heaved a sigh of relief as all the 100 prison guards and prisoners tested negative despite a 39-year-old life convict who had also returned from Puzhal testing positive on Wednesday. A senior prisons department official in Madurai said the four infected prisoners were among 10 inmates (five each from Madurai and Palayamkottai) who returned from Puzhal central prison in Chennai last week where they had gone to attend a training programme. In all, 10 life convicts from Madurai and five from Tirunelveli had gone to Chennai from the southern districts and all of them were tested. “By noon, the infected convicts were shifted to the respective government hospitals for treatment. Although the prisoners were kept in isolation and prison staff followed all social distancing norms, the mandatory medical screening for some staff will be conducted,” the officer said. In Trichy, the tests results of the first batch of 56 prison guards and prisoners from the laboratory at KAP Viswanatham government medical college hospital were revealed as negative in the morning while those of the remaining 44 in the evening also turned negative. The 39-year-old prisoner was among four inmates of the central prison who had gone to Puzhal to attend the 42-day para legal volunteer training which was called off mid-way. Prisoners and prison guards are also being given multi-vitamin and zinc tablets from Wednesday besides Kabasura Kudineer and Arsenic Album 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-inmates-each-of-madurai-tirunelveli-prisons-test-positive/articleshow/76079595.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD resolves not to sell its assets||TIRUPATI: Bringing the curtains down on its ‘unviable’ assets sale controversy, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board has decided not to sell the temple’s assets in any form in future. This was announced by TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy after the trust board’s first ever video-conference meeting, held in Tirumala on Thursday. “The state government has already issued a government order keeping the resolution passed by the previous trust board in abeyance. The present TTD trust board has decided to rescind its decision to dispose of the temple’s unviable properties. Henceforth, TTD will not sell its assets in any form,” he said. The trust board also resolved to constitute a high-level committee to study and evolve at a mechanism to protect the temple’s assets. TTD will also initiate measures to regain possession of its encroached properties across the country. Meanwhile, the TTD plans to ask the state government to order a high-level probe into the smear campaigns unleashed against it in recent times. “Some people with vested political interests have been indulging in a smear campaign against the TTD. We have resolved to ask the government to order a high level probe to expose the people behind such campaigns,” Subba Reddy said. He also announced that the TTD will set up a children’s hospital in the temple city of Tirupati soon. “Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has stressed on the need to establish a children’s hospital on the lines of Niloufer hospital in Hyderabad. We will set up a world-class childcare hospital in the temple city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-resolves-not-to-sell-its-assets/articleshow/76077101.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 29, 2020||Pune||Anxious moments before flying, transport posers till landing||PUNE: Software engineer Prabhupada Satapathy (25) was a relaxed man on Thursday. At home in Bhubaneswar in Odisha, he was relieved. Till Monday, the day he took a flight from the city to his hometown with friends, he was anxious. “We were worried about our travel because of lack of public transport. We were not provided with any answers despite repeated requests on social media,” Satapathy said. “We had booked a private cab but were sceptical about if we would be allowed to go to the airport. The Maharashtra government’s initial announcement that flight operations would not begin on Monday was another jolt. The entire Sunday, we kept checking the status of our Pune-Bengaluru flight. We learnt in the evening that our flight had been rescheduled to 2pm from 11.30pm,” he said. Another shock was in store for Satapathy and his friends at the airport. “We got a message from the airline that one needs an e-pass from the Karnataka government to enter Bengaluru. We somehow convinced the airline’s representative and boarded the aircraft. We were given a mask, a face cover and gloves in the plane. The flight was pleasant but the queue of passengers in Bengaluru was long and tiring,” he said, adding that they boarded a connecting flight from there to the Odisha capital. Sabal Jamkar, who travelled back from Delhi to Pune, said, “The flight was fine but I was told by a representative of an airline that public transport at Pune would be a problem. I called my family, who spoke to the police. By the time they called me back, my flight had taken off. As soon as the flight landed in the city on Monday afternoon, I switched on my phone and saw a ‘relieving’ message that my family was at the airport,” the Kothrud resident said. Sujit Kanoji was surprised not to be stamped after landing in Pune on Monday. Another passenger, who travelled to Delhi on Monday, said , “I was worried about finding transport, but my cousin dropped me. I didn’t see anyone using washrooms and the selfie spree was missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anxious-moments-before-flying-transport-posers-till-landing/articleshow/76080469.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 29, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body to trace Day-I passengers||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation on Thursday sought the list of flyers landing in the city on Monday — the days the domestic flight operations resumed — from the airlines and the airport authorities to trace and stamp them for home quarantine. PMC)s 24X7 help desk for screening and stamping passengers could be operationalised at the airport only on Tuesday. “The state’s instructions requiring civic bodies to check and stamp arriving passengers for a 14-day home quarantine came to us in the late hours of Monday. So, we could set up the help desk only from Tuesday and none of the 672 passengers arriving on the first day could be stamped,” a PMC officer said. The civic official said, “Once we get the list, our officials will contact, screen and stamp them. It will be a challenge tracing them. There may be passengers who do not live in the PMC limits.” Till 6.30pm on Thursday, as many as 303 flyers arrived in Pune and 1,072 passengers flew out. The total flight movement was 18 till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-trace-day-i-passengers/articleshow/76080471.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Man who turned disability into art left jobless||CHENNAI: S Kanakaraj became popular after he began imitating actor Surya’s hunchback character ‘Perazhagan’ since he watched it in 2005. The 39-year-old differently-abled artist, who had been earning a livelihood from stage performances until the lockdown kicked in, is now struggling to support his 72-year-old father. The resident of Vikramasingapuram at Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district said he was now waiting for some rice and groceries that a leading political party had promised to supply as part of its donation drive. “I used to have at least 15 stage programmes in a month. Even though the money I earn is less, it was more than enough for me to meet our daily expenses. But I am having a tough time for the past three months, particularly after lockdown. I don’t know what to do if the situation continuess,” said Kanakaraj, a bachelor who lives with his father Sangaralingam. As a stage performer, Kanakaraj swam against the flow many a time. Born with an orthopaedic disability, Kanakaraj had a miserable childhood. His parents stopped sending him to school after fellow-students called him ‘kullan’. Life at home was boring, but the young Kanakaraj soon got attracted to cinematic dance. One day, he got an opportunity to imitate thespian MGR at a temple festival. It was a turning point. “I can survive anywhere but I have to take care of my father who has age-related illnesses. He doesn’t show his difficulties. He rather supports me,” he said. The present uncertainty, according to Kanakaraj, was a big disappointment for stage artists like him. “When the film industry is hit badly, you can imagine the condition of stage artists like us. We earn very less, but we can earn more during seasons. Many of my friends are starving in their villages. Some depend on rice and groceries donated by some organisations. I just went to collect rice and groceries, but members of the political party that was distributing it asked me to come in the evening,” said Kanakaraj. While most of Kanakaraj’s fame came from imitating Surya’s character in ‘Perazhagan’, he is also known for imitating matinee idols MGR and Sivaji Ganesan. “I still do some comic numbers at my home to avoid the tension. My father watches the performances. That’s how we forget our worries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-turned-his-disability-into-art-struggles-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76079645.cms||M T Saju
May 29, 2020||Madurai||Street vendors seek more time to furnish bank account details||Madurai: Road side vendors have demanded more time from the government to submit their bank account details to receive the government doll (Rs1,000) distributed through local bodies.There are around 8,650 road side vendors in the city, according to a data collected by Madurai Corporation a couple of years ago. Of them, around 2,500 vendors have not received the dole distributed through the corporation as they have not submitted their bank account details. As per rule, the money has to be transferred only through banks.S Santhiyagu, general secretary of Roadside Vendors Association, said that they could not contact those who have not submitted their bank details as public transportation system was not in place. “We heard that the state government might ask the corporation to return the money, which has not been disbursed yet. We have submitted a petition to various officials including the commissioner of municipal administration to leave the money with the local bodies until lockdown comes to an end,” he said. There are close to 13,000 vendors in Madurai city, who come from various parts of the district including Alagarkovil, Melur, Perungudi and Othakadai. There are people, who used to come from Virudhunagar and Aruppukkottai to sell cucumber. More time should be given for these vendors to submit their bank details, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/street-vendors-seek-more-time-to-furnish-bank-account-details/articleshow/76079631.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Madurai||70 TN youths attend online classes for blind||Madurai: Around 70 youths across Tamil Nadu took part in online computer training classes organized by the Indian Association for the Blind (IAB), Madurai. The classes were held via video conferencing by trainers who themselves were also visually-challenged. “We started this computer training after lockdown began by spreading the word in our networks via WhatsApp and such platforms. We got people to register for it first. The classes are two hour sessions on one topic,” said Roshan Fathima, general secretary, IAB Madurai. Till now six courses including HTML, e-books, mobile apps, accessibility and MS Office have been covered. Various participants from all over Tamil Nadu and even from Delhi have participated in the sessions which were in Tamil. One of the trainers for the courses who himself is visually-challenged, Mohan Raj said the sessions were interactive and participants gave positive feedback. “For computers, all visually-challenged persons use screen reading software and talkback audio to work. So, we connected through video conferencing by which we could give instructions and the participants can follow accordingly. They can ask doubts as well. To ensure everyone is able to learn, we provide the recording as well to them,” he explained. Visually-challenged external resource persons have also been roped in for some sessions, like Vinod Benjamin from TCS who delivered on accessibility and how the visually-challenged can play a part in the software industry. “The participants need to have minimal computer skills to work with screen reading and connect through video conferencing. However, we found that this enables us to let students learn at their own pace and even give them one-on-one interaction. As we are getting positive results, we would like to continue sessions even post lockdown,” said N Sivaram, Project Director, IAB Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/70-tn-youths-attend-online-classes-for-blind/articleshow/76079649.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 29, 2020||Meerut||UP: Two held for posing as state ministers, aide flees||MEERUT: Two men impersonating state ministers were arrested on Thursday by Saharanpur police. Chotte Singh, SHO at Rampur Maniharan police station, became suspicious after the duo, identified as Vivek Kaushik and Mayank Sharma, began creating undue pressure on him to get one of their rivals arrested. One of their aides, Arjun Pandit, managed to escape. Police have also seized a car from the arrested duo and further investigation is underway. According to police, the arrested men would take turns to call the SHO at Rampur Maniharan police station to build pressure on him to take action against their rivals. "Their aide, Pandit, used to identify himself over the phone calls as the personal assistant of the impostor state ministers," a Saharanpur police officer said. Police are probing to find out if the duo has a previous record,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-held-for-posing-as-state-ministers-aide-flees/articleshow/76078327.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Panel recommends law to manage floods||KOLHAPUR: The 10-member panel that was set up after unprecedented deluge in south Maharashtra last year has suggested to enact a law to effectively manage the floods and do away with human interventions that aggravates flooding. The panel — set up under former state irrigation secretary Nandkumar Wadnere to study the floods in Krishna-Bhima river basins — submitted its report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. Details accessed by TOI show that the heavy incessant rainfall occurred in short period was the major cause of the floods.The floods led to death of over 40 people and evacuation of around 4.5 lakh residents from the affected districts. “We have suggested a law to manage floods effectively in the region. It will help reduce all sorts of human interventions that aggravate flooding and make it mandatory for government establishments to take up an integrated approach consistently to minimise the losses of both lives and properties,” Wadnere said. The report states that dams in the upper streams should be upgraded to accommodate excess rainfall in Sahyadri ranges. “The dams along the north Indian rivers have special arrangements to store more water and regulate the discharge in case of excess rainfall. In Maharashtra most dams located in the upstream areas do not have such facility due to techo-economical reasons. We have suggested to take the carrying capacity of the rivers into consideration while regulating the discharges from the dams,” Wadnere said, adding that he is hopeful all the suggestions made in the report are accepted by the state government and implemented accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panel-recommends-law-to-manage-floods/articleshow/76079651.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Refuelling facility at airport for rescue ops to be prepared||Kolhapur: Refuelling and other facilities will be kept ready before monsoon at Kolhapur airport to carry out rescue operations in case of floods in Kolhapur and Sangli districts. A team comprising two commandants of the Indian Coast Guard, Goa, visited the airport on Wednesday. The team surveyed the facilities at the airport and discussed the preparations needed to be taken to carry out rescue operations in case of floods. Kamal Kumar Kataria, the airport director said, “Commandants Amit Korgaonkar and Ashok Yadav took an aerial survey of Kolhapur and Ratnagiri regions in ICG Chetak helicopter. The airport is ready for landing of helicopters to carry out rescue work in monsoon. The refuelling facility is being prepared.” Last year the rescue teams of the coast guard, navy, national disaster response force and army had carried out several rescue operations in Kolhapur and Sangli floods and shifted over 4 lakh people to the safe places providing them with all necessary relief materials. The district administration has appealed to the owners of sugar mills to donate rescue boats, at least two each. Communication has already been made for deployment of NDRF rescue teams with their boats for June 15 to August 31. The administration has planned evacuation of the people and cattle in three phases- first at places which normally face floods every year, second when the river water level reaches the danger mark and third when there is heavy and incessant rain. For each evacuation, the skilled rescue force of various agencies will be deployed. Coast guard teams can reach within two hours from the Goa station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/refuelling-facility-at-airport-for-rescue-ops-to-be-prepared/articleshow/76079628.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||AP issues GO restricting student strength per class||VIJAYAWADA: The education department has issued a government order (Go 23) restricting the strength of students to 40 per section in private schools. The restriction will also be applicable to junior colleges where each group can have only 720 students. The decision came as part of the education reforms. The state government, which has turned its focus on streamlining private educational institutions, has brought in a few reforms. The government, which received suggestions from an expert panel about overcrowded classrooms, is set to balance the teacher-student ratio. “Our government is focused on streamlining the education system. This order will improve the teacher to student ratio in private schools. Similarly, we have also reduced the sanctioned strength of students in private junior colleges. Earlier corporate colleges could have a strength of 1,548 students per group. This includes, first- and second-year students. Now the corporate colleges can only have 720 students which means 360 students per group in the first year and 360 students per group in the second year. This will reduce the burden on teachers and improve attention of the students,” said Adimulapu Suresh, education minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-issues-go-restricting-student-strength-per-class/articleshow/76077110.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: RPF couple innovate with 2-in-1 masks||PUNE: A couple working in the Railway Protection Force in Pune division developed a two-in-one mask, replete with a face shield, after a plethora of gear caused health complaints among RPF personnel. Shakeela Shaikh, a head constable, first got the idea after her husband Sajid Shaikh - an assistant sub-inspector — complained of headaches and irritation after wearing eye cover and face masks. “People on the field need to keep themselves safe. With many Shramik Specials leaving from Pune, we wear different pieces of equipment — masks, a face cover and an eye cover — to keep safe. It was becoming difficult for me to wear all this, so when I told my wife I would wear only a face mask, she got worried and said she would have a solution,” Sajid said. Shabnam’s solution was this. “I sat in front of the sewing machine that very night and made one for him. He liked the idea and started to wear it at work,” Shakeela said. Sajid said that his colleagues and seniors were impressed with the idea and told them to make more. The couple have prepared 150 such masks and counting. “The raw material is being provided by the railways. Care is taken to ensure that the masks are sanitized before and after use,” Manoj Jhawar, the public relations officer of the Pune rail division, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rpf-couple-innovate-with-2-in-1-masks/articleshow/76080473.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 29, 2020||Pune||Flights to resume at Shirdi next month||The flight operations would resume at Shirdi airport after May 31. “An IndiGo flight to and from Hyderabad was set to start from May 25. The aircraft, an ATR 72, was to fly daily. But the flight’s resumption date was first deferred to May 28 and now to after May 31. It is the airline’s decision,” Shirdi airport director Deepak Shastri told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flights-to-resume-at-shirdi-next-month/articleshow/76080472.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 29, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu reports 48 positive cases, central region 4||MADURAI/ TRICHY: With 48 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, including the 29 in Tirunelveli, the total cases in southern Tamil Nadu touched 1,382. Out of these, 617 cases are from other states. Meanwhile, the central region reported four cases on Thursday. In Tirunelveli, 28 people who had returned from Maharashtra, including six children tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. The total cases in the district are 330, of which 226 are people from other states. The district continues to see the return of more migrants by road and by train. Dindigul saw four Maharashtra returnees testing Covid-19 positive while Tuticorin and Virudhunagar saw influx case each, from Gujarat and Maharshtra. Meanwhile, Madurai district saw eight local cases, including four frontline workers. Of the 16 police personnel tested from Thideer Nagar police station, two constables, a 56-year-old man and a 36-year-old woman, tested positive. The test was conducted following an accused, who was arrested for rioting last week, tested positive a few days ago in a sub-jail in Theni. Further, two health workers on duty, a 25-year-old man and a 35-year-old man from Katchakatti tested positive for Covid-19. Another case was that of a 65-year-old woman from Dindigul district who was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai after she complained of chest pain. The remaining cases were contacts of Covid-19 patients and two prison convicts at Madurai Central Prison. Tuticorin, Virudhunagar and Tiruenelveli too reported three, two and one local Covid-19 cases, all with contact history. No Covid-19 cases were reported in Kanyakumari, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, and Theni. Positive cases in Nagapattinam rose to 54 as two more cases were registered on Thursday. Among the two was a 39-year-old man from Sirkazhi, a cameraman with a Tamil News channel in Chennai. The other man, a 42-year-old lorry driver of Vaimedu, is a Chennai-returnee. With one more new case, the total positive patients in Thanjavur has climbed to 86. The patient is a 52-year-old woman of Mela Kabisthalam of Papanasam. She was a contact of a Chennai-returnee. A 44-year-old man who returned from Maharashtra tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. With this, the total number of positive cases in Pudukottai has climbed to 22. There are 15 active cases in Pudukottai hospitals. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts did not report any fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. As many as 49 people are waiting for results in Ariyalur. The number of positive cases in Tiruvarur remained unchanged with 42, as there was no new case. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy discharged one patient of Perambalur district on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-48-ve-cases-central-region-4/articleshow/76079661.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||7 of a family test positive for Covid-19 in Satara||Kolhapur: Seven members of a family residing in the Paragon village of Satara district’s Khandala tehsil tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. District administration officials said that a driver working with BEST in Mumbai returned to his native place in Paragaon village on May 15. After a few days, he complained of pain in one of his ears. Thereafter, he was admitted to the civil hospital. As protocol, the health staff at the hospital took his swab sample and sent it for testing. The test results were generated on May 27 confirming Covid-19 infection. Soon after, his family members were traced by local authorities and their tests were conducted. At the time, nine members of his family were found to be high-risk contacts. However, after the test results were generated, seven tested positive for the contagion. All of them have been admitted to the civil hospital. The village has been sealed as a precautionary measure and people have been asked to stay indoors. Meanwhile, Satara district registered 28 more cases till late Wednesday, taking the total of positive patients to 277.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/7-of-a-family-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-satara/articleshow/76079667.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||‘No festivals in Saraswat temples till December 20’||MARGAO: No religious festival will be celebrated nor will mass congregation for any type of ritual be permitted at any of the temples of the Saraswat samaj until December. An order to this effect has been issued by Shrimad Vidyadheeraj Teerth Shripad Vader Swami, the chief pontiff of Gokarn Jeevottam Mutt at Partagal, Canacona. President of the central committee of the Mutt, Shrinivas Dempo, has urged all temple committees affiliated to the mutt to strictly adhere to the order of the mutt’s dharma mandal and follow guidelines issued by it. The guidelines state that Vaikunth Chaturdashi and poornima of the Kartik month may be held in the Krishna Paksha of Margshirsh. The bhajans generally held on Ashadh Shukla Ekadashi be now held in the Kartik month of the Hindu calendar. The popular pushpa pooja of Shravan stands cancelled. Ganesh Chaturthi which falls in Bhadrapad, the mandal guidelines said, will now be celebrated on Magh Shukla Chaturthi (Ganesh Chaturthi day) and that Anantchaturdashi will be observed in Kartik or Margashirsh. The shastras have provided for such rescheduling of events, guidelines stated. While all kuldevasthans’ ‘makarotsav’ held during Navratri have been cancelled, yagna sadhana and other rituals associated with Navratri will be allowed to be conducted in Falgun. While other rituals will be restricted to poojas only, celebrations associated with Somar, Shukrar, Panchami, Navami, and Amavasya will not be held even within the temple precincts. The dharma mandal guidelines stipulate that instead of Annasantarpan (mass serving of meals), only panchakhadya naivadya be distributed. “If at all, a religious festival needs to be conducted as a public event, no more than 5-6 people, priests including, shall be allowed inside the temple,” the guidelines stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-festivals-in-saraswat-temples-till-dec-20/articleshow/76080476.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||CBI court to record accused statements||Lucknow: The special CBI court, conducting Babri mosque demolition trial, is set to record statements of accused under Section 313 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) for the purpose of enabling them to explain their innocence and further explain the incriminating circumstances that exist in the evidence led by the prosecuting agency CBI against them. The court asked the defense to ensure presence of the accused for the said purpose from June 4. Earlier, special judge S K Yadav recorded in his order that the CBI concluded its prosecution evidence and no further prosecution evidence remained to be led. In fact, the prosecution evidence was complete on March 6, 2020, itself and the court had asked some of the accused, including Champat Rai, Lallu Singh and Prakash Sharma, to appear before it on March 24 for recording of statement under Section 313 CrPC, but due to the lockdown and closure of the court, the proceedings could not be conducted. Meanwhile, when the court resumed on May 18 the defense counsel moved an application to summon three prosecution witnesses in order to cross examine them. The court allowed the application and completed proceedings on Wednesday. The court will record the statements of as many as 32 accused, including then UP CM Kalyan Singh, former deputy PM LK Advani, BJP leaders MM Joshi, Uma Bharati, Vinay Katiar, Sadhvi Ritambhara, Sakshi Maharaj, Dr Ram Vilas Vedanti and Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh. As presence of the accused Advani, Joshi and Uma Bharati is already exempted till further directions, other accused moved their exemption plea on Thursday citing lockdown difficulties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-court-to-record-accused-statements/articleshow/76080474.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
May 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC to hold GB meeting on June 1||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation will hold the civic general body meeting on June 1. Only some corporators will attend the meeting in person, while others will attend it online. The adjourned meeting of March could not be held in April and May due to lockdown. If the mayor fails to hold GB meetings for three consecutive months, then s/he can be disqualified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-hold-gb-meeting-on-june-1/articleshow/76080475.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 29, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR tops in track maintenance work during lockdown||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has emerged as the top zone across the country in execution of track maintenance work during the lockdown period — from May 1 to May 25. “The work concerned were executed by efficiently utilizing the reduced train movement during the period of lockdown,” an official release from the SCR said. “The SCR is one of the important zones of Indian Railways spread over a total of 6,336-km of railway network, connecting around 754 stations and running an average about 750 passenger carrying trains and around 300 goods trains every day. Track maintenance is a crucial part of train operations which has a direct impact on safety as well as in maintaining maximum permissible speed of the train on the tracks,” it added. The SCR has drawn a meticulous plan to utilise the lockdown period for strengthening the rail tracks for the benefit of all train movements. “The zone has properly identified sections and deployed all the track maintenance machinery for strengthening the tracks, points, crossings, sleepers and ballast for enhancing the safety, speed and reliability,” an SCR official said. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya complimented the officials and staff of the engineering department for effective management and committed work shown during the lockdown while carrying out record-level of track maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-tops-in-track-maintenance-work-during-lockdown/articleshow/76079732.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Growing power of digital footprint in placements||By:V Samuel Rajkumar CHENNAI: Campus recruitment is the buzzword for any student who joins an engineering college. Admission to an institute is dependent on the campus recruitment index of the institution with many students aspiring for jobs abroad. But with the economic slowdown and impact of Covid-19 campus placements are expected to be affected as well. Students can no longer prepare for the campus recruitment process just before placement season and get placed. This changed situation is the time when students need to learn to be self-sufficient and sharpen their skills. It begins with creating an online professional portfolio from the first year itself to increase their chance of getting placed. The digital footprint of a student is his/her online identity, which may include performance in the programming platforms, participation in online contests, online certifications, blogs and more. The combination of all these result in a digital footprint of a student, which gives more value than an academic score. A typical campus recruitment interview runs for 10 to 30 minutes. The recruiter spends less time in the resume if it is not impressive. Some of the companies shortlist students based on the resume for the initial screening process. In those cases the recruiter spends less than five minutes on the resume. The Digital footprint in the resume makes it easy for the recruiter to shortlist a student if it is an initial process or adds a lot of value during the final selection process. A student’s aptitude for self-learning is key here. The hackathons won and online courses taken above and beyond the set curriculum attract more points over the toppers in class. This is because in a job environment theoretical classroom study has its limitations. That is a 7.5-pointer can bag a better package than a 9-pointer student. Similarly, though opportunities for computer science graduates are huge, students from other streams, passionate about programming and undertaking self-learning projects, can catch the eye of companies as well. Engineering students should start by building their profile on LinkedIn, the largest online recruitment network. Based on the area of interest, a student may join groups, post about projects and participate in discussions. These channels and groups have various companies who recruit for their domains and a student gets noticed by their contribution in these forums which can help get internships, a step in the doorway. For instance, a student may not be in a top grade institution but their digital presence can make them visible to the biggest of corporates. Online certification courses are integral to this digital profile. Coursera, Udemy, Linkedin learning, Skillshare are some of the popular platforms offering online certification courses. It is important that a student complete at least two such courses before attending campus recruitments. Though these courses are not accredited by the industry or institutions it adds diversity. It reflects on the student’s attitude towards learning and shows the person is self-motivated. On the practical side, participation in online coding competitions and hackathons come in handy. Enrolling on programming platforms such as HackerRank, HackerEarth, CodeChef, InterviewBit, LeetCode and GeeksforGeeks offer sufficient practise for coding, which students of any background can try. Online contests are the other gateway for internships as many companies keep an eye on potential candidates through these. Some of the popular contests include Google’s Code Jam, ACM-IPC International Collegiate programming contest, CodeChef, Microsoft Imagine cup, Topcoder, HP CodeWars, Codeforces, TCS’ Codevita and Infosys’ HackWithInfy. By participating in these contests, even if a student doesn’t win, the digital footprint improves. Student blogs can be the place where all their theoretial and practical knowledge can be put together. Blogs are different from other online activities as they allow students to reflect and put into perspective all that they learned. An insight which give recruiters an understanding of a students analytical thought process. A crucial skill in the world of coding. The Covid-19 lockdown is an opportunity for any student to build on his/her digital footprint as they have more time and less academic pressure now. Today, a good score is essential, but a digital footprint adds more value to the CV. (The writer is the director of placement and training at VIT University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/growing-power-of-digital-footprint-in-placements/articleshow/76079509.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Ancient coins recovered from farm in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: A pot filled with 716 coins, belonging to an undated era, has been unearthed from a farm in Anuskura village of Shahuwadi tehsil while carrying out land-levelling work by heavy machinery. Owner of the farm Vinayak Patil approached district collector Daulat Desai on Wednesday and informed him about the find. After listening to the claims, Desai immediately formed a team of nine officials and asked them to visit the site. The team carried out the panchanama and found pieces of the earthen pot. Patil had already kept the coins in his custody. Guru Birajdar, tehsildar of Shahuwadi, said, “We have written to the archaeology department about the coins found in the farm. The coins have now been handed over to the treasury department for safe storage along with the pieces of the pot. The coins are two centimeter in diameter and 2mm thick.” Desai has ordered the archaeology department officials to carry out carbon dating of the coins and 19 pieces of the earthen pot. All coins are in same shape. Locals claimed that some of the coins are made of silver while some are made of gold. However, the officials said more could be revealed only after studying the coins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ancient-coins-recovered-from-farm-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76079693.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Bridge connecting tribal village with 125 families in Dakshina Kannada collapses||MANGALURU: The bridge connecting Kakkunje-Alambe with around 125 families close to the Western Ghats and the Kudremukh National Park in Belthangdy collapsed on Wednesday. The families, most of whom are from Malekudiya tribe, are fearing being ‘locked out’ for months on end as the country prepares for the onset of monsoon. The residents said that they had intimated the Dakshina Kannada district administration about the condition of the bridge around 18 months ago. “The officials visited the spot around six months ago, and assured us of building a new one. But all that was done was patchwork and nothing else. The monsoon rain will start in a few days, and we are afraid of being marooned in our village. It will be very hard to construct a temporary bridge during the rainy season,” said a villager. The bridge is around 250m from the Belthangdy-Karkala Road. Regular users point to the weakening of the pillars of the bridge almost a year ago. They said that the collapse of the bridge had seemed imminent at that point in time. A temporary road was built underneath the bridge for the movement of four-wheelers and heavy vehicles. Santosh Kantabettu, member of the Naravi gram panchayat, complained that renovation of the dilapidated bridge was being carried out with very little preparation. “Around Rs 5 lakh had been sanctioned for the repair of the bridge, but on Wednesday, earth moving machines came to the spot, and the bridge has collapsed now,” he said. He added that Belthangdy tahsildar arrived on the spot along with a few engineers, who suggested that opting for a new bridge costing Rs 1.25 crore would be a better option. “The construction will begin soon and the village with a population of 500 will have to brace for a tough monsoon since they will not be able to move around much without the bridge. They will have to walk for several kilometres to get to the main road,” Kantabettu added. ‘Have to make temporary arrangement’ We have submitted a report on the collapse of the bridge to the Dakshina Kannada district administration. Since there is only a week left for the onset of the monsoon, we will have to have a makeshift arrangement so the people do not suffer. There is another route that connects Naravi to other villages but one has to travel 8km. -Ganapathi Shastri | Tahsildar, Belthangdy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bridge-connectingvillage-housing-125-malekudiya-families-collapses-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/76077151.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR supplies red chillies to Bangladesh||AURANGABAD: Ensuring the supply of essential commodities beyond the border, the South Central Railway (SCR) has supplied red chillies and other vital agricultural products to Bangladesh during current pandemic for the first time using the rail route. Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of SCR, on Thursday said, “As all the state and international borders have been impacted during lockdown, transportation of essential goods to Bangladesh by road has been adversely affected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-supplies-red-chillies-to-bangladesh/articleshow/76079743.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 29, 2020||Vadodara||Body exhumed after allegations of threat by loan recovery agent||VADODARA: The body of a 40-year-old man was exhumed in Dahod after family members alleged that he ended his life due to duress from a loan recovery agent. The man Mohammed Aman had allegedly hung himself to death in his house sometime late on Wednesday night or in the early hours on Thursday. His wife spotted the body early on Thursday morning and informed relatives. The body was brought down and buried without informing the police. Some family members had seen an injury mark on the head of the deceased, but believed it was because the body fell down while being brought down. An offence registered by Mohammed Ikram, the brother of the deceased, states that when he reached home his nephew Rizwan told him that the deceased was tense as people were pressurising him too pay instalments for a phone. Ikram checked the phone of the deceased and found recordings in it in which one Javed Kazi was threatening to recover the loan from him. Ikram informed the police after hearing the calls and an offence was registered. The body was exhumed in the presence of senior officials and was sent for an autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/body-exhumed-after-allegations-of-threat-by-loan-recovery-agent/articleshow/76077508.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sputtering app leaves a hangover||Thiruvananthapuram: Liquor sales resumed in the state with the launch of the BevQ app but confusion prevailed and social distancing went for a toss at many outlets due to technical glitches. The rollout of the app itself was delayed in Google Play Store on Wednesday, and once it was uploaded late in the evening, most of the consumers either did not receive the one-time password (OTP) while registering the application or got it very late that too after multiple attempts. Even when consumers who received the time slots for Thursday reached the respective outlets, they were welcomed by long queue at several outlets as most of them faced technical issues that delayed the sales and they were unable to stick to the timeslots. “I was offered a time slot between 1.15pm and 1.30pm. By the time I reached the outlet, there was a huge crowd as the sales could not begin in the morning. By the time my turn came, it was 4.30pm,” said Arun S, one of the consumers who managed to purchase liquor in the first day from an outlet in Kannur. The situation was no different in the outlets in other parts of the state as well, as the counter staff found it difficult to scan the QR codes. “There was an issue relating to scanning the QR code from the sales counters. So, we had instructed all to manually record the names and mobile numbers of consumers before selling liquor to them. The issue is expected to be rectified soon,” said excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan. As many as 2.15 lakh tokens were distributed for the first day’s sale. The token consists of name, outlet ID, name of the outlet, address of the outlet, district, date, a time slot of 15 minutes and the queue number. Google Play Store saw nine lakh downloads of the app by 6pm on Thursday and another six lakh registered using the SMS format taking the total number of users to 15 lakh. As per the rules, only five persons are to be present at a counter at a given time, who would have to adhere to safety regulations prescribed by the health department. But that too went haywire in most of the counters. The app BevQ largely received negative reviews in play store, with an average rating of 2.5 stars by 8,268 reviewers. Users poured in with complaints, mostly relating to delayed OTP, and not having a choice of immediately choosing another slot if a particular brand of liquor is not available in the allotted outlet. Many of them either commented that the application is a sub-standard one and that they had a frustrating experience. “Intention is good, but purpose not served. Still serpentine queue at the outlet... Why the queue itself, when slots are allocated,” wrote Jeevan Johny in the appstore review. Officials of the Consumerfed said apart from the issue of QR code scanning they also faced problems due to price revision and internet outage. According to sources, the delay in OTP resulted from the failure of the SMS client to handle the load. The SMS provider engaged for the token system had committed to handle 1,100 SMS per second. “Everything was fine during the testing phase. But when it went live the SMS provider failed to handle the load. This resulted in SMS delays at consumer end and Bevco end,” said a source. (With inputs from Binu Karunakaran in Kochi )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sputtering-app-leaves-a-hangover/articleshow/76077174.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||British Sikhs ‘highly dissatisfied’ with UK govt’s handling of Covid crisis: Survey||London: A survey examining the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the British Sikh community has found “extremely high levels of dissatisfaction” with the UK government over its handling of the crisis.The survey of 1,553 British Sikhs by the Sikh Network found that 92% did not think the government acted quickly enough to tackle the pandemic. One Sikh woman even blamed two deaths in her family on the government “not sharing guidance and advice to those most vulnerable sooner”.Nearly 96% said they were “very concerned” with the high proportion of Sikh deaths from Covid-19, “which are approximately twice the national average”. British Sikh Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi has lost three family members to the viral infection.Of the Sikhs working in the NHS or social care sector, 88% stated they were “very unsatisfied” with the availability of PPE kits, with one NHS Sikh worker describing the lack of preparation for the crisis and government incompetence as “corporate manslaughter”. Further, 88% of the respondent said they were “very unhappy” with the UK’s testing strategy, specifically the delay in being tested, the time it takes to get results and also missing results. One Sikh woman working in a care home said, “I have been working on the frontline since Day 1, but have still not been tested.”Besides, 85% of those Sikhs working in the NHS or social care, or those with immediate family members working in these sectors said Covid-19 had created unbearable strains within the family due to lack of testing, lack of availability of proper PPE, high proportion of BAME deaths and the need to be ultra-cautious not to spread the disease to loved ones. One Sikh nurse said she was paying for a hotel out of her own pocket to self-isolate from mother-in-law and the daily trauma and isolation was making her depressed.As many as 86% stated the government had been negligent by not issuing funeral guidance specific to each faith. Many suggested this had created huge problems for bereaved Sikh families.Moreover, 98% were extremely unhappy that the government did not consult gurdwaras before forcing them to close their doors to the public and 95% said the government has failed to properly engage with gurdwaras on their re-opening. Also, 95% stated the government failed to appreciate the significance of gurdwaras to the Sikh way of life and 91% said they were comfortable with re-opening gurudwaras to the public.Nine out of 10 Sikhs stated the Foreign and Commonwealth Office did far too little to support tens of thousands of British Sikhs stranded in Punjab.Yet despite this widespread dissatisfaction, more than 100 gurduwaras have prepared and distributed more than one million free meals since the start of the lockdown — amounting to 1,20,000 free meals per week — to those most vulnerable and to NHS frontline workers, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/british-sikhs-highly-dissatisfied-with-uk-govts-handling-of-covid-crisis-survey/articleshow/76069404.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 29, 2020||Pune||Wholesale vegetable and fruit market in Pune to reopen on May 31||PUNE: The wholesale vegetable and fruit market at Gultekdi that had been shut down nearly 45 days ago will reopen from May 31 with some restrictions on traders. Only 400 produce-laden vehicles will be allowed into the market for now. The reopening of the wholesale market is expected to help streamline the supply of vegetables and fruits in the city’s retail market. Half of the total registered traders will open their shops on alternate days to avoid overcrowding. Farmers and suppliers with valid passes will be able to enter the market premises to sell their produce. The plan to reopen the market was finalized at a joint meeting between the traders and authorities from the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) held on Thursday. APMC Pune administrator BJ Deshmukh said that strict distancing measures will remain in force as the market reopens. “Steps are being taken to pump in more vegetables into the retail market,” he said. Deshmukh added, “All trades are to be completed before 12 noon. Every person in the market area should wear a mask. Besides, traders and porters, who live in containment areas, will not be allowed to operate. The traders are expected to utilize minimum vehicles to avoid chaos. The traders, farmers, suppliers and porters are to enter and exit the market only from designated gates. The traders are strictly asked to refrain from retail trade,” Deshmukh said. The APMC has also made it mandatory for farm produce to be packed in crates or gunny bags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wholesale-vegetable-fruit-market-to-reopen-on-may-31/articleshow/76080479.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 29, 2020||Indore||Water shortage in Jhabua leads to pandemonium in times of pandemic||INDORE: As if a pandemic was not enough that people of Jhabua are now finding themselves amidst a complete pandemonium surrounding water shortage. Scarcity of water in the tribal-dominated district has become a bigger challenge for locals than to deal with spread of Covid-19. The affected families are forced to spend the entire day bringing water from far off places and having to put locks on storage to stop stealing or misuse. Water for drinking is so scarce for people of many gram panchayats in Jhabua that people can hardly afford to wash hands with soap several times a day as suggested by World Health Organization (WHO) to keep Corona at bay. One of the worst-affected areas of Jhabua district facing acute scarcity of water is Jhonsar gram panchayat of Petlawad tehsil, which has population of around 1500 people. In Dhabria and Matapada localities of the gram panchayat, people covers a distance of up to 3km to fetch water daily. Shaitan Bhuria, owner of the private bore-well, said, “I am just helping locals to get water but not charging anything as it’s a basic requirement for anyone.” People can be seen waiting in long queues to get water from a private bore-well and then fetch it through specially-modified cycle, bullock cart or on their head under the scorching sun. Amidst threat of spread of Covid-19, people can be seen avoiding rules of social-distancing and other precautions as they prefer getting water to meet their demand as utmost priority. According to the affected people, they have to make three-five rounds from their home to the source of water to meet their daily demand, which usually takes the whole day. Leelabai, who used to cover a distance of around 2km to reach Shaitan Bhuria’s bore-well to fetch water, said that all hand pumps near her house have dried up while there is no line of tap water. “We use water carefully as we know its worth. Putting locks on drums filled with water is one way to protect it from being stolen or misused,” she said. This is the situation even after 72 years of independence. According to executive engineer from PHE NS Bhide, power pumps and hand pumps are installed in rural areas to meet water demand. Summer is however the time when water level goes down in Jhabua and creates problem. If any of hand pumps are not working, it will be repaired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/water-shortage-in-jhabua-leads-to-pandemonium-in-times-of-pandemic/articleshow/76079757.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||3 killed in accident near Anjangaon Surji||AMRAVATI: Three persons, including a couple, died on the spot while a 20-year-old sustained grievous injuries when a car they were travelling in rammed Pandhari bridge railing near Anjangaon Surji late on Wednesday night. Anjangaon police have identified the deceased as Suresh Bhimrao Yawale (40), his wife Shilatai (36), both residents of Anjangaon, and driver Deepak Namdeo Nalkande, a resident of Sategaon. Police said the Yawale family was returning home from Nagpur after medical check-up of Shilatai there. When their car (MH 27 BE 5872) reached Pandhari bridge, the driver apparently lost control over the steering and rammed the speeding car into the bridge barricade, killing three on the spot and leaving the deceased couple’s 20-year-old son, Shubham, seriously injured. Anjangaon police said the ill-fated vehicle was badly damaged in the mishap. PSI Jaibhale is investigating further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-killed-in-accident-near-anjangaon-surji/articleshow/76079776.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||CCMB taps green monkey to culture virus, make Covid vaccine||HYDERABAD: Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) researchers have isolated coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) and the lab’s ability to culture it will enable the scientists to work on vaccine development and test potential drugs to fight Covid-19. In the past one-and-half month, CCMB researchers have established stable cultures of SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, from the samples of positive patients. CCMB would donate the virus culture to other authorised centres carrying on research on coronavirus-related vaccines and drugs. Dr Krishnan H Harshan, a virologist at CCMB said: “Currently, primary epithelial cells generated from human origin do not grow for many generations in labs, which is a key to culturing viruses continuously. Labs which are growing the virus need an ‘immortal’ cell line”. Vero cells — kidney epithelial cell lines from African green monkey, which express ACE-2 proteins and carry a mutation that allows viruses to proliferate indefinitely— are used.” CCMB said the efficacy of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 as a vaccine candidate was currently being investigated by several groups. CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra said: “Using the vero cell lines to grow the coronavirus, CCMB is now in a position to isolate and maintain viral strains from different regions. We are working towards producing viruses in huge quantities that can be inactivated, and used in vaccine development and antibody production for therapeutic purposes.” “We have started testing potential drugs with other partners such as DRDO. We hope that such systems are replicated at multiple research institutes and private companies to become a useful resource in the fight against the current pandemic as well as for future preparedness,” he added. “Phase I of antiviral drug trial is based on the effect of a potential drug on limiting the replication of virus” CCMB experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-taps-green-monkey-to-culture-virus-make-vaccine/articleshow/76080489.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Calf killed in leopard attack||NASHIK: A calf was killed in a leopard attack in the wee hours of Wednesday in Lohshingve village near Bhagur. Following the incident, the villagers have requested the forest department to install a cage for trapping the big cat. A forest department official, “We have received complaints from the villagers regarding leopard spotting in the area. A calf has also been killed in an attack by the leopard. We will soon install a cage to trap the animal.” Recently, there have been several incidents of leopards being spotted and attacks on humans and animals in the district. A fortnight ago, a three-year-old leopard was trapped in a cage at Pimpalgaon Khamb area in Nashik Road. On May 7, a six-year-old male leopard was trapped in a cage in Lalpadi village of Niphad taluka. Earlier, three leopards were trapped in a cage from the same farm in Lalpapdi village in February and April. This was for the first time that four leopards were trapped in a cage from the same area within four months. On May 3, six sheep were killed in an attack by a leopard in Sonambe village of Sinnar taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/calf-killed-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/76079753.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 29, 2020||Indore||50 families struggle with water woes for more than a month||Indore: Residents of Sudama Nagar have been struggling with inadequate supply of Narmada water for over one month. As many as 50 families of Sudama Nagar D-Sector have been complaining about poor pressure and reduced time of supply of Narmada water. Besides, lockdown has prevented them from holding any protest over the issue. D Sector resident Rakesh Kumar said that water pressure had decreased in the last two months. “The problem aggravated further as our houses are situated at an elevated place. In other areas of our colony, the pressure is comparatively fine,” he claimed, adding that they have to call for tankers once a week. Residents of blocks 100-120, 290-300 and 2200-2211 are among the worst affected ones as the supply lasts for hardly 15-20 minutes. “You can go and ask anyone in our block if they have enough water in their tank. Earlier, we used to get the supply for about 45 minutes, but since the last month, it has reduced to just 15 minutes,” they said. The residents complained about contamination in water being supplied and said that the colour of water was almost yellow and stank for the initial ten minutes of the supply. “Despite repeated complaints, none of the officials are able to address our problem,” they said. Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC)’s Narmada project officials said that it appeared to be an issue of pressure which was divided due to allotment of new connections in the area. “Number of connections have gone up after issuance of new connections allotted before the lockdown. This has led to reduction in supply pressure. We are planning to install a parallel distribution line in the area which would be connected with new overhead tank,” said Narmada project’s executive engineer Sanjeev Shrivastava. He admitted delay in attending the issue and claimed unavailability of labourers as a prime reason behind it. “We have arranged for supply through tankers until the issue is not attended,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/50-families-struggle-with-water-woes-for-more-than-a-month/articleshow/76079768.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mysuru||BJP trying to appoint party workers as GP administrators||MYSURU: Former minister and JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda on Wednesday alleged that the ruling party wants to postpone the gram panchayat elections to overturn panchayat raj system. The BJP wants to form administrative councils at every gram panchayat and appoint their party workers as council members, he said. Speaking at a press meet on Wednesday, Devegowda said, “ Panchayat raj is a democratic set up, but in the name of Covid-19, BJP is trying to postpone the panchayat elections and bring administrative rule. They want to appoint their party workers as administrators in all the 6,012 gram panchayats in the state.” Devegowda said he met former CM Siddaramaiah and law minister JC Madhuswamy to discuss the issue. “I have demanded that the term of the present members and committees be extended till the elections are held. CM Yediyurappa is under great pressure from his party leaders and workers to form administration councils. The development will not benefit the party,” he said and warned that there will be state wide protest at the gram panchayat level if BJP brings administrative rule. Meanwhile RDPR minister KS Eshwarappa on Wednesday said he is ready to conduct elections to the gram panchayats and is awaiting the State Election Commission’s response. “The government is not running away from conducting the polls as claimed by the opposition leaders DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah,” he added. Speaking to media persons at Shivamogga, he said, the gram panchayat election will be conducted under the direction of the election commission. The term for some gram panchayat are scheduled to end in December. “The BJP does not intend to nominate the party’s leaders to administration councils. We have an example of the Congress who nominated only party leaders to Shivamogga municipal council in the past. The same fear and anxiety are haunting Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar. In the wake of the coronavirus scare, the government is not prepared to conduct the election. Hence, the government has written to the election commission,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bjp-trying-to-appoint-party-workers-as-gp-administrators/articleshow/76077200.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Relax rules for business, urges RCCI||Rajkot: Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) has urged the state government to grant relaxation in the rules for industries. Citing that the industrial units have to function with 50% workforce only, the industry body has demanded that the labourers be allowed entry into Rajkot district without any passes. In a press release issued here on Thursday, the chamber has demanded the abolition of odd-even system for shops. “We request the government to change the timing for the shops and business establishments from existing 8am to 4pm to 7am to 7pm, as very few customers visit shops at 4 pm. The private dairies should also be allowed to operate from 7am to 8pm,” states the release.The RCCI has demanded that the timing for home delivery of food be allowed till 10pm, as very little business is generated till 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/relax-rules-for-business-urges-rcci/articleshow/76078514.cms||---
May 29, 2020||World||Maldives, UAE foil Pakistan's bid to form OIC group to target India at UN||NEW DELHI: The Maldives and UAE thwarted a move by Pakistan to create an informal group of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) envoys at the United Nations on Islamophobia, Dawn newspaper reported. As reported by TOI on May 23, Male told the OIC in the virtual meeting of the envoys that singling out India for Islamophobia would not just be factually incorrect but also detrimental to religious harmony in South Asia. It refused to support any action against India. Read AlsoOIC faces resistance as Maldives says no to action against IndiaMalé told the OIC that singling out India for Islamophobia would not just be factually incorrect but also detrimental to religious harmony in South Asia. Malé also added that it wasn't going to support any action by OIC which singled out India. Earlier, OIC has stepped up attacks on India overUAE also reportedly didn't support Pakistan's move saying only the foreign ministers could form such a group. The Maldives permanent representative in New York, Thilmeeza Hussain, had said that while her country stood firmly against Islamophobia, xenophobia or any form of violence to promote political or any other agenda, it also believed targeting a specific country will be like side-stepping the real issue. The top diplomat, who is also the Maldives ambassador to the US, had further said "isolated statements by motivated people and disinformation campaigns" on social media should not be construed as representative of the feelings of 1.3 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/maldives-uae-foil-pakistan-bid-to-form-group-to-target-india-on-islamophobia-at-oic/articleshow/76081594.cms||---
May 29, 2020||India||Maldives, UAE foil Pakistan's bid to form OIC group to target India at UN||NEW DELHI: The Maldives and UAE thwarted a move by Pakistan to create an informal group of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) envoys at the United Nations on Islamophobia, Dawn newspaper reported. As reported by TOI on May 23, Male told the OIC in the virtual meeting of the envoys that singling out India for Islamophobia would not just be factually incorrect but also detrimental to religious harmony in South Asia. It refused to support any action against India. Read AlsoOIC faces resistance as Maldives says no to action against IndiaMalé told the OIC that singling out India for Islamophobia would not just be factually incorrect but also detrimental to religious harmony in South Asia. Malé also added that it wasn't going to support any action by OIC which singled out India. Earlier, OIC has stepped up attacks on India overUAE also reportedly didn't support Pakistan's move saying only the foreign ministers could form such a group. The Maldives permanent representative in New York, Thilmeeza Hussain, had said that while her country stood firmly against Islamophobia, xenophobia or any form of violence to promote political or any other agenda, it also believed targeting a specific country will be like side-stepping the real issue. The top diplomat, who is also the Maldives ambassador to the US, had further said "isolated statements by motivated people and disinformation campaigns" on social media should not be construed as representative of the feelings of 1.3 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maldives-uae-foil-pakistan-bid-to-form-group-to-target-india-on-islamophobia-at-oic/articleshow/76081617.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||‘Alert Citizen’ app keeps tab on quarantined people||Rajkot: Jamnagar district police have made an ‘Alert Citizen’ mobile app through which the cops can keep tab on the people under quarantine.“So far, we have made 4,000 people download this app on their mobilephones. Every quarantined person has to upload his photo on this app, through which his location can be ascertained. If the person switches off the location or the internet, we immediately get an alert,” says Jamnagar assistant superintendent of police Safin Hassan. So far, one person has been booked for the alleged violation of home quarantine with the help of this application. “Kanti Sarvada (53) was caught with the help of this app when he stepped out of his house and we book him under sections 270 and 188 of Indian Penal Code and section 51 (B) of the Disaster Management Act 2005,” says ASP Hassan. “The application maintains the record of person’s name, address, quarantine period, blood group and travel history. The application uses GPS system and generates a report in every 12 hours,” adds ASP Hassan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/alert-citizen-app-keeps-tab-on-quarantined-people/articleshow/76078544.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC notice to govts over doctors' handwriting||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday issued notices to the state, Centre and Medical Council of India asking them to file their counters explaining their steps to make the doctors use legible hand writing and preferably capital letters while writing prescriptions. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a petition filed by Paduru Ramana Reddy of Miryalaguda in Nalgonda district who wanted the court to direct the authorities to ensure that doctors write legible prescriptions and write only generic names of the medicines. The bench directed the petitioner to implead Indian medical association (IMA) to the plea. “That is a doctors’ association and they should know about the case,” the bench said. The petitioner’s counsel told the court that MCI regulations have already made it mandatory for the doctors to follow legible and generic route, but these norms are not being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-govts-over-docs-handwriting/articleshow/76080531.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists seek closure of brick kilns in Thadagam||Coimbatore: Activists in Thadagam, who have been fighting against the unauthorised brick kiln units in the region, say even after the district pollution control officials recommending the closure, 182 kilns mining red earth continue to function in the region. According to an RTI reply, district environmental engineer of Coimbatore north had recommended closure of the units situated in five villages in the region — No 24 Veerapandi, 23 Chinna Thadagam, 22 Nanjundapuram, Somayampalayam and Pannimadai in February and March, they said. S Ganesh of Chinnathadagam, who has been fighting against the kilns, had filed the RTI request. He said the kilns had shut operations from March 24 to May 5 due to the lockdown but are open now. “We learnt through the RTI reply that district pollution control officials recommended to the state that the kilns be closed as they have no permission to function. But they are still operating. The state pollution control board should close them,” he said. The kilns shouldn’t operate in the area protected under the Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA), Ganesh said. “I had recently written to the chairman of the central pollution control board in New Delhi, seeking intervention in the issue.” TOI could not contact district environmental engineer D Jayalakshmi. A TNPCB official said they had recommended the closure of the kilns to the state pollution control board and were awaiting their decision. “The activists have filed a case against the kilns and it is sub-judice. So, we can’t act on this autonomously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-seek-closure-of-brick-kilns-in-thadagam/articleshow/76079865.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Deaths within hours of hospital admission raise questions||CHENNAI: At least 50% of the Covid-19 deaths in the state until Thursday came within 48 hours of contracting the infection, shows directorate of public health data. On Thursday, when Tamil Nadu recorded 12 deaths – its first highest spike in daily deaths – taking the state toll to 145, one person died within hours of reaching hospital and four died in less than 24 hours. While the health department is happy that TN’s mortality rate is 0.7% against the national average of 3%, experts warn that even if the morality rate remains the same, more people will die as cases climb. Aggressive testing, early detection and isolation alone can prevent fatalities. “When a large number of patients including in the middle age group die within a few hours of admission, it is an indication that cases are detected too late. When they die within 24 hours of admission, it is possible they died before doctors had Covid-19 test results,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. “The deaths we see may also be largely underreported. If not, why is the number of deaths among the elderly so low when they are one of the most vulnerable? It is probable we missed their diagnosis. Many Covid-19 deaths are probably recorded as heart attacks as we are not testing enough,” he said. On Thursday, health minister C Vijaybaskar said: “States with far fewer cases have recorded higher deaths.” West Bengal has 6.89% deaths followed by Gujarat (6.17%). The fatality rate in Tamil Nadu is almost at par with Kerala, which has logged little more than 1,000 cases and close to seven deaths, he said. “We are now sharing out management and treatment protocol with the rest of the country. Our doctors have save patients with advanced cancers and other chronic ailments. Even as we see a climb in cases, we have kept the mortality rate at 0.7%,” he said. But, epidemiologists say Chennai could end up with two lakh cases and more than 1,400 fatalities by June-end even if mortality rate is low. Chennai has 12,762 cases and 106 deaths against 6,610 cases and 39 deaths in the rest of TN. “Viral load increases with rise in cases. That can push up mortality. It is now time we focus on bringing down caseload,” said former city health offer Dr P Kuganandam. “As of now, the state does not know the viral load. We don’t know the actual number of people affected by the virus. We may not have tested every one infected with. So we possibly don’t know the real death numbers,” he said. By May-end, sero surveillance study by Chennai-based National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis and National Institute of Epidemiology will probably give the answer. These labs are now doing antibody tests to find if someone has ever been infected with coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deaths-within-hours-of-hospital-admission-raise-questions/articleshow/76079892.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||No active Covid-19 case in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris became free of Covid-19 on Thursday when the sole active patient - a 24-year-old woman - was discharged from the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. The woman, a primary contact of a driver who visited Koyambedu in the first week of May, tested positive for the virus on May 9. A resident of Kozhikarai in Nanjanadu panchayat, she was undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital for the past 19 days. She was discharged on Thursday as she tested negative for the virus twice. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “While the district doesn’t have any active Covid-19 cases now, we cannot heave a sigh of relief. We have to maintain vigil and follow precautionary measures as in the past.” She said restriction on the containment area of Kozhikarai would be lifted on Friday. The area was sealed after a pregnant woman, a returnee from Chennai, tested positive for the virus when she came down to visit her parents. The Nilgiris has recorded a total of 14 Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-active-covid-19-case-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76079886.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||Traders struggle to explain social distancing norms to employees||BHOPAL: As markets reopened after a long gap of over 60 days, footwear shopkeepers and garment traders were busy sanitising their shops and explaining social distancing norms to the staff. But amidst all this, common grouse of shopkeepers of New Market, Kolar locality and Arera colony was -“odd opening hours of the shops.’ Day one of these markets was spent mostly on cleaning, dusting the shops and then explaining the social distancing rules to the entire staff. Owner of a popular shoe shop in New Market, Vinod Parnami, said, “We spent the major part of the day telling the staff to strictly follow the social distancing rules and ensure that they sanitise their hands regularly and wear masks.” According to new schedule, the New Market garment and footwear shops would remain open on Mondays and Thursdays. But before the lockdown, New Market area used to be closed on Mondays. “People are used to this for the past so many years, how would they remember this new rule now,” lamented Parnami. Rajendra Maheshweri, a sari shop owner, also said, “ Nobody will carry the time table in his pocket to remember which shop will remain open when A large number of people are also not subscribing to newspapers, so the information is not reaching the masses.” Mahesh Garg, a garment shopkeeper in Kolar locality, said, “Though the shops have opened after a gap of two months , it would hardly serve any purpose if the timings are not changed”. Rajeev Agrawal , a shopkeeper of the upmarket 10-number bus stop area, said, “ The markets should remain open on all the week days. If the administration wants, the timing can be reduced but the shops should remain open for at least two hours after the sunset.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/traders-struggle-to-explain-social-distancing-norms-to-employees/articleshow/76078689.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Worker killed in ginning mill fire||NAGPUR: A worker was killed and cotton bales worth lakhs of rupees were gutted after a fire broke out in a mill on Thursday afternoon, police said. The fire broke at Dan ginning and pressing mill at Ghogra Lohara village under Narkhed tehsil of Nagpur district at around 3.30pm, an official said. One of the mill workers, Kisna Dattuji Gore, died in the blaze, he said. The reason behind the fire was not yet established. Fire tenders from Nagpur and other towns were rushed to douse the flames. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/worker-killed-in-ginning-mill-fire/articleshow/76079898.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chandigarh||British Sikhs ‘highly dissatisfied’ with UK govt’s handling of Covid crisis: Survey||London: A survey examining the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the British Sikh community has found “extremely high levels of dissatisfaction” with the UK government over its handling of the crisis. The survey of 1,553 British Sikhs by the Sikh Network found that 92% did not think the government acted quickly enough to tackle the pandemic. One Sikh woman even blamed two deaths in her family on the government “not sharing guidance and advice to those most vulnerable sooner”. Nearly 96% said they were “very concerned” with the high proportion of Sikh deaths from Covid-19, “which are approximately twice the national average”. British Sikh Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi has lost three family members to the viral infection. Of the Sikhs working in the NHS or social care sector, 88% stated they were “very unsatisfied” with the availability of PPE kits, with one NHS Sikh worker describing the lack of preparation for the crisis and government incompetence as “corporate manslaughter”. Further, 88% of the respondent said they were “very unhappy” with the UK’s testing strategy, specifically the delay in being tested, the time it takes to get results and also missing results. One Sikh woman working in a care home said, “I have been working on the frontline since Day 1, but have still not been tested.” Besides, 85% of those Sikhs working in the NHS or social care, or those with immediate family members working in these sectors said Covid-19 had created unbearable strains within the family due to lack of testing, lack of availability of proper PPE, high proportion of BAME deaths and the need to be ultra-cautious not to spread the disease to loved ones. One Sikh nurse said she was paying for a hotel out of her own pocket to self-isolate from mother-in-law and the daily trauma and isolation was making her depressed. As many as 86% stated the government had been negligent by not issuing funeral guidance specific to each faith. Many suggested this had created huge problems for bereaved Sikh families. Moreover, 98% were extremely unhappy that the government did not consult gurdwaras before forcing them to close their doors to the public and 95% said the government has failed to properly engage with gurdwaras on their re-opening. Also, 95% stated the government failed to appreciate the significance of gurdwaras to the Sikh way of life and 91% said they were comfortable with re-opening gurudwaras to the public. Nine out of 10 Sikhs stated the Foreign and Commonwealth Office did far too little to support tens of thousands of British Sikhs stranded in Punjab. Yet despite this widespread dissatisfaction, more than 100 gurduwaras have prepared and distributed more than one million free meals since the start of the lockdown — amounting to 1,20,000 free meals per week — to those most vulnerable and to NHS frontline workers, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/british-sikhs-highly-dissatisfied-with-uk-govts-handling-of-covid-crisis-survey/articleshow/76069625.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 29, 2020||Rajkot||Flight service resumes at Rajkot airport||Rajkot: The flight service resumed at Rajkot airport after two months on Thursday. The first flight from Mumbai landed at Rajkot airport with 77 passengers. In return, 36 passengers from Rajkot boarded the flight to Mumbai. However, the airport authorities at Rajkot are yet to receive a proper schedule of flights. It is yet not clear when the next flight will land. According to sources, the flight operation will resume based on the number of bookings. SpiceJet operated the 120-seater aircraft Airbus 319 between Mumbai and Ahmedabad via Rajkot. Of the 77 passengers who arrived, 30 have been taken to quarantine facility of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC). The list of passengers going to other districts has been sent in their respective districts and talukas for health check ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/flight-service-resumes-at-rajkot-airport/articleshow/76078600.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Balangir villagers set up isolation centres to keep migrant returnees||Balangir: Realising that it may not be easy for people to spend seven days in home isolation after their release from government quarantine centres owing to lack of space, four villages under Badtika panchayat in Agalpur block of Balangir district have pulled in their resources to start isolation centres of their own to house the returnees. As many as 25 migrant workers have been staying in the isolation centres at Burobhadi, Sahaj Chapar, Larambhamunda and Ghunghutipali villages after spending seven days in government quarantine centres. At present, the isolation centre at Burobhadi village has 10 returnees, Sahajpadar 4, Larambhamunda 6 and Ghunghutipali 5. Ashok Kumar Ray, a resident of Burobhadi village, said home quarantine is impractical in rural areas because many of us stay only in one room without toilet and water supply. “If a migrant worker stays in home isolation, here’s a risk of other family members getting infected,” said Ray. “The government decision to allow migrant workers (those not showing Covid-19 symptoms) to leave institutional quarantine centres after seven days and spend the next seven in home isolation got the villagers worried. We convinced the migrants to spend seven days in a village school and they agreed to it,” said Ray. A meeting was called by villagers where all agreed to this method to keep the virus from spreading, said Ray. Hemanta Bag, a migrant worker who has recently returned from Hyderabad and spent seven days in quarantine at the Badtika panchayat high school, said he and nine others voluntarily stayed in the isolation centre at Burobhadi village. “We were provided with all assistance by the villagers,” Bag said. “We did not want to cause trouble for others in the village as we had not been tested and we don’t know whether we were carrying the virus or not. Besides, we don’t have a separate room to stay at home. So, we decided to spend seven days in the village isolation centre,” Bag added. Villagers of Burobhadi collected more than Rs 10,000 to facilitate water and electricity supply and other amenities to the returnees. The village provides one meal to the migrants while the other is provided by their respective families. Bijaya Kumar Hota, block development officer of Agalpur said he was not aware of the village isolation centre and urged the returnees to bring the matter to the notice of the administration if anybody is denied entry to the village. “The returnees were advised to stay in home after their release from the government centre. They were taught to wash their hands frequently and maintain social distancing,” Hota said. “We are following government instructions that has been served from time to time. We are telling the villagers to treat the returnees well and that the administration will take necessary action against the violators,” he added. As many as 57 people were staying in institutional quarantine in Badtika panchayat high school out of which 40 has been allowed to go home. “I got information about the local isolation centre being run by the villagers. Though it is not legal, but if the returnees are voluntarily staying there to keep others in the village safe, then I don’t have any objection to it,” said Badtika sarpanch Sangeeta Behera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/balangir-villagers-set-up-isolation-centres-to-keep-migrant-returnees/articleshow/76078606.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mumbai||700 under-10 kids test positive in Mumbai, bounce back much faster||MUMBAI: Nearly 700 children aged below 10 have been affected by the novel coronavirus in the city since the outbreak. The good news is that most have recovered with minimum intervention and the fatality rate has been negligible. Doctors, though, caution that some may show varying symptoms and not the classic Covid signs seen in adults. Children between zero and 10 years constitute about 2% of the cases in the city and there has been only one death in the age group so far; in adolescents and young adults aged 11 to 20, there have been nearly 1,200 cases and two deaths. Doctors told TOI while most children were asymptomatic, those who developed symptoms mostly had fever, cough and in rare instances, breathlessness. Some had convulsions, stomach problems and dehydration. “The verdict is largely that children are doing better than adults. Even in premature newborns and those with low birth weight, there has been complete recovery,” said paediatrician Dr Surbhi Rathi, who is associated with the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital, a designated centre for delivery of positive mothers. None of the 161 newborns in the hospital have got the infection so far while 60 of the older children have responded well to treatment. “We are not giving them hydroxychloroquine, and or expensive antivirals such as Tocilizumab.” In a rare instance, though, the hospital detected leukaemia in a Covid suspect child. Paediatrician Dr Bijal Srivastava, who consults with Hiranandani Hospital and has treated around eight children, said some came with low grade fever, loose motions and runny nose. The only intriguing case for the hospital has been a newborn who developed fever three hours after birth. She was referred to two hospitals before coming to Hiranandani with a positive report. “The baby was put on a non-invasive ventilator. Her condition slowly began to improve and she went home after 18 days on Thursday,” said the doctor, adding the mother tested negative for the virus. Parents or family members remain the main source of infection for children, said doctors. Only one child treated by the doctor had developed pneumonia. The youngest child treated by paediatrician Dr Nitin Shah was a 15-day-old baby, who had dehydration, fever and was not feeding well. “The mother had tested negative but the baby was positive. There were no complications and the baby recovered with basic treatment,” he said, adding children usually don't have problems with oxygen saturation. Kids, though, can have varying symptoms, said Dr Radha Gildiyal, head of paediatrics at Sion Hospital. The hospital on Wednesday had discharged a child who came with fever, convulsions and low calcium levels. Child specialists said there is no magic shield but only a more agile immune system. “Children generally have lower mortality. They don’t have comorbidities, and have an ability to recover faster,” said Dr Mukesh Desai, head immunologist, Wadia Hospital. Dr Daksha Shah, BMC’s executive health officer, said kids and young adults have the highest recovery rate at 35%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/700-under-10-kids-test-ve-in-city-bounce-back-much-faster/articleshow/76079894.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Enterprising women from UP take PM’s ‘vocal for local’ call||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi might have given the ‘vocal for local’ call now, but Ahmedabad-based Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) has been training thousands of women entrepreneurs in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to make them self-reliant much before Covid-19 pandemic struck the country. When most of the micro entrepreneurs have suffered a jolt due to the impact of pandemic on economic activities, Rubina Begum of Mirzapur, who runs a general store, is banking on her entrepreneurship training to sail through testing times. After the imposition of lockdown, her income reduced from Rs 15,000 to Rs 6,000 per month, making it tough for her to make both ends meet. Understanding the need of the hour, she roped in 20 other women and started stitching face masks. The women are making around 3,000-4,000 masks in a month. “With limited resources, I was looking for a cost-effective way to start a new business. Procurement of raw material and sale of product were big hurdles. I contacted the block team of SVEP (Startup Village Entrepreneurship Programme) in Mirzapur which connected me with SRLM (State Rural Livelihood Mission). This helped me tide over the crisis,” Rubina says. As many as 100 such entrepreneurs in Tappal, Duddhi and Chanve blocks of Uttar Pradesh are supplying 4,000 low-cost masks per day to frontline warriors. These local heroes have been trained under SVEP which is supported by the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), ministry of rural development. Facilitated by local business counsellors, these women are making the best use of their skills and resources. In Uttar Pradesh, SVEP is being implemented in partnership with SRLM. From cloth masks, cover-all gowns for PPE kits to sanitizers and honey-based beverages to boost immunity, micro entrepreneurs at grass roots have donned the hats of frontline warriors in fight against Covid-19 in MP. In UP too, EDII is planning to expand the programme beyond masks. In UP, the programme is spread across 11 blocks in Mirzapur, Aligarh, Sonbhadra, Varanasi, Kheri, Bahraich, Prayagraj, Sultanpur, Chandauli, Jalaun and Hamirpur. EDII faculty and SVEP in charge Rajesh Gupta said, “These entrepreneurs are part of the training programme where they are given inputs on business opportunity identification and how to handle crisis. These inputs have probably helped them deal with the crisis.” “These entrepreneurs are learning to spot opportunities locally, harness resources and produce for the market. Proper market tie-ups and counselling are generating encouraging results. Many enterprises that were created earlier are now entering the growth phase,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/enterprising-women-from-up-take-pms-vocal-for-local-call/articleshow/76080527.cms||Ankur Tewari
May 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: False train rumour leaves many stranded||MANGALURU: Over 400 migrant labourers from West Bengal were left stranded on Thursday after they learnt that news of a Shramik Special train leaving Mangaluru to their state was just a rumour. Labourers working in industries and the special economic zone had gathered at Jokatte near Surathkal in the wee hours after news spread that special buses would drop them to Mangaluru Central railway station. But there was no train and police requested them to return to their homes. Democratic Youth Federation of India state president Muneer Katipalla and Thokur gram panchayat member Aboobakker Bava arranged food and temporary stay for the travellers. Katipalla said they had all registered on the Seva Sindhu portal. “Some of them received SMS texts that a train will leave on Thursday and they were told to wait near Jokatte,” he said. They gathered there, but in vain. Many had vacated their rented premises, thinking they were leaving for good. Some of them are now staying in the panchayat building.” Lakshadweep returnees Meanwhile, passenger vessel ‘Amin Divi’ brought back workers who were stranded in Lakshadweep back to Mangaluru. The ship brought 19 people including three women, who were stranded on the island for the past two months. Most are workers who were engaged in construction, while others had gone to the island on business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/false-train-rumour-leaves-many-stranded/articleshow/76077278.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Railways refunds Rs 1.42 crore in 2 days||AHMEDABAD: Tickets worth Rs 1.42 crore were cancelled and refunds paid in two days, May 27 and 28, in the Ahmedabad division of Western Railway. As soon as the counters began operation, people queued up to get tickets cancelled. In the last two days, a total of 7,080 tickets were cancelled at counters across the Ahmedabad division. The state has four divisions, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar. The Surat section falls in the Mumbai division. Refunds were issued for 22,662 passenger who were to travel on these 7,080 tickets. The railways in Ahmedabad opened nine counters at Kalupur station and three at Sabarmati for cancellation of tickets. Ramesh Patel, a resident of Nikol, had booked tickets for Jammu for May 15 and to return on May 25. He said, “We had to cancel our trip to Vaishno Devi. Now, when the counters opened, I decided to get the tickets cancelled as there were six to-and-fro third AC tickets. He said that he had booked the tickets at the end of February. The railways refunded the entire fare without any deduction. Rupendra Sharma, a resident of Memnagar, says, “I had booked tickets for the first week of May to Delhi, but due to the lockdown the trains were cancelled and I had to rush to get it cancelled. I regret not using the online system. I was scared of using my debit card for the booking and had booked them through the counter. On Thursday, I got in line at 10.30am and could get the refund only after three hours.” Sharma said that he has decided that he will now book tickets online only. Kirtan Patel, a resident of Satellite, said, “I was planning to go to Nainital, Corbett and Mussoorie and on return had plans to go to Mathura and Agra too. We six friends and our families had planned a trip together and had booked tickets in January for May 15. The lockdown forced us to cancel the trip. We had even booked taxis from Delhi.” He and three friends had come at Kalupur to cancel the tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/railways-refunds-rs-1-42-cr-in-2-days/articleshow/76079094.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Give Rs 3,000 allowance to jobless youth: Uttam to CM||Hyderabad: TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to immediately implement the unemployment allowance scheme to provide Rs 3,016 per month to all jobless youth in Telangana. He said lakhs of jobs have been lost in Telangana due to unplanned lockdown. He said the allowance promise made in 2018 assembly elections remained unfulfilled for the last one-and-a-half year. He also urged the government to waive off power and water bills for the lockdown period for all categories of consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-rs-3000-allowance-to-jobless-youth-uttam-to-cm/articleshow/76080550.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra govt trying to get more CRPF companies||AMRAVATI: Maharashtra minister for home Anil Deshmukh on Thursday assured that health machinery in Amravati and Akola would be strengthened and upgraded on the lines of Nagpur and a team would be sent on Friday to recommend facilities required at these two places. Deshmukh, in the city to review Covid-19 and law and order situation in the division, was addressing the media persons after the meeting. Calling for all-party cooperation in fight against coronavirus, the home minister insisted on strict implementation of lockdown in containment zones. He said CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) companies have been summoned in the state and one is posted in Amravati to ensure effective lockdown in containment zones. “In view of the grim situation in Akola now, priority will be given to it,” he said adding efforts are being made to procure more companies of CRPF. Lauding the health and police machinery for outstanding work in the pandemic times, Deshmukh said senior policemen and officers above 50 have been given permission to stay home. “There are 11 officers and 121 staffers in Amravati who have been given this concession,” he said. In reply to a query, Deshmukh said a three-tier Covid care is being provided to patients after readying 3,085-bed facilities. He said 6,522 PPE kits, masks and oxygen cylinders have also been provided. Saying that there are 39 containment zones in Amravati district with a Covid count of 191, Deshmukh said there should be no politics in the fight against Covid. “All parties should cooperate with the government in the battle against the virus,” he said. Deshmukh said police have been doing duty day in and day out. “Several policemen have contracted the virus while on duty. Decisions have been taken for their safety and care. In case of death, financial assistance will be provided to the bereaved families of policemen,” he said. On the issue of labour migration, Deshmukh said other state labourers have been allowed to travel by bus and railways and 757 trains have been sent through the state at the expense of Rs85 crore to ensure the migrants reach their home safely. The minister said that labourers from West Bengal who could not be sent home due to cyclone Amphan there would be sent soon. Deshmukh informed that 18,000 inmates of jails in the state with lesser offences have been released to avoid transmission of virus in prisons. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, MP Navneet Rana, divisional commissioner Piyush Singh, collector Shailesh Naval and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-govt-trying-to-get-more-crpf-companies/articleshow/76079918.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nashik||Shramik trains carry 2,626 passengers from Nashik||Nashik: As many as 2,626 passengers from across Nashik division were transported to their natives homes in Uttar Pradesh (UP), Assam, West Bengal and Bihar by Shramik Express trains on Thursday.For the first time 776 migrants from Nashik city boarded the train to UP along with 262 workers from rural areas of the district. The end-to-end train from Nashik Road to Deoria Sadar railway station had a total of 1,038 workers, including women and children.“The train also picked up 93 passengers from Jalgaon railway station,” a railway official said.Prior to boarding the train, the health check-up of the workers from respective jurisdictions — Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nashik Rural — was carried out by the respective medical health officers. “The workers were then brought to the railway station in buses and then taken to their seats by following physical distancing norm,” the official said.Another train from Nashik division started from Nandurbar for taking the passengers to Assam via Bihar and West Bengal. “As many as 1,588 people were transported from Nandurbar to Bihar, West Bengal and Assam by the Shramik Express,” an official from Nandurbar district administration said. “Of these 1,518 were students from Jamia Institute in Akkalkuwa who were stuck in the institute since the first lockdown was imposed on March 24. The students along with 70 workers, who were put up in several shelter camps, were transported to their natives places after thorough health check-up. They boarded the train at Nandurbar district headquarters at 2pm,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shramik-trains-carry-2626-passengers-from-nashik/articleshow/76077303.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court reconstitutes benches||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has reconstituted benches to conduct judicial work from Friday and Justice J B Pardiwala, who was heading the division bench that passed important directions for the government to tackle Covid-19 pandemic, will sit with the Chief Justice Vikram Nath. The chief justice had suo motu filed the PIL for Covid-19 and lockdown. With the change of benches after the chief justice was on leave, the matter was heard earlier this month by the bench of Justice Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora. The CJ had constituted six benches earlier with one division bench. Now, seven benches have been constituted with two division benches to deal with urgent matters. Justice Vora will sit with Justice R M Chhaya in another division bench. Meanwhile, the CJ has undertaken a survey among lawyers to know whether they prefer opening of courtrooms or continue with virtual court through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-reconstitutes-benches/articleshow/76079087.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Should court take note if the educated violate lockdown rules, asks HC||Nagpur: Expressing concern over even educated citizens blatantly violating lockdown rules, Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court indirectly flayed their tendency to approach the judiciary after action was initiated against them."If well-educated people claiming themselves to be respected and dignified citizens continue to violate the norms, should this court either take suo motu cognisance or entertain a PIL complaining they’re not being treated in a dignified manner while flouting the rules, is the question, that needs consideration," a division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar observed.The bench added the norms are meant for citizens’ own safety and security. “In spite of repeated requests in a dignified manner with folded hands, offering roses as a mark of protests against the movements in violation of the lockdown norms, avoiding to register the offences and imposing penalties, such citizens continue to violate rules,” the judges added.The observations came while hearing a PIL by Sandip Nair, contending that citizens who allegedly violated the lockdown, including seniors and some well-known personalities on morning walk, were subjected to inhuman indignities. The alleged violators were photographed holding placards declaring they’re enemy of the nation, society, family and humanity, since they’re breaking lockdown rules. Next day, their photographs were published in prominent newspapers and went viral on social media.“Another question on whether a petition by such violators that the police action amounts to defamation or inhuman behaviour, can be agitated by filing alternative appropriate proceedings, particularly when several disputed questions of fact are involved, also needs consideration,” the judges said.They added that the foundational facts showing serious infringement of human and constitutional rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, need to be established, in a situation where the provisions of Epidemic Act or Disaster Management Act are invoked to conclude that the end does not necessarily justify the means and it’s purely an individual grievance.While keeping it open for the commissioner of police (CP) to urge HC not to entertain such matters, the judges disposed of the petition as infructuous. “We, however, don’t intend to examine the aforesaid questions, for the reason that in response to our May 8 order, the CP has made a statement with which the petitioner claims satisfaction,” they said.Earlier, the CP in his affidavit stated he had held a meeting of all his subordinates, including deputy and assistant commissioners, and requested them to sensitize personnel under them to ensure incidents as alleged in the petition shouldn’t recur.What HC said:* In spite of repeated requests with folded hands, offering roses as a mark of protests against movements in violation of the lockdown norms, citizens continue to violate rules* If well-educated people continue to violate norms, should HC take suo motu cognisance or entertain a PIL complaining that they’re not being treated in a dignified manner* Whether their plea that police action amounts to defamation or inhuman behaviour should be considered* Norms are meant for citizens’ own safety and security* It is open for commissioner of police (CP) to urge to HC not to entertain such matters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/should-court-take-note-if-the-educated-violate-lockdown-rules-asks-hc/articleshow/76078673.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 29, 2020||Nashik||Admin quells rumours about relaxation in lockdown norms||Nashik: A new message on social media announcing further relaxations in lockdown norms and allowing salons, tea stalls and even gymnasiums to operate has forced the district administration to intervene a second time and clarify that the rules and regulations announced on May 17 are still in force. The message going viral on social media claims that from now on, the curfew would be in place from 7am to 5pm (instead of 7pm). As against the old notification which states that salons are to remain closed till further orders, the new message claims salons can open and that customers will have to make prior appointments. In addition, the new message also says that physical exercise in gyms and grounds was allowed provided people maintained social distancing (actually prohibited). It also mentions allowing tea and paan stalls to operate and having a maximum of 50 people for a wedding programme, both of which are completely banned as per the old notification. The message further claimed that the district collector had allowed three and four-wheelers to ferry passengers—a claim that has no substance as public transportation services have been banned in both Nashik and Malegaon city, both of which come under red zones. District collector Suraj Mandhare said no such relaxations had been granted apart from the ones clearly defined in the notifications issued from time to time. “Public transportation remains suspended. Shops and establishments where people are likely to come in close contact with each other will not operate as long as the state government does not issue any guidelines,” he said. Asked if a complaint was going to be registered against the ones spreading the message, Mandhare said the message did not carry the name of any district, collector or even government official and hence no case would be registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admin-quells-rumours-about-relaxation-in-lockdown-norms/articleshow/76077323.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana prepared to tackle 1 lakh cases, says chief secretary||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Thursday informed the Centre that it is prepared to deal with the situation even if the number of Covid-19 cases rises to one lakh. Somesh Kumar, chief secretary, government of Telangana, during a video conference with Union cabinet secretary, Rajiv Gauba, said: “The situation is under control, and the government is well prepared with required PPE kits, masks, testing kits, beds, ventilators and hospitals to deal up to one lakh cases in the state.” The cabinet secretary on Thursday held a video conference with officials of 13 cities in the country to review the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-prepared-to-tackle-1-lakh-cases-says-cs/articleshow/76080560.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Ensure every labourer gets work: Sanjay Rathod||YAVATMAL: Prepare action plan to provide work to all who seek employment after May 31, instructed district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod after Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) review meeting here recently. Due to relaxation in lockdown, labourers from other parts of the state are coming to the district and they are set to demand work for their livelihood, said Rathod adding local workers are also out in search of work after two months of lockdown. All of them should be given work for which proper and effective planning is a must, he said. Officials at panchayat samitis and talukas must arrange camps for issuing job cards to the labour force under their respective jurisdiction, he said, adding that a survey should be conducted to gather village-wise data of the labour force. As of now, 2,571 works are in progress for which 18,308 labourers have been employed, informed deputy collector (EGS) Sangita Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ensure-every-labourer-gets-work-rathod/articleshow/76079947.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State’s active Covid cases decline for 4th straight day||Bhubaneswar: The number of active Covid-19 cases showed a downward trend for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday, with recoveries exceeding fresh positive cases by a significant margin. While 67 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday, 75 recovered and were discharged from hospital. With this, the number of active cases in the state decreased to 766 from 881 on Monday, 861 on Tuesday and 774 on Wednesday. The number of persons cured stands at 887, while the death toll remains seven. Stating that Odisha’s efforts to contain Covid had been recognised by all, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday said, “The Covid mortality rate in the state is one of the lowest in the country and the world. Besides, more than 50% of the infected people have recovered and gone home. It is indeed a major achievement for a state like Odisha and its people. Powerful nations of the world and rich states of our country have not been able to achieve this feat in the fight against Covid.” Although the number of infected people has risen to 1,660, the state’s recovery rate has improved to 53.43% compared to the national average of 42.7%. The figure was 34.36% just a week ago, on May 21. The state’s mortality rate is 0.42%, the lowest among states that have reported more than 1,000 cases. The national average death rate is 2.86%. “We hope the steady decline in number of active cases continues. Most of the positive people continue to be asymptomatic,” additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said. According to updates on the government’s Covid dashboard, new positive cases were reported from Ganjam (26), Jajpur and Khurda (11 each), Nayagarh (7), Sonepur (4), Balangir, Jagatsinghpur and Sambalpur (2 each) and Keonjhar and Bargarh (one each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/states-active-covid-cases-decline-for-4th-straight-day/articleshow/76078698.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Fights continue over food at Q centres||Nagpur: Even though Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) top authorities visited Radha Soami Satsang kitchen on Kalmeshwar Road to re-check the food preparation on Thursday, inmates of different quarantine centres complained about its quality and inadequate water supply.At Pachpaoli centre, allegedly fights erupted again between inmates on Wednesday night and Thursday.“We are getting home food for last three days. The food provided here is not fit for consumption. We are told it is packed in the morning and brought here from the outskirts of the city. Perhaps, the food starts getting stale and pungent by the time it reaches us,” said an inmate from one of the quarantine centres.Another inmate said they have given up on registering complaints. “Today (Thursday) also, the lunch packets had half-cooked food. It is better to stay hungry and silent. There is no use of complaining. The officials have made it clear that we will get this food only,” the inmate said.Some inmates from Pachpaoli centre too said the issue has remained unresolved. “We should be allowed to have home food. Hopefully, NGOs are willing to provide us food packets,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fights-continue-over-food-at-q-centres/articleshow/76078702.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Chennai||Two tiger reserves, four forest circles in Tamil Nadu are headless now||CHENNAI: The tiger reserves at Kalakkad-Mundanthurai in Tenkasi and Aanamalai in Pollachi are without a field director as are the forest circles of Trichy, Villupuram, Madurai and Virudhunagar, affecting protection and conservation measures. While the post of field director at the Pollachi reserve has remained vacant since May 2019, at Kalakkad-Mundanthurai the last field director was promoted more than three months ago and moved to Chennai. Since then, the reserve has been under additional charge of another officer. The post in Virudhunagar circle has been vacant for more than a year, that in Trichy circle for nine months and those in Madurai and Villupuram for nearly six months, said an official. The role of field director, the strategic head for implementation of all measures, is crucial. Earlier managed by an officer of the rank of conservators, it is now occupied by an additional principal chief conservator of forests. However, once the officer concerned is promoted as principal chief conservator of forests, he/she moves to the headquarters, forcing another official to hold additional charge, the official explained. A senior officer said the department lacked inverted pyramid growth, mainly due to the lack of time-bound promotions. Unlike the police service or the administrative service, where promotion is given automatically on completion of 13 years of service, officials in the forest service often wait a lot more than 13 years to get promoted. A senior official, requesting anonymity, said the state forest department was readying a proposal to take up the long due reorganization, including posts from the rank of rangers to additional principal chief conservator of forests. Steps are being taken up to fill the various vacancies in the department, he added. “However, for the government, the vacancies or promotions of officers are not a priority due to the lockdown,” the official explained. As far as the Indian Forest Service officials in the state are concerned, the next cadre review is only expected to be done in 2022 by the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-tiger-reserves-four-forest-circles-in-tn-are-headless-now/articleshow/76079943.cms||P Oppili
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hoteliers seek to reopen liquor shops in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Hotels and Restaurants Association (HRA) – Gujarat, on Thursday, made a representation before chief minister Vijay Rupani seeking his permission to allow permit liquor stores to resume business. HRA representatives said that as permit liquor stores primarily cater to health permit holders, they be allowed to resume operations from June 1, when the lockdown 4.0 gets over. “Already, sales and revenues had been dented due to high price of liquor and the lockdown has further affected business. We have been getting calls from permit holders who regularly purchase liquor from our store, inquiring about the reopening. If they have a health permit, it means they require liquor for health reasons,” said a hotelier on condition of anonymity. Estimates by hoteliers suggest that roughly 85% sale of liquor at permit liquor stores comes from health permit holders, The HRA has also demanded that the timing of the operations for restaurants must be allowed to be extended till 11pm. “The timing for takeaway restaurants which is currently 4pm must be extended till 11pm, otherwise restaurants cannot provide the services for dinner,” states the representation. Industry sources revealed that the maximum number of orders for takeaways are placed during the evening, and restaurateurs are unable to receive them. Despite the easing of the lockdown, order books have taken a major hit for most restaurants who have resumed business through takeaways. Industry players said that the order volumes have declined to less than 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hoteliers-seek-to-reopen-liquor-shops/articleshow/76079116.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Pay fine, buy two masks on the spot||LUCKNOW: In the coming days, if you are caught without a face cover in a public area, not only will you be fined Rs 100 but are also likely to have to shell out Rs 10 for two new face masks. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said the CM has directed officials to ensure that two masks of Rs 5 each are given out to every person who is fined for not wearing a mask or face cover in public. “The home department will be issuing an order on this soon,” Awasthi said. The decision, said an official, was being taken to ensure that a person who is caught without a mask should simultaneously be given access to masks immediately. However, the offender will have to pay for the masks. The CM has also directed officials to increase patrolling in all areas to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pay-fine-buy-2-masks-on-the-spot/articleshow/76080559.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Daughter-in-law of AP BJP chief found dead||Hyderabad: Daughter-in-law of AP BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana died in Hyderabad on Thursday under suspicious circumstances. The deceased was Suharika (32), wife of Phanindhar, second son of Lakshminarayana. Police, quoting her mother M Sagarika and husband, said Suharika might have died of a cardiac arrest. Raidurgam inspector Ravinder said Suharika left her house at 7.30 am on Thursday after informing her husband that she was going out. She had gone to the house of Pavan Reddy, a resident of villa No. 28, in Meenakshi Bamboos gated community in Gachibowli to attend a paty. “At the party, while dancing, Suharika suddenly collapsed. She danced for about one-and-a-half hours. There were no external injuries on her body,” the inspector said. According to police, five persons, including Suharika and her brother-in-law Praveen along with their friends were at the house of Pavan, a common friend, attending the party, when the incident occurred. Raidurgam police received a complaint on Thursday evening from Sagarika that her daughter had collapsed at Pavan’s house at 11.30 am. Suharika was rushed to the nearby AIG Hospital in Gachibowli. “Doctors declared her brought dead. We spoke to Sagarika and also Phanindhar who said they do not have any suspicions about the death. They said it could be due to a cardiac arrest,” the inspector said. A suspicious death case was registered under section 174 of CrPC. “As per the statement of Suharika’s mother, other witnesses and circumstantial evidence, prima facie it does not appear to be a case of suicide or homicide. The exact cause of death will be known after the post-mortem,” the inspector said. Suharika and Phanindhar have been married for 10 years and staying at Hill Ridge Villas in Gachibowli. Suharika’s parents stay in the same gated community in another villa. Meanwhile, phone calls made by TOI correspondent to Lakshminarayana went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/daughter-in-law-of-ap-bjp-chief-found-dead/articleshow/76079938.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Mysuru||MP criticises Congress over flyover row||MYSURU: MP Pratap Simha on Thursday criticised opposition party functionaries for opposing the christening of a flyover in Yelahanka after VD Savarkar. Former chief minister Siddaramaiah has demanded that the government withdraw its move and name the flyover after any freedom fighter. Pratap claimed Savarkar was a freedom fighter. “The government has taken a decision to name the flyover after him. But opposition functionaries are opposing it without any logic. Previous governments have named airports, swimming pools, colleges, hostels and parks after Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi. Even wildlife sanctuaries too are named after them. I want to ask Congress are these two freedom fighters,” Pratap said. He also hit back at Siddaramaiah by saying, “I don’t understand what he is talking.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mp-criticises-cong-over-flyover-row/articleshow/76077339.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||Barabanki cops collate crime data of migrants||LUCKNOW: Barabanki police is creating a comprehensive databank on migrants who fled UP several years ago to escape arrest and also those with pending cases against them, amidst a mammoth reverse migration to the state. Once the databank is ready, district police across the state will be asked to replicate the Barabanki model to curb a possible spurt in crime with at least 26 lakh migrants adding to the state’s burgeoning population. Superintendent of police, Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi told TOI that a special surveillance cell is working in coordination with the office of the chief development officer and tracking details of migrants returning home. So far, 45,000 migrants have reached Barabanki district. “Data will serve a dual purpose. We will be able to zero in on those with a five-year criminal record and also trace FIRs in old cases,” said Chaturvedi. The crime files will be digitally linked to all police stations and circulated among ‘village samitis’ to keep vigil on their movements and take preventive action. At least 12 cases relating to property disputes were registered in the district since April 1. The need to collate crime data and hammer out an effective strategy arose after the return of migrants triggered a sudden rise in crime, including a double murder in Gonda on April 3 over distribution of MNREGA money and gunning down of SP leader’s son in Sambhal on May 17 over a similar issue. On May 20, triple murder rocked Prayagraj over a land dispute and the accused included migrants who returned from Mumbai and were coming out of quarantine, said a senior officer at DGP headquarters. The model database will be developed in other districts as well, he said. Also, 24 cases of property disputes were registered in four districts of Prayagraj range since April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/barabanki-cops-collate-crime-data-of-migrants/articleshow/76080568.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||Business picks up slightly on Day-2||BHOPAL: On Thursday, when shops of electronic goods, readymade garments, hosiery and crockery opened in the city, the response of people was far better than the previous day when another set of shops had opened in Bhopal markets for the first time, after two months of lockdown. However, complaint of traders about ‘odd market timing’ persisted and also their argument that if the timing is not changed, common customers would not start coming to market.. President of Bhopal electronic shops’ association, Jagdish Ramtani, said, “Response on the first day when electronic shops opened after such a long time was average. There were queries and a few people came to showroom as well. It is peak of the summer, a common customer in this season comes for shopping in the evening only. It is between 6.00 pm and 10.00 pm that people move out of their houses But, we can’t help it; it is decision of the administration “ When asked, whether there are any new electronic gadgets, which could attract the customers for their novelty in the post-lockdown period, Ratnani said, “ Not only shops were closed, but manufacturing units were also closed during lockdown. Except for one or two new models of dishwashers or water purifiers, everything else is pre-lockdown model, but soon, new models will start arriving.” Vinay of Popular Agencies, a shop of crockery and a variety of other things, also said that only in the event of emergency, people come out in such hot weather . “ Customers who came to us today were retailers who wanted to replenish their stocks, but there weren’t any common customer to buy a lighter, cups and glasses.” When asked whether he is planning to introduce any new models or goods to attract customers, he said, “As of now, we are only selling the existing stocks.” Bilal Khan of Fashion Adda, a readymade shop in Jumerati, said, “ The response was lukewarm. In fact, people are still scared to come to market place. It will take a few days more to shrug off the lockdown hangover.” Market analyst, Simant Kohli, when asked whether customer behaviour would undergo some change in the post-lockdown period, said, “It would only be known once hotels, restaurants, malls and multiplexes also open up. So long as you have sectoral approach to opening of market, normal market activities would not be restored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/business-picks-up-slightly-on-day-2/articleshow/76078732.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Pandhrabodi, 2 more C-zones shrink; Hawrapeth notified||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has reduced area of containment zones at Pandhrabodi in West Nagpur, Ganeshpeth in Central Nagpur and Khushi Nagar near Jaripatka in North Nagpur, stating that no new case has been reported from the places in the last 20 days. Part of Hawrapeth, Onkar Nagar in South Nagpur, from where three persons of a family have tested positive on May 26 and 27, has been notified as a new containment zone.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe issued four orders in this regard on Thursday.Now, only Trust layout slum, small part of Sudham Nagri and Pandhrabodi slums remain in Pandhrabodi containment zone. Hill Top, Bajiprabhu Nagar, Sanjay Nagar slum and many parts of Sudham Nagri and Pandhrabodi slums have been exempted.A 29-year-old comorbidity person from Trust Layout slum was admitted at GMCH on May 5 for jaundice and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 7. A large area was notified as containment zone on May 8 with all types of restrictions. The person died on May 11 at GMCH Isolation ward.The deceased’s family members and close contacts were quarantined but they all tested negative.On May 23, many people led by West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre gathered at Hilltop demanding end of containment zone. The demonstration continued on the next day . Thakre, who along with minister Sunil Kedar held meeting with divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar on May 25, to raise demand for denotifying containment zone. “Finally, the NMC realized its mistake of notifying many areas as containment zone. Not ensuring supply of essential goods was another mistake. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should conduct an inquiry into this,” he told TOI.Earlier, many people had thronged the roads in Hilltop on Thursday morning. MLC Parinay Fuke and corporator Parineeta Fuke called NMC assistant commissioner Prakash Warhade and police department officials to the spot and warned of hunger strike if containment zone was not denotified by evening.Fuke said, “NMC denotified zone following our demand. Many people were facing problem of livelihood as well as supply of essential goods. But people should follow lockdown which is in effect till May 31,” he said.Mundhe in a press release said, “Containment zones are notified for identifying and giving treatment to positive patients and containing spread of Covid-19. It is being done as per government’s guidelines. People should not fall prey to few persons misguiding them,” he said.Ganeshpeth containment zone has been limited up to few houses near the residence of NMC nurse who had tested positive on May 7.Similarly, area of Khushi Nagar is limited to a few houses adjoining the residence of truck cleaner who tested positive on May 7.Mundhe said all containment zones are bound to be denotified after completion of 28 days from the death or discharge of last positive person as per government’s guidelines.Now, there are 21 containment zones in city while nine have been denotified. Couple of more areas like Naik Talao in East Nagpur will be notified on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pandhrabodi-2-more-c-zones-shrink-hawrapeth-notified/articleshow/76078737.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Locusts won’t attack state, says Tamil Nadu Agricultural University||COIMBATORE: Though the agriculture department has ordered a survey to check for presence of desert locusts in the state, entomologists in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University say the desert locust swarm is unlikely to hit the state. They say this assumption is based on wind direction, which is what moves the locusts from one place to the next. They say the swarm which is now in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh may not move towards Tamil Nadu. Speaking to TOI, professor of entomology, N Muthukrishnan, said the wind that is now blowing from the west to east of the country, will carry the locust swarms from Madhya Pradesh and UP to Chhattisgarh. “The winds have to miraculously do a U-turn for the swarms to reach Tamil Nadu,” he said. “Even assuming the locusts by some chance do hit Tamil Nadu, farmers should know that we have some solutions for it. Like if they are laying eggs, we can apply an insecticide on the soil and plough it killing the eggs, if we find small nymphs, we can kill them on the ground by spraying insecticide on them,” he added. “We have solutions for adult locusts too, like playing loud music and not allowing them to rest on plants, and then spraying insecticide,” he added. TNAU says the incoming South West monsoon will also slow down the movement of the locusts and its feeding frenzy. “The locusts usually come only in June-July season. The fact that they are coming from Africa to Asia during a different season, shows that they are not in the comfort zone. However, the rain will reduce wind speed, which in turn will slow down its spread, allowing us to find ways to kill it,” said the professor. Meanwhile, district agricultural officials have got into a precautionary mode to preempt any locust attack. Officials have been conducting surveillances of fields in border areas and have been spreading awareness among farmers. Officials said state-level authorities, through a video-conferencing on Wednesday, had directed them to take up the above-mentioned precautionary measures. Following this, block-level officials, on Thursday, started inspecting fields in border areas, such as Anaimalai, Pollachi North and South, Madukkarai, Kinathukadavu and Perianaickenpalayam. “Officials have been conducting preliminary surveillance of the areas to detect any instance of the insect attack. We would also work with horticulture officials in the Nilgiris,” the official said. “Officials have also been asking farmers to immediately report if they sight the insects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/locusts-wont-attack-state-says-tnau/articleshow/76079942.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Operate buses to bring back workers to industrial units’||Coimbatore: Representatives of Coimbatore Industrial Associations Forum, a federation of micro and small industry associations in the city, petitioned district collector K Rajamani on Thursday, urging to operate buses to transport the workers, who were stuck in their native districts, back to the district. They also sought a direction to banks to provide them the collateral-free loans as promised by the Centre.Pointing out that many workers of micro and small units were from southern districts of the state, the members said they were stuck in their homes because of lockdown. “While the units have been permitted to resume operations, we are not able to function properly in the absence of enough workforce. We don’t have the wherewithal to bring them in private vehicles. So, we urge the district administration to operate buses to bring our workers back,” a representative of the forum said.Referring to the Rs 3 lakh crore relief package that was announced by the Centre for industries, they said collateral-free loans were part of that. They said banks were, however, not issuing them loans, citing they were yet to get the guidelines. “Only if we get the loans in time, we could tide over the crisis. The district administration should take steps to ensure us loans.”They said the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board has been levying reliability charge and belated payment surcharge on them for delay in paying power tariff, despite the state allowing them time to pay the same. They said the late charges that have been collected from them should be returned to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/operate-buses-to-bring-back-workers-to-industrial-units/articleshow/76079978.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman kills self, harassed by husband jobless for 2 months||AHMEDABAD: A 27-year-old woman from Paldi area of city allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her home on Wednesday due to constant harassment by her husband, an automobile mechanic who was unemployed due to lockdown for two months. According to an FIR filed with Paldi police, the deceased Nikita Solanki’s brother, Bhavesh Solanki, 28, a plumber and resident of Kagdapith, states before cops that his sister married a Paldi-based man, Dipak Bathwar, in 2011. Bhavesh said that Nikita had told him and their parents five years ago that her husband and mother-in-law harassed her over petty issues. But Bhavesh and his parents used to make her understand that she should stay with her husband at her in-laws’ place only. He further said that around a year ago she had told her that Bathwar had beaten her over frivolous issue. Five days ago also, She called up Bhavesh and said that Bathwar had beaten her badly and had told her to bring money from her parents. Nikita told Bhavesh that she needed Rs 5,000 as her husband could not earn anything for two months due to lockdown. She said that she did not have groceries and other essential items at home. Bhavesh went to her home and gave her money and essential items. Later on Wednesday evening, Nikita’s children called up Bhavesh. He heard them crying and cries of Nikita on the phone. He rushed to her home in Paldi, only to learn Nikita had committed suicide by hanging herself. Bhavesh later gave his statement before police and a case of abetment to suicide was registered against Bathwar and his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-kills-self-harassed-by-husband-jobless-for-2-months/articleshow/76079085.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Over 7L villages to use Wardha guide to combat Covid pandemic||Wardha: Taking pre-emptive steps in preparing rural masses for the battle against Covid-19, department of community medicine of Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS) has come out with a self-assessment tool to help combat the pandemic at the grassroots-level. Recognizing its importance, Union ministry of panchayati raj has instructed chief secretaries of all states to use the tool for assessing community response to coronavirus outbreak at gram panchayat level. The department has also prepared a guide for filling up the checklist to make it user-friendly. The tool identifies eight areas for action — creating awareness regarding preventive measures, solidarity (to address associated stigma), support for home/ institutional quarantine, surveillance activities (identification), support (to needy families), ensuring availability of routine health services, prompt response in case of positive cases and maintaining hygiene and sanitation at village-level.The checklist will help gram panchayats to self-assess preparedness and identify what more is needed. This will also help health department to take timely corrective measures.“The possibility of Covid-19 spreading to rural areas cannot be ruled out. This checklist will serve as an effective tool for strengthening community preparedness,” said Sunil Kumar, secretary, ministry of panchayati raj, in a letter to Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta.Dr Subodh Gupta, professor and head, department of community medicine, said, “Transmission of Covid-19 is largely confined to urban areas till now. It is right time to mobilize panchayats for community action at village-level, where 70% of our population resides.”“If properly implemented, gram panchayats will be instrumental in slowing down Covid-19 transmission in the next phase. This approach will also mobilize help for vulnerable groups and needy families,” he added.Before preparing the tool, the team interacted with members of gram panchayats in about 20 villages in Wardha. All of these villages had formed a Corona Committee as per a directive of the district administration. The team was surprised in several villages on the maturity with which the gram panchayats and village-level committees have acted during this pandemic. In other villages, the checklist became a training tool for informing villagers of the roles panchayats and village-level committees may play to slow down the transmission.Everyone from the department is now excited as the tool has been accepted at national-level and will be implemented in over 7,00,000 villages in the country.Meanwhile, in an online training coordinated by Village Social Transformation Foundation (VSTF), the department rolled out over 300 volunteers who will work in over 1,000 villages of Maharashtra to catalyse community response to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-7l-villages-to-use-wardha-guide-to-combat-covid-pandemic/articleshow/76078722.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 29, 2020||Allahabad||‘Govt can’t recover extra compensation from land allottees’||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday held that the state government or development authorities cannot recover from the allottees of land the extra compensation which they have to pay to the land owners whose land were acquired without prior agreement with the allottees with regard to increase in compensation to be born by such allottees of land. The court further held that any extra demand made by Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) from allottees of land in furtherance of government order dated August 29, 2014 was illegal. Hence, the court quashed all the demands raised on the basis of GO dated August 29, 2014. Allowing a bunch of writ petitions filed by Shakuntla Educational and Welfare Society and various other builders and trusts, a division bench comprising Justice Pankajl Mithal and Justice VC Dixit said that the issuance of the GO dated August 29, 2014 and its acceptance by YEDA is patently illegal. It was on August 29, 2014, that the state government passed an order mentioning that due to agitation of the farmers and legal complications, it was necessary for an out of court settlement with the farmers by offering 64.7% additional amount for their acquired land, provided they withdraw their petitions challenging the acquisition proceedings and undertakes not to institute any litigation and create any hindrance in the development work of YEIDA. The government directed for the payment of 64.7% additional amount to the farmers and also to recover it from the allottees of the land. It was challenged by the allottees of land. Petitioners’ contention was that state government was recovering increased compensation from allottees of the land, though it never modified terms and conditions of contract and in absence of any modification in terms and conditions, state government has no right to recover any excess compensation from petitioners. “Any rights, on the basis of a concluded or final contract or lease, which have been crystallized in favour of any party cannot be taken away by framing a policy on some later date. A policy so framed would be prospective in nature and cannot affect the contracts already finalised. Any such policy which is unilaterally framed disturbing the rights which have accrued to a party would clearly be violative of Articles 14 (right to equality) of the Constitution, the petitioners contented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/govt-cant-recover-extra-compensation-from-land-allottees/articleshow/76078735.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Lexie’ gives organic pads to young athletes||NAGPUR: On account of World Menstruation Day (on May 28), ‘Lexie’ distributed organic sanitary pads to young athletes with personalized messages. Founded by young entrepreneur Kshitij Jane, city’s first organic pad provider Lexie collaborated with Slum Soccer under an initiative named ‘Lexie with Love’. The two collaborated to raise more funds for reaching out to more underprivileged girls. The social media handles of Slum Soccer and Lexie posted various pictures celebrating the beauty of World Menstruation Day. Video messages of young girls were also posted on the social media platforms, where they can be seen receiving the box of health and happiness. “Lexie with Love initiative was extremely special for everyone who was a part of it. We made sure that the messages from the donors reached the underprivileged female athletes of Slum Soccer,” said Jane. Highlighting how nicely the personal messages were written on the boxes, project manager of Slum Soccer Mahima Barse said, “We displayed various art projects to raise awareness about menstruation day. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lexie-gives-organic-pads-to-young-athletes/articleshow/76079940.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 29, 2020||Nashik||30 more oxygen points at Covid ward||Nashik: The Dhule-based Shri Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College & Hospital (SBHGMCH) has decided to add 30 more oxygen points at the 206-bed Covid-19 ward of the hospital.The ward has been set up in a separate building within the SBHGMCH premises.Hospital superintendent Ramkumar Suryavanshi said that work to set up 30 more oxygen points at the Covid-29 ward has already begun. At present, there are 33 oxygen points in the ward. With the new addition, there will be 63 oxygen points in the ward.The oxygen points are located above the beds. In case a patient needs it, they are provided with oxygen using these points which are connected to the main central pipe supplying it.“Our experience in treating Covid-19 patients have shown that patients who have moderate infection do not need ventilator support in Intensive Care Unit. Their condition can be stabilised if they are provided with oxygen at their beds. Hence, we have increased the oxygen points at the beds of the wards,” said hospital authorities.According to Dr Surayanshi, the work of setting up of additional oxygen points would be completed within the next 10 days.SBHGMCH sources said that oxygen is required to for Covid-19 patients who have pre-existing health disorders like problem in lungs, diabetes, etc. And, due to the infection, the oxygen carrying capacity of red blood cells of such patients is reduced, making them depend on oxygen points or cylinders.“However, such patients need not be put on ventilators at ICU. Such patients are given oxygen from the oxygen points which helps in maintaining the oxygen saturation levels of patients,” said hospital sources.According to hospital sources, the increase of oxygen points at the Covid ward would also help in case there is a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Dhule or in the neighbouring districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/30-more-oxygen-points-at-covid-ward/articleshow/76077357.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Travel agents seek police protection fearing violence||VISAKHAPATNAM: In an unprecedented move, travel agents in Andhra Pradesh have sought police protection from the state government, with their offices reopening from June 1. This, they say, is to ensure that customers who had made bookings flights from May 25 to June 24 won’t create trouble at their offices, seeking refunds. The request came in the wake of an incident in Rajahmundry in East Godavari district. On Thursday morning, when a travel agent opened his office for cleaning purpose, one of his customers allegedly entered his office and tried to manhandle him and ransack the office. The customer demanded refunds for a ticket that had been booked for a flight during the lockdown period. “Although no police complaint was made, the agent and locals had a tough time pacifying the customer. Travel agents across the state had planned to open their offices on June 1 and are apprehensive about repetition of same type of incidents. So, we have written to state government seeking police protection,” K Vijay Mohan, the president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh told TOI. Agents claimed that they are unable to make any monetary refund to their customers as most airlines are providing credit shells only in the name of the passengers, which can only be redeemed by the same passenger for future travel with the same airline. “Say, if passenger ‘A’ had booked a ticket for April 20 from me, the airline is giving a credit shell similar to price of the ticket to me in the name of passenger ‘A’. So, now if only passenger ‘A’ travels on the same airline within one year and only if passenger ‘A’ wants to buy tickets from me we can utilize the credit shell. The value of the credit shell would get adjusted with the price of the ticket that ‘A’ would buy during that time. Now, how will I convince my customers of this?” Vijay Mohan asked. Airline officials have made it clear that they are still sticking to the earlier policy of transferring credit shell with a value similar to the price of ticket. There are no plans, as of now, to give full fare refunds to the customers. “We are giving two options. One, a passenger can travel on the same sector for which the ticket for the cancelled flight has been booked as many number of times for no extra cost till October 30. Second, full fare refund as credit shell that can be redeemed for any sectors for the next two years,” said an Air Asia spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/travel-agents-seek-police-protection-fearing-violence/articleshow/76077584.cms||Arpit Basu
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Parties unite against Mundhe as NMC files FIR against Cong corporator||Nagpur: Corporators cutting across political parties have threatened to bring a no confidence motion against Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for his “undemocratic functioning by lodging an FIR against a Congress corporator”.Senior police inspector from Lakadganj police station Narendra Hiware told TOI that following a complaint lodged by NMC’s assistant municipal commissioner Vijay Humne, Nitin Sathawane has been booked under Sections 188 (disobeying senior officials), 186 (interference in government work), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.According to Humne’s complaint, Sathawane had obstructed the NMC’s containment drive in Satranjipura and institutional quarantine process of suspected Covid-19 patients. Sathawane, however, said he did not know about FIR and maintained his innocence. “I never obstructed NMC officials discharging their duty,” he claimed and added he had only raised the grievances of people in his constituency.Following a police complaint against Sathawane, ruling BJP and opposition Congress in NMC both demanded immediate shunting out of Mundhe. Addressing a joint press conference, ruling party leader and senior BJP corporator Sandip Jadhav and leader of opposition and Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve alleged that due to Mundhe’s arrogant attitude, citizens of containment zones were suffering.“We are going to submit a memorandum to both chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and district guardian minister Nitin Raut for immediate ouster of Mundhe from the NMC,” said Wanve. Even city Congress president and MLA Vikas Thakre demanded Mundhe’s transfer.Wanve pointed out the elected representatives supported the civic administration’s move to contain the spread of coronavirus. “However, the administration started taking the elected representatives for granted,” he alleged. Corporators including Sathawane demanded that the administration should ensure supply of essential commodities to people in containment zones.“Many families could not even get milk for their new born babies,” Sathawane said. “Raising lack of facilities and poor quality food being supplied to people in quarantine centre is a crime,” asked Wanve. “If it so, we are ready to go jail for the cause of people,” added Jadhav.If Mundhe does not change his style of working, we won’t mind bringing no-confidence motion against him in general body of civic body in future, the senior corporators said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parties-unite-against-mundhe-as-nmc-files-fir-against-cong-corporator/articleshow/76078765.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK rubbishes DMK’s 1 lakh grievances, says many are bogus||CHENNAI: Launching a full-throttle attack on the DMK, the ruling AIADMK on Thursday alleged that its rival was enacting a drama to seek political gains from its ‘Ondrinaivom Vaa’ initiative. Food minister R Kamaraj said none of the 98,752 petitions submitted to the chief secretary had anything to do with transport and MSME-related grievances, as claimed by the opposition party. Most of the complaints were related to dry ration. Reacting to the allegation, DMK MP and spokesman T K S Elangovan said since the government failed to help the workers as well as guest workers, the DMK had to intervene. “The food minister has criticised the one lakh petitions which our party MPs gave to chief secretary recently. The problems mentioned in the petitions must be solved only by the government and that is why we had to forward the petitions to the government. If the government had fulfilled the demands of people, there would not be one lakh petitions,” said Elangovan. The minister said the petitions submitted to the chief secretary were segregated and sent to the districts for verification of claims, but many denied approaching for help. “Several petitioners, when checked by the district administrators, complained that their mobile numbers were misused, and said they were content with the free ration and cash support of Rs 1,000 extended by the state government during the pandemic,” the minister said, while playing out the video footage of a few petitioners, in which one of them admitted to having approached Ondrinaivom Vaa helpline but failed to get a response. Kamaraj alleged that the opposition was unable to stomach the popularity of the CM’s welfare measures to fight Covid-19. Kamaraj said the state government had allotted Rs 3,108.33 crore towards food subsidy in addition to budgetary estimate of Rs 6,500 crore due to the pandemic. “There is no food crisis in the state. We have assured food during all 65 days of the lockdown. Free ration has been extended for the third month, in addition to free rice under universal PDS,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-rubbishes-dmks-1l-grievances-says-many-are-bogus/articleshow/76079951.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||RPSF man on duty in Shramik Spls among 12 new +ves||Nagpur: A 28-year-old staffer of Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) deployed on Shramik Special trains tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Eleven more persons also tested corona positive, taking the day’s tally to 12 and number of cases from the district to 459.The RPSF man and his colleague had fever since May 26 and were admitted to IGGMCH on May 27. He tested positive while his colleague came negative. He is the first staffer from RPSF to contract Covid-19 in the district.RPF officials said he was among a RPSF company from Daund in Pune district engaged here for last 3-4 weeks. The entire company was engaged in Shramik Special trains between Nagpur, Ballarshah and Badnera. The entire company was residing at Ajni Railway Colony.The other staffer, who tested negative, was shifted to the quarantine centre at Ajni Railway Colony. Meanwhile, four from Mominpura who were in institutional quarantine centre tested positive, taking total number of cases from this containment zone to 234.Two family members — husband (27) and mother-in-law (48) — of 23-year-old pregnant woman from Tipu Sultan Chowk area in North Nagpur, who tested positive at IGGMCH on May 26, came positive on Thursday.A 64-year-old man from Siraspeth also tested positive. He is close contact of 50-year-old paralytic woman who tested positive on May 25. A 59-year-old man from Bank Colony, Bhagwan Nagar, tested positive at AIIMS. He is a close contact of the person who tested positive from Hawrapeth, Onkar Nagar, on May 26. Number of cases from this chain have increased to four. A close contact of a 25-year-old man from Butibori also tested positive at AIIMS. In late developments, two more persons tested positive at AIIMS on Thursday. The details were awaited.As per new discharge guidelines, six corona positive patients were discharged from IGGMCH. All were from Mominpura containment zone. Number of discharged persons from the district increased to 361. With nine deaths, 89 positive persons are undergoing treatment at IGGMCH, AIIMS and GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rpsf-man-on-duty-in-shramik-spls-among-12-new-ves/articleshow/76078746.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Newborn girl abandoned near ashram in Raipur||AHMEDABAD: In just two months, another newborn girl has been found abandoned at the gates of the Mahipatram Roopram Ashram, in the Raipur area of the city. The three-day-old girl was dressed in a pink top and swaddled in a cloth. Kagdapith police registered an offence under Section 317 of the IPC for abandoning a child. Inspector M A Singh of Kagdapith police station said they are gathering CCTV footage from cameras installed near the ashram to identify who had abandoned the baby there. According to the complaint lodged by Anita Parmar, 50, who has been the gruh mata (matron) at the ashram for 28 years, at about 9am on Tuesday, while she was at the ashram, a few people called her and told her that someone had left a baby girl, about three days old, in a cradle outside the ashram. “Parmar looked around but could not find anyone who could have helped with information about who had abandoned the baby,” added Singh. The FIR states that according to the rules of the ashram, they had the baby admitted at a hospital in Vasna. The girl is healthy and is now fine. “The baby had a pink top on and was wrapped in a multicoloured cloth. There is no sign of any injury to the child,” Singh said. He added that Parmar said this is the second case of a baby being abandoned near the ashram in the last two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/newborn-girl-abandoned-near-ashram-in-raipur/articleshow/76079080.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||1,000 Covid samples taken from Rangareddy in 2 days||HYDERABAD: Increasing cases of Covid- 19 due to Jiaguda link has sent officials of Rangareddy district running. In a major effort to find Covid positive patients, more than 1,000 samples were collected from four areas of the district in the last two days. The samples were collected from Shadnagar, NTR Nagar, Maheswaram and Pahadi Shareef. “Many of the cases being reported have been primary or secondary contacts of the Covid-19 positive cases, so we have decided to collect the samples of all the people who have shown some symptoms of Covid- 19,” an official said Currently, the government is not doing tests on secondary contacts, but many samples were collected as an exception. “Looking at the urgency and spread of cases, authorities have started operating a government quarantine centre in Rajendra Nagar area for the district. Over the past few days, government closed all the quarantine centres which are outside government hospitals,” said a top source. The district has witnessed about 10 deaths, which is a cause of concern for officials. Many cases from the district are being reported as secret socialising, which has not stopped despite government advocating against any gathering. On Thursday, another 8 people tested positive from Pahadi Shareef as they were in contact with people who tested positive because of a super spreader in the area. Apart from these, a medical representative and one RMP also tested positive in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1000-samples-taken-from-rr-in-2-days/articleshow/76080570.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nashik||Rural police book 4,987 for lockdown violation||Nashik: A total of 4,987 people have been booked by Nashik rural police under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating lockdown in rural areas, including Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC). Ever since lockdown was announced by the state government to curb the spread of Covid-19, rural police have been registering cases against the violators. “It is not that we started booking people from the first day. We first spread awareness about the disease as the situation was new for everyone. After spending enough time on sensitization we started booking people,” Arti Singh, superintendent of police (Nashik rural), said. After the lockdown was imposed on March 23, police carried out announcements in the public areas about the precautions need to be taken by everyone. Public address system (PAS) were attached on drones that were pressed into service for informing people and keeping a watch on the lockdown violators. Rural police have thus booked the people for not wearing masks, not following physical distancing, crowding at a place and moving out of house without any valid reason. Beside booking these people, as many as 631 vehicles were also seized by the police from motorists violating the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-police-book-4987-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/76077378.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Decision to hold exams from June 25 may face protests||AHMEDABAD: The recent decision of the state government to hold college-level exams from June 25 has not gone down well with many students, parents and faculty members. Various groups are planning to stage a protest in the next few days as they feel that the government did not consider the views of stakeholders before deciding. While Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has announced that colleges affiliated to it will begin exams from June 25, other varsities haven’t put out dates as yet. Some parents and students took to social media to express their concerns regarding the safety of students during college exams, sources said. The terminal exam for final year undergraduate students as well as exams for second and fourth semester PG candidates are to be held June 25 onwards by maintaining “social distancing”, safety and other health measures, the state government directive said. Gujarat University (GU), which has 350-odd affiliated colleges, has maintained a studied silence on the matter. “There seems to be hardly any serious discussion at the varsity level about declaring exam dates,” a source in the varsity said. Members of the All India University and College Teachers’ Organization have demanded that the government reconsider its decision. Students from across the state come to Ahmedabad to study and they would have returned home after colleges and varsities shut in the last week of March as a precaution to curb the spread of Covid-19. “Now, when the exams are held, there will be a rush of students from various parts of Gujarat. For cities like Ahmedabad, where the risk of Covid-19 is high, who will ensure the safety of these students,” said a member of the organization. Hostel facilities also needs to be re-opened at a time when varsities are working with limited staff members. The Samras hostel in Navrangpura has been converted into a Covid care facility and members of NSUI have demanded clarity from government on the safety of students coming back to the hostels for their terminal examinations. The University Grants Commission (UGC) recently directed all varsities in the country to set up a cell to handle grievances of students related to examinations and other academic activities arising from the Covid-19 situation. “The UGC has stated in its guidelines that in states where the Covid-19 situation has become normal, exams should be held in July. At a time when the situation yet to turn normal, why is the state so keen to hold exams from the last week of June?” asked a parent of a second-year student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/decision-to-hold-exams-from-june-25-may-face-protests/articleshow/76079076.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Additional DGP offers to quit over promotion row||Hyderabad: Stating that the delay in his promotion was humiliating, the Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA) director, VK Singh, has written a letter to state chief secretary Somesh Kumar and his other batch mates, telling them that he will quit the service if the government does not think he is worth the designation. The additional director general of police, who has completed 33 years in service, wrote: “It is a matter of anguish that the government has not taken up the issue of our promotion. It is getting difficult for me to continue in the service with this feeling of humiliation and neglect. If the government feels that I am not worth promotion, then I would like to quit.” He was empanelled for a promotion to DGP rank in February. But the government has not yet promoted the IPS officers of 1987 batch, despite the posts being vacant. In the last three months, two officers of DGP rank Tejdeep Kaur Menon and T Krishna Prasad have retired from the service. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/additional-dgp-offers-to-quit-over-promotion-row/articleshow/76079964.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Lucknow||CBI poses 30 questions to DHFL Mumbai officials||LUCKNOW: A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has questioned DHFL officials in Mumbai. A set of 30 questions were posed to six officials of DHFL. The CBI team will now again question the arrested UPPCL officials in the light of answers given by the DHFL officials. The CBI is probing circumstances which led to investment of over Rs 2,200 crore of power employees' provident fund money in a private company without any provision for the same. The CBI, which was expected to send a team to Mumbai, prepared a set of questions and sent it to the anti-corruption branch of the Mumbai unit of the agency. The CBI said that six top officials of the DHFL were quizzed independently by the team and answers of 30 questions were sought from them separately. “These questions were prepared by the Lucknow unit after interrogating the two IAS officers. Most of the questions pertained to data entry records made by the arrested DHFL employees of Lucknow office and whether or not the top bosses at the head office were aware about it,” said a source privy to the probe. The CBI will now separately grill then UPPCL MD AP Mishra along with then secretary of trust PK Gupta and then director, finance, Sudhanshu Dwivedi, who are all languishing in the Lucknow jail. The trio will be questioned separately on the answers given by the DHFL officials. The agency is simultaneously probing the role of DHFL officials in forming shell companies to re-route the money into accounts of the arrested UPPCL officials. Earlier, on November 3, 2019, the state government had asked for a CBI probe into the PF scam and simultaneously instructed the economic offences wing (EOW) of the UP police to conduct a separate investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-poses-30-questions-to-dhfl-mum-officials/articleshow/76080571.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bhopal||3-year-old among 17 new cases in city; Jatkhedi, Barkhedi new hotspots||BHOPAL: A three-year-old boy was among 17 people who tested positive for COVID-19 in the state capital on Thursday. Meanwhile, the two areas of Jatkhedi and Barkhedi are under the scanner, having reported 70% of the cases in the last two weeks. The three-year-old is among eight people who tested positive in Jatkhedi. The area has become one of the major hotspots in Bhopal after a recent marriage function in the area. With 17 new positive cases on Thursday, Bhopal’s tally rose to 1,373. The total number of deaths in Bhopal so far is 51. SDM Rajesh Gupta said, “A three-year-old boy has been tested positive today. However, situation is well under control in Jatkhedi. We have shifted 183 families from Jatkhedi.” However, shifting of families is problematic for the residents. The same technique was adopted in Jehangirabad to control the situation. Currently, the situation is under control in most areas of Jehangirabad, he added. On Thursday, a state government-appointed team visited Hamidia hospital and Chirayu medical college to look into the death of two people on May 26. The deaths took place after they were shifted to a private hospital. Indications are that the government hospital doctors, who claimed to have not consented to the transfer of the COVID-19 patients, could be held responsible. A 32-year-old female and 44-year-old male had died in a private hospital two hours after arrival from the government hospital. Hamidia hospital officials, claimed the patient’s family pressurised the hospital for permission to shift to another hospital for COVID-19 treatment. The patients were discharged after leave against medical advice was issued. They were undergoing treatment in the government-run hospital for eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-yr-old-among-17-new-cases-in-city-jatkhedi-barkhedi-new-hotspots/articleshow/76078780.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nashik||Elected rep, 12 others test positive in city||Nashik: An elected representative from Nashik city, along with three family members, was among 13 people who have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 151. The politician and his family members have been admitted to the isolation ward of the civic body. “The elected representative had been to Mumbai to attend a funeral and returned to Nashik a few days ago,” said officials. Meanwhile, 33 more people tested positive for the contagion in Malegaon, taking the tally of patients to 748, of which 587 have been discharged, 47 have died and 114 being treated in hospitals. Today, 26 patients were discharged after recovery. The rural areas of the district, Ozhar (Niphad taluka) and Nandgaon and Dindori talukas added a patient each. In the district, 55 people have tested positive, taking the tally to 1,108, 786 have been discharged and 60 have died. Jalgaon district added 34 new patients on Thursday, with Jalgaon city reporting 20 cases. Of the 557 cases, 48 have died and 218 have recovered. Dhule district added 11 more Covid patients taking the total to 131.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/elected-rep-12-others-test-positive-in-city/articleshow/76077391.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: For migrants, no choice but to slum it||NEW DELHI: For the last three weeks, Asha Devi has been lighting her stove once every day, preparing roti for her six-member family, and eating these with salt. The self-imposed restriction on the diet became necessary after the 39-year-old woman and her husband lost their jobs as domestic workers when the lockdown began on March 24. “Our employers did not pay us our dues, and the government has not done anything for us so far. We have to ration our food and so have barely enough to eat every day,” said Devi. “All our savings are gone, and we are now hoping to go back to work in a week — if our employers allow us to return. Maybe things will get better then." Devi’s house is located in the narrow winding lanes of the densely populated Sanjay Colony, one of the largest slum areas in south Delhi. The lanes, flanked by house on both sides, are barely broad enough to allow a person to walk freely. Clearly, there is no space for social distancing. Wearing masks is also a luxury the people cannot afford, though residents are scared enough to cover their faces with pieces of cloth when they step out. Residents of the neighbourhood, which houses nearly 40,000 people, have seen better days. The slum, located in Okhla Industrial Area, offered employment for everyone, including migrants, who made up 30% of the locality’s population. The cloth industry generated enough jobs, and rent was cheap, anywhere between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000. So, outsiders who settled here did not return to their villages. But when TOI visited the area on Thursday, nearly half the houses were locked. The migrants had left, some on foot, others on buses arranged by “kind strangers and local leaders”. Many houses, owned by families from the area, continued to serve as small factories, with workers busy on sewing machines, making clothes that would later be sold across India. “People are fleeing their homes because they can't afford to pay their rents,” explained Satish Kumar, who runs a small factory making sacks. “Some landlords exempted them from paying their rent for the duration of the lockdown, but there are no jobs. How will people earn?” Residents say the diet of roti and salt is fairly common in the neighbourhood now. Even though cooked meals are twice distributed in a government school in the area, some residents do not venture out of their homes. Fear about Covid infection shrouds the neighbourhood. “Nobody maintains distancing when it comes to meals because everyone is fighting starvation. The government, instead of queueing us up for food, should distribute dry rations so that we can live with dignity,” said Pushpa Devi, who did not have the option of returning to her native Munger district in Bihar. Pushpa, who has four children, separated from her abusive husband three years ago and came to Delhi. She worked in a garment factory to make ends meet. Her youngest child is seven-year-old, and she reserves small portions of the vegetables she can afford to buy for the boy. The self-reliant woman lost her job because of the lockdown, and only resumed working two days ago when the factories reopened. “The first thing I’ll do is pay my landlord, because I don’t have any other place to go to,” she said. Several people in the neighbourhood lost their jobs due to the lockdown and were left on the brink of penury. Suresh, 43, lost his tailoring job and his only source of income. Struggling for survival, he said, “We hope we can get back our jobs once the lockdown is completely lifted."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-migrants-no-choice-but-to-slum-it/articleshow/76079962.cms||Anam Ajmal
May 29, 2020||Nashik||Woman with Covid-19 delivers healthy twins in Ahmednagar hospital||Nashik: A 30-year-old pregnant woman from Mumbai, who contracted Covid-19, gave birth to twins at the Ahmednagar civil hospital on Thursday.The twins—a baby boy and a girl—are in excellent condition, each weighing around 2kg. The condition of the woman is also stable.A caesarean surgery was performed on the woman around 11:30am on Thursday. The doctors, nurses and other medical staff took utmost care while carrying out the surgery to ensure that the twins don’t get infected. According to officials from the district administration, the throat swab samples of the twins would be collected after five days and send for Covid-19 analysis. “The woman hails from Ghatkopar area of Mumbai and had come to her relative’s place at Nimblak village on the outskirts of Ahmednagar city. She was admitted to Nashik civil Hospital after she tested positive for Covid-19 on May 25,” said the officials.Four fresh Covid-19 cases in AhmednagarMeanwhile, four new positive cases were reported from Ahmednagar district on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 tally in the district to 103. According to officials, the spread of the infection in the district was by and large under control. “However, of late, the infection has started spreading in some pockets due to the arrival of people from cities like Mumbai. The authorities are going all out to prevent the spread of the infection,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-with-covid-19-delivers-healthy-twins-in-ahmednagar-hospital/articleshow/76077412.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Padarayanapura corporator tests positive for Covid-19||BENGALURU: Imran Pasha, BBMP corporator representing Padarayanpura, tested positive for coronavirus on Friday evening. The news spread fear among BBMP officials, who met the JD(S) corporator during the week on various occasions with regard to implementing surveillance measures in the ward. Padarayanapura has reported 65 positive cases till date and is still a containment zone. Contact tracing is under way to find out his primary and secondary contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-padarayanapura-corporator-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76098778.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||Deshmukh meets ‘daughter’, 16 years after kanyadaan||Amravati: State home minister Anil Deshmukh's love for Shankar Baba Papalkar and deaf, dumb, homeless and destitute inmates of Ambadaspant Vaidya Balgruha at Vazzar, about 70 kilometres from the city, is well-known. Those attending the Covid-19 review meeting at the divisional commissionerate on Thursday were moved when Deshmukh blessed Sushila, his putative daughter from the Balgruha, and his son-in-law, Ashok Deshmukh of Walgaon. It was on June 30, 2004 that Anil Deshmukh had done the ‘kanyadaan’ of Sushila, who was found at Pune railway station and sent to Papalkar's Balgruha when she was just two years old. Papalkar brought her up, educated her and when she turned 21, arranged her marriage with Ashok — a Walgaon youth who is blind. Deshmukh had assented to play the role of father of the girl, and performed her kanyadaan at the marriage solemnized in Amravati, in presence of then-collector Kundan Kaushik and her police commissioner husband Niket Kaushik. When Deshmukh called Papalkar on reaching there and made enquiries about his "daughter and son-in-law", Papalkar requested him to personally meet and bless them. The couple visited the commissionerate in the evening where Deshmukh met them and gifted a sari to Sushila and clothes to Ashok. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, state minister Bacchu Kadu, MLAs Sulbhatai Khodke and Balwant Wankhade were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deshmukh-meets-daughter-16-years-after-kanyadaan/articleshow/76079972.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Groups clash in Shah-e-Alam over shop rent, 3 injured||AHMEDABAD: While the fourth iteration of the lockdown is in force, and the administration has urged landlords to waive rent because of the consequent slowdown, a fight was reported between two groups over the raising of rent of a shop. Three people were injured by swords and iron pipes, allegedly by four persons, Tausif, Asif, Sadab and Tausif’s uncle Akil. Isanpur police registered case of assault and are hunting for them. According to the FIR lodged by Muddasar Kadri, 38, who is in the construction business and is a resident of Shah-e-Alam, on Tuesday night, the owner of Asik Tea Stall approached him and said that his tenant Tausif was not paying the increased rent of the shop and was saying that he would pay only the old rent amount. “Kadri then called Tausif and it was decided to meet at Tausif’s house. At about 11.30pm on Tuesday, Kadri along with Rizwan, Munna and Azhar went to Tausif’s house. Tausif’s brothers Asif and Sadab and their uncle Akil were at the house,” said a police official. According to the FIR, when the talks were under way, Tausif, Asif, Sadab and Akil got agitated. “They took out swords, iron pipes and sticks and assaulted them. They then threatened Kadri saying that if they returned over the same issue they would kill them. As locals gathered there, Kadri and his aides left,” said an Isanpur police official. Isanpur police official said that they are hunting for the accused as the complainants don’t have their full names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/groups-clash-in-shah-e-alam-over-shop-rent-3-injured/articleshow/76079079.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Nashik||NMC makes institutional quarantine mandatory||Nashik: Alarmed by a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to institutionally quarantine people with even the slightest symptoms. Till May 20, the city had only 48 Covid-19 positive cases. However, between May 21 and 28, the city recorded 104 new cases causing alarm bells to ring. NMC officials attribute the spike to the movement of people from Mumbai and Malegaon. Around 90% of the 152 Covid-19 patients have links to Mumbai or Malegaon. Most of them are high-risk contacts of the patients who came from Mumbai or Malegaon, said the NMC officials. The officials added that the civic body has increased the number of surveillance teams from 68 to 168 to survey and find people with Covid symptoms. “We have increased the screening to find suspected patients. We have decided to make institutional quarantine mandatory even for people with the slightest symptoms,” said the civic officials. The NMC has also set up a 450-bed quarantine facility in a building of the social welfare department near the Dwarka area. This new facility is in addition to the existing quarantine facility. The first patient in Nashik city had tested positive on April 6. There were 10 positive patients in the city till April 27. Just in the month of May, the city recorded 142 patients. 14 new cases in city Fourteen people tested Covid-19 positive in the city on Thursday. With the addition of new cases, the total number of Covid-19 patients stands at 152. Of them, 44 have recovered and been discharged, while eight have succumbed. Currently, 100 patients are under treatment in city hospitals Of the 60 containment zones drawn up in the city so far, 29 have been lifted. Now, there are 31 containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-makes-institutional-quarantine-mandatory/articleshow/76077426.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 29, 2020||Jamshedpur||Sarangi bats for menstrual hygiene awareness among men||JAMSHEDPUR: On the occasion of Menstrual Hygiene Day on Thursday, former Baharagora MLA Kunal Sarangi batted for more awareness for both men and women on menstruation. In a camp organised by social outfit Pankh, which was attended by around 300 women, Sarangi said, “Women suffer a lot during menstruation days and they need a lot of care and attention, but they do not get it due to lack of awareness.” Blaming the menfolk, especially in the rural areas, for the plight of women, Sarangi asked male members to come forward and help women during menstruation to help them feel comfortable. Talking about menstruation-related myths, Sarangi said, “Women are still considered untouchables when they menstruate and this needs to be changed.” He also pointed out that while government and social organisations have come forward to distribute food and ration during the lockdown, sanitary napkins are basic needs of a woman and no one is talking about it. In the same breath, he also lauded the efforts of a few organisations around the city for distributing sanitary napkins among women in the rural and slum areas of East Singhbhum on Thursday. Sarangi said, “According to reports, only 36% women in the country have access to sanitary napkins, which is very low and health department across states need to pay attention to this.” Maintaining social distancing norms, the organisers made women at the camp aware about menstrual hygiene. Among the volunteers, Class XII student of Loyola School, Anushree, actively took part to create awareness among the women gathered at the camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/sarangi-bats-for-menstrual-hygiene-awareness-among-men/articleshow/76085316.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 29, 2020||Ranchi||Woman among 3 PLFI rebels killed in West Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: Three PLFI cadres, including a woman, were killed while another was injured during an encounter with security forces in Tebo police station area of West Singhbhum district on Thursday. Police said another rebel was arrested and he is being interrogated by security personnel. DIG (Kolhan range) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the deceased were identified as Patras (40), Dadu Nag (30) alias Champa da and his 26-year-old wife. Her name is being ascertained, Singh said. He added,“An unidentified cadre who sustained injuries in the gunfight has been admitted to the government hospital in Chakradharpur while a fifth rebel, identified as Manoj, has been arrested.” Stating that the encounter is still continuing till the time of filing the report, Singh said, “The operation started in the hilly terrain of Manmandubera forest in Tebo police station limits in the early hours. The terrain is hilly, uneven and dense forest area.” The security forces, comprising district police and CRPF personnel, raided the terrain around 5am based on a tip-off about the movement of PLFI operative Sanichar and his squad members in the area. The DIG said, “One AK-47 rifle, live cartridges, explosives and Naxal literature were found from the area.” He appealed to the armed rebels to shun violence and take advantage of the state government’s surrender policy to join the mainstream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-among-3-plfi-rebels-killed-in-west-singhbhum/articleshow/76078706.cms||B Sridhar
May 29, 2020||Jamshedpur||Woman among 3 PLFI rebels killed in West Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: Three PLFI cadres, including a woman, were killed while another was injured during an encounter with security forces in Tebo police station area of West Singhbhum district on Thursday. Police said another rebel was arrested and he is being interrogated by security personnel. DIG (Kolhan range) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the deceased were identified as Patras (40), Dadu Nag (30) alias Champa da and his 26-year-old wife. Her name is being ascertained, Singh said. He added,“An unidentified cadre who sustained injuries in the gunfight has been admitted to the government hospital in Chakradharpur while a fifth rebel, identified as Manoj, has been arrested.” Stating that the encounter is still continuing till the time of filing the report, Singh said, “The operation started in the hilly terrain of Manmandubera forest in Tebo police station limits in the early hours. The terrain is hilly, uneven and dense forest area.” The security forces, comprising district police and CRPF personnel, raided the terrain around 5am based on a tip-off about the movement of PLFI operative Sanichar and his squad members in the area. The DIG said, “One AK-47 rifle, live cartridges, explosives and Naxal literature were found from the area.” He appealed to the armed rebels to shun violence and take advantage of the state government’s surrender policy to join the mainstream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/woman-among-3-plfi-rebels-killed-in-west-singhbhum/articleshow/76085258.cms||B Sridhar
May 29, 2020||Ranchi||11 fresh cases detected in Jharkhand, private hosp under Covid-19 lens||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/GUMLA: A leading Ranchi-based private hospital came under Covid-19 scanner after four patients from different district tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday. Seven others also tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Gumla detected three cases, East Singhbhum, Garhwa and Ranchi detected two each and Giridih and Dhanbad detected one case each. Of the four detected positive at Medica Hospital in Ranchi, one each was from Gumla, Giridih, Dhanbad and Ranchi. The seven others include six migrants and one pregnant woman from Ranchi. “Two migrants tested positive in Gumla, Garhwa and East Singhbhum each and they all have travel history to Maharashtra and Gujarat,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, 21 people recovered and were discharged from hospital on Thursday taking the total recoveries in state to 213. The number of positive cases in the state now stands at 469, of which 252 are active and four have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/11-fresh-cases-detected-in-jharkhand-private-hosp-under-covid-lens/articleshow/76078762.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Jamshedpur||11 fresh cases detected in Jharkhand, private hosp under Covid-19 lens||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/GUMLA: A leading Ranchi-based private hospital came under Covid-19 scanner after four patients from different district tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday. Seven others also tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Gumla detected three cases, East Singhbhum, Garhwa and Ranchi detected two each and Giridih and Dhanbad detected one case each. Of the four detected positive at Medica Hospital in Ranchi, one each was from Gumla, Giridih, Dhanbad and Ranchi. The seven others include six migrants and one pregnant woman from Ranchi. “Two migrants tested positive in Gumla, Garhwa and East Singhbhum each and they all have travel history to Maharashtra and Gujarat,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, 21 people recovered and were discharged from hospital on Thursday taking the total recoveries in state to 213. The number of positive cases in the state now stands at 469, of which 252 are active and four have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/11-fresh-cases-detected-in-jharkhand-private-hosp-under-covid-lens/articleshow/76085220.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ranchi||Sarangi bats for menstrual hygiene awareness among men||JAMSHEDPUR: On the occasion of Menstrual Hygiene Day on Thursday, former Baharagora MLA Kunal Sarangi batted for more awareness for both men and women on menstruation. In a camp organised by social outfit Pankh, which was attended by around 300 women, Sarangi said, “Women suffer a lot during menstruation days and they need a lot of care and attention, but they do not get it due to lack of awareness.” Blaming the menfolk, especially in the rural areas, for the plight of women, Sarangi asked male members to come forward and help women during menstruation to help them feel comfortable. Talking about menstruation-related myths, Sarangi said, “Women are still considered untouchables when they menstruate and this needs to be changed.” He also pointed out that while government and social organisations have come forward to distribute food and ration during the lockdown, sanitary napkins are basic needs of a woman and no one is talking about it. In the same breath, he also lauded the efforts of a few organisations around the city for distributing sanitary napkins among women in the rural and slum areas of East Singhbhum on Thursday. Sarangi said, “According to reports, only 36% women in the country have access to sanitary napkins, which is very low and health department across states need to pay attention to this.” Maintaining social distancing norms, the organisers made women at the camp aware about menstrual hygiene. Among the volunteers, Class XII student of Loyola School, Anushree, actively took part to create awareness among the women gathered at the camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sarangi-bats-for-menstrual-hygiene-awareness-among-men/articleshow/76078666.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Ranchi||Revive mica mining in Koderma, Giridih districts: Babulal Marandi tells Jharkhand CM||RANCHI: Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi on Thursday urged chief minister Hemant Soren to consider reopening the mica mining sector in Koderma and Giridih districts to ensure employment to the thousands of migrants returning to their homes amid the ongoing lockdown. Marandi, a former chief minister and BJP’s elected legislative party leader in the Jharkhand Assembly, said restarting the mica industry in the two districts can employ two lakh people in the coming years directly and indirectly. Stating that the government’s move to employ migrants by boosting MGNREGS and new plantation programmes will not be enough, Marandi suggested that the Hemant government must do away with the Bihar Mica Act of 1947 and come up with a fresh state mining law to rejuvenate the ailing sector. Stressing that police should not take action on those collecting and selling mica stones which measure less than 6 inches, the former MP underscored the need to empower panchayats to purchase it from sellers, which then can be collected and e-auctioned by the state department of mines and geology. Mica was relegated into the list of minor minerals recently. “The operations of 50 mica mines can employ 50,000 people directly or indirectly. In all, 2 lakh jobs can be generated,” Marandi wrote. Meanwhile, the government’s response to Marandi’s suggestion was not known till evening. Despite the chief minister’s direction on Wednesday reopen industrial units in urban areas, units in Ranchi awaited permission from the district administration to resume operations. While Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) did not issue an official statement on the development, entrepreneurs welcomed the move. “Besides small units, traders, especially electronic store owners who are selling ACs, refrigerators and coolers, must be allowed to open as they will incur great losses once monsoon sets in within a fortnight,” Dipak Kumar Maru, a city-based entrepreneur and former FJCCI president, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/revive-mica-mining-in-koderma-giridih-districts-babulal-tells-jharkhand-cm/articleshow/76078627.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Cash crunch but Goa CM Pramod Sawant plans projects||BICHOLIM: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that all projects in Sakhali pending due to the covid-19 lockdown, including work on the second phase of the Sakhali Municipal Council (SMC) building, will be taken up, this despite the government facing a financial crunch. He was speaking after inaugurating the first phase of SMC building. SMC chairperson Dharmesh Saglani said that 16 shops have already been shifted to the new building and that they are planning to shift a maximum number of government departments here to make access easy for people. He also demanded a full-time chief officer for the civic body to expedite works. He said that the civic body would henceforth be making a saving of Rs 7 lakh annually as this is the yearly rent they had to pay at the old premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cash-crunch-but-cm-plans-projects/articleshow/76079990.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Bicholim Municipal Council to install CCTV cameras||BICHOLIM: Bicholim Municipal Council (BMC) authorities have planned to install CCTV cameras in the town area in order to identify the culprits who are involved in dumping garbage along the roadside despite door-to-door garbage collection by the municipality. BMC chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar and chief officer Vivek Naik announced on Wednesday. “When BMC is regularly carrying out door-to-door collection I feel that people should should act responsibly and not throw garbage along the road,” said the BMC chairperson. Pravin Teli from Bhailipeth said that those dumping garbage along the road leading to Lakherem-Bordem should be penalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bmc-to-install-cctv-cameras/articleshow/76079998.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Home isolation discipline onus on civic bodies, says govt institute||Panaji: The Goa Institute of Public Administration & Rural Development (GIPARD) has released detailed guidelines defining the role of local civic bodies in monitoring and assisting people in home isolation. The move follows complaints of violations and incidents of citizens objecting to having people in home quarantine in their vicinity. Many housing societies, especially in the state capital, have created their own set of rules over quarantining and permitting entry to outsiders. A Panjimite who lives in one such complex said the housing society has mandated that its permission be sought if anyone is to be quarantined within its premises. GIPARD’s guidelines are expected to ensure better management of quarantined individuals and stave off possible clashes over those in home isolation, an official said. With the new criteria in place, the role of ward members will not end with merely keeping a track of persons placed in home quarantine. They will also have to create awareness within the community on importance of home isolation and ensure that those who have been quarantined are not stigmatised. “Any attempt to cause problems to such persons will invite actions under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” a document prepared by the institute has stated. A ward member will require to keep in touch with persons who are home quarantined in his ward, and report immediately to the health authority if any such person falls sick. It will also be the responsibility of the ward member to arrange for regular supply of essentials to those in isolation. Apart from this, a ward member must notify the authorities concerned if any unknown person arrives in his jurisdiction for residence. He must also report those violating home quarantine to the police and the health authorities for action to quarantine the entire family at a paid institution. Representatives of local bodies should not only monitor movements of persons under home quarantine, but should also ensure that the respective families observe the protocol. In addition, local self-governing bodies will have to create a database of all such persons under quarantine and their immediate family members, to facilitate quick communication and to attend to their needs, if any. Houses in which any member has been home quarantined have to be prominently marked by the local health authority and a ward member must remain in contact with such persons to prevent them from jumping isolation, the guidelines have stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/home-isolation-discipline-onus-on-civic-bodies-says-govt-institute/articleshow/76080019.cms||---
May 29, 2020||India||Monsoon likely to hit Kerala on June 1-2; north set to get rain: Met||NEW DELHI: Cyclone Amphan had rushed the southwest monsoon into Andaman and Nicobar Islands on May 17. Now, the monsoon is set to ride another storm—a cyclonic circulation forming over the Arabian Sea—to reach Kerala by June 1 or 2, the Met department said. June 1 is the normal date of monsoon’s arrival over Kerala, the first stop in its march into the Indian mainland. In its onset forecast earlier this month, the India Meteorological Department had put monsoon likely arrival at June 5, with an error margin of four days. “With a low pressure system forming over Arabian Sea today and set to turn into a depression, conditions will become favourable for monsoon’s onset over Kerala by June 1. We are not giving a firm date but the arrival is likely on June 1 or 2,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, head of IMD. The arrival of the rain-bearing system heralds the four-month-long monsoon season in the country. However, India is likely to get widespread rain even before the monsoon’s arrival. The severe heat wave over many areas of north and central India is set to abate with the arrival of a western disturbance over north India. IMD said, under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread rain and thunderstorms are expected likely over the western Himalayas (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) as well as the adjoining northern plains from May 28 to 31. Some rainfall is likely over Madhya Pradesh as well. Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi may get isolated thunderstorms along with lightning, hail and gusty winds during this period, the department said. It added wet weather was also likely over Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan till May 30. Intense rainfall seen over the northeast in the wake of cyclone Amphan is expected to continue, with the plains of Bengal and coastal Odisha too getting rains. South India, particularly the coastal areas and south interior Karnataka, too, is likely to get wet weather, with heavy falls in some areas, due to the approach of the monsoon. “Widespread rain activity is likely over most parts of the country in the coming week. With this, temperatures are expected to be normal to below normal over the country in the next two weeks,” Mohapatra said. Meanwhile, the monsoon on Thursday advanced into some more parts of Maldives-Comorin area, more parts of south Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Mohapatra said monsoon’s further advance will depend on how the depression in the Arabian Sea moves. “If it continues to move northwards towards Gujarat, the monsoon’s progress will be aided. However, if it curves towards the west towards Oman, as many models are indicating, the monsoon will temporarily weaken,” the IMD chief added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monsoon-likely-to-hit-kerala-on-june-1-2-north-set-to-get-rain-met/articleshow/76081644.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Ask hotels to refund extra amount: MHA||Panaji: The ministry of home affairs has requested the chief secretary to direct hotels used for institutional quarantine to refund excess money paid to them for 14 days quarantine under the earlier guidelines. “You are requested to issue necessary directions to hotels earmarked/used for institutional quarantine to ensure that foreign returnees who were quarantined in hotels and paid advance of 14 days, shall be refunded their balance amount, without any delay,” stated the communication from home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states. According to the Centre’s new guidelines, international arrivals have to spend only seven days in paid institutional quarantine. The earlier guidelines stipulated 14 days paid institutional quarantine. “It has been brought to the notice of this ministry that Indian nationals, who were quarantined in hotels after their return from abroad, were made to pay advance for 14 days. Since they can now leave for home quarantine after seven days, the amount paid for the remaining seven days needs to be refunded to them, which some hotels are refusing to refund,” Bhalla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ask-hotels-to-refund-extra-amount-mha/articleshow/76080038.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||Nearly 300 Goa, Maharashtra seafarers arriving on 4th charter from Italy today||Panaji: Close to 300 seafarers from Italy will land in Goa early Friday morning. Of the 278 seafarers on the flight chartered by MSC Cruises, 199 seafarers are reported to be Goans and the rest from Maharashtra. While the crew from Goa will be quarantined in hotels in North Goa, those from Maharashtra have chosen to return directly to their own state to be quarantined, nodal officer for stranded seafarers and ports secretary P S Reddy told TOI. The crew were working on MSC’s vessels Grandiosa, Magnifica and MSC Splendida.  The state expects to receive more charter flights from MSC and Costa Cruises next week with seafarers stranded in Portugal and Brazil, but the state government is yet to receive more details. Crew on MSC Fantasia and MSC Divina are expected to be brought home on the next charter by the company. Four chartered flights from Sri Lanka are also likely to bring in seafarers, but the government is awaiting confirmation. Twelve passengers from Goa stranded in Sri Lanka will arrive in Mumbai on the Vande Bharat mission flight on Friday morning. “We have made arrangements to pick them up directly from the airport and bring them to Goa. A sanitised KTC bus has been sent for them,” Reddy said. All the 400-odd seafarers sent home last week on three flights chartered by Costa Cruises completed seven days institutional quarantine and were sent on seven days home quarantine on Wednesday. Only around 40 seafarers are still in institutional quarantine and will be sent home on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nearly-300-goa-maharashtra-seafarers-arriving-on-4th-charter-from-italy-today/articleshow/76080070.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Goa||After first-hand experience of Covid-19 on board, sailors relieved to return home||PANAJI: After being stranded on board a cruiseliner in Italy for close to 80 days and watching their colleagues get infected with and recover from Covid-19, seafarers are relieved to be on their way back home to Goa. Around 400 seafarers were sent to Goa in three flights from Italy that were chartered by their company last week. More are on their way. “I didn’t believe I was going home until I got my ticket in hand. I had almost given up hope,” one of them told TOI. There were more than 12 crew who tested positive on board his vessel, including Goans. They were shifted to hospitals while the rest of the crew were isolated in their cabins, until recently. Another of his colleagues who initially tested negative when he left Italy, tested positive in Goaand was among the first seven Covid-19 patients detected in the state. “When we heard of him and others who turned positive, we were very afraid. I couldn’t sleep at all. After a while, we got used to it and now we believe this has made our immune systems stronger. I hope we test negative in Goa. It’s a risk because we travelled through airports,” he told TOI. They were not informed about how many crew and passengers tested positive on the vessel. “We would find out much later as we were all isolated in our rooms. Those with fever were isolated in a separate section on the ship. All our meals were delivered to our rooms. We began eating together only around a week ago when all the positive cases had recovered and after we were isolated for more than two months,” another seafarer told TOI. They were shifted from crew cabins—where two are accommodated—to passenger cabins with one crew member in each. They were permitted to leave only for a few hours each day when on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-first-hand-experience-of-covid-19-on-board-sailors-relieved-to-return-home/articleshow/76080108.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 29, 2020||Goa||‘Goa CM Pramod Sawant, mantris broke lockdown norms’||PANAJI: After filing a police complaint against chief minister Pramod Sawant for defying Section 144 during the inauguration of the grade separator at Dabolim, Goencho Avaaz on Thursday filed another complaint against Sawant and urban development minister Milind Naik for defying orders and inaugurating a new ferry boat at Panaji jetty. Goencho Avaaz co-convenor Swapnesh Sherlekar filed the complaint, and accused the CM of being a “repeat offender”. He also called for Sawant and his ministers to be prosecuted under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code. “The provisions in the orders of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) does not exempt public gatherings by government officials, and in no case permits any governmental function to be carried out without maintaining social distancing,” Sherlekar said. Goencho Avaaz said that Sawant is setting a “bad precedent” which would be brought to the Prime Minister’s notice. “Is such undue hurry to undertake inauguration of structures or laying of foundation stones a means to influence the people and a signal that the zilla panchayat polls are likely to be announced?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-mantris-broke-lockdown-norms/articleshow/76080131.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Nurse tests Covid-19 positive, tries to kill self||GURUGRAM: A 24-year-old nurse working at a private hospital in the city tried to commit suicide in her room on Thursday after her Covid-19 test result came positive. She is under treatment at the hospital. According to police, the woman lives alone in a rented accommodation in Jharsa. Her test sample was collected on Wednesday after she developed symptoms for the infection. On Thursday afternoon, she learned that she has contracted the disease. Minutes after she hanged herself from the ceiling fan, a woman living in an adjoining room saw her through the window opening into the common corridor. She raised an alarm. Other neighbours came rushing, broke open the door and took the nurse to the hospital. ACP (Sadar) Aman Yadav said she was under treatment but shared no other information about her condition. The hospital did not comment. Police said it is not clear what drove her to take this extreme step. “We will get the details only after recording her statement,” said Sadar SHO Naveen Kumar. No case has been registered yet. The nurse is originally from Kerala. Tragic reports of people agonising over contracting Covid-19 and killing themselves have emerged from across the country, and even from Gurugram. On April 29, a 54-year-old man, Satbir Saini, had committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan of his house in Ganga Vihar a day after his wife tested positive for Covid-19. A test conducted on him after his death revealed he was also infected. Saini’s wife was admitted to a private hospital in Prem Nagar for treatment of an ulcer when she tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/nurse-24-tests-positive-for-covid-tries-to-commit-suicide/articleshow/76080703.cms||Bagish Jha
May 29, 2020||Goa||Flights continue to get cancelled||Panaji: Domestic flights continued to receive a poor response with just six scheduled flights operating on Thursday out of Goa International airport, said officials. Data provided by officials showed that 71 passengers arrived and 182 passengers took the flights out of Goa. Along with the scheduled flights, a Rossiya repatriation flight to St Petersburg with 357 passengers, including eight children, took off from Goa International Airport. “Till date, 8,042 adults and 89 infants have taken repatriation flights out of Goa,” said Goa Airport Director Gagan Malik. Flights between Goa and Mysore continued to face poor demand, with just one passenger boarding the Alliance Air flight 9I 896 to Mysore. The flight arrived with just four passengers from Mysore, said airport officials. IndiGo operated the other two domestic flights to Delhi and Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flights-continue-to-get-cancelled/articleshow/76080160.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Business||After FB-Jio deal, Google to take Voda Idea stake?||NEW DELHI: So will the Indian telecom market, and the biggest player Reliance Jio, face the might of American giant Alphabet Inc’s Google? If reports are to be believed, Google is exploring a move to pick up a minority stake in Vodafone Idea, the beleaguered telecom operator that is owned by Britain’s Vodafone and domestic business house Aditya Birla Group. Alphabet is looking to buy about 5% stake in Vodafone Idea, the Financial Times reported on Thursday. When contacted, the Indian subsidiary of Google and Vodafone Idea refused to confirm the development. The struggling Vodafone Idea was formed after the aggressive entry of Jio broke the financials of the Indian telecom industry. The company is seeking support from the government as well as the courts in clearing dues and liabilities. Problems for the company compounded after the Supreme Court’s October 2019 judgment on adjusted gross revenue (AGR) that had asked companies such as Airtel and Vodafone Idea (both heavily debt-laden) to pay back thousands of crores of rupees in past dues. If Google is successful in striking the deal with Vodafone Idea, it will pit the search giant against fellow American Facebook, which has picked up a stake in Jio Platforms. Facebook and other private equity investors have cumulatively poured in around $10 billion in Jio Platforms. A possible deal with Google is likely to help Vodafone Idea garner the much-required cash to pay the government nearly Rs 58,000 crore in unpaid statutory dues, which were demanded following the AGR judgment. There is speculation that as Jio raises money from global investors, there are similar interests being evinced in the business of both Airtel and Vodafone Idea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-fb-jio-deal-google-to-take-voda-idea-stake/articleshow/76081650.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Business||Food e-orders down 60% from pre-Covid||Bengaluru: India’s online food delivery order volumes continue to remain down by over 60% from the peak reached in the first two weeks of March, according to data from Israel’s Superfly Insights, which collated it through anonymised billing information. “We are seeing some growth coming back, but still not at a pre-Covid level and it’s so volatile that every day there is a new surprise. Consumer behaviour is also changing, some of it will be irreversible,” said Jaydeep Barman, CEO of cloud kitchen player Rebel Foods. According to Barman, demand is recovering faster in smaller towns like Lucknow, Bhopal, Vijaywada and Coimbatore, which have not been hit as much as the metros. Emphasis on safety has been another area of focus for platforms like Zomato and Swiggy besides restaurants. Rebel Foods, which runs cloud kitchens like Behrouz Biryani, OvenStory and Faasos, has seen 75% of consumers who order on the platform scan the QR code to check on temperatures and medical certificates of those involved in cooking the meal. Aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato have already cut 13-15% of their corporate staff (not delivery executives), pulled back on discounts, and aggressively expanded into grocery since the crisis started in March. According to Zomato co-founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal’s email to his staff earlier this month, the company expects this situation to continue for another 6 months at least. “Our order volumes are down, but we have witnessed a strong recovery in these last two weeks,” a Zomato spokesperson said. Currently, 15% of its order volume comes from grocery. An emailed query to Swiggy did not elicit a response so far. National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), on Wednesday, sent out letters to leading mall owners, seeking urgent changes in rent arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/food-e-orders-down-60-from-pre-covid/articleshow/76079447.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 29, 2020||Business||Post-lockdown plan: Hosiery co takes rebranding route||Kolkata: At a time when the hosiery segment has been worst hit by the lockdown, Dollar Industries, a leading brand with 15% market share, is opting for re-branding to tone up their business strategy in line with the changing taste of present day consumers. This was for the fourth time after 2010 that the 48-year-old company has decided to go for re-branding their products and unveiled a new logo. In keeping with the demand from young buyers and competition in the hosiery segment, the company is now venturing into the launch of more youth-friendly products. Though the company had floated the idea of rebranding earlier, they unveiled the new logo in the fourth phase of the lockdown, ensuring that work on the new line of their business strategy could kick-start once the business chains — manufacturing to marketing — start picking up the pieces. Vinod Kumar Gupta, MD of the company, said, “The new logo symbolises our product line. The Covid-19-induced lockdown has brought our industry to a halt. Transportation of raw cotton to spinning mills from Gujarat and Maharashtra has been affected. The industry is plagued with shortage of manpower as labourers went back home. We are waiting for the industry to gather momentum soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/post-lockdown-plan-hosiery-co-takes-rebranding-route/articleshow/76079461.cms||---
May 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid tally in Vizag district crosses 100-mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: With 105 cumulative Covid-19 cases, Visakhapatnam now has a Covid tally in the three-digits as of Thursday. The tally includes seven recent foreign returnees. In all, the city has 32 active cases. Starting with six cases on March 31 to just 23 cases on April 30, the number has increased more than four times from 25 positive cases on May 1 to 105 cases on May 28. Among the 13 districts, Visakhapatnam ranks ninth in terms of highest number of cases, with West Godavari, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram having fewer cases than Vizag. Of the six cases reported on Thursday, five are from a building in PM Palem—the patients and their contacts had contracted the virus from a doctor who is currently undergoing treatment. The sixth case is from Dandubazar, the place which accounts for around 25% of Covid positive cases in the district. Covid patients are kept in Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Gitam Hospital and Care Hospital II opposite KGH. Speaking to TOI, director of VIMS Dr K Satyavaraprasad said, “So far 44 critical patients or those with co-morbidities were admitted to VIMS from the four north-coastal AP districts. Currently, 20 of them are active cases and they are stable. None of them are in the ICU as of now.” Speaking about the containment zones, district medical and health officer (DMHO) S Tirupathi Rao informed that of the 31 containment zones, six have been already de-notified. The de-notified zones include Allipuram, NAD Shantinagar, Kunchumamba Colony of Gajuwaka, Revidi Padmanavam, Komativeedhi of Narsipatnam and Muslim Thatichetlapalem. In the first week of May, doctors had said that the number of Covid cases will escalate with the re-opening of wine shops and due to the LG Polymers vapour leak mishap, both of which led to flouting of social distancing. Speaking about the Covid tally, principal of Anhdra Medical College (AMC) and member of district Covid control committee Dr PV Sudhakar said, “Apart from these two reasons, foreign returnees and nearly 1,000 Covid tests daily have also led to reporting of more cases. However, as per the national average Covid doubling rate, we were supposed to double every 11 days, which theoretically means 25 to 50 cases between May 1 and May 11, 50 to 100 cases by May 22 and around 200 cases by month-end. Fortunately, we could limit the numbers from 25 to 105 in the last four weeks (May 1- May 28).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-tally-in-vizag-district-crosses-100-mark/articleshow/76078096.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: No new cases in 20 days, Karmika Nagar turns orange zone||VIJAYAWADA: The story of Karmika Nagar is a story of hope. Once a hotspot with over 57 active Covid-19 cases registered within a week, the area has had no new cases in the last 20 days and has now been marked as an ‘orange zone’. Officials say that the work done by sanitation workers, the health wing, the Vijayawada municipal corporation (VMC) played a key role in containing the spread of Covid-19 in the area. Of the 57 patients, three have passed away and 54 have been discharged. The situation had grown tense in Karmika Nagar, a small colony on the hilltop near Machavaram, when the first positive case was registered in the area mid-April. A foreign returnee who worked at a small hotel owned by his parents turned a super spreader and spread the infection among 35 people. The number of cases jumped suddenly and four cops who were in contact with him also tested positive. The district administration, police and the VMC immediately swung into action and declared Machavaram a ‘red zone’. The busy Eluru road was closed from Chuttugunta junction to Padavalarevu junction for nearly four kilometres and a strict curfew was put in place. No one was allowed to come out of their house and VMC workers played a significant role in achieving this. “We will never forget how VMC workers helped us. They sanitised our streets daily and sensitised us about Covid-19. Health workers came door to door to enquire about our health. VMC even delivered groceries at our doorsteps. Sanitation inspector Antony and others worked in our area round-the-clock,” said K Lovaraju, a resident of Karmika Nagar. Speaking to TOI, VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said that the people of Karmika Nagar behaved responsibly and followed containment guidelines which helped the administration to contain the spread of the virus. “We request locals to follow social distancing guidelines until a vaccine comes. We hope people in other containment zones also follow guidelines,” the VMC commissioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-new-cases-in-20-days-karmika-nagar-turns-orange-zone/articleshow/76078120.cms||Venu Lanka
May 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh govt struggles to find jobs for returning workers||VISAKHAPATNAM: With migrant workers returning to their homes in Andhra Pradesh in the hundreds, the state administration is now struggling to find work for them so that they can earn their daily bread. According to official sources, nearly 25,000 workers have returned to their home districts in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam over the last one month. These workers, who were stranded in cities such as Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai, New Delhi and Ahmedabad, returned home in Shramik special trains run from across the country. Many of the migrants who returned from high-risk areas have been sent on 14-day home quarantine. Others have been asked to quarantine at home. “By June 1, a majority of these migrant returnees will complete their quarantine. Then these people will need jobs in order to sustain themselves. This is high time that all of us look to provide them employment, at least daily wage work,” said a senior government official, Meanwhile, nearly 3,500 workers have been employed at the Srikakulam district department of water management agency (DWMA) project from April 14 till Thursday, informed project director H Kurma Rao. The project director further said that these workers have been employed under the centrally-sponsored National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS). “Now, we are looking to find jobs for nearly 5,000 workers from the district in course of the lockdown. Each worker may get a daily wage of Rs 220 with six to seven hours of work under the NREGS,” Kurma Rao said while adding that the jobs under NREGS are being provided to workers willing to do unskilled work. District collector of Vizianagaram, M Hari Jawaharlal said that the district administration has instructed departments to create jobs under various projects for eligible migrant returnees.  “There will be a division-level meeting on June 5 and June 6 to review all assigned tasks including the provision of employment,” he said. Venkateswar Salijamala, the project officer of Visakhapatnam’s Paderu Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) reviewed NREGS works at Billaputtu village in Potangi panchayat of Dumbriguda mandal on Thursday. On the occasion, he instructed the ITDA staff to create work for 25,000 people per day under NREGS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-struggles-to-find-jobs-for-returning-workers/articleshow/76078145.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 29, 2020||India||Re-run of Pulwama attack foiled, explosives-laden car seized in Kashmir||SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: A vehicle-borne IED attack, similar to the one that killed 40 CRPF personnel in Pulwama last year and led to the IAF bombing a Lashkar camp in Balakot, was averted after a joint team of the J&K police, CRPF and Army acted swiftly on intelligence inputs to intercept a car which was abandoned by the driver after being fired upon. The tip-off said a white Santro fitted with explosives was on the move in Pulwama with plans to enter the highway to target a security convoy. Police believe the fidayeen plot to target the forces or their installations was a joint venture of Jaish-e-Mohammad and Hizbul Mujahideen. The suspect car was intercepted at a checkpoint on Wednesday night and signalled to halt which it did not, leading to the security forces opening fire. The foiled suicide mission was uncannily similar to the Pulwama attack of February 14, 2019. The plan was to station the vehicle on a side road used to get on the highway and ram it into a passing convoy. A white Maruti Eeco was used by Jaish suicide bomber Adil to hit the CRPF convoy, while it was a white Santro here. Both had a fake number plates. Explosives were packed in a container in both instances. “The likely route of the IED-fitted car was developed based on inputs and security forces deployed at multiple checkpoints. When the driver refused to halt, the car was fired at. The driver panicked and fled, abandoning the explosives-laden vehicle in Ayangund area of Rajpora in Pulwama. Since it was dark and the area around the vehicle was populated, J&K police chose to keep watch during the night from a safe distance. A search of the vehicle later found a container packed with explosives. This container itself weighed around 50 kg. This morning we got the nearby area vacated and then destroyed the car in a controlled explosion,” J&K DGP Dilbag Singh told TOI. J&K police IG Vijay Kumar said the explosives, as per preliminary examination, included ammonium nitrate and RDX. While inputs of Jaish and Lashkar-e-Taiba planning a spectacular suicide mission in collaboration with Hizbul Mujahideen to target security convoys and installations has been reaching security agencies for the past 4-5 months, more so around the anniversary of the Battle of Badr (17th day of Ramzan) on May 11, the plans were seen to have been thwarted by intensified counter-terror operations. These actions have seen 70 terrorists, including 21 senior commanders and deputy commanders of terror outfits, killed so far this year. Sources said a Pakistani Jaish terrorist from Rawalpindi, Jameel Pashah, active in Kashmir since 2015, and who escaped during an encounter in Kulgam a fortnight ago, was the mastermind of the fidayeen plot. A top intelligence functionary said Jameel fitted the Santro with the fake number of a two-wheeler registered in Kathua. Intelligence agencies and police had picked up a conversation of terrorists with controllers across the border some five days ago about a probable terror attack which prompted stepped-up deployment. At a press conference on Thursday, IG Vijay Kumar said one Adil and Waleed Bahia, who worked for Hizbul-Mujahideen and Jaish respectively, and two others were believed to be part of this foiled terror attempt. “Over the past year, the security forces have neutralised commanders, including Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind (AGuH) founder Zakir Musa (killed in May 2019), top Jaish commander Qari Yasir (January 2020), LeT/The Resistance Front commander Asif Ahmad (April 2020), AGuH leader Burhan Koka (April 2020) and Hizb deputy commander Junaid Sehrai (May 2020). They are desperate to hit back with a big attack,” the officer said. Dilbag Singh said there were reports as well as visual proof that Hizb chief Syed Salahuddin had recently called a meeting with leaders of other tanzeems like JeM and LeT in Muzaffarabad in PoK to give final shape to a plot for a big attack on Indian forces. As in the case of Pulwama on February 14, 2019, the police believe the explosives and other resources may have been arranged by Pakistan-based terror outfits. The attack, it is suspected, was to be executed either by a Pakistani terrorist — a man who slipped away from an encounter site in Kulgam two weeks ago or a local Hizb terrorist might have abandoned the explosives-laden car. “The police have developed some clues and are looking for the escaped driver and other suspects,” Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/re-run-of-pulwama-attack-foiled-explosives-laden-car-seized-in-kashmir/articleshow/76081664.cms||M Saleem Pandit
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Covid affects skin, more research will prove it’||Coronavirus mainly affects the respiratory system and patients commonly experience fever, cough and difficulty in breathing. Recently, several skin manifestations have been noted in Covid-19 patients. Dr Sanjiv Choudhary, additional professor of dermatology at AIIMS, Nagpur, cleared all doubts about it.  Does skin get affected by Covid-19? So far, it is quite obvious that skin as an organ is often affected in Covid-19. As of today, we do not recognize a typical Covid-19 rash. Most of the skin lesions are self-limiting and it is not fully clear whether there is any relationship between these skin lesions and the severity of disease. We hope to answer these questions by carrying out further research on the virus and its interaction with the human body.  How many patients can experience skin-related symptoms in Covid-19? The first study on skin manifestations in Covid-19 was done in Italy. It reported skin lesions to occur in 20.4% of the cases. This means that skin involvement can be as high as one out of every five cases.  What are the skin-related symptoms? Some of the common signs include maculopapular rash (a flat, red area on the skin that is covered with small confluent bumps) and urticaria (swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly). Interestingly, a few cases have been reported where acute urticaria with fever was the first sign of disease. Some patients have also presented with chickenpox-like vesicular lesions.  We have been reading a lot about Covid toes these days. Your take? Covid toe is a reddish or purple coloured lesion developing over toes, fingers or heels. These are more common in children and young adults and are more frequently seen over feet. However, a few of these cases have been tested and found positive for Covid-19. Hence, these lesions could be the result of other infective and non-infective conditions as well. It is likely that these lesions on feet and hands represent a late manifestation of disease and possibly associated with relatively mild disease.  Does frequent hand wash result in skin problems? Frequent hand washing with soap and use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers can cause excessive drying of skin leading to hand eczema. Both soaps and sanitizers tend to remove the lipid content of skin; that initially manifests as dryness of skin followed by redness, blistering and oozing along with itching and burning sensation.  But we can’t avoid hand washing. So, how to prevent skin damage? Simple solution is to apply a moisturizing cream after hand washing. Our corona warriors too are facing several skin problems due to continuous use of personal protective equipment caused by excessive friction, pressure and contact allergy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-affects-skin-more-research-will-prove-it/articleshow/76079570.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 29, 2020||India||18 flyers who flew in last 3 days test positive for Covid-19, say airlines||NEW DELHI: At least 18 flyers who flew on different domestic routes of two airlines in the last three days have tested positive for coronavirus, airlines confirmed on Thursday. All crew members of these airlines are currently in quarantine. Of the 18, 12 passengers who tested positive for Covid-19 were on IndiGo flights that flew on May 26 and 27. The passengers were asymptomatic and the operating crew of three flights have now been quarantined for a period of 14 days, according to the airline. At least six passengers on a TruJet flight from Chennai to Salem in Tamil Nadu have also tested positive on Thursday, say officials. At least five of these IndiGo cases were passengers who flew from the Delhi airport, flying to Jammu on May 26 and to Coimbatore on May 27, while six were those who flew on a flight from Coimbatore on May 27. “An asymptomatic passenger who travelled on IndiGo on 6E 7214 from Bangalore to Madurai on May 27, 2020 was discovered to be Covid-19 positive during the mandatory testing at the quarantine facility in Madurai on 27th May,” a release from the airline said. “A few asymptomatic passengers who travelled on IndiGo flights were discovered to be Covid-19 positive on May 28, 2020. This included three passengers on 6E 955 from Delhi to Jammu on May 26, 2020, six passengers onboard 6E 6992 from Bengaluru to Coimbatore on May 27, 2020 and two passengers on 6E 908 from Delhi to Coimbatore on May 27, 2020,” said an IndiGo spokesperson, stating all passengers had observed precautionary measures, including face masks, face shield and gloves like other passengers on-board the aircraft. “All our aircraft are regularly sanitised as a standard operating procedure and the aircraft operating these flights were immediately disinfected as per protocol. The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure the safety of our passengers and staff,” said IndiGo in a statement on Thursday. Earlier, two passengers on a SpiceJet flight SG-8194 (Ahmedabad to Delhi) and SG-8152 (Delhi to Guwahati) were tested positive after journeys on May 25. IndiGo had also seen a Covid-19 positive case on Tuesday, when a passenger tested positive after travelling on the Chennai to Coimbatore flight. A positive case on an Air India Delhi to Ludhiana flight was also found on Tuesday, the airline had informed. Domestic operations have resumed on Monday after a period of almost two months, which saw flight operations halted completely after the lockdown was implemented. On Thursday, flight operations resumed on West Bengal as well, where airports had remained shut since Monday due to relief work after cyclone Amphan impacted the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/18-flyers-who-flew-in-last-3-days-test-positive-for-covid-19-say-airlines/articleshow/76081695.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 29, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to challenge garbage free rankings after scoring zero||Nagpur: As Nagpur received zero star rating in this year’s Garbage Free Cities (GFC) survey, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to write to the MoHUA through Maharashtra State’s urban development department, for verification of ratings.The ratings were declared by the Centre recently wherein NMC failed in the parameter of “sweeping of public, commercial and residential areas”.NMC had applied for a five-star rating in the garbage-free city section in Swachh Survekshan League 2020. A team of third-party auditor visited the city for survey. It submitted a report that showed the sweeping of public, commercial and residential areas was not up to the mark and gave city zero star rating. Although NMC got 100% weightage in segregation at source, levying user charges, complete plastic ban etc. The scores were awarded based on the progress achieved in parameters classified as mandatory, essential and desirable. NMC scored 85% and 40% in essential and desirable categories, but was awarded zero under mandatory component.Mayor Sandip Joshi expressed concern over the ranking in a meeting on Thursday. NMC has decided to challenge the evidence uploaded by the third-party auditor on the basis of which the ratings were given. “We will question the credibility of the auditor,” said the mayor.Joshi said many foul markings have been found in the process. According to Joshi, NMC’s sanitary workers were doing a commendable job in sweeping of city roads, especially in public and commercial areas and the civic body disagreed with survey team finding.“We were asked to file our complaint. So through State’s urban department we will write to MoHUA for verification of ratings. After re-evaluation, even if we receive 30% to 50% score under the mandatory category, Nagpur will definitely attain three stars,” he added.The GFC initiative was launched by the MoHUA to enable cities to gradually evolve into a model (7-star) city, with progressive improvements in overall cleanliness. The rating is a prelude to announcement of rankings for Swachh Survekshan-2020. The final rankings are likely to be announced after the lockdown is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-challenge-garbage-free-rankings-after-scoring-zero/articleshow/76079618.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 29, 2020||Delhi||For migrants, home is a dream, surviving in Delhi a nightmare||NEW DELHI: At Rangpur Pahadi near Vasant Kunj, 20 women and two men are performing puja in the middle of the road. The residents of the slum cluster say this is not an unusual sight. As Hemant Halder, a car cleaner, explains, "Families meet every alternate evening to pray that God keeps the virus away from our locality." They are all migrant workers, still in Delhi even after lakhs have left, some painfully on foot, many on the Shramik migrant trains and others on trucks and buses. For various reasons, mostly financial, these people couldn't return to their villages in various states across the country. And Rangpuri shows Delhi's remnant population have only God left now to help them cope with the dire situation. No saving grace for those left behind in the capitalI know we are risking our lives by staying back in Delhi, and given a chance I would immediately return to our village in Bulandshahr,” said Kamlesh, who used to earn Rs 2,000 a month as a household aide. “But I have three children, one of them four months old. We don’t have money for train or bus fare and would, therefore, have to walk to the village. This isn’t possible with the kids.” Delhi government claims to have sent close to three lakh migrants home on trains. Thousands rendered jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown have also gone back on their own. But there still are hundreds of thousands left behind, all facing a desperate fight for survival. Reshma, who lives in Lal Bagh, a slum near Azadpur, exemplifies their trauma. Earlier, she made Rs 3,500 a month as a domestic worker in three households. Today, she is jobless, the families she worked for having closed their doors to her. “They say that I will infect them. I feel hurt when they say such harsh things,” she said. But she continues to hope they will relent even as she wonders how her family of seven will survive. The daily-wage earners from states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal stranded in Delhi long to return to their homes, where they say they can at least live find some ‘respect’. Reduced to depending on government rations and welfare group handouts, they are desperate to find some work. Their savings are nothing to speak of, and what they had was exhausted in the idle lockdown weeks. “It seems like the government expects us to start begging to sustain ourselves,” said a moist-eyed Priti in Lal Bagh. Her 75-yearold father-in-law has a ration card, but that hasn’t got the family of 11 regular food. In Nangloi, Amit Kishore described the lockdown as the biggest curse of his life. His father, who was in Mumbai on work, got stuck there and died a month ago. In Delhi, Kishore has no money for his family. “On our lucky days, an NGO comes and provides us meals. But we are nobody’s priority,” he said, adding that if the infection reached the slum where he lives, it would mean the end for many of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-migrants-home-is-a-dream-surviving-in-delhi-a-nightmare/articleshow/76081701.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
